Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18046
IMPLEMENTATI[ON COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THE SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICE PROJECT
(LOAN 3135-BR)
June 16, 1998
Country Managing Unit for Brazil
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Real (BRL)
US$1.00 = BRL 1.12
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
AIS         Integrated Health Action
AMH         Ambulatory and Basic Hospital Medical Care Program
CDI         Infectious Disease Control Program
CIPLAN      Inter-Ministerial Planning and Coordination Commissions
CONASP    Consultative Council on Health Insurance Administration
FAS         Fund for Social Development Assistance
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IEC         Information, Education, and Communications
IEPS        Initial Executive Project Summary
INAMPS    Institute for Medical Assistance of Social Security System
LA          Loan Agreement
MOH         Ministry of Health
PAHO        Pan American Health Organization
PAISMC      Comprehensive Care for Women and Children
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PIASS       Program for Implementation of Health and Sanitation Activities in Interior
Areas
PNE         Northeast Basic Health Services Project
POI         Integrated Budgetary Plan
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SES         State Health Secretaries
SUDS        System of Unified and Decentralized Health Care
SUS         Unified Health System
Vice President:          Shahid Javed Burki
CMU Director:            Gobind T. Nankani
SMU Director (A):        Xavier Coll
Country Sector Leader:   Patricio Millan
Task Manager:            Kye Woo Lee



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THE SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(Ln. 3135-BR)
TABLE OF OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................i
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Background             .............................................1
B. Project Objectives ..............................................3
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................4
D. Major Factors Affecting Project ..............................................9
E. Project Sustainability ...............................................  11
F. Bank and Borrower Performance ...............................................  12
G. Assessment of Outcomes            .................. 14
H. Key Lessons Learned             .................. 14
PART II: GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ...................... 17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Summn ary of Assessments ...............................................  24
Table 2:  Related Bank Credits ...............................................   25
Table 3:  Project Timetable ...............................................  26
Table 4:  Cumulative Estirnated and Actual Disbursements ............. 27
Table 5:  Key Monitoring Indicators ............................................... 28
Table 6:  Studies included in Project ............................................... 29
Table 7A: Project Costs ...............................................  31
Table 7B: Project Financing ...............................................  31
Table 7C: Loan Disbursemaents by State and Expenditure           ... 32
Table 8:  Status of Covenants ...............................................  34
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................. 35
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions ............................................... 36
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide Memoire
B. Borrower's Comments on the ICR (Part I)
C. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(Loan. 3135-BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second
Northeast Basic Health Services Project in Brazil, for which Loan 3135-BR in the
amount of US$267.0 million equivalent was approved on November 24, 1989 and
became effective in December 1990. The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, one
and a half years beyond the original schedule. As of June 16, there is a balance of
US$2.9 million in the loan account, but it is expected to be disbursed by June 30, 1998.
This ICR was prepared by Kye Woo Lee in collaboration with Claudia Rosenthal
(consultant) Marian Kaminskis and Sarah Menezes of the Human Development Sector
Management Unit and reviewed by Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine of the same Unit and
Patricio Millan of the Country Mzmaging Unit for Brazil of Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR through a review of project performance (Part
-I) and commented on the ICR (Appendix A).
Preparation of this ICR was done during the mission in March 1998 and is
based, inter alias, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, Supervision
Reports, Annual implementation review reports prepared by the Borrower and the Bank,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
THE SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(Loan 3135-BR)
Executive Summary
Project Background. At the time of the project preparation in the mid-1980s,
health conditions in Brazil were lagging behind other sectors. Major health indicators,
such as a life expectancy of 65 years and infant mortality of 63 per 1,000 live births, were
inferior to those of the countries with lower per capita income. These poor national
average indicators were caused mainly by the large geographical disparity in health status
between the North/Northeast and the rest of the country. The life expectancy in the
Northeast was lower than the South/Southeast by 13 years, and the infant mortality rate of
79 was higher than in low-income developing countries. The most important causes of
illness and deaths among children wvere similar to the ones in lower-income developing
countries. In 1986, the Northeast accounted for 29% of Brazil's total population and 45%
of the total rural population.
Major issues in the Brazilian health system in the 1980s were: (i) inequitable
access to the health service systems, and (ii) lack of efficiency in the use of finances,
manpower, and physical facilities. These problems were most acutely felt in the Northeast
because of their interplay with low income, poor social infrastructure, and inadequate
education in the region. The Institute for Medical Assistance of Social Security System
(INAMPS), the major public health institution under the Ministry of Welfare and Social
Security, provided individual medical care services only to the payroll levy contributors
to the system, leaving the poor and those in the informal economy to the care of the
Ministry of Health (MOH). The MC)H was responsible for setting national health policy
and delivering basic health services through its specialized agencies, states, and
municipalities. The basic health services relied on the limited and variable general tax
revenues. By contrast, the INAMPS enjoyed significant financial and operational
autonomy on the basis of the payroll levy, and reimbursed for the individual medical
services offered by the public and private providers without cost and service control.
Consequently, basic health programs of the MOH grew little if any and were ineffective
due to staff and input shortages, skill constraints, facility inadequacies, and over-
centralization of planning and administration. Between 1949 and 1982, the proportion of
public spending on largely curative care rose from 13% to 85%; basic health care was
squeezed out.
During the 1970s and 1980s, the Government launched a series of strategies and
prograxns to redress the inequity and inefficiency of the health system. They ranged from
creating new funds for basic health services and according a higher priority to basic
health services to coordinating various health programs in a state through an integrated
budgetary plan (SUDS).   In 1988, the new Constitution ratified the goals of past
strategies, established the Unified Health System (SUS) at the national level, and



iii
mandated the government to achieve the goals of the universal coverage of all citizens
under the SUS through decentralization.
In support of the Government's strategy for strengthening, integrating, and
decentralizing basic health services at the state level, the Bank participated in the
financing of the Northeast Basic Health Services Project (PNE-I) (Loan 2699-BR) in
1986, and the Second Northeast Basic Health Services Project (PNE-II) (Loan 3155-BR)
in November 1989.
Project Objectives and Content.   The project had two objectives: (i) to
strengthen the delivery of the basic health service package in selected low-income areas
of seven states in the Northeast; and (b) to reinforce the implementation of the sectoral
reform including integration, unification, and decentralization. The basic health service
objective was to be achieved by supporting the provision of the basic health service
package-- which comprised comprehensive care for women and children including family
planning; the infectious diseases control program; and the ambulatory and basic hospital
medical care program -- through the expansion and upgrading of 1,707 health facilities
(including 1,107 health posts, 327 health centers, 171 unidades mistas (health centers
with 16-50 beds), 81 obstetric units, 16 hospitals and 5 laboratories) and their equipment,
training of 60,000 health personnel, special studies and technical assistance, provision of
drugs and medical supplies, hiring or reassigning about 8,600 additional health
personnel, and carrying out supervision throughout the project areas. The sectoral reform
objective was to be obtained by supporting the institutional development of the State
Health Secretariat (SES) and the MOH in planning, management, logistics, financial
controls, and community education through provision of technical assistance, training,
and special studies.
Achievement of Project Objectives. Although the project was completed with a
substantial delay, its two main objectives were achieved as expected at appraisal. The
number of facilities and equipment provided and staff trained under the project is most
likely to be greater than the appraisal estimates. Technical assistance and studies
provided under the project were 143% larger than envisaged at appraisal in terms of
expenditures. A cadre of professional health staff and managers trained under the project
appear to be one of the most valuable results of the project. Since the monitoring and
evaluation indicators established at the beginning of the project were limited and the
compilation of the data during the project implementation was inadequate, no proper data
are available to assess the achievement of the institutional development objectives of the
project at this time. But the number of new or reassigned staff, drugs and medical
supplies, maintenance, supervision and IEC activities provided under the project is
assumed to be the same level as the appraisal estimates. The project funds were applied to
the institutional development component of the project in a more balanced way than in
the PNE-I, where the infrastructure component claimed a disproportionate share of the
total project expenditures.



iv
The project was completed in eight and a half years since the Bank Board
approval, compared with six years estimated at appraisal. The completion date was
delayed by two and a half years, and the closing date was extended by one and a half
years. Total project costs increased by 27% from US$610.6 million to $772.8 million.
The project costs were higher due partly to the extended implementation period and
partly to the additional number of states introduced into the project. The original project
included seven states in the Northeast (Alagoas, Ceara, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Sergipe,
Marafnhao, and Bahia). In April 1996, the Government and the Bank agreed to the
inclusion of three more states, which were also included in the PNE-1 (Rio Grande do
Norte, Piaui, and northern Minas Gerais). The original Bank loan of $267.0 million was
canceled by $50 million in late 1994 as part of an overall portfolio restructuring exercise
requested by the Cardoso government. Therefore, the Bank loan of $217.0 million
accounts for 28% of the actual project costs, compared with the appraisal estimate of
43%.
The infrastructure compone it was implemented in 849 municipalities including
632 municipalities of the original seven states and 217 municipalities of the additional
three states,i.e., nearly twice as many as the 478 municipalities targeted at appraisal. In
the original seven states, a greater number of municipalities were allowed to participate in
the project. Consequently, this ccmponent would benefit not only the 12 million
inhabitants in the original seven states, but also 5.2 million more people in three
additional states, accounting for 60% of the total population in the Northeast. The
decision to cover the additional states was a cost-effective one, since their share of total
beneficiaries was greater than that of their costs. And the decision to expand the scope of
the project to a greater number of municipalities was also conducive to the attainment of
the project objectives towards the universal coverage of all citizens under the health
system. The two states visited by the ICR mission also implemented the infrastructure
component more through renovation than construction and expansion of facilities.
Likewise, lower level facilities, suc]h as health centers, were preferred than higher level
facilities, such as hospitals. These options were more cost-effective.
The staff training componenit was also carried out in a successful way. Although
no project-wide data have been compiled yet, the state of Bahia alone trained 39% of the
appraisal target for all seven states. For the achievement of this component, some states
constructed a public health school or a human resources training center. The majority of
the beneficiaries came from the municipal and regional offices, and from the more
educated level of staff, such as doctors, technicians, managers, and administrative staff.
The cadre of trained medical, technical, and administrative personnel are one of the most
concrete achievements of the project and are key elements for institutional and technical
development of the health secretarials of the project municipalities and states.
The special studies component was carried out by both MOH and the states,
covering a wide range of topics. They range from educational materials development to
institutional diagnosis, epidemiological profiles, architectural plans, and project
implementation evaluation. These studies, together with technical assistance, provided a



v
sound basis for planning, implementing and evaluating sectoral reform and institutional
strengthening programs. However, one important topic missing in those studies was the
development of a set of project monitoring and evaluation indicators, and performance
criteria for MOH and States, which was agreed at appraisal. Absence of this topic has had
an adverse effect on the implementation and evaluation of the project and on the sectoral
reform implementation.
All indications point to an adequate implementation of the drugs, medical
supplies, and maintenance, and other institutional development component, such as
staffing and supervision, and information, education, and communications (IEC)
programs, but no adequate data have yet been compiled to demonstrate the achievement
of these components in an analytical manner. The IEC component was the most active
element of the institutional development component. Although it had a late start in 1994,
multisciplinary consultants at federal and state levels made special studies, prepared
public health information materials, and trained health information officers, and actively
carried out IEC events through mass media, health fair, street theaters, publications and
exhibitions. However, this component suffered most from the partial cancellation of the
loan amount and incurred only half the expenditures envisaged at appraisal. Moreover,
the mandated two-year rolling plan for this component was not updated annually, and no
impact evaluation studies have yet been carried out.
Major Factors Affecting the Project.   The project implementation was
sluggish at best during the period 1989-93. During this period only 16.5% of the loan
funds were used, compared with 60% estimated at appraisal. The project implementation
was accelerated only after 1994 when the new Government came to power with a new
MOH minister and a new project manager, declaring an unwavering commitment to the
project, and the Bank appointed a new Task Manager. About half the loan funds were
utilized only during the last two and a half years, before the project was completed in
June 1998.
The project was launched at a time when the country was undergoing a political,
economic, and social transition, and it was difficult for the Government to maintain its
commitment to the seven-year social investment project as originally designed. Although
the 1988 constitution declared the universal coverage of the total population under the
unified health system through decentralization, it was not easy for the new Government to
agree on the laws and regulations, as well as the sectoral strategy and administrative
guidelines, to implement the mandate. The end of military rule in 1985 marked the
beginning of an increased political participation of the population through many political
parties and influential regional leaders, and the democratic government tried to satisfy
the needs of all segment of the society. Health reform at a regional level had to wait for
the progress in the sectoral reform at the national level first, but the project itself did not
focus on the assistance for the sectoral reform at the national level. It was only in 1993
when all relevant laws and regulations were in place, and the municipalities, instead of
the states, were given greater role for project implementation.



vi
Also, the country was struggling with a high external debt and inflation with a
popular plan, which could not sustain the fiscal balance. The loan signing and
effectiveness were delayed for 13 months just as in the PNE-I project. The provision of
adequate counterpart funds was a perennial problem until 1994, and the Bank's special
account, procurement, and disbursement procedures had to be adjusted to accommodate
the local situation.
The 1980s also witnessed a large migration of rural population to peri-urban and
urban areas in the Northeast. Therefore, the project implementation gathered momentum
only after December 1995 when the list of targeted municipalities was expanded to
include notably peri-urban areas, and the type of health facilities were adjusted to the
changing circumstances.
The project design was rigid, but there was no serious efforts to adjust the project
content, targets, and mode of implernentation until December 1995. Any attempt by the
Borrower to change the loan agreemLent was met with stiff objection by the Bank and
time-consuming processes for reappraising the proposed changes. It was only in 1995
that the Government and the Bank agreed to adjust the project content and the mode of
implementation. In particular, the competition and incentives introduced for project states
in 1995 accelerated the project implementation and disbursement. Together with other
measures to introduce flexibility in the project design and implementation, the
Government and the Bank agreed to allocate loan proceeds among state in accordance
with the merits of the annual work programs and budgets, irrespective of the allocations
already made at appraisal. At the saame time, the Project Manager increased technical
assistance to those states with weaker institutional capacities and more implementation
difficulties. To allow time for the newly introduced measures to produce results, the
implementation period was extended by one and a half years. The combination of these
measures enabled the project to accelerate implementation. Both poorer and richer states
benefited from the competition and incentives owing to the strategic provision of
technical assistance.
The design of this project merely followed that of the PNE-I, and did not draw
lessons from,the implementation experience of the PNE-I. By the time the PNE-II was
approved, the PNE-I had already experienced implementation difficulties for three years.
The lessons learned from the PNE-I wvould have helped improve the design of the PNE-II,
reduce its launching time, and would. have minimized the risks. The problems of the two
projects were, in fact, addressed at the same time, and the two projects started a normal
implementation only after 1993.
According to the loan agreement, the Project Manager was responsible for the
coordination of all matters related to the project implementation. But its de facto status
and role were not conducive to an efficient coordination of project implementation. It did
not have direct access to the chief executive of the MOH who oversaw the sectoral reform
and budget allocations. In particular, the Project Manager was responsible only for the
infrastructure component. Therefore, the Manager did not actively push for and monitor



vii
the progress of other project components, especially the institutional development
component. This had adverse effects on the pace and balance of project implementation
and future operations of the project institutions upon completion of the project.
Project Sustainability.   Future operations of the project are financially and
institutionally sustainable, but their sustainability could be strengthened through some
on-going and follow up projects. Financially speaking, the basic health service network is
likely to be sustained because the SUS, the main source of financing health expenditures
in the country, will reimburse most of the expenditures incurred in health centers and
hospitals. At the same time, the level of municipalities's and states' own financing of
basic health expenditures has been steadily on the rise. Institutionally speaking, the health
secretariats of the states and municipalities, as well as the staff of individual health
facilities, have been strengthened substantially. The increased role of municipalities in the
SUS helps make the system more responsive to the need of the population, and improves
the financial flows between different levels of the Government. These improvements
have come mainly through state and municipal training programs and through technical
assistance provided by the federal government.
'lThe health secretariats of the states and municipalities and other public health
institutions in the Northeast are still weak technically and institutionally, and would
therefore require more professional personnel, continuous training, and technical
assistance from the federal level. The MOH, however, does not seem to be prepared to
provide the necessary assistance on a continuing basis in the future. Additional personnel
hired under the project for institutional development and the basic health services were
mostly consultants. As the project implementation drew to a conclusion, their contracts
were not extended. Therefore, prospects are uncertain for continuous support for the
institutional development components and monitoring their implementation at the state
and municipal levels. The MOH will have to strengthen its institutional arrangements for
systematic monitoring and technical assistance to be provided to states and
municipalities.
Outcome Assessment. Because of the lack of adequate project monitoring and
evaluation indicators and the absence of a systematic information system at the federal
level, a full assessment of project outcomes cannot be done at this moment. An extensive
survey of the project outcome is being prepared by the PCU in collaboration with the
project states and municipalities, but the result would be available only after mid-1998.
During the ICR mission some data on the project outcomes were collected from
two selected states, CearA and Paraiba, and were compared between project and non-
project municipalities. The project municipalities showed a more rapid increase in
medical consultation possibly due to the expanded and improved basic health service
network. The trend is not so clear in the vaccination coverage rate and in-hospital births
possibly because they require more time to reflect the project impact.



viii
Key Lessons Learned.
* Projects with a long implementalion period are not advisable during a transitional
period.
* It is essential to learn lessons from the implementation experience of the precedent
project, especially for a repeat proj ect.
*  In a multi-state project, if a sector loan approach cannot be adopted, the project design
should be kept flexible, and should be adapted constantly to the changing needs.
*  In a multi-state project, introduction of competition and incentives among states in the
allocation of loan funds is effective as long as their varying institutional capacities are
compensated by intensive technical assistance by the federal government.
*  A sub-account should be established for each state separately so that each state's
accountability and performance efficiency would improve.
* The Bank should streamline and actively monitor the process for the amendment to
loan agreements so that project design can be adapted constantly and easily.
*  Project specific monitoring and evaluation system is not likely to be operated
effectively when an institution-wide monitoring and evaluation system is lacking.
*  Government's commitment and P'CU's authorities and status are highly correlated to
the success of project implementation and outcomes.
*  A Borrower's ICR should be prepared before the closing date.



1
PART I: PROJECT IMlPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Background
1.    The Northeast.     At the lime of the project preparation in the mid-1980s,
health conditions in Brazil were relatively lagging behind other sectors, compared with its
overall level of development. Major health indicators, such as life expectancy of 65 years
and infant mortality of 63 per 1,000 live births, were inferior to those of the countries
with lower per capita income. These poor national average indicators were caused mainly
by the large disparity in health statuLs between wealthy Brazilians concentrated in the
South and Southeast, and poor Brazilians concentrated in the Northeast. Despite the
converging trend, residents of the south-southeast are still likely to live 13 years longer
than their counterparts in the Northeast. The infant mortality rate (79) for the Northeast in
1986 was higher than in low-income developing countries. Infant deaths accounted for
35% to 40% of the total deaths in the region, and the most important causes of illness and
deaths among children under five years were gastrointestinal and respiratory infections,
perinatal diseases, low birth weight, and malnutrition, an epidemiological profile similar
to the one in lower-income developing countries. In 1986, the Northeast accounted for
29% of Brazil's total population and 45% of the total rural population.
2.    Major issues in the Brazilian health system in the 1980s were: (i) inequitable
access to the benefits of the health service systems, and (ii) lack of efficiency in the use of
finances, manpower, and physical facilities. These problems were most acutely felt in the
Northeast because of their interplay with low income, poor sanitation, and inadequate
education and housing in the region. Prior to the unification of the health systems in
1990, the Institute for Medical Assistance of Social Security System (INAMPS), the
major public health institution under the Ministry of Welfare and Social Security
(MPAS), provided individual medical care services only to the payroll levy contributors
to the system, leaving the poor and. those in the informal economy to the care of the
Ministry of Health (MOH). The MOH was responsible for setting national health policy
and the collective health care, delivering basic health care through its specialized
agencies, states, and municipalities. The basic health services relied on the limited and
variable general tax revenues. By contrast, the INAMPS enjoyed significant financial and
operational autonomy on the basis of the payroll levies. Besides providing some
individual medical care through its own small network of facilities, it reimbursed both
public and private providers almost without cost and service controls. Consequently,
basic health programs of the MOH grew little if any and were ineffective due to staff
and input shortages, skill constraints, facility inadequacies, and over-centralization of
planning and administration. By contrast, INAMPS services grew explosively, and it
created additional distortions, most notably an over-utilization of high-cost medical
services and discouragement of ful]l-time employment of health professionals in the
public sector due to the low remuneration. Between 1949 and 1982, the proportion of
public spending on largely curative care rose from 13% to 85%; preventive care was
squeezed out.



2
3.    At the state level, the State Secretariats of Health (SESs) provided mainly
infectious disease control and maternal child health care. Remaining health services were
provided largely by the private sector, generally reimbursed by INAMPS. At the local
level, there were some 5,000 municipalities in the country, with varying needs and levels
of administrative capacity.
4.    Government Strategy.     The Government's interest in redressing the inequity
and inefficiency of the health care system led to the design and implementation of a
number of national strategies. In 1976, the Government introduced the PIASS (Program
for the Implementation of Health and Sanitation Activities in Interior Areas), a program
to bring basic health and sanitation activities to communities of less than 20, 000 people.
In 1979, the Fund for Social Development Assistance (FAS) changed its policy to finance
basic health facilities. In 1980, the Curitiba plan established the health center as the
patient's point of entry to the health system, and established fixed payments from
INAMPS for given treatment procedures rather than fee-for-service, an attempt to
improve the reimbursement mechanism and to reduce costs. In 1982, the Consultative
Council on Health Insurance Administration (CONASP) made recommendations for
better use of existing public sector facilities and strengthening of the managerial capacity
of the public sector. In 1983, the AIS (Integrated Health Action) was created to
implement most of these recommendations through the Inter-ministerial Planning and
Coordination Commissions (CIPLAN) with representatives of Ministries of Health,
Education, and Labor, and the INAMPS. As a first step towards better coordination of
regional health programs, the state governments of the Northeast approved in March 1984
a common "Health Policy Document," which emphasized universalization of access to
health services, decentralization of financial and administrative functions, and integration
of public health service programs. The Document gave priority to the control of
transmissible diseases, basic sanitary measures, and improved access of high-risk groups
(such as mothers and children) to ambulatory and hospital care, institutional
development, and nutritional activities.
5.    Realizing that the previous strategies were not particularly effective, the
Government made stronger efforts to redress the inequity and inefficiency in July 1987
through a federal decree for the System of Unified and Decentralized Health Care
(SUDS). It aimed to unify all those health care resources and programs at the state level
by means of the Integrated Budgetary Plan (POI). The SUDS unified State Health
Secretariats (SES) and INAMPS health care resources, with SESs to act as sole executors
of health services in the individual states. Under the SUDS reforms, the SESs witnessed
sizable increases in the amount of sectoral resources at their disposal and were able to
redirect more resources to basic health programs. SUDS also represented a further step in
the evolving decentralization of sectoral responsibilities. While the federal level was to
retain vital normative and monitoring functions, a much larger share of operational duties
was to be gradually devolved to the state and local levels.
6.    Brazil's New Constitution of 1988 ratified goals of the SUDS, such as the
universal coverage of all citizens and declared further progress. It established the Unified



3
Health System (SUS) at the national level and mandated the government to achieve the
goals through decentralization. At the time of the project design, INAMPS at the federal
level was to be incorporated into the SUS, regional INAMPS offices eliminated, and
INAMPS facilities and personnel transferred to states and municipalities. The
municipalities individually or in consortiums had the primary responsibility for the
delivery of health services. At the national level, the MOH was to operate the SUS.
However, it was two years later in 1990 that the constitutional precept for
decentralization was incorporated into laws and regulations; and until 1993 there was no
nationally agreed implementation strategy for the decentralization process. It was a long
evolving process.
7.    The Bank Responses.      In support of the Government's strategy for the
integration and decentralization of basic health services at the state level, the Bank
participated in the financing of the Sdio Paulo Basic Health Care Project (Loan 2447-BR)
in 1984 and the Nortfheast Basic Health Services Project (PNE-I) (Loan 2699-BR) in
1986. The Bank strategy for health was to assist the government's efforts to redirect
public spending to largely basic health programs that better serve the poor, and
decentralize services as a way to improve accountability and efficiency. By the time the
Bank approved the Second Northeast Basic Health Services Project (PNE-II) (Loan 3135-
BR) in November 1989, the Government had already passed the stage of the SUDS
reform at the state level and was trying to implement the Constitutional mandate of the
SUS on a national level.
B. Project Objectives
8.    The project had two objectives: (a) to strengthen the delivery of basic health
services in selected low-income areas of the Northeast; and (b) to reinforce the
implementation of the sectoral reforms, i.e., integration, unification and decentralization.
9.    The basic health service objective was to be achieved by supporting the basic
health service package, i.e., Comprehensive Care for Women and Children (PAISMC)
including family planning; the Infectious Diseases Control Program (CDI); and the
Ambulatory and Basic Hospital Medical Care Program (AMH).
10.   The sectoral reform objective was to be obtained by supporting the institutional
development of the SES and the MOH in planning, management, logistics, financial
controls, and community education through provision of technical assistance, training,
and special studies.
11.   The basic health component of the project was to benefit some 12 million people
in the 478 municipalities of the seven Northeast states (Alagoas, Ceara, Paraiba,
Pemambuco, Sergipe, Maranhao, and Bahia) included in the original project design. In
April 1996, by an amendment to the Loan Agreement (LA) the Bank and the Government
agreed that the three states of the Northeast Basic Health Services Project (PNE-I) (Rio
Grande do Norte, Piaui, and northern Minas Gerais) were also to be included in this



4
Second Northeast Project (PNE-II). The institutional development component would
benefit an additional 24 million people in the non-project municipalities.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
12.   Costs and Finances. The project was completed in eight and a half years since
the Bank Board approval, instead of six years estimated at appraisal. The total project
costs increased by 27% from US$610.6 million to $772.8 million. The original Bank loan
of $267.0 million was canceled by $50 million in late 1994. Therefore, the Bank loan of
$217.0 million, which would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1998, accounts for 28% of
the actual project costs, compared with the appraisal estimate of 43%. By category of
expenditures, consultancies and special studies increased by 140%, and the recurrent
expenditures (e.g. new staff salaries, supplies, maintenance and drugs) all increased by
95% due to the extension of the completion date by 30 months. Other categories, such as
infrastructure, training and supervision, were about the same as appraisal estimates, and
IEC spent only half the appraisal estimate.
13.   Monitoring of Project Objectives.  An assessment of the project outputs and
the achievement of the project objectives was difficult due to the inadequate project
monitoring system. The federal Project Coordination Unit (PCU) monitored only the
implementation of the health and administrative facilities and equipment, and the use of
loan proceeds. Even those infrastructure components were monitored mainly from the
disbursement point of view and not from the operational and project objective point of
view. Therefore, the PCU did not compile data by project objective and did not follow up
on the operation of the project facilities. Moreover, monitoring of the other components,
especially the institutional development components -- such as organization and
management improvement, staffing, training, studies and consultancies, supervision,
public health education and promotion through IEC-- were not, in fact, the responsibility
of the federal PCU. Each relevant department of the MOH supported the implementation
of these components at the state and municipal levels and did not monitor systematically
the execution and the result of the implementation. There is no one unit in the MOH
which coordinated and monitored the basic health services and/or the institutional
development in the Northeast on a continuing basis. As was often the case ten years ago,
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) included few implementation targets in quantitative and
qualitative terms, against which the progress in the implementation and the achievement
of the project objectives could be measured periodically. The PCU did not use even the
few indicators provided for in the SAR because of the change of the situation, and never
updated them. The Loan Agreement (LA) stipulates that such monitoring indicators
should be prepared for Bank approval within three months of effectiveness, but this
covenant was not complied with.
14.   Components.  Achievement of the project objectives are assessed below for
each of the two major project objectives: the Basic Health Services Component and the
Institutional Development Component.



5
15.   Basic Health Services Component. The basic health services component was to
be achieved through (a) expansion and upgrading of health facilities and equipment; (b)
training of about 60,000 health personnel; (c) special studies at the state and federal
levels concerning the management and delivery of health care services and establishment
of project monitoring indicators and health service delivery performance criteria; (d)
provision of necessary supplies for project area facilities including drugs, supplies, and
materials, (e) hiring or reassigning of about 8,600 additional health personnel; and (d)
carrying out of supervision throughout the project area.
16.   (a)  Expansion and Upgrading of Health Facilities and Equipment.  The
infrastructure investments aimed at improving the delivery of health care services by
providing adequate spaces and well.-equipped facilities. Improvement of infrastructure
involved the construction, expansion or renovation of health facilities and regional
headquarters including equipping and re-equipping of such facilities. The Government
spent about 10 percent more on civil works and 10 percent less on equipment than the
SAR estimates. The total expenditure spent on infrastructure is about the same as the
appraisal estimate. This is different fiom the experience with the PNE-I, under which the
Government spent disproportionately more on the infrastructure component than on other
components.
17.   The health facilities component was to be implemented in 478 municipalities in
seven Northeastern states. In fact, the component was implemented in 849 municipalities
including 632 municipalities in the original seven states and 217 municipalities of the
additional three states introduced in ihe project as a result of the April 1996 amendment
to the LA. Because of the large scale migration from rural areas and the changing needs
of each state, the need to take action on the newly emerging environmental problems and
epidemiological profile, a greater number of municipalities was actually covered by the
project in each of the seven original states (Table 5A), covering not only the rural
municipalities as originally focused at appraisal, but also peri-urban municipalities.
Consequently, this component would benefit not only the 12 million inhabitants in the
original seven states, but also at least 5.2 million more people in three additional states.
The introduction of the three additional states into this project was a cost-effective
decision because the investment made in the three states accounted for only 5% of the
total expenditures for civil works and 3% of the total expenditures for infrastructure, but
the additional beneficiaries account for about a third of total beneficiaries. Unfortunately,
however, it is not feasible to compare the project's contribution to the attainment of
universal coverage of the population under the health system, because the SAR did not
define the state of the coverage at appraisal, and the Government did not monitor the
growth of the actual coverage.
18.   At appraisal, the project was to construct, expand, rehabilitate 1,707 health
facilities including 1,107 health posts, 327 health centers, 171 unidades mistas (health
centers with 16-50 beds), 81 obstetric/delivery units, 16 hospitals, and 5 laboratories.
Also, it intended to equip or re-equip 1,791 health facilities. The total number of
facilities provided and the breakdown by state or type are not available yet, but it is



6
estimated that the total number of actually provided facilities would be much greater than
the staff appraisal report (SAR) estimates, not only because the three states were added to
the project, but also because a greater number of municipalities in the original seven
states were allowed to participate in the project. This expansion of the scope of the
project was conducive to the attainment of the project objectives towards the universal
coverage of all population under the health system. The quality of the facilities provided
was good.
19.   The project completion mission visited two states in the Northeast and observed
that in Ceara, the best performing state, the number of municipalities covered under the
project increased from 61 to 85; and in the state of Paraiba, which had some
implementation difficulties initially, the increase was from 57 to 74. The number of
project municipalities, however, still accounts for only part of the total number of
municipalities in each state-- 46 and 33 percent, respectively. The two states together
provided a 20 percent increased number of health facilities than the SAR. They also
focused more on renovation than on expansion and construction of health facilities,
compared to SAR targets (Table 5B). This option was more cost-effective in attaining
project objectives. The size and type of actually provided health facilities differed from
the SAR estimates in accordance with the changing needs of individual states: while in
Ceara more ambulatory (walk-in) health facilities were the choice for investments to
cover extensive rural areas, in Paraiba more hospital units were provided to fill the
critical gap. Provision of equipment followed the same rationale (Table 5C). Thus, in the
last three years, the project design became much more flexible than the original design,
adapting itself to the varied and changing demand. On the visit to the two states, the ICR
mission observed that the health facilities, administrative units, and training facilities
provided under the project were adequately equipped, fully operational, and intensively
utilized. However, it was also told by the facility managers that staff turnover was high
and drugs and supplies were often inadequate due to shortage of inadequate
reimbursement under the SUS and the shortage of state and municipal funds. In order to
assure sustainability, drugs and supplies, as well as incentives to staff need to be provided
on a continuous basis.
20.   Achievement of the infrastructure component accelerated and total disbursements
increased by 55 percentage points during the last two and a half years. In 1995, the
Government and the Bank agreed to introduce series of measures to make the
implementation and disbursement procedures more flexible. These included adjustment
in the procurement methods, ceilings and thresholds for discretionary decisions, and
reduction of disbursement categories from 48 to 8. Above all. the allocation of loand
funds to participating states made at appraisal was eliminated. The PCU allocated the
loan proceeds on the basis of the merits of the annual work programs and budgets
submitted by individual states, and their performances in the previous year. Thus,
competition for funds was introduced, and increased technical assistance was provided by
the PCU to institutionally weaker states, notably in the area of procurement. To allow
time for the newly introduced measures to produce results, the closing date of the loan
was extended to December 1997. The combination of these measures made the project



7
gain momentum, and all states used more loan funds for civil works than envisaged at
appraisal. Some states benefited more than others. They were Sergipe, Alagoas, Ceara,
and Pernambuco. The former two states were relatively poorer states, and the latter two
were better-off states. Therefore, the competitive manner of allocating the project funds
did not seem to have resulted in any inequitable allocations, as in Chile. This was due
partly to the similar institutional capacity among project states, and partly to the
deliberate PCU strategy to provide more technical assistance to poorer states.
21.   (b) Personnel Training. The staff training component was carried out in a
successful way. Although no project-wide data have been compiled yet, the state of Bahia
alone had 512 training events and trained 23,290 persons during 1990-97. This is
approximately 39% of the SAR targets for training of 60,000 persons in all seven
original states.
22.   In the state of Bahia, the majority of the beneficiaries came from  the
municipalities (17,802) and Regional offices (3,738) with the rest from the state central
offices. By level of education, doctors and other staff with high level education benefited
the most (12,854) followed by the staff with middle-level educational background
(9,131). The PCU confirmed that this pattern was replicated in other states, and a final
picture would come out through a survey which is being carried out in May/June 1998.
In particular, the state of Ceara and E3ahia constructed a public health school at the higher
education level and a human resources training center at the middle educational level,
respectively. These schools are fully operational. A core group of trained medical,
technical and administrative personnel is one of the most valuable and concrete
achievements of the project. They are key ingredients for institutional and technical
development of the health secretariat of the project municipalities and states.
23.   (c) The Special Studies anid Technical Assistance.   This component was
implemented, covering a wide range of topics. Examples of studies undertaken in the
state of Bahia is listed in Table 6. They range from educational materials development to
institutional diagnosis, epidemiological profiles, architectural plans development, and
project implementation evaluation. As a result of the Bank's intensified supervision and
new PCU's improved coordination, most studies were conducted during 1995-97 and
made effective contributions to the basic health services and institutional development in
the project states. However, one topic missing in those studies was the development of a
set of monitoring and evaluation indicators and performance criteria for the MOH and
SES. Consequently. upon completion of the project, the PCU did not have a mechanism
to properly track the outputs/outcomes of the project. The Government is currently
undertaking a survey to collect such information from all project states and
municipalities, which would serve as a basis for taking action for improvement in the
provision of health services by staLte and municipalities. But this is a costly way of
collecting data and would not prcvide any basis for formative evaluation of project
performance and impact. Corrective actions should be taken by the MOH in the future.



8
24.  (d) Drugs, Medical Supplies, and Maintenance. This category was financed by
the loan up to about $2 million in the first half of the project period, and the remainder of
this component ($140 million), mostly for drugs and medical supplies, was expected to be
financed by the states throughout the project period. However, no data have been
compiled by the PCU.
25.  (e) Staffing and Supervision. This category suffered from the same problems as
the supplies and maintenance expenditures. The SESs were supposed to hire some 8,600
additional health personnel and carry out regular supervision routines with adequate
financing for guidelines, manuals, reports, and travel allowances. These additional
staffing and supervision activities were also expected to be financed by the states.
However, there was no systematic monitoring of the implementation of these activities,
and no data have been compiled to confirm their implementation.
26.   The Institutional Development Component.    This component was -to be
achieved through the (a) expansion and upgrading of administrative and training
facilities and equipment; (b) technical assistance for special studies, staff training, and
information, education, and communication (IEC) programs; and (c) in-house and inter-
state workshops, seminars and information systems on reform program implementation,
supervision, and evaluation. Compared with other components, the share of the
institutional development component in the total costs of the PNE-II was greater than in
the PNE-1. This component accounted for 37% of the total project cost.
27.  (a) Infrastructure.  The expansion and upgrading of state's administrative and
training facilities and maintenance workshops, and the provision of equipment for those
facilities were implemented in conjunction with the basic health service component, but
on a much smaller scale than the SAR plan. And as in the basic health services componet,
refurbishing rather than construction was the norm. These deviations from the appraisal
plan were positve adjustments to the changing priorities. The state's Regional Health
Directorates lost their role under the municipalization of the SUS reform, and the priority
of the maintenance workshops was lowered as the maintenance services were planned to
be contraced out to the private sector.
28.  (b) Technical Assistance, Staff Training and Special Studies. This category was
also carried out in conjunction with the basic health services component. The federal
PCU was active during the post-1994 period in organizing inter-state seminars and
training for the state PCU staff in project implementation. In particular, it contracted
consultants specializing in procurement norms and procedures, and provided technical
assistance and training tailored to the needs of specific states, especially those with weak
technical and institutional capacities. This helped solve the implementation bottleneck.
However, as already pointed out, the federal government did not take advantage of this
component to establish a set of effective monitoring and evaluation indicators and
operate an information system covering a wide range of health services across the entire
nation or at least in the northeastern states.



9
29.   (c) Information, education, amd communications (IEC).  This component was
the most active element of the institutional development component. Like other
components, due to the institutional problems at federal and state levels, this component
started late, and only at the end of 1993 was a multidisciplinary team organized to
structure IEC at the federal and state levels. In 1994, a meeting with project management
team at the federal level and project coordinators of all states resulted in the definition of
IEC's goals and operational programs. Each state was responsible for executing activities
and received technical support lrom the federal level. At the federal level,
multidisciplinary consultants made special studies, prepared public information materials,
trained health information officers (health multiplicators), and supported state teams in
carrying out the events. At the state level, IEC consultant teams planned and carried out
IEC training, dissemination of health information, and community participation in health
promotion and education at the municipal level through mass media, health fairs, street
theater, publications, and creation of IEC centers. A survey of the opinion of state and
municipal officials on the effectiveness of the federal IEC teamn was conducted in 1998,
and it confirmed the federal team's effectiveness. However, the two-year rolling plan for
the IEC component was not updated annually, and no evaluative studies of the impact of
the IEC program have yet been made.
D. Major Factors Affecting Project
30.   The project implementation was sluggish during the period 1989-1993. During
this period only 16.5% of the loan funds were used, compared with 60% estimated at
appraisal. The project implementation was accelerated only after 1994 when the new
Government came to power with a new MOH minister and a new PCU management
team, declaring an unwavering commitment to the project. At the same time, the Bank
appointed a new Task Manager and intensified supervision. As a result, about half the
loan funds were disbursed during the last two and a half years before the project was
completed in June 1998.
31.   Political, Economic, and Soicial Transition.  The project was launched at
the time when the country was undergoing a turbulent political, economic, and social
transition, and it was difficult for the Government to maintain its commitment to the
implementation of the project as originally designed. On the political front, the new
Constitution of 1988 declared universal coverage of the total population under a unified
health service system through decentralization. But it was not easy for the Government to
agree on the laws and regulations, as well as the sectoral strategy and administrative
guidelines to implement the mandate. It was only in 1993 when all these had been put in
place. The end of a long military rule in 1985 marked the beginning of an increased
political participation of the population through many political parties and influential
regional leaders. Elected governments at all levels were trying hard to satisfy the needs of
all segments of the society. On the economic front, the country was struggling with a high
external debt and was trying to arrest galloping inflation with the Cruzado Plan without
much success. The loan signing and effectiveness were delayed for 13 months, just as in
the case of the PNE-1 project. The provision of adequate counterpart funds was a



10
perennial problems until 1994. The Bank procedures for special accounts and
disbursement procedures were modified to make them more flexible. On the social front,
the 1980s witnessed a large migration of rural population to peri-urban and urban areas.
The municipalities and the type of health facilities selected for the project needed to be
adapted to the changing circumstances. But the project's original design merely reflected
that of the PNE-I and did not provide for a mechanism for easy adjustment of the project
design. The project implementation started accelerating only after December 1995 when
the Government and the Bank introduced major adjustments in the selection of
beneficiary municipalities and the range of health facilities to be financed under the
project.
32.   Adjustment to the Changing Government Sectoral Strategies. The   project
preparation started in 1986 following the footsteps of the PNE-I, and the underpinning
sectoral strategy was to support the SUDS, i.e., accelerate decentralization to states and
efficiently use the state resources increased as a result of the integration of all health
service programs at the state level through the integrated budgetary plan (POI). By the
time the PNE-II was approved by the Bank in late 1989, the new Constitution had been
already declared, and the SUD, the governing sectoral strategy, was replaced by the SUS,
under which all health programs were unified at the national level, and the
decentralization focused on municipalities, instead of states. In other words, the national
sectoral policy framework was changed, and the implementation of both PNE-I and II,
which supported regional health sector reform, had to wait until the national sectoral
policy framework settles in. In May 1996, the Bank finally agreed to support the SUS
reform directly through the Health Sector Reform Project (REFORSUS).
33.   Lack of Lessons Learned. This project followed the PNE-I, which had already
experienced implementation difficulties for three years by the time PNE-II was approved.
The signing of the PNE-I was delayed by more than a year, the loan became effective
only after 15 months, and the level of disbursement was poor. Even so, the SAR did not
include a section on the implementation experience of the PNE-I. Lessons drawn from it
by then could have been used as guiding principles for the design and implementation of
the PNE-II. The Initial Executive Project Summary (IEPS) review meeting of March 6,
1987 concluded that PNE-II should not be presented to the Board until PNE-I problems
were well analyzed and resolved. But PNE-II was processed and approved without taking
this decision into account. In fact, PNE-II had the same implementation problems as
PNE-I, and the problems of both projects were resolved at the same time - only after
1993.
34.   Responsibilities of the Federal PCU. According to the LA, the PCU was
responsible for the coordination of all matters related to the project implementation.
However, the de facto status and responsibilities of the PCU were not conducive to the
achievement of the project objectives. It did not have direct access to the chief executive
of the MOH, and its reporting line changed several times. The PCU was responsible only
for the coordination of the implementation of the infrastructure component and finacial
aspects of other components. Therefore, it did not actively coordinate and monitor the



11
progress of other project components, in particular the institutional development
component (e.g. staffing, supervisilon, training, decentralization, organization and
management improvement, preparation of administrative and operational manuals,
streamlining budgetary and financial accounting procedures, and resource allocation for
preventive basic health services), which became the responsibilities of other departments
in the MOH and the states.
35.  Inflexibility in Project Desigin and Amendments. The project design was rigid,
and there was no efforts to adjust the project content, targeted areas, and mode of
implementation until December 1995. Any attempt to change the loan agreement was met
with stiff objection by the Bank and time-consuming processes for reappraising the
proposed changes. Even changes of some project municipalities required visits by Bank
reappraisal missions and renegotiations. Decisive action was taken, however, to reduce
the loan amount by $50 million in late 1994 as part of the high-level Bank-new
Government joint effort to improve the portfolio status in Brazil.
36.   It was only with the amendment of the LA in December 1995 that the Bank and
the new Government agreed to restructure the project scope, implementation methods and
procedures. This amendment allowed (i) the project areas to be expanded to include peri-
urban areas in addition to the rural areas; (ii) all project states to compete for claiming the
loan funds irrespective of the amount of the loan funds allocated to each state at
appraisal; (iii) a wider range of health facilities, as well as environmental health
programs, be financed to accommodate the changing epidemiological profiles; (iv)
municipalities to play a greater role in project implementation by permitting them to enter
into agreement with states; and (v) procurement methods to be more flexible, and ceilings
and thresholds to be more generous, accommodating the procurement norms of the LAC
Region. With this amendment, the project implementation accelerated so much that
another loan amendment was made in April 1996, introducing more flexibility, in which
(i) the authorized deposit to the special account was increased; (ii) two special accounts
for local and foreign expenditures were integrated into one; (iii) an additional three states
that participated in PNE-I were allowed to participate in this project; and (iv) the closing
date was extended by one year to December 1997. Besides these formal amendments, the
Bank also took flexible and innovative initiatives for an accelerated implementation of
the project. For example, it allowed the Government to advance part of the special
account to states, relieving states' cash flow burden, and arranged with the federal PCU to
provide technical assistance to states in procurement, which was one of the major
bottlenecks.
E. Project Sustainability and Future Operations
37.   Future operations of the project is financially and institutionally sustainable, but
its sustainability could be strengthened through some on-going and follow up projects.
Financially speaking, the basic health service network is likely to be sustained because
the SUS, the main source of financing health expenditures in the country, will reimburse
most of the expenditures incurred in health centers and hospitals, and the level of state's



12
and municipality's own financing of basic health expenditures has been steadily on the
rise, as in Ceara. The health sector's share of the state total expenditures in Ceara
increased from 3.3% during 1981-86 to 8.5% during 1990-1994. However, the level of
prices and scope of SUS reimbursements needs to be improved further, because in some
states like Paraiba, health sector's share of total state expenditures changed little from
3.5% during 1981-86 to 3.6% during 1994-97. Also, rural health facilities financed by the
project and visited by the ICR mission often showed problems of retaining medical
doctors and shortages of medicines and supplies.
38.  Institutionally speaking, the health secretariats of the states and municipalities, as
well as the staff of individual health facilities, have been strengthened substantially, in
particular in the areas of the, organization and management of the basic health services
network, and operational procedures. The increased role of municipalities in the SUS
helps make the system more responsive to the need of the population, and improves the
financial flows between different levels of the Government. These improvements have
come mainly through the training programs within and outside the individual states and
municipalities, and through technical assistance provided by the federal government. A
large number of state and municipal managers, administrative and health professionals
were trained and improved their skill levels.
39.   The health secretariats of the states and municipalities and other public health
institutions in the Northeast are still weak technically and institutionally, and would
therefore require more professional personnel and continuous training and technical
assistance from the federal level. An important question is how the MOH would meet
such a challenging demand. Some 200 consultants hired with PNE-II funds have now
departed and it is uncertain whether and how the MOH would provide the necessary
assistance for the institutional strengthening at state and municpal levels with its regular
operational budget in the future. This question would affect notably such areas as
maternal and child health, IEC, and training at state and municipal levels. At present, the
prospects for continuous support for these components and monitoring their
implementation at the state and municipal levels are uncertain. The MOH does not seem
to have adequately developed organizational apparatus to carry out its policy-making,
norm-setting, and technical assistance, monitoring, and supervision roles. The
institutional capacity at the federal level would be partly strengthened under REFORSUS,
but should be further strengthened by other Bank-financed projects in the future.
F. Bank and Borrower Performance
40.   Bank Performance. Bank performance at project identification, appraisal and
the earlier stage of the supervision was less than satisfactory, but since 1994 it has
improved sharply. There was a few flaws in the Bank performance at the earlier stage.
First, the project design was not based on a rigorous analysis of the sectoral problems
and issues in the Region, did not fully take into account the changing policy framework,
and did not define the content of the project flexibly, but used the unduly long
implementation period. Second, the project design did not take into account the lessons



13
learned from the previous project. T hird, the project supervision was initially rigid and
did not adjust the project content flexibly to the changing sectoral strategy and socio-
economic circumstances, and did niot define the monitoring and evaluation indicators
early enough.
41.   Since 1994, the Bank took. a flexible and dynamic attitude in advising the
Borrower and provided a momentumn for the accelerated project implementation through
two amendments of the LA with respect to the loan amount, implementation strategies
and procedures.
42.   Throughout the project implementation, one gets the impression that the Bank
focused mainly on the progress in disbursements, the improvement of the health service
network, and its adaptation to the geographically shifting demand. The only additional
monitoring indicator introduced in the project through the 1995 Loan amendment was the
percentages of the disbursement for ithe infrastructure component in each of the remaining
years. With a short implementation period remaining, that focus is understandable. But it
could have paid more attention to the attainment of the results of the project inputs, in
particular the institutional development inputs, such as hiring of additional staff,
provision of drugs and medical supplies, health services delivery, IEC, and monitoring
the changes in the health status of the population.
43.   Despite the prompt and flexible supervision attitude since 1994, the Bank should
have improved its Loan amendment processes. A more rigorous monitoring and
supervision by the Bank and the Borrower could have shortened the six-months needed
for the exchange of a letter for the amendment made in December 1995.
44.   Borrower Performance.   Borrower  performance  paralleled  the  Bank
performance. During the early years of the project cycle, Government performance was
unsatisfactory. This reflected the unstable political situation and turbulent economic
circumstances. The average term of a health minister was about one year. Such frequent
changes of ministers brought charLges at other levels of the Government and in the
priorities of the sector and the project. The PCU was not accorded proper authority for
coordination of all project activities and did not have direct access to the top executive in
the MOH.
45.   With the advent of the new Government led by President Cardoso in 1994, the
project implementation accelerated. The Minister of Health declared Government's
strong commitment to the project and mobilized the state governors and health secretaries
in the Northeast to revitalize the project. The PCU was also led by a new dynamic and
competent manager during the last three years, having direct access and reporting
responsibilities to the top executive of the MOH. With the staunch support of the new
Task Manager of the Bank, the PCIJ streamlined procedures for procurement, budgeting,
disbursements, and special account withdrawals, and introduced competition and
incentives into the project implemerntation by allocating the loan proceeds to each state on



14
the basis of the merit of the annual work programs and performance in the previous year,
irrespective of the allocations made at appraisal. The PCU also provided more technical
assistance to those states which had weaker implementation capacities and more
problems in procurement. Unfortunately, however, it focused its leadership mainly on
the implementation of the infrastructure component and did not properly follow up the
institutional development component of the project and the operation of the completed
health facilities.
G. Assessment of Outcomes
46.   Because of the lack of adequate project monitoring and evaluation indicators, and
the absence of a systematic information system at the federal level, a full assessment of
project outcomes cannot be done at this moment. An extensive survey of the project
outcome is being prepared by the PCU in collaboration with the project states and
municipalities, but the result will be available only after mid 1998.
47.   During the ICR mission some data on the project outcomes were collected from
two selected states, Ceara and Paraiba.  The idea was to attempt an analysis of the
preliminary impact of the project. Considering that the main objective of the project was
to improve the supply and the quality of the basic health services, the ICR mission
compiled the following data: (i) the medical consultation at all health facilities; (ii) the
polio vaccination coverage rate (all three doses) for infants less than one year old; and
(iii) births at hospitals. The data were compared between project municipalities and non-
project municipalities, in both states. The results are shown in the Figures 1 through 6.
The project municipalities show a more rapid increase in medical consultation possibly
due to the expanded and improved basic health service network. The trend is more
obvious in the state of Ceara, which performed better in project implementation, than
Paraiba. The trend is not so clear in the vaccination coverage rate and in-hospital births
possibly because, among other factors, they require more time to reflect the project
impact. The decrease in hospital births may not be reflecting poor access or services, but
more likely the effectiveness of the family planning program. The impact of the project
should be analyzed when more time has elapsed after the completion of the health
facilities for the basic health services package. Other indicators may be more effective in
assessing the impact of the project, such as the infant mortality rate, but they were not
available for the project and non-project municipalities separately. Of course, care should
be used in attributing the trend entirely to the project because these indicators depend on
multifactors, and it is not easy to isolate the project impact over time.
H. Key Lessons Learned.
48.   Through the experience gained during the project implementation, the following
are the key lessons learned:
(a) It is not advisable to launch a project with a long implementation period,
especially during a transitional period. Successive projects with a short implementation
period for each loan would be more cost-effective and less risky in achieving the
development objectives.



15
Figure 1: Ceara                                Figure 2: Paraiba
Medical Consultations 199:2-1996               Medical Consultations 1991-1996
(1,000)                                        (1,000)
12,000
10,000
8,000
6,00
0                                ~~~~~~~~~~1991    1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997       1991 reflects only the last 2 months of the yea r
_ _ __ _Mflects only the first 3 months of the year
Figure 3: Ceara                                Figure 4: Paraiba
Average Percentage of Population                Average Percentage of Poulation
Vaccinated 3 Times Against Polio (Less            Vaccinated 3 Times Against Polio
than 1 year old) 1995-97                     (Less than 1 year old) 1995-97
140                                           9 
120                                           8 
100
80                              5p
60                                           4
40
20                                           10
0                                            0
11995        1996       1997                   1995                1996                1997
-u-Municipalities w/out the Prcject      ----Municipalities wI the Project
Figure 5: Ceara Hospital Births
% Change
1993     1994      1995      1996    1993-96
Municipalitieswith the Project      110,927   111,575   119,767   107,432    -3%
Municipalities without the Project   62,463    59,895   60,918    62,404      0%
Figure 6: Paraiba Hospital Births
OhChange
199:3    1994      1995      1996   1993-96
Municpalities with the Project        13,526    13,261    13,042    12,151    -10%
Municipalities without the Project    57,729    56,953    57,860    53,409   -7.50%



16
(b) For a repeat project, it is essential to learn lessons from the implementation
experience of the precedent project.
(c) In a multi-state projects like this one, a sector loan approach would be
preferred; if a specific investment loan approach has to be taken, the project design
should be kept flexible, and the Bank and the borrower should be prepared to adapt
constantly the project content and implementation strategy to the changing needs and
circumstances of the Borrower in general and the state in particular.
(d) In a multi-states project like this one, introduction of incentives and
competition among states by rewarding more resources to those performing better
actually accelerated project implementation, as long as different institutional capacities
are taken into account and more technical assistance was provided to those states with
weaker institutional capacities in order to ensure fairness in the competition.
(e) In a multi-state project, a sub-account should be established and replenished
for each state separately so that each state may have accountability and efficiency for its
financial planning and execution, and an efficient states would not be adversely affected
by less efficient states in the flows of financial resources.
(f)  The Bank should streamline the process for the amendment to loan
agreements and should actively monitor the processes to encourage a constant review of
the need for adjustments of the project design to the changing circumstances.
(g) Lack of monitoring indicators adversely affects the progress of the project in
general and the institutional development component in particular. Establishment of
baseline indicators is essential for project progress monitoring and project outcomes
evaluation.
(h) A project specific monitoring and evaluation system is unlikely to be
established and operated effectively when an institution-wide monitoring and evaluation
system is lacking.
(i) Both the Borrower and the Bank should pay more attention to the institutional
development component of the project and the efficient operation of the physical facilities
produced under the project in order to ensure the attainment of the project goals and
impact.
(j) Success in project implementation is highly correlated with Government's
commitment. At the federal level, strong support from the Health Minister in 1995
resulted in accelerated project implementation; and states with more committed
Governors were more successful than others.



17
(k) Advice and assistance provided by a Bank supervision team do make
significant differences in the pace and direction of project implementation, especially
with respect to the needs and timing of project adjustments.
(1) The authorities and responsibilities of the project coordination unit and its
location within a sectoral institution is important for a successful implementation and
outcome of a project.
(m) Expansion and Improvement of the basic health service network do make a
difference in the access to health services and health status of the poor people.
(n) Current Bank guidelines on the ICR should be revised, and a Borrower's ICR
should be submitted to the Bank before the closing date, so that the Borrower can learn
from the review of its own experience before the PCU loses its staff and institutional
memories.
PART II: GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
I.    General Observations
Completion of the Second Northeast Project (PNE II) provides a good opportunity to put
forward a number of considerations on the subject of its performance record. This undertaking
was characterized by an unusual contradiction. Initially criticized as difficult to implement, it
certainly proved extremely rigid where general planning was concerned, owing to the marked
centralization of political and administrative decisions. At the same time, however, there was
considerable flexibility at the level of its individual components, where there was plenty of scope
for action with potentially significant institutional impact, particularly as regards the use of loan
proceeds in support of strategic areas amd activities, not only in the sphere of influence of the
Northeast Region State Health Secretariats but also in that of the Ministry of Health itself. This
allowed a broad range of options for the utilization of project financial resources, and a degree of
flexibility in this regard uncommon in similar investment projects, on the basis of renegotiations
with the World Bank that resulted in modifications in the original project design.
Preliminary evaluation on completion of the project indicates that the way loan proceeds
were used was clearly to the benefit of the national executing agencies, with full disbursement of
the funds allocated to the State Health Secretariats, in accordance with the timetable agreed on
with the World Bank. However, the question whether the final objectives envisioned in the
Project Loan Agreement have been accomplished, in terms of either product, process or impact,
Translation of the original Portuguese report, dated May 29, 1998, which is placed in the Bank Files.



18
As an atypical source of financing, the project succeeded in keeping its program
objectives in line with the major national health policy objective, that of consolidating the
decentralization process. It was visualized as a further effort on the part of the Ministry of
Health and the State Health Secretariats to guarantee properly coordinated allocation of project
financial resources at each level of management, and thereby to ensure their maximum impact in
improving access to health services for the general population.
PNE II incorporated some of the same elements as PNE I, including the programming
parameters recommended by international agencies. For instance, PNE II continued the line of
credit initiated under PNE I, employing the same expenditure categories as the latter, although
with pharmaceuticals and IEC as additional categories. Since the profiles of the two projects
were similar, they experienced virtually the same implementation problems, with some small
variations.
Although the major part of PNE II proceeds was allocated for expenditure on civil works
and equipment, the project - for what was essentially an investment project - funded a number
of necessary innovations: (i) the need for management innovations, in the area of consulting
arrangements; (ii) the need to improve the quality of human resources, in the area of training and
supervision; (iii) the need to change the prevailing assistance model, by organizing the primary
health care networks into a hierarchical structure; and (iv) the need to invest more in direct and
indirect forms of technical assistance for the States, through consulting services provided from
the central government level.
Its resulting hybrid nature meant that PNE II was marked, from the outset, by a series of
contradictions - for instance:
(i)   The contradiction between regional political interests in civil works projects,
frequently based on electoral considerations, and the imperatives of the National
Health Policy, which at the time was concerned with new health service
organizational models as a result of the changes introduced through the Integrated
Health Actions (AIS, 1983) and subsequently through SUDS and SUS.
(ii)   The contradiction between political will and bureaucratic red tape, which left the
project managers no room for independent action and decision-making.
(iii) The contradiction between the comparative abundance of external resources and
the scarcity of national counterpart resources, which were the responsibility of the
State Governments - especially at a time when the national situation indicated
the need for fiscal adjustments on the part of these governments. In some
instances, this delayed access to World Bank resources, whose availability was
contingent on the execution of parallel financial operations.
(iv)  The contradiction between the heavy demand for but short supply of State Health
Secretariat personnel qualified to work on the technical implementation of the
project.



19
It appears that contradictions like these may have resulted in PNE II having had less than
optimum final impact, judging from the initial data produced by the general evaluation now in
progress. Despite this, however, the project can clearly claim a number of successes -  for
instance:
(i)    Approximately 650 municipalities in 10 States have had the benefit of direct project
investments in one or more eligible categories: civil works and/or equipment, human
resources training, drugs and pharmaceutical supplies, etc.
(ii)  Improved access to health services as a result of the increase in the number of health units
constructed, rehabilitated, expancded and equipped in the municipalities targeted by the
project.
(iii)   Better quality of health care services for the target population groups as a result of
improvements in equipment, buildings and facilities, which mean that system users can
now be attended to with greater consideration. In quantitative terms, there is now
increased health care coverage in project target areas owing to the expanded supply of
ambulatory, in-patient and diagnostic services.
(iv)   Technical training of personnel at all levels of the civil service health apparatus, not only
training for personnel directly responsible for patient care delivery but also management
training, with a special focus on municipal administrators and services management.
(v)   Increased management capacity in the State Health Secretariats, with significant
improvement in the quality of procurement operations for PNE II, in other areas where
procurement by competitive bidding is mandatory, in financial administration, planning
and programming, and in architectural preparation of projects requiring expertise in the
specifics of health architecture.
(vi)   Although indicators for measuring final project impact have not been developed, it is very
clear the project has helped improve certain health indicators in the Northeast through its
expansion and improvement of the quality of health services in the municipal districts it
targeted. By upgrading the care available to groups more than usually exposed to health
risks, and by giving them access to the technology best able to provide protection against
such risks, PNE II has made a decisive contribution to improvement of the health status
of the population.
II.   Brazilian Government Performance in the Implementation of PNE II
The Government's performance in the execution of PNE II was characterized by two
different approaches to the project. Initially, it was distinguished from other Ministry of Health
undertakings by its low assigned priority; subsequently, however, it was given much greater
prominence, once it came to be seen as important in the relationship between the Ministry and



20
the State Governments. Despite this change, certain difficulties were encountered during the
implementation process, regardless of the question of operational level:
(i)    At Federal level, some of the basic difficulties were:
Failure by Ministry of Health departments to commit effectively to accomplishing the
ultimate objectives of PNE II. Late release of project proceeds by the Treasury to the
Ministry of Health, which then withheld them from the project in order to be able to
cover other financial obligations. Excessive red tape in the processing of agreements and
amendments to them, with long delays in negotiations and forwarding of related
documents for signature. On some occasions, the political will to fulfill routine
contractual obligations - for instance, independent audit of the project each fiscal year
- was lacking.
(ii)   At State level, the main difficulties were:
In some instances, the State Health Secretariats failed to be active in their management of
the project, regarding it as an activity imposed on them from above and as just another of
their many ongoing responsibilities. PNE II proceeds were a favorite target of individual
State sectors intent on trying to finance their own activities, although this did not induce
in them any sense of responsibility for upgrading their management and implementation
practices. Capacity for policy coordination among the various State Government
departments and agencies involved in project execution was minimal. Essential project
administrative procedures were let slide, while a lack of management instruments
systematically led to delays in the preparation of project financial statements and to a lack
of the kind of information on which monitoring of the physical goals of the project
depended. Difficulties in moving ahead with competitive procurement procedures,
especially in those States which required the necessary funding to be in hand before
invitations to bid could be issued.
IHI.   World Bank Performance
Like most of the government departments and agencies in Brazil with responsibilities for
PNE II, the World Bank also failed to attach due importance to implementation of this project.
Excessive bureaucratic monitoring of execution of the majority of project actions led to difficult-
to-resolve disputes over the roles of lender and borrower.  In principle, the borrower's
responsibility was to fulfill all contractual obligations, and to provide the means of taking full
advantage of the proceeds of the project loan - something not synonymous, however, with blind
submission to the Bank's oversight requirements, which in many cases brought the
implementation process to a standstill. The lender's role was to keep abreast of progress toward
project goals, through ongoing supervision and periodic monitoring of the execution process
rather than through an exaggerated focus on the means of tracking expenditure; care should also
have been taken to allow the project management team to reach its own decisions independently
in most instances.



21
As lender, the World Bank too was contradictory in its approach to PNE II, showing too
much rigidity at some points and considerable laxity at others. A judicious balance -between
rigidity and flexibility was struck only in 1995, when adjustments were introduced that
facilitated full use of loan proceeds. This was something that had seemed impossible under the
circumstances which until 1994 had governed the allocation of undisbursed loan proceeds -
quite apart from the applicable technical criteria and Loan Agreement requirements.
In any event, during the implementation of PNE II, as during that of PNE I, the World
Bank was in the contradictory position of acting simultaneously as both bank and development
agency. This contradiction originated in the conflict between the need to approve the project and
disburse loan proceeds on the one hand, and on the other the need to ensure that these proceeds,
in the form of investments, would work for the greater good of the community. As soon as the
second responsibility proved difficult to fulfill, the first would become paramount, even though
Bank projects earn assured and risk-free returns and few governments fail to repay such
investments on schedule and on the specified terms and conditions.
IV.  Lessons Learned and Recommendations
With a view to the effectiveness, efficiency and rational design of projects similar to PNE
-I, it is worth enumerating a number of lessons and recommendations:
(i)   Allow greater administrative flexiLbility at the levels responsible for the actual business of
project execution, regardless of their management status.
(ii)   Set up mechanisms to prevent eKecutive "verticalization" of projects in relation to the
organizational structure within which they fit.
(iii) Negotiate greater decision-making autonomy with the international agencies in respect of
the bureaucratic procedures for handling intermediate activities, and pass on the same
autonomy to executing agents.
(iv)  Devise instruments for technical monitoring and evaluation that make it possible to
rectify the course of projects in progress:
(a)   re management performance: accomplishment of physical and financial goals,
issue of financial statements and other management reports, etc.
(b)   re operational performanrce:  improvement of capacity to provide services,
development of minimal reference indicators, etc.
(v)   Develop outcome evaluation methods focused on the technical dimension (clinical or
epidemiological effectiveness of the service provided), on the economic, or efficiency,
dimension (to what extent could tie same outcome be achieved at a lower cost or through
better deployment of the resources in play), on the qualitative, or client-satisfaction,



22
dimension, and on the ethical-political dimension (closeness to or distance from criteria
of social justice, equity, etc.).
(vi)   Seek greater diversity among ultimate executing agents.
(vii)  Insist that national institutions give priority to projects in terns of their objectives and the
interest rates and commitment fees the Government is paying. Opportunity cost becomes
high when solving easy problems is postponed.
(viii) Insist that the World Bank act first and foremost as an international development agency.



23
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 3135-BR)
PART III: ST'ATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:     Studies included in Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 7C:    Loan Disbursements by State and Expenditure
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 11:    Assessment of Project Objectives



24
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                                                          X
Sector policies                      X1
Financial objectives                                                                    X
Institutional development                           X
Physical objectives                  X
Poverty reduction                                   X
Gender issues                                                                           X
Other social objectives                                                                 X
Environmental objectives                                                                X
Public sector management                            X
Private sector development                          X
Other (specify)
atAj  -R                            Nth41 1IF     6O 
Sustainability                      X
~~t    V~~~
Identification                                                      X
Preparation assistance                              X
Appraisal                                                           x
Supervision                                         x
.' -i URN                A        'w i4 '%7
Preparation                                         X
Implementation                                                      X
Covenant compliance                                 X
Operation                                           X
x
Assessment of Overall Outcome



25
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
National Health   To improve the Government's ability to   1984     Completed
Policy Studies    address a variety of health needs through         (12/31/89)
(LN 2488-BR)      strengthening policy formation
Sao Paulo Basic    To improve the health status in five main  1984   Closed
Health Care       target areas and nine health districts in          6/30/92
Greater Sao Paulo and improve the cost-
effectiveness of health services delivery
within Greater Sao Paulo.
Northeast Basic   To support the Borrower's effort to      1986     Completed
Health Services I    improve equity, efficiency and                 (3/11/97)
(LN 2699-BR)      effectiveness of basic health care in the
project area.
1988     Completed
NE Endemic Disease To reduce the prevalence of three                (6/30/96)
Control (LNG 2931- endemic diseases (Chagas disease,
BR)               schistosomiasis, and leishmaniasis) in the
Northeast, to levels where only
epidemiological surveillance are needed
to keep these diseases under control.
Amazon Basin      To reduce malaria transmission in        1989     Completed
Malaria Control    Amazonia and prevent its reintroduction           (6/30/96)
(LN 3072-BR)      in areas now under control.
Health Sector Reform To improve the delivery of care under the  1996  Ongoing
(REFORSUS)        SUS (the sole source of publicly                 (Closing Date
(LN 4047-BR)      subsidized care for the poor) and to assist        12/31/00)
the government in introducing policy
reforms which would improve the
financial sustainability and efficiency of
the SUS.



26
Table 3: Project Timetable
1. Preparation                               12/86          12/86
2. Appraisal                                 11/87          1/88
3. Negotiations                              05/88          09/89
4. Board presentation                        07/88          11/89
5. Signing                                   9/90           9/90
6. Effectiveness                             12/90          12/90
7. Project completion                        12/95          6/98
8. Loan closing                              6/96           12/97



27
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
Appraisal
estimates         17.5     41.6    85.2        132.1    185.0    234.0    267.0    267.0    267.0
Revised
estimates         -        -        -         -         -         -         -         217.0    217.0
Actual
disbursements    0         23.96   26.54    35.76    59.91        98.10    137.24   194.79   217.0
Actual as % of
Appraisal (or
Revised)         0         56.7%    31.15%   27.7%    32.38%   41.92%   51.40%   89.76    100%
estimates
Cumulative Disbursements
300.00
250.00  g           -
s 150.00                                                               -4-.-Appraisal estimates
-Revised estimates
-U- Actual disbursements
0 00
FY90   FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98
Bank Fiscal Year



28
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
A. The Number of Municipalities Participating in the Project
Alagoas                         49                              62
Ceara                           61                              78
Sergipe                         35                              37
Bahia                           114                             169
Paraiba                         57                              74
Maranh,ao                       50                              66
Pernambuc                    112                             146
B. The Number and Type of Works for Health Facilities in Ceara and Paraiba
E , ,.,,.,.- ..... : 0 -. !; ' - < ' , ,.: ........... ..... j ...... .... .:  .. . ... .......,,
No.          (%)           No.           (%)          Total
Ceara       SAR Plan         137          (74)          49           (36)           186
Actual         202          (74)           72           (36)          274
Paraiba      SAR Plan         33           (39)          52           (61)           85
Actual         30           (59)           21           (41)           51
TO                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~271
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~23 2 .1)9~3                        ( I )_          _   _
C. The Number and Level of Health Facilities Provided in Ceara and Paraiba
Ceari      SAR Plan    149   (80)    30    (16)   7    (4)    -                    186
Actual      253   (92)    17    (6)    4    (2)    -        -         274
Paraiba     SAR Plan       46    (54)    33    (39)   3    (3)   3        (3)        85
Actual      23    (45)    27    (53)   1    (2)    -        -          51
-L_            _  _ _n   #>!._ A          J      B   m                     _       __



29
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project (The State of Bahia)1
TITLE OF STUDY                PURPOSE OF STUDY              OUTCOME OF STUDY
Evaluation of Health Unit     To determine whether existing  Health Secretariat provided with
Equipment Sets                dental, medical and hospital  standardized equipment sets to
equipment sets are in line with    enable Units to cover actual
health action and health service    needs for health care services
needs
Study of Epidemiological Status   To review status of dengue fever  Prevention, control and
of Bahia State                epidemic in Bahia State       eradication of vector
Evaluation of Child Dental    To diagnose dental health status   Definition of alternative methods
Health in Rural Areas         of children in rural areas    of preventive and remedial dental
care for children aged 6 to 12
years in rural areas of Cansan,co
Municipality (Bahia)
Evaluation of First Northeast  To evaluate success in achieving   Support for Unified Health
Basic Health Services Project  PNE I goals and objectives   System (SUS) operations in
(PNE I)                                                     Bahia State, especially
institutional development
measures and health service
organization programs
Social and Morbidity Profile of    To conduct census of psychiatric  Support for programs to redesign
Bahia State Psychiatric Patient    in-patient population in public,    Bahia State psychiatric care
Population                    philanthropic and private      services
facilities under contract to SUS
Case Study: Lymphoma in the    To examine association between   Formulation of epidemiological
Workplace                     occurrence of non-Hodgkin's   strategy for surveillance of
lymphomas and exposure to    incidence of workplace-related
organic solvents              cancers in Salvador Metropolitan
Region (Bahia)
Workplace Accidents and       To ascertain morbidity and    Establishment of database on
Diseases                      mortality rates associated with  workplace accidents, to
work-related accidents in     complement other CESAT health
Salvador Metropolitan Region  surveillance programs
(Bahia)
Mapping of Occupational Health   To carry out a diagnostic study of  Introduction of measures to
Hazards                       present use of weedkillers in Qui  eliminate harmful uses of
District                      weedkillers, and production of
educational audiovisual materials
for that purpose
Evaluation of Municipal Health    To draw profile of Bahia State    Identification of (i) major groups
Councilor Training            Municipal Health Councilors, and  in composition of Municipal
assess impact of training program   Health Councils, and (ii) areas of
on their performance         training curriculum needing
reformulation if Municipal Health
Councilor Training program is to
remain fully effective
l This list is only an example. All Project States and the MoH conducted studies similar to those listed in this State
of Bahia



30
Evaluation of Worker Health   To assist enterprises and     Reorganization of Worker Health
Centers (NUSATs)              municipalities by developing  Centers
worker health monitoring
programs,
Study of Demand for Worker    To study characteristics of   Drafting of instructional and
Health Facility Services      demand profile for worker     informational materials for
ambulatory health care services    workers, institutions and
provided by Occupational Health  communities, giving factual data
Department                    on prevention, treatment and
monitoring of common
occupational diseases
Evaluation of IEC Actions     To analyze materials, group   Critique of program performance
mobilization activities, and media  and recommendations to improve
programs used by IEC/Bahia with  it
specific communities and the
general public
Evaluation of Results of      To assess performance by      Identification of weaknesses in
Implementation of NOB 01/93   municipalities in incorporating  Municipal Health System (in
NOB 01193 requirements into   management, finances, infra-
Municipal Health System       structure, organization and
delivery of services), with view
to supplementing State Health
Secretariat technical cooperation
to municipalities in process of
decentralizing health actions
Diagnostic Study of Bahia State   To ascertain technical support  Laying of foundations for
Pharmaceutical Assistance     needs of 'Pharmacy Commission   drafting of Bahia State
Program                       and Technical Standards       Pharmaceuticals Inspection Plan
Commission                    and for SUS/Bahia construction
program
Mid-Term Review of            To evaluate proposed PNE II    Support for Unified Health
Implementation of PNE II      goals and. objectives         System (SUS) operations,
especially institutional
development measures and health
service organization programs



31
Table 7A: Project Costs (US$ Millions)
Appraisal Estimates (US$M)                        Actual costs (US$M)
A. Civil Works           75.1       18.8        93.9          20         20.8       83.8       04.6       80%
B. Equipment             35.9       19.4        55.3          35          8.8       41.7       50.5       83%
C. Training              25.0       6.2         31.2          2
4.5        40.9       45.4       90%
D. Supervision           19.0       4.7        23.7           20
B  Consultancies          8.2       2.0         10.2          20
0          37.4      37.4       100%
F. Special Studies        4.2        1.0        5.2           20           03.                  74        10
................. .pc a  .St&   ...... 4 2   ... .0  5 2 ........... ............. . ~6.. ...................6................. f.... .............. .............   i......... ..............
G.JIEC*                  16.3       4.1        20.4           20           0         11.3      11.3       100%
H. New Staff             98.5       10.9       109.4          10         90.6**       0        90.6         0
Salaries
I. Supplies              47.5       20.4        67.9          30         42.0**       0        42.0         0
J. Maintenance           18.1       9.8         27.9          35          7.1**       0        77.1         0
K. Drugs                 45.0       19.3        64.3          30         12.0**      1.9        13.9       2%
L. Physical              13.3       4.4         17.7          25            -         -          -          -
Contingencies
M. Price                 63.4       20.1       83.5           24
Contingencies
* IEC = Information, Education and Communications
** Estimated
** Figures include an estimated US$50.2 million in local duties and taxes
Table 7B: Project Financing (US$ Millions)
Appraisal Estimates                       Actual Costs
IBRD              129.0             138.0          267.0            -               217.0          217.0
State            311.9                --          311.9  -
Governments                                                    <A555.8                     -           555.8
Federal            28.6               3.1            31.7
Government



32
Table 7C: Loan Disbursements by State and Expenditure
State     Works    Goods    T.A.    Training       Drugs      IEC   Unallocated  Total
Alagoas                                _
Original   _               10        7        1.1       5.1        0.3        0.5                24
Executed                   13        3.6      0.2       4.5        0.3       0.43               22.03
Dierence   =___        |_  3        -3.4      -0.9     -0.6         0        -0.07      0       -1.97
% Exec                    130.0     51.4      18.2      88.2       100.0     86.0 |#DIV/0!    91.8
Bahia                                        _
Original                  12.9       9.2      1.1       7.8        0.4        0.7               32.1
Executed                  12.8      7.1       0.61       4         0.35      0.43               25.29
difference                -0.1      -2.1     -0.49     -3.8       -0.05      -0.27      0       -6.81
% Exec                    99.2      77.2      55.5      51.3       87.5      61.4    #DIV/01    78.8
Ceara                       _
Original                  8.1       6.9       1.4       5.7        0.3        0.7               23.1
Executed                  11.6      6.8        3        5.2        0.3        1.2               28.1
difference                 3.5      -0.1      1.6      -0.5         0         0.5       0         5
% Exec.                   143.2     98.6     214.3      91.2      100.0      171.4   #DIV/01    121.6
Maranhao
Original                   8.8       11        1        4.9        0.2        0.5               26.4
Executed                   9         7.2      0.3       2.9        0.16      0.52               20.08
difference                 0.2      -3.8      -0.7      -2        -0.04      0.02       0       -6.32
% Exec                    102.3     65.5      30.0      59.2       80.0      104.0   #DIVIO!    76.1
Paraiba                     _ _                   _                   = _         ___
Original                   8.3      10.2       1        3.1        0.2        0.5                23.3
Executed                   8.8      5.4       0.07      1.9        0.15      0.33               16.65
difference                 0.5      -4.8     -0.93     -1.2       -0.05     -0.17       0       -6.65
% Exec                    106.0     52.9      7.0       61.3       75.0      66.0    #DIV/0!    71.5
Pemambuco                      _
Original                  12.6      16.7      1.4       8.1        0.4        0.7               39.9
Executed                  15.6       8        2.1       8.3        0.4       0.87               35.27
difference                 3        -8.7      0.7       0.2         0        0.17       0       -4.63
% Exec                    123.8     47.9     150.0    102.5       100.0      124.3    #DIV/0!    88.4
Sergipe                      _
Original                   5.9      4.7       1.1       1.9        0.2        0.4               14.2
Executed                   9.3      2.1       0.03      1.4        0.19      0.54               13.56
difference                 3.4      -2.6     -1.07     -0.5       -0.01      0.14       0       -0.64
% Exec                    157.6     44.7      2.7       73.7       95.0      135.0   #DIV/0!    95.5
MOH                         _
Original                   0.9       0.3      9.9       9.9         0         20        0        41
Executed                   0        0.29      30.8      11.9        0         6.7       0       49.69
difference                -0.9     -0.01      20.9       2          0        -13.3      0       8.69
% Exec                     0.0      96.7     311.1     120.2      #DIVIO!    33.5    #DIV/0!    121.2
Subtotal            _
Original                  67.5       66        18      46.5         2         24        43       267
Executed                  80.1     40.49     37.11     40.1        1.85      11.02      0      210.67
difference                12.6    -25.51     19.11     -6.4       -0.15     -12.98     -43      -56.33
% Exec                    118.7     61.3     206.2      86.2       92.5      45.9      0.0      78.9



33
Table 7C: Loan Disbusements by Stabt and Expenditure
Stte       Woruks    Goods      TA.    Training      Drugs       IEC   Unallocated  Total
Mhias Gerais                                                                 .
Original                ____
Execut                     1.7       0.57      0.11      0.24         0        0.06                2.68
difference                 1.7       0.57      0.11      0.24         0        0.06        0       2.68
% Exec                    #DIVI0I   #DiV/01  #DIV/01   #DIV/01    #DIV/O!   #DIV/01   #DIV/01   #DiV/01
Piaui              _  =   =                       _            _       _________
Original   __- ____  __=_____
Executed                   1.2        0        0.1       0.27         0        0.05                1.62
difference                 1.2        0         0.1      0.27         0        0.05        0       1.62
% Exec.                  #DIV/01   #DIV/01   #DiV/01   #DIV/01    #DIV/01   #DIV/01   #DIV/01   #DiV/O!
Rio Grande            _
Original
Executed                   0.7       0.53       0        0.27         0        0.15                1.65
difference                 0.7       0.53       0        0.27         0        0.15        0       1.65
% Exec                   #DIV/01   #DIV/O0   #DIV/0!   #DIV/01     #DIV/O!   #DIV/0!   #DIV/O!   #DIV/0!
Sub total
Original
Executed                   3.6        1.1      0.21      0.78         0        0.26                5.95
difference                 3.6        1.1      0.21      0.78         0        0.26       0        5.95
% Exec                   #DIV/01   #DIV/0! #DIVi0/ #DIV/0/ #DIV/O!   #DIVIO!   #DIV/01   #DIV/01
Grand total
Original                   67.5       66        18       46.5         2         24        43       267
Executed                   83.7     41.59     37.32     40.88        1.85      11.28      0       216.62
difference                 16.2     -24.41     19.32     -5.62      -0.15     -12.72     -43      -50.38
% Exec                    124.0      63.0      207.3     87.9        92.5      47.0       0.0      81.1



34
Table 8: Stats of Legal Covenants
Loan
Agreement
3.01E     Inform World Bank of amounts in MoH's budget for project,            C
and ensure that funds deposited in each project account are at
all times not less than I month's expenditures in cruzeiros
under respective state component.
3.01G     The Borrower shall, not later than May31 of each year,              CP       5/31/91
furnish for its approval a two-year plan for purposes of Part
A.7 of the project.
3.02B     The Borrower shall establish single registries of contractors        C
and suppliers for purposes of the project to meet local
registration for procurement.
3.02C     Not later than January 31 of each year, starting 1/31/90, the       CP       1/31/93
Borrower shall publish ads in two newspapers.
3.03A     Monitor overall implementation of project by Bo:rrower,              C
performance by each state in respect of implementation of
corresponding states component, the delivery of health
services under the project.
3.03B     Prepare and submit for review and approval by the WB, no             C       3/26/91
later than three months from the effective date, a set of
indicators and performance criteria.
3.03C     Submit progress reports to WB every year on                          C       1/31/93
implementation and delivery of services by each state
covering, inter-alias, actual expenditures and budgetary
authorizations under the corresponding part of the project.
3.03E     Prepare annually with assistance of applicable states, starting     CP      10/31/90
in 1990, a detailed analysis of sources and uses of funds.
4.01A     The Borrower shall maintain separate records and accounts            C
in accordance with sound accounting practices.
4.01B    Have records and accounts audited for each fiscal year and           C       6/30/91
furnish to the World Bank no later than six mont:hs after the
end of each fiscal year.
Obligations of States under Agreements with the Federal Government
Article 4    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of           C
goods, works, etc. shall be governed by schedule 4.
Article 5    Each state shall carry out the obligations subject to the          C
general conditions relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, etc.
Article 6A   Each state shall open, and thereafter maintain, lrNA Bank           C
satisfactory to the Borrower and the World Bank, an account.
Article 8    Each state shall take all actions necessary on its part to         C
enable the Borrower's compliance with provisions of section
3.03 of the Loan Agreement.
Article 10   Each state shall keep separate records and accounts.               C
Article 13   Each state shall annually prepare its plan for IEC activities      C        1/31/92
and submit it for approval to the MoH and World Bank,
update its state decentralization plan, prepare detailed
financial information on sources and uses of funds.
Article 14   Each state shall, acting through its respective SES, appoint       C
and maintain a project coordinator with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Borrower and the World Bank.
Covenant types:  I = Accounts/audits; 2 = Financial performance/review; 3 = Flow and utilization of Project Funds;
4 = Counterpart funding; 5 = Management aspects of the project.
Present Status:   C = Covenant complied with; CD = Complied with after delay; CP = Complied with partially



35
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Preparation to Appraisal               88.1            158,920.0
Appraisal                              30.6             50,942.0
Negotiations through Board Approval    28.0             66,729.0
Supervision                           180.7            481,861.0
Completion                              2.5              5,767.0



36
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Through Appraisal
Preparation             9/86         4         12.5             J,A,A
Preparation             12/86        4          7.4            JN,B,A
Preparation             5/87         4          8.5            1,A,B,I
Preparation             8/87         4          6.3             J,I,A
Preparation             9/87         1           1                A
Preparation             11/87        8         22.8          J,BN,AC,I,L
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
Appraisal                1/88        4          7.4            B,A,P,J
Post Appraisal          3/89         2           5               J,B
Post Appraisal          7/89         4          6.8            J,A,M,B
Post Appraisal          5/90         4          2.3            P,J,A,G
(Project Launch)
Supervision
Supervision 1           11/90        3          7.7             A(2), I                 1                1
Supervision 2           3/91         2          2.3              J,I                    2                1
Supervision 3           7/91         2          3.1              J, I                   2               2
Supervision 4           10/91        2          4.5              J,I                    2               2
Supervision 5           2/92         4          6.2            N,I,A,L                  2                1
Supervision 6           8/92         3          3.1             A,J,I                   2                1
Supervision 7           2/93         3          4.7             J,I,A                   2                1
Supervision 8           6/93         4          8              J,I,A,O                  2                2
Supervision 9           9/93         3          1.2             J,I,A                   2                2
Supervision 10          11/93        4          6.2            J,N,I,A                  2                2
Supervision 11          3/94         4          5.7            J,N,I,B                  2                2
Supervision 12          6/94         5         12.1           J(2),I,A(2)               3                2
Supervision 13          4/95         3          3.4             N,B,G                   S                S
Supervision 14           1/96        1           1                H                     S                S
Supervision 15          6/96         2          2.5             M,H                     S                S
Supervision 16          10/96        2          2               M,H                     S                S
Supervision 17          2/97         2          1.2             M,H                     S                S
Supervision 18          5/97         2          1.5             M,H                     S                S
Completion
a/ A=Public Health; B=Economist; C=HR Specialist; D=Hosp.Admin.; E=Auditor; F=Health Educ.;
G=Procurement; H=Systems Analyst;                    I=Architect; J=Operations Analyst; K=Financial
Analyst; L=Management; M=Laywer; N=Operations Ass.; O=Communications;
P-Implementation Spec.
_/ I=Problem Free; 2=Moderate Problems; 3=bAajor Problems; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory
c/ M=Management; F=Financial; P-Procurement; S-Studies; E=Monitoring & Eval.; T=Technical Ass.;
Tr--Training



Appendix A
BRAZIL
A:IDE MEMOtRE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION ON THE SECOND NORTHEAST
BASIC HEALTH PROJECT (PNE-11): LOAN 3135-BR
L   INTRODUCTION
1. During the period March 16 - 27, 1998, Kye Woo Lee and Claudia Rosenthal (March 16-20) of
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office of the World Bank (WB) visited Brazil for the
implementation completion mission of the project.
2. The mission would like to express its appreciation to the authorities and officials of the
government for the attention and collaboration that it received during its stay. During its stay, the
rnission had meetings with the Minister of Health, Dr. Carlos Cesar Silva de Albuquerque, and
officials of the Ministry of Health (MOHq, National Health Foundation, and the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU). The mission also visited the project states of Bahia, Ceara and Paraiba,
discussing with the state and municipal health officials and visiting some project institutions. The
Annex lists the persons with whom the mission had meetings.
3. The mission reviewed the principal activities of the project and presents some conclusions and
recommendations, as well as agreements reached with the responsible persons.
IL    Review of Principal Activities
4. The mission and the government officials agrees that the project assisted the government in
improving the newly decentralized health service network in the Northeast to deliver a package of
basic health services, and strengthened the institutional capacity of the health authorities at federal
and state levels. The government successfully completed providing the necessary inputs to
improve the operation of the basic health care services at state and municipal levels by completing
the infrastructure investments, training of health personnel, hiring or reassigning of additional
health staff, carrying out of supervision, and procurement of necessary drugs, and medical and
office supplies. The government also completed providing inputs to strengthen the institutional
capacity of the MOH at both federal and state levels by hiring consultants for carrying out studies,
improving management of processes, tools and manpower, designing and implementing
information, education and communication (IEC) activities, and improving monitoring and
evaluation systems; providing managerial and professional training for supervisors and staff; and
preparing training curriculum and materials.



5. In completing the project, the government took three years longer than envisaged at the
appraisal of the project. The project implementation took off the ground with a one-year delay
and the implementation pace was sluggish at best in the first half of the almost eight-year
implementation period. The WB's collaborative and supervisory efforts were not effective either.
However, since 1995, government's innovative initiative, with the help of the WB, has improved
the project implementation in a dramatic way.
m.   SUSTAINABILITY, OPERATIONAL PLAN, AND IMPACT EVALUATION
6. Sustainability: The basic health service network in the Northeast would be financially
sustainable, but may not be sufficiently decentralized and become autonomous professionally and
technically. The Unified and Decentralized Health Service System (SUS) would continuously
ensure that adequate financial resources are made available for the Northeast on an equitable
basis. Also, the PNE-I and II have provided technical and institutional assistance in the last ten
years. However, the he1th secretariats of the states and municipalities, and other public health
institutions in the Northeast are still weak technically and institutionally, and would therefore
require continuous training and technical assistance from the federal level.
7. Operational Plan: Under the SUS, the executing and operational functions of the health sector
is to be carried out by the decentralized state and municipality, and the MOH at the federal level is
to play financing, policy-making, normative, monitoring, evaluating, and technical assistance
functions. These functions have been designed or strengthened under the PNE-Il mainly through
hiring consultants, especially for the provision of training, studies, technical assistance monitoring,
and evaluation. With the completion of the PNE-II project, however, a cause for concern is that
these consultants hired under the institutional development component of the PNE-II project
either have already left or are expected to leave the services in the near future, and the MOH does
not seem to have an adequate institutional apparatus and financial and human resources to carry
out such functions properly. This concern is enhanced, particularly because the monitoring and
evaluation systems of the MOH have not been adequately developed and institutionalized during
the implementation of the PNE-II project. Although they may be further strengthened under the
Health Sector Reform (REFORSUS) and other Bank financed Projects in the future, no concrete
action plans have yet been placed in the MOH. The only positive action being taken is that the
PCU is planning to launch a quick survey of the quantitative and qualitative outputs produced
under the PNE-II project in May 1998. However, the PCU is scheduled to be dismantled in June
1998, and the survey would not be a good substitute for continuous and institutionalized
monitoring and evaluation, training and technical assistance systems .
Recommendation: The mission therefore recommends that the MOH make some
organizational, procedural, human, and financial arrangements for systematically institutionalizing
the monitoring and evaluation systems and continuously providing training and technical
assistance to states and municipalities on a national basis, in particular to those in the Northeast.



For this purpose, the MOH would be required to collaborate with the states and municipalities in
the Northeast to develop a medium-term operational plan with targeted objectives for the basic
health service network in the Northeast and establish some indicators to monitor the progress and
achievement of the objectives and targets.
8. A Follow-Up Project. The Secretaries of the three states visited by the mission strongly
emphasized the need to follow up the PNE-ll with a new but shorter implementation project to
address the same problems in other municipalities of their states. They plan to make a request for
a new loan from the Bank through the ]inistry of Health. They emphasized the fact that the
PNE-II loan was curtailed by $50 million, and the implementation capacity at the state and
municipality levels has been sufficiently strengthened to implement a new project efficiently.
9. Field Visits. The mission visited some basic health centers in rural areas in Ceara and Paraiba,
and was positively impressed. These centers, either constructed, expanded, or rehabilitated under
the project, were adequately staffed, equilpped, and intensively used as envisaged at appraisal. All
staff members also received training under the project. However, all rural centers have problems
of retaining medical doctors and are short of medicines and supplies, which were to be addressed
under the project. The issues were brcught to the attention of the state authorities, which
responded that as the SUS financing system is regularized and transfers to municipalities are
increased, the problems would be gradually resolved.
10. The Public Health Schools. Financial sustainability of one institution, the Public Health
School in the state of Ceara, completed in 1994, has been a cause for concern during the
implementation of the project, and it conLtinues to be so. In 1997, the School depended on the
loan funds by 58% and on the state budget the balance. Its budget was reduced sharply to one-
third of its 1996 level. For the 1998 operational plan, the school has no clear sources of funding
other than the Bank financed projects (REkFORSUS and PNE-II), which accounts for some 10%.
The state government intends to maintain its last year's level of budget transfer in the future. The
School has been actively negotiating with external aid or educational agencies for joint activities
and financing. The public health school in Bahia, completed in 1996, is in a better situation.
Although the level of training activities is reduced somewhat in 1998, its budget has been secured,
and the Secretary of Health is negotiating for additional funds to resume the level of training
activities as in 1997.
Recommendation: The School in Ceara should come up with a medium term strategic plan
accompanied by a financing plan by the end of August 1998, so that it can be reflected in the state
budgets for 1999 and be used as a basis; for negotiations with collaborating agencies. The plan
would be also sent to the Bank for information.
11. Disbursements and Cancellation of the Unused Loan Funds: The total loan amount was
committed as of December 31, 1997. The government intends to withdraw the total loan funds by
the end of June 1998 as agreed with the WB, and expects that there would be no need to cancel
any loan funds.



12. Audit Reports: The PCU has already made arrangements with the independent auditor of the
government for the audit of CY 1997 project expenditures and promised to send the report to the
WB before June 30, 1998. The PCU also promised that it will make arrangements for audit of the
expenditures incurred during CY1998 and report it to the WB by the end of December 1998.
13. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (ICR: The PCU is preparing a Borrower's
contribution to the ICR in collaboration with other departments of the MOH, states and
municipalities, and promised to complete and send it to the WB by April 15, 1998. The PCU
already has the experience of preparing its contribution to the PNE- I in early 1997, and has all
necessary knowledge and guides for the ICR of the PNE-II project.
Salvador, Brazil
March 27, 1998
Kye Woo Lee                          Jose AnorArevald  Silva
The World Bank                     /General Coordinator of PNE-II



PERSONS CONSULTED AND PLACES VISITED DURING THE MISSION Annex
Ministerio do Saude. Brasilia
Dr. Carlos Cesar Silva de Albuquerque       Ministro da Saude
Ministerio da Saude
Eliane Pinheiro de Araujo                   Coordinatora doof Projeto BRA/90/032
Project Desenvolvimento Institucional
DI/Ms- PNUD
Zuleide do Valle Oliviera Ramos             Consultora Tecnica do PNUD/RH para o
SUS
Ana Gorete Kalume Maranhao                  Chefe do Servico de Assitencia Integrada a
Saude de Criancs
Celso Jose Roque                            Consultor Tecnico do EEC
Comunicacao Social
Jose Agenor Alvares da Siva                 Gerente-Geral do PNE-II
Raimundo Tarcisio Macedo                    Gerente Finaceiro do PNE-II
Emane Bento Bandarra                        Diretor do DATASUS
Departamento de Informatica do SUS
Fundacao Nacional do Saude
Estado da Ceara. Fortaleza
Quastacio Queiroz                           Secretario da Saude
Secretario da Saude do Estado
Socorro Martins                             Chefe de Cabinete
Secretaria da Saude do Estado
Silvia Mamede Studart Soares                Superintendente
Secretaria da Saude
Escola de Saude Publica
Marcela                                     Gerente do PNE-II
Secretaria da Saude do Estado
Centro de Diabetes e Hypertensiones, Forltaleza



Dr. Jose Bezerra                           Centro da Saude do Municipio Sao Goncalo
do Amarante
Estado da Praiba. Joao Pessoa
Dr. Jse Maria de Franca                    Secretario da Saude
Secretaria da Saude do Estado
Dr. Ginaldo Lago                           Gerente-Geral do PNE-II
Secretaria da Saude
Dr. Osman Setubal                          Secretario de Saude
Municipio da Pirpirituba
Unida Mista, Pirpirituba
Health Center, Borborema



MINISTtRIO DA SAIDE                                            Appendix B
SECRETARIA EXECUTIVA
GERgNCIA-GERAL DO PROJETO NORDESTE
FAXIGGPNE/N 095/98
Esplanada dos Minist4rios         Fone: (061) 226.0437 1315.2149
Bloco "G" Anexo *B" SALA 205      Fax  (061) 315.2747
CEP: 70058-900 Brasilia-DF-Brasil
Data: 10/06/98                  N de PFginas: 02   (incluindo esta)
PARA: Senhor Kyo Woo Lee
BANCO MUNDIAL- WASHINGTON/DC
FAX NO: 001- (202) 522-1201
De: Jos6 Agenor Alvares da Silva
Gerente Geral do Projeto Nordeste
ASSIU NTO
Senhor Lee,
Encaminho, conforme solicitado por Vossa Senhoria, os
comentarios da Gerdncia-Geral do Projeto Nordeste sobre o Relat6rio de
T6rmino de Implementahdo do FINE II - L- 3135-BR.
Nao foi possivel obter os comentarios do Minist6rio da Fazenda.
76 c1osamente,
Jos6  de Ivare3 d1 Sliva
eere6-GeraI d'PNtI



BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON THE ICR (Part i)1
The ICR prepared by the World Bank on PNE II provides an overview of the -way in
which the main elements of the projecl: performed in relation to Bank guidelines. This report
could well be more than a mere formality that marks the end of the Loan Agreement; it could
become an important tool for project management and for regulating the political and
institutional relationships between the providers and the recipients of financing. This would
make it possible to use the lessons of practical experience to adjust the direction of similar
projects that are either ongoing or being negotiated.
This document should be used to generate a greater impact among the project executing
agencies. If Brazilian institutions and the Bank are to buy in to a significant extent to the ICR,
the Borrower should be obliged to present its own comprehensive assessment, which would
discuss the procedures used, the results obtained and the project's overall impact. The lack of any
such contractual obligation does not promote institutional commitment to the preparation of the
ICR, as the rather improvised nature of the project components evaluated attests. Consequently
the final product of the report and the lessons drawn therein vanish into thin air, and each new
project may repeat the same errors as previous ones.
The projects supported by the World Bank are not an end in themselves. Rather, they are
part of a program of government priorities that cannot be separated from other activities in the
same field. In other words, such projects, complement the permanent activities of the responsible
agencies, which should encourage the effective commitment of these agencies to their
implementation. As a result, meeting the requirements of these projects should not be regarded
merely as a kind of concession by the managers of these agencies.
The evaluation of the First Northeast Project was technically very rigorous, which made it
possible, in light of the results that emerged, to change course in ways that were important for the
consolidation of the health services provided by the State Secretariats of Health in the project
area and for the strategic management and execution of PNE II. The modifications made in PNE
II enabled the loan proceeds to be fully disbursed without compromising technical standards or
the effective attainment of project objectives.
However, this fruitful assessment was submitted only to the World Bank, no provision
having been made for sharing it with oth,er national executing agencies. There were merely some
local discussions with state executing agencies in relation to specific problems identified in their
particular projects, with the aim of finding remedies. If there is no expectation concerning a
discussion of the project's overall results or as regards the potential for making changes in the
processes analyzed, the evaluation will arouse no interest. Consequently, the report cannot
simply be a formal statement delinked from the political and institutional context of the
executing agencies.
1 Translation of the original Portuguese Report, dated June 10, 1998, is placed in the Bank Files.



As regards the report per se, the GGPNE has the following comments:
1. Project Objectives
These are correctly and for the most part clearly described, in line with the SAR. One
small point should be made regarding the report's definition of a unidade mista: this is a Health
Establishment that brings together the activities of a health center; i.e. it is not itself a health
center, but a surgical center for inpatients in the four basic branches (general medicine, surgery,
pediatrics and obstetrics/gynecology). Implicit in the objective of implementing sectoral reforms
was the institutional development of the Ministry of Health, as an absolute priority.
2. Achievement of Objectives
It should be noted that the full execution of the project required an extension of only a
year and a half. Given the difficulties encountered in the early stages of implementation, this
extension did not distort the project, compromise the achievement of its objectives or damage the
relationship between the Bank and the Government. The final data are still being collected by
contracted professionals via field surveys, but the information available up to now indicates a
reasonable performance in the eligible categories.
The project's total costs did not increase at all, as claimed in the report. The extension of
the project and the incorporation of more states did not entail the allocation of additional
resources. Rather, the extension enabled planned targets to be achieved without compromising
the effectiveness of the planned expenditure, and eliminated the risk that some goals might not be
attained. Other states were added merely to reach targets not achieved under PNE I, and the
states concerned provided the necessary counterpart. Recurrent costs cannot be included in any
calculation of project expenditure; the costs of the facilities built under the project will become
an ongoing responsibility of governments at the Federal, state and municipal level.
The operation of these facilities is a principal concern of the Ministry of Health. Two
issues are receiving special attention from the evaluation team: a) the maintenance and operating
conditions of the health units provided under the project, mainly the additional beds in the state
and municipal health networks, in light of Brazil's health financing policy; and b) the quantity
and quality of the training performed in the project states. Consequently, an indepth qualitative
assessment of the training component is being made in certain states, covering all aspects of
training policy and its adaptation to the profile required by the health services.
In the context of the political and administrative decentralization taking place in Brazil,
the role of the Ministry of Health as head of the system is to formulate and coordinate public
policies in the area of health. Formal coordination of basic health services is therefore
unnecessary, since these services are the sum of various standard activities regulated by the
institutions managing the SUS and given expression via the political direction of the Secretariats
and Ministry of Health.
2



In discussing the coverage provided by PNE II one should be careful to avoid confusion
between the population actually covered by the new facilities and the population within an area
potentially served by a given health unit. Although the project did indeed significantly increase
health service coverage, the numbers of municipalities and state populations benefitted are over-
estimated if one takes into account the fact that states were added to the project in order to meet
earlier objectives not attained. As regards the direct application of resources in project
implementation, the shares of the World Bank and the Government were 85.6% and 14.4%
respectively. This does not include recurrent costs of services in operation.
Reference should be made to the states that used PNE II funds to build health schools or
training centers, namely Bahia and Ceara; Alagoas and Paraiba expanded and rehabilitated
existing training centers. As regards the other components discussed, the only point to add is that
the reworking of IEC resources was the result of the immense difficulties created by the size and
nature of the costs in this area. The cormpensation fund set up by project management operated
not merely among the Secretariats of Health but also among the agencies and activities directed
by the Ministry of Health. This made resource management more transparent and ensured that
funds were allocated to the ultimate aims of the project. In any event, at no time could any
interruption in any activity in this component be attributed to lack of funds.
3. Major Factors Affecting the Project
The GGPNE was responsible for relations with the states as regards all components
financed and for the financial managennent of the project. As a matter of policy the Ministry
decided to diversify project implementation so as align some of its components with some of the
Ministry's organizational areas, by linking the specific responsibilities and aims of each
expenditure category with the needs oF the areas in question. This approach fragmented the
project, thereby hindering its implementation and hampering its effective management.
The main lesson to be drawn from this situation concerns the institutional weakness of
the project management unit, which was in danger of losing credibility among other agencies -
whether within the Government or the 'World Bank - as regards its management capacity. This
was mainly the result of a misunderstanding of the roles to be played by all the various
participants in a negotiation mission. Wlhen the financial component predominates in project
implementation all other aspects are treated as if they were of little importance, and there is no
concern about possible overlapping of roles. Responsibility for the fragmentation of PNE II and
the resulting problems must be shared equally by the Bank and the Ministry of Health.
4. Project Sustainablity
Two issues deserve mention: 1) the sustainability of the services introduced under the
Loan Agreement, for which responsibi'lity is shared among the Federal, state and municipal
governments according to the financingr policy prevailing in Brazil. The fiscal impact of the
project must be borne by these different levels of government, which must identify additional
resources to defray the increase in expeniditure; and 2) given the improvised nature of the project,
the Ministry of Health must, through its permanent units, equip itself to act as a rearguard in
3



relation to the demand for specialized supervision in the states, as stipulated in the law governing
the SUS.
The ad hoc consultants contracted for project implementation were (as regards the UGP)
exclusively involved in activities connected with the project itself. The same cannot be said of
the use of consultants to meet the needs of other areas of the ministry. Now that the Loan
Agreement has closed, other alternatives must be sought to provide these areas with permanent
rather than temporary solutions as regards the provision of specialists who can help the other
component parts of the SUS to provide quality health services to the people of the Northeast.
5. Assessment of Outcomes
Impact indicators should have been proposed when the project was prepared and
negotiated so as to enable projections to be compared with implementation outcomes. Some
health indicators need time before they can yield valid measurements. At the start of project
implementation the information system was centralized; computerization and direct links with
the states only came later, because of the lack of funds within the Ministry of Health and the
State Secretariats. Project funds could not be used for this purpose because Brazilian legislation
on the computer sector prevented any importing of equipment and the World Bank did not
include this as an eligible expenditure category.
Once the computer industry put aside its reservations, the project information and
monitoring system was set up. Except for data inputting backlogs deriving from the long period
of manual operations and the consequent delays in updating the system, the latter met the
project's management needs, principally as regards financial controls. In the other eligible
categories, there were some delays in recording achievements in the system, but the data are
always available and accessible when needed.
With the updating and monitoring of targets, all kinds of management reports can be
obtained with complete reliability. One of the main problems in keeping the system updated was
the lack of monitoring of targets that should have been performed by the states as soon as any
given objective was set and/or completed. Project management units in the states were concerned
only about the quality and regularity of financial information, so as to ensure that the
disbursement schedule was adhered to. The need for accurate data for the evaluation now being
undertaken by project management has led to the upgrading of the monitoring of targets in all the
states.
Although impact indicators were not incorporated in the project (a fairly common failing)
there is no doubt that it made a decisive contribution to the improvement in health conditions in
the region. It did this by expanding and enhancing the quality of health care for the most
vulnerable groups in the municipalities benefitted, and providing access to the appropriate
technologies for combating threats to their health.
Although good financial performance may be a necessary element for a successful
project, it cannot by itself be a sufficient one. An assessment of project performance should seek
to reconcile the analysis of expenditure incurred with the degree of achievement of project
4



objectives, so as to guarantee efficient utilization of resources along with effective attainment of
the targets set.
The World Bank is in the contradictory position of acting simultaneously as both bank
and development agency. This contradiction originates in the conflict between the need to
approve the project and disburse loan proceeds on the one hand, and on the other hand the need
to ensure that these proceeds, in the form of investments, work for the greater good of the
community. As soon as the second responsibility proves difficult to fulfill, the first becomes
paramount, even though Bank projects earn assured and risk-free returns, and few governments
fail to repay such investments on schedule and on the specified terms and conditions. This was
the situation of the Northeast Project and hence perhaps the explanation of some of its problems,
which persisted throughout its execution because no politically appropriate solution to them was
found.
6. Key Lessons Learned
To achieve effectiveness, efficiency and rationality in projects financed by external
resources, there must be maximum administrative and technical flexibility. National institutions
must be required to give priority to such projects, given their objectives and the commitment
charges being paid by the Government. In addition, the World Bank should act more like a
development agency than a bank.
The World Bank's requirements regarding procurement, an area to which a consultant
was allocated specifically for the Northleast project, provided a useful example of joint action
with the national project. This consultant was fully versed in Brazilian legislation regulating
government procurement and aware of the difficulties some parts of the public administration
experience in reconciling these laws and the Bank's guidelines. His role consisted of providing
guidance as necessary on how to overcome these problems and making procedures more flexible,
so as to obtain maximum benefit from the time spent on procurement issues, without prejudice to
suppliers or to the subprojects.
Since the health sector had no experience of handling this kind of problem, the consultant
provided vital support for the training of personnel to advise the decentralized executing
agencies, as well as guidance to state law officers. As a result, the Northeast Project became a
benchmark for other projects in this area financed by the Bank. Bidding documents were
approved more rapidly, enabling equipment to be obtained more quickly, especially when the
contract required international competitive bidding. The progress thus achieved allowed the
project to make up the time lost when planned acquisitions could not be completed on schedule
because of the difficulties mentioned atbove; only when these were overcome did the project
really get moving. Responsibility for imrplementation must be shared between all the signatories
of a Loan Agreement.
5



4B8'
P A R A~~ORhESTREI
ampo Mai ~ ~ ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     Cmin            JA
~~~RESINA~~~                         ~G                   JESQ
-12' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ 
f~~~, th~~~ -,-i- & th.~~)    ~-
_d- -dTmES MARyIfS                                                                                       1 h
i't-)  _  f Th. VVEAdOBR
-d th. Ot-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-l F-,-~~~~NRTEAT
C.o            200      00 ,                                                                               zTh      BRAZI
.-d .      LOMTERb -                                                                                                         Bsj-i~ h-
- A. -p d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -' wty~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . U.~~~~~~~~~
-1 f Th~~~~               REElV B.HO-id  NT



