Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Al -3/ 3 S - /3 /2!
Report No. 7159-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
OCTOBER 25, 1989
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Brazil Country Department
This document has a resticted dstrIbuton and may be used by recpients only - the performance of
their officfl duies. Its content may not otherwise be dbdosed witout Wodd Bank aulzabon.



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit       -        Cruzados Novos
US$1.00                      CZN$2.06 (July 1989)
CZN$1.00 0                   US$0.485
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT II
STAFF APPR.AISAL REPORT
Table of Contents                     Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .      . ........................................ iii
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS         ................. vi
DEFINITIONS                .        .         ....... viii
I.  INTRODUCTION   ..
II.        COUNTRY HEALTH DEVELOPMENT               .2
A. Health Status.                                       2
B. Institutions.                                        2
C. Major Issues.                                        3
D. Current Policies.                                    4
E. Government Sectoral Strategy.                        5
F. The Bank's Role and Experience with Lending    .     5
III.       THE PROJECT.
III     T E   RO EC  . ........................................... 6
A. Project Objectives, Rationale and Area ................ 6
B. Major Components ...................................... 7
C. Detailed Project Description .......................... 9
IV.        PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING      .................. 15
A. Cost Estimates ...........................          15
B. Project Financing Plan and Financial
Feasibility ...........................             17
C. Procurement ............................            18
D. Disbursements ............................          21
E. Accounts and Audits ............................      21
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission, which visited
Brazil in JanuarylFebruary 1988, and a post-appraisal mission, carried out
in July/August 1989, consisting of B. Carlson, mission leader; R. Hoffman,
consultant (appraisal); H. Saxenian, economist (post-appraisal);
S. Dompieri, architectural consultant, and N. Ibaffez, public health
consultant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othefwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Page
V.           PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................. 22
A. Status of Project Preparation ........................ 22
B. Project Organization ................................. 23
C. Project Management ................................... 24
D. Technical Assistance ..................... ....#...  25
E. Staffing and Training ................................ 25
F. Project Monitoring and Evaluation .................... 25
VI.          PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................. 26
A. Project Benefits ..................................... 26
B. Environmental Impact ................................. 26
C. Project Risks          ... .................................... 27
VII.        AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................... 27
ANNEXES
1 - Country and Northeast Health Status
2 - Health Sector Resources
3 - Project Costs
4 - Project Implementation Data
5 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD-20870 - Brazil, Northeast Region
IBRD-20871 - Project Areas



(iii)
BRAZIL
"SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing         Ministry of Health and the Secretariats of Health of the
Agenciest          States of Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara, MaranhAo, Paraiba, Pernambuco
and Sergipe.
Amount.           US$267.0 million equivalent.
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Proiect           The project has two main objectives: (a) strengthening of
Objectives:       basic health services in selected low-income areas; and (b)
reinforcement of the implementation of sectoral reforms,
including the decentralization of financial resources and
administrative authority within the states. Attainment of
these objectives should contribute to improved health status
of rural residents in the project states, and serve as an
example of sectoral reform for other low-income states and
countries.
Project           The project cansists of two major components:  (a) a Health
Description:       Services Development component to assist in the delivery of a
package of three basic health services, including (i)
comprehensive care for women and children, including family
planning, (ii) a program of infectious disease contrcl, and
(iii) a program of ambulatory and hospital-based medical care;
and (b) an Institutional Development component to improve (i)
administration and delivery of basic health services, and (ii)
decentralization of the public health network. These
activities will be updertaken through the financing of civil
works, furniture, equipment, drugs, supplies, incremental
operating and maintenance costs, technical assistance, special
studies, information, education and communications activities,
training and supervision.
Project Benefits: Benefits of the services component of the project include
reduction in the prevalence of certain health problems,
especially diarrhea, pneumonia, pregnancy-related
complications, malnutrition and infectious and communicable
diseases, for approximately 12.0 million rural residents,



(iv)
particularly women and children, of the project areas. In
addition, institutional development support of the basic
health care system will further extend benefits to include the
remaining 24.0 million residents of the project states, in the
form of (a) an increase in the proportion of overall public
health resources going to basic health care; (b) improvement
in the management, administration, delivery and overall
efficiency of basic health services in the rural Northeast,
partly as a result of system decentralization; (c) extension
and upgrading of basic health services in rural areas of the
Northeast that had previously been inadequately served; and
(d) containment of per capita and overall health care costs.
Project Risks:    Major project risks are associated with (a) current managerial
and skill limitations in the seven State Health Secretariats,
which may hinder effective implementation; (b) uncertainty as
to states' ability to provide resources, including counterpart
funds, at levels sufflcient to sustain the project; and (c)
difficulty in placing qualified staff in rural areas. These
risks are addressed within the project, in that (a)
institutional development support will increase overall skill
levels and, by assisting in implementation of decentralization
of financial resources and management authority, improve
efficiency of the system and general working environment for
health staff in rural areas; and (b) periodic reviews by the
Ministry of Health, other federal agencies in the health
sector, and the Bank of state plans, budgets and finances will
monitor the provision of adequate counterpart funds and the
fulfillment of staffing requirements.
Estimated Costs:                               Local    Foreign    Total
---    US$ million-------
A.  Health Services Development             333.2     103.0      436.2
B.  Institutional Development                59.6      13.6       73.2
Total Baseline Costs                        392.8     116.6      509.4
Physical Contingencies                  13.3        4.4      17.7
Price Contingencies                     63.4       20.1      83.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         469.5     141.1      610.6 a/
a/   Includes local duties and taxes of US$ 50.2 million equivalent.



(v)
Financing Plan:                                 Local    Foreign    Total
-US$ million--
Federal Government                            28.6        3.1      31.7
State Governments                            311.9      --        311.9
IBRD                                         129.0     138.0      267.0
TOTAL                               469.5      141.1     610.6
Estimated Disbursements:         (Us$ million)
Bank FY:          1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Annual             17.5    24.1    38.6    51.9    52.9    49.0    33.0
Cumul.             17.5    41.6    80.2   132.1   185.0   234.0   267.0
Estimated Proiect Completion Date:    December 31, 1995
Estimated Rate of Return:               Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:                 No. 7159-BR, dated October 25, 1989
Maps:                                   IBRD-20870 and IBRD-20871



(vi)
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AIS         AqOes Integralr'K de Sadde
Integrated Health Actions
AMH         Program for Ambulatory and Hospital-based Medical Care
BHS         Basic Health Services
CDI         Infectious Disease Control Program
CEME        Central de Medicamnentos
National Drug Center
CIMS        Municipal Interinstitutional Commission for Health
CIPLAN      Interministerial Commission for Planning and Coordination
(Federal)
CIS         Interinstitutional Conmission for Health (State)
CRIS        Regional Interinstitutional Commission for Health (Within
State)
DIRES       Regional Health Directorates
FSESP       FundaVlo Servicos de Sa(ide PuTblica
Fund for Public Health Services
IEC         Information, Education and Communications
INAN        Instituto Nacional de AlimentaVAo e Nutriggo
National Institute for Food and Nutrition
INAMPS      Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica da Previdencia Social
National Institute for Medical Assistance of Social Security
System.
MCH         Maternal and Child Health Care
MOH         Ministry of Health
PAHO        Pan American Health Organization
PAISMC      Program of Comprehensive Care for Women and Children
PIASS       Programa de Interiorizagao das Agoes de Sa6de e Saneamento
Program for Grassroots Health and Sanitation Actions



(vii)
POI         Programa Orgament6rio Integrado
Integrated Budgetary Planning
SES         Secretaria de Estado de Saude
State Secretariat of Health
SOFI        Secretaria de Orgamento y Programag8o Financeira
Secretariat of Budgeting and Financial Programming
SUCAM       Superintendencia de Campanhas de SeOde PCablica
Superintendence for Public Health Campaigns
SUDENE      Stperintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
Superintendence for Development of the Northeast
SUDS        Sistema Unificado e Descentralizado de Sadde
System of Unified and Decentralized Health Care
SUS         Sistema Unico de Saude
Unified Health System
UNICEF      United Nations International Children's Education Fund



(viii)
DEFINITIONS
Child Death Rate             -   The number of deaths among children one to four
years of age per 21,000 children in that age
group in a given year.
Contraceptive Prevalence    -   The percentage of married women in reproductive
ages who are using a method of contraception.
Crude Birth Rate             -   Number of births per 1,000 oopulation in a given
year.
Cruide Death Rate            -   Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given
year.
Dependency Ratio             -   Ratio of population 14 years of under and 65 and
over, to population aged 15 to 64 years,
multiplied by 100. Indicates ratio between
population that needs to be economically
supported and population that is economically
active.
Incidence Rate               -   The number of persons contracting a disease as a
proportion of the population at risk, per unit
of time usually expressed per 1,000 persons per
year.
Infant Mortality Rate        -   The number of deaths of infants under one year
of age in a given year per 1,000 live births in
that year.
Life Expectancy at Birth    -   The average number of years an infant would live
if the current age/sex-specific mortality trends
prevailing at the time cf birth were to
continue.
Maternal Mortality Rate      -   The number of deaths to women who die due to
pregnancy and childbearing complications in a
given year per 100,000 live births in that year.
Morbidity                    -   The frequency of disease and illness in a
population.
Prevalence Rate              -   The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per population
at risk. Usually expressed per 1,000 persons
per year.
Total Fertility Rate         -   The average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman during her lifetime if she
were to pass through her childbearing years
conforming to the age-specific fertility rates
of a given year.



BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     General Setting.   Brazil is the largest country in Latin America,
with both land mass (8.5 million km2) and population 141.4 million in
mid-1987) accounting for slightly more than half of the South American
continent. However, while the country has experienced several years of
strong export-led growth in the post-war era, the benefits of development
have not been shared equitably among the population.  If recent growth has
enabled a sizable share of Brazilians to attain living standards
approximating those of the industrialized world, social conditions for poor
Brazilians -- in terms of longevity, standard epidemiological patterns and
observed rates of morbidity and mortality -- still more closely resemble
the profile of India.  Overall, it has been estimated that 53% of
Brazilians live in conditions of absolute poverty, with low incomes, poor
sanitation and high rates of illiteracy serving to reinforce the poor
quality of health encountered in this portion of society.
1.02     Population.   The Brazilian population is young and unevenly
distributed. Approximately 371 of Brazilians are less than fifteen years
old (1985 data), with population densities ranging from two inhabitants per
km2 in Amazonas state to 56 per km2 in the Southeast.  With an estimated
73Z of Brazilians living in cities by 1985, Brazil has become one of the
most urbanized developing countries in the world.  Heavy internal
migration, involving up to two million Btazilians per year, has increased
urban populations in all parts of the country, with migration flows
shifting with employment opportunities. However, although even the
*            Northeast has doubled its urban population in the last thirty years, the
region remains predominantly rural in character, wit', 562 still employed in
the primary sector as of 1980.
1.03     The population growth rate in Brazil has declined from 2.5%
(1966-73) to about 2.22 today, and is expected to decline to about 1.5% by
the year 2000. The decline ir the overall rate of population growth is due
to a dramatic decline in fertility, from a total fertility rate of 6.3 in
the 1950s and 1960s to about 3.3 today. (In the Northeast, fertilitv has
fallen from 7.5 in the 1970 to the current figure of 5.1.) The fertility
decline is due, in part, to rapidly increaning contraceptive prevalence
rates; about 66Z of married women in Brazil now use contraceptives, as
opposed to an estimated 30 to 35% in 1970. (Contraceptive prevalence rates
in the Northeast are still behind those registered elsewhere in the
country, as evidenced by the 532 figure recorded recently in the
Northeast.) Access to a broad range of contraceptives is quite limited.
Almost 80% of all users rely on one of two methods, sterilization and the
pill. It is the exception, rather than the norm, for public health
services to offer contraception. For a comparison of contraceptive
prevalence and method mix in Brazil with the situation in other Latin
American countries, see Annex 1, Table 10.



- 2 -
II. COUNTRY HEALTH DEVELOPMENT
A. Health Status
2.01     General Health Status.   Considering Brazil's overall level of
development, health conditions are poor. Life expectancy at birth is 65
years, comparable to countries with lower per capita income than Brazil,
including Colombia and Mexico. Irnfant mortality (63 per 1000 live births)
is higher than for Colombia and Mexico (46 per 1000). In most parts of the
country, diarrhea and respiratory infections are the leading causes of
infant death, followed by perinatal causes (see Annex 1, Tables 1 and 3).
2.02     Health Status of the Northeast.  Behind these national averages
are large disparities between the health status of wealthy Brazilians,
concentrated in the South and Southeast, and poor Brazilians, concentrated
in the Northeast. Despite some convergence of inter-regional mortality
statistics in recent years, residents of the South-Southeast are still
likely to live more than ten years longer than their counterparts in the
Northeast. Moreover, the infant mortality rate for the Northeust in 1986
(79 per thousand live births) (Annex 1, Table 4) was significantly higher
than in low-income countries such as India (53) and Kenya (63). While the
impact of Brazil's economic recession can only be inferred, there may be a
direct linkage between the recessien and the increased incidence of certain
infectious diseases (Annex 1, Table 5). For a comparison of major health
indicators in the Northeast with those elsewhere in Brazil, see Annexes 1
and 2.
B. Institutions
2.03     Federal Level.  Though characterized by a high degree of
aiversity, the Brazilian public health sector is dominated by two
institutions, the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the National Institute for
Social Security and Medical Assistance (INAMPS). The MOH has traditionally
been responsible for setting national health policy and the bulk of
basic/preventive health work through important sectoral agencies such as
SUCAM (Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns), FSESP (Fund for Public
Health Services) and INAN (National Institute for Food and Nutrition),
which are under its s-ipervision. Funded by payroll taxes and contributions
from employers, INAMPS oversees reimbursement of both public and private
medical care, in addition to providing some individual curative care
through its own small network of facilities. Despite its much smaller
staff, INAMPS has until recently had a considerably higher profile than the
MOH, both in terms of budget and services offered.
2.04     Financing and Responsibility for Health Services under the Unified
Health System (SUS). Arrangements fcr the responsibility and finar.cing of
services under the Unified Health System (SUS), created by the New
Constitution in late 1988, are still evolving.  The MOH sent a law to
Congress in June 1989 defining the roles of the municipal, state and
federal levels of government in health services.  Under the proposed law,
INAHPS at the federal level will be incorporated into the Ministry of
Health; regional INAMPS offices will be eliminated; and INAMPS facilities
and personnel will be transferred to SUS. The municipalities individually
or in consortiums will have the primary responsibility for the delivery of
health services. On a national level, the MOH will supervise the SUS.



2.05     State and Regional Level.   Public health care is further sub-
divided at the state, regional and municipal levels. State Health
Secretariats (SESs) have generally been poorly financed, weakly managed and
short of qua]'.fied staff.  Programs have been highly centralized, though
institution of Regional Health Directorates (DIRES) in recent years signals
the new emphasis placed upon decentralization.  The DIRES staff report to
the SES and help manage and monitor the delivery of health care in some 10
to 20 municipalities. Outside of larger cities such as Sao Paulo with
their more diverse revenue bases, lower-level (municipio) health services
have been limited. In the Northeast, the Superintendency for Development
of the Northeast (SUDENE), an agency within the Ministry of the Interior,
oversees regional health initiatives.
C. Major Issues
2.06     Major issues in the Brazilian health system are (a) the negative
equity consequences of an overemphasis of curative health care, as opposed
to basic health and (b) rising costs to the overall system of those
curative services, despite substantial improvements in operation of the
national health network over the last decade.  Brazilian public health care
still suffers from major problems, resulting in differential equity of
access and benefits (in both income and regional terms) and lack of
efficiency in the use of finances, manpower and physical plant. Prior to
recent efforts to revitalize basic health care, and to open INAMPS services
c          to all Brazilians, not just those contributing through payroll taxes,
system benefits greatly favored contributors to the INAMPS system, leaving
the poor erd those in the informal economy to depend upon the more meager
resources of the MOH for the totality of health care.  As INAMPS once
C           reimbursed public and private providers almost without question for the
range of curative treatments demanded, lack of cost and service controls
gave rise to additional sectoral distortions, most notably an
overutilization of high-cost services and the discouragement of personnel
from full-time employment in the public health sector. Basic health care
programs (defined as preventive and simple curative care), already
disadvantaged by their dependence upon constrained general tax revenues,
were thus made even less effective, by virtue of staff and input shortages,
skill constraints, facility insufficiencies, overcentralized policy
planning and the dispersal of administrative functions among a range of
uncoordinated federal agencies and levels. While the same general sectoral
issues also obtain in the Northeast, the interplay of low incomes, poor
sanitation and inadequate education and housing have exacerbated regional
health problems.
2.07     With the merging of INAMPS and MOH at the state level through SUDS
(System of Unified and Decentralized Health Care), it should be possible to
redirect more resources formerly devoted to curative, hospital-based care
to basic health programs, especially those involving preventive health
care. Under the SUDS reforms, the SESs will see a sizable increase in the
amount of sectoral resources at their disposal, as state authorities assume
responsibility for both curative and preventive services. The issue is
whether they will be able to gradually reallocate more funds into basic
health care.



D. Current Policies
2.08     Integration.   As a means of better coordinating service delivery
among the country's numerous health providers, interinstitutional and
inter-jurisdictional integration has become a major sectoral goal. Since
1983, public basic health programs have been grouped within the "Integrated
Health Actions" (AIS) strategy, with participation of INAMPS (representing
the largest source of funds), the MOH agencies, state-level providers and
municipal facilities. Interinstitutional coordinating commissions have
been established at the state, regional and municipal levels (respectively,
CIS, CRIS and CIMS) to facilitate AIS program delivery. At the federal
level, the Interministerial Planning and Coordination Commission (CIPLAN),
with representation from the Ministry of Health, INAMPS, the Ministry of
Education and the Ministry of Labor, has been established to encourage
cooperation and coordination among the range of federal agencies involved
in the health sector.  In recent years, efforts to reemphasize basic health
services have gained added momentum through the "Reforma Sanit4ria' (Health
Reform) movement, which generally promotes decentralization, preventive
care and greater system responsiveness to local health needs.
2.09     Unification.  As announced by federal decree in July 1987, the
SUDS concept seeks actual unification of those basic health care resources
and programs earlier integrated under AIS.  SUDS entails the unification of
the bulk of SES (State Health Secretariat) and INAMPS basic health care
resources, with SESs to act as sole executor of services in the individual
states.  Pooling of resources is to be enhanced by means of the POI
(Integrated Budgetary Planning) strategy. As the first truly consolidated
health sector budget, the POI strategy will further encourage integrated
sectoral planning under the aegis of CIPLAN.
2.10     Decentralization.  SUDS also represents a further step in the
evolving decentralization of sectoral responsibilities. While the federal
and state levels are to retain vital normative and monitoring functions, a
much larger share of operational duties will gradually be devolved to the
state and local levels under the new system.  Distritos Sanitarios (Health
Districts) to be devised under the new system (see Annex 4, Tables 3 and 4)
will eventually function as the principal operational unit, with management
responsibilities devolved to the various interinstitutional commissions
established under AIS (see para. 2.08) and significant input from locally
established Community Health Councils.  Though the SESs, INAMPS and other
health-related institutions will, for the moment, retain their separate
institutional identities, the clear purpose of SUDS is to foster greater
cooperation among the range of health care providers, and thus make
services more responsive to basic and preventive health care demand.
2.11     Programs in the Northeast.   As a first step towards better
coordination of regional health programs, the state governments of the
Northeast approved in March 1984 a common "Health Policy Document', which
set the following three main policy objectives for the region: first,
"universalization" and equity of health access (including non-INAMPS
beneficiaries as well as the rural and urban poor); second,
decentralization of administrative, financial and decision-making



- 5 -
functions; and third, integration of the range of public health services
available. Specific health interventions to be given priority in the
Northeast include control of transmissible diseases (particularly immuuno-
preventable and endemic ones), basic sanitation measures, improved access
of high-risk groups to ambulatory and hospital medical care, institutional
development, and food and nutrition activities.
2.12     Financing of Public Services at the State Level.  The major share
of public spending on health comes from INAMPS (64Z of total public
spending on health at the state level in 1986). Per capita INAMPS-spending
varies considerably by state, appearing lowest in Maranhao (at US$6) and
highest in Sergipe (US$10) among the Northeast States in 1986. Almost half
of INAMPS spending is in the "rede contratado" (public reimbursement of
private providers). The MOH transfers funds to the states via convenios,
and also passes funds to SUCAM and FSESP that are spent at the state level.
State funds in the area of health are used to support health programs
primarily through the State Secretariat of Health. Amongst the states
included in the Northeast Basic Health Services Project, the proportion of
state treasury funds directed at health ranged from a low of 2.32 in Minas
Gerais to 7.72 in Piaui in 1986. The ten states, on average. devoted 42 of
state funds to health.
E. Government Sectoral Strategy
2.13     The Government has given priority, under the 1986-89 development
plan, to elimination of malnutrition and improvement of health status for
all Brazilians, and has increased spending for health and nutrition. In the
last two years, the Government of Brazil has increased considerably the
resources to be given to the health sector. Despite the planned further
increase in sectoral resources over the medium term, a key objective of the
government program is to improve efficiency and increase access with
existing resources. Emphasis on primary health care, especially its
extension to underserved populations in the Northeast, is the dominant
theme for the 1986-89 period. In March 1986, the 'ighth National Health
Conference established a broad national consensus among providers of health
care on these objectives for the remainder of the 1980s. To achieve these
objectives, the previously mentioned AIS and SUDS strategies have been
designed to integrate all programs in the public health sector and
strengthen the financing and management of basic health services. While
enhanced emphasis of basic health services under AIS appears to have gained
political acceptance, neither AIS nor the more recently formulated SUDS has
yet been organizationally implemented on a wide scale.
F. The Bank's Role and Experience with Lending
2.14     Bank lending in the health sector seeks to improve targeting of
interventions to identified poverty groups, with increasing emphasis on the
following:
(a) channeling of investment lending into areas appropriate
for public sector participation, such as control of
endemic diseases, basic health care, immunization programs,
pre-natal care, maternal and child health activities, family
planning and health education; and



(b) enhanced dialogue with and support to the Brazilian
authorities on major areas of policy reform, including reform
of the curative system to limit rising costs.
2.15     Bank support for (a) physical expansion of the basic health
network and (b) institutional development of MOH and SES management,
planning and administrative capacity within the proposed project is of
crucial importance to the successful implementation of the Government's
reforms in terms of decentralization and integration of basic health and
curative care. Bank support for expansion of basic health care, and for
system-wide reforms, already initiated under the Sho Paulo Basic Health
Care Project (Loan 2447-BR) and the first phase of the Northeast Basic
Health Services Project (Loan 2699-BR) in the states of Piaui, Rio Grande
do Norte, Bahia and Minas Gerais, will be continued under this second phase
of the Northeast project, with joint periodic reviews to monitor more
closely progress in implementation of sectoral decentralization and in
improving the financing of basic, non-hospital services. The first phase
of the Northeast Basic Health Services Project became effective in mid-
1987; the four participating states had met the conditions of disbursement
by the end of 1987. Approximately US$8.5 million has been disbursed to
date. This second phase will also complement Bank support for the control
of Chagas' disease, schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis and AIDS under the
Northeast Endemic Disease Control Project (Loan 2931-BR).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives, Rationale and Area
3.01     Proiect Objectives.  The project has two main objectives: (a)
strengthening of basic health services in selected low-income areas; and
(b) reinforcement of the implementation of sectoral reforms (see paras.
2.C4 and 2.08-2.10), including the decentralization of financial resources
and administrative authority within the States. Attainment of these
objectives will not only improve health status of rural residents in the
project states, but will serve as an example of sectoral reform for other
low-income states and countries.
3.02     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank's strategy in Brazil of
promoting macroeconomic adjustment, economic growth and institutional
efficiency involves support of social sector programs designed to redirect
public spending to programs that serve the poor, especially in the
Northeast, and to optimize use of scarce resources. This project is
targeted mainly towards rural poor, particularly women and children, in the
Northeast. Financial and technical support from the Bank will reinforce
the Government's efforts to extend adequate basic health care services and
facilities to previously underserved areas as well as to implement sectoral
reforms, including the reallocation of public spending in health from
curative to preventive care and the decentralization of health service
delivery to the state level and eventually to the local level.
3.03     Project Area.  Current population in project areas indicates a
target population of approximately 12,000,000 for the Basic Health Services
component of the project, including 1,000,000 in Alagoas, 3,000,000 in



Bahia, 1,600,000 in Ceard, 2,300,000 in Maranhgo, 800,000 in Paraiba,
3,000,000 in Pernambuco and 400,000 in Sergipe. For a complete listing of
the municipalities included within the project area, see Annex 4, Table 2.
Benefits of the Institutional Development component, however, will extend
throughout the project states, and will thus have an indirect impact on an
additional 24,000,000 in the Northeast (see para. 6.01 and Annex 4, Table
1).
B. MaJor Components
3.04     The project will consist of two major componentst (a) a Health
Services Development component that will improve the organization and use
of resources for delivering a program package of Basic Health Services
(BHS), by improving and expanding the health facilities network, staff and
materials in the project areas; and (b) an Institutional Development
component that will strengthen the SESs and the MOH in planning,
management, logistics, financial controls and community education tkLrough
provision of technical assistance, training and special studies.
Basic Health Services Development
(Base cost: US$436.2 million)
3.05     The project will assist the Government in improving the ability of
the newly decentralized health network to deliver a specified package of
basic health care services, consisting of:
- a Program of Comprehensive Care for Women and Children (PAISMC);
- a Program of Infectious Disease Control (CDI); and
- a Prpgram of Ambulatory and Hospital Medical Care (AMH).
The project will finance the construction, expansion and refurbishing of a
variety of additional facilities, up to and including unidades mistas,
facilities which provide public health services on an outpatient basis and
have 10 to 50 beds each, as determined by (a) the size of local population,
(b) observed local health demand and (c) the quantity, quality and capacity
of existing facilities, both public and private. Facilities in the project
area will also be equipped or reequipped, as necessary, to permit staff to
carry out the three priority interventions listed above. Staff increases
and training of existing personnel have been included within the project,
in order to upgrade a range of delivery, diagnostic and administrative
skills, down to the decentralized local level. The Government will provide
vehicles to enhance "out-reach" capabilities in sparsely populated areas as
well as to improve supply flows of drugs and other vital inputs. To ensure
effective implementation, funds are to be provided for increased
supervision, monitoring and maintenance, both at the central as well as
lower levels of administration.
3.06     The project will finance within the Basic Health Services
component the items listed below:
(a) construction, expansion, or refurbishing of 1,707 health
facilities, including 1,107 health posts, 327 health centers,
171 unidades mistas, 81 obstetric/delivery units, 16 hospitals
and 5 laboratories.



- 8 -
(b)  equipment or reequipment of 1,791 health facilities, including
1,157 health posts, 349 health centers, 183 unidades mistas, 81
obstetric/delivery units, 16 hospitals and 5 laboratories.
(c)  training of approximately 60,000 health personnel, including
higher-level, mid-level and lower-level staff;
(d)  hiring or reassigning of about 8,600 additional health
personnel, including 1,000 higher-level, 1,800 mid-level, and
5,800 lower-level staff;
(e)  carrying out of supervision as necessary, throughout the project
area; and
(f)  necessary supplies for project area facilities, including drugs,
medical hardware, fuel, office supplies and other materials.
Institutional Development Component
(Base cost: US$73.2 million)
3.07     At the federal level, this component w411 provide technical
assistance for improving the organization and management of the health
sector, assisting in the implementation of health service decentralization,
conducting special studies, and designing information, education and
communication programs. The component will support a national training
facility for maintenance of hospital and medical equipment as well as the
maintenance of all civil works and equipment in the project. The federal
institutional development component will emphasize priority support for
maternal and child health activities. At the state and regional level,
this component will complement existing infrastructure with new
administrative facilities and equipment, and will provide technical
assistance to the SESs' central, regional and local administrative staffs
for improving the managerial and technical capacity to provide the BHS
package. By facilitating the gradual implementation of the on-going
decentralization, the component will serve to improve both administration
and delivery of basic health services.
3.08     The project will finance the items listed below under the
Institutional Development component, in the following quantities:
(a)  construction, expansion or refurbishing of 102 health-related
facilities, including 32 Regional Health Directorates (DIRES),
23 warehouses, 18 training centers, 9 laboratories, 20
maintenance workshops, and the national training center for
maintenance;
(b)  equipment or reequipment of aforementioned facilities, as
necessary;
(c)  consultant services to assist the seven SESs and the MOH in the
following activities: organizational and administrative studies
as well as proposals for strengthening the decentralization of
health services; improvement of management processes and tools;



- 9 -
improvement of manpower management; design and implementation of
community education programs; implementation of special studies;
improvement of logistical support systems; and improvement of
information, monitoring and evaluation systems;
(d) in-house workshops in implementation, administration.
supervision and service evaluation; plus special training in
institutional development aspects for regional supervisors and
administrative staff;
(e) inter-state seminars for sharing experiences on appropriate
technology use; efficient organization and administration of
health services in the respective states; development of
information, education and communications activities; and
implementation of maternal and child health programs;
(f)  information systems for central offices, to improve planning,
analytical and management capacities; and
(g)  additional items necessary for meeting institutional development
objectives, including fuel, office supplies and other materials.
C. Detailed Project Description
Health Services Development
Basic Health Services Program Package (BHS)
3.09    Background.  The BHS program package aims at reducing infant,
child, and maternal mortality, as well as the prevalence and severity of
diseases common to the Northeast, as described in the following sections.
During project preparation of the first phase of the Northeast Basic Health
Services Project, strong emphasis was given to improving the content of
health programs and mechanisms for delivery. The MOH, in cooperation with
INAMPS, UNICEF and PAHO (Pan-American Health Organization), had revised its
maternal and child health services program, as well as ambulatory and
hospital services, in order to make health services more relevant to the
users targeted within the Northeast Basic Health Services Project.
Likewise, the recent MOH experiences (1978-84) with the programs of
immunization and control of tuberculosis and leprosy were used for
reformulating program content and logistics. This program review led to
the formulation of the Comprehensive Care for Women and Children (PAISMC),
the Infectious Disease Control (CDI) and the Ambulatory and Basic Hospital
and Medical Care (AMH) Programs, whose on-going implementation in the
country will be supported and expanded by this project in the Northeast.
3.10    Comprehensive Care for Women and Children (PAISMC).  This program
will concentrate efforts on improving women's reproductive health and
children's health. It will improve children's growth and development and
reduce diarrheal and respiratory diseases through actions such as health
education, immunization, encouragement of breastfeeding, growth monitoring,
and oral rehydration therapy. The program will also improve women's
reproductive health by providing information and education on prenatal
care, breastfeeding, family planning, sexually transmitted diseases, breast



- 10 -
and cervical cancer. Activities will include prenatal, delivery and post-
partum care; screening and treatment for breast and cervical cancers and
sexually transmitted diseases; and provision of a wide range of appropriate
contraceptive methods.
3.11    The Infectious Disease Control Program (CDI).  While the MOH, in
cooperation with the seven SESs, has made substantial progress in
vaccination coverage in the last few years, a sustained effort is still
needed for ensuring a real impact in prevention of six major diseases
(polio, diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, measles, and tuberculosis).
The project will support this effort through the CDI by providing
vaccinations against the six diseases in children under five years of age.
The successful strategy of National Days of Vaccination in which all staff
are involved will be adopted; the follow-up of vaccinated children and
discrete vaccination services will be performed by health auxiliaries and
attendants at health facilities and at home.  The cold chain to keep
vaccines at appropriate temperatures is sufficiently developed in the seven
project states.
3.12    Two other infectious diseases; i.e. tuberculosis and leprosy, both
highly prevalent in the Northeast, will be tackled through the CDI by
performing screening activities in target populations (sputum examination
for suspected tuberculosis patients, and intradermal tests for suspected
leprosy patients) to confirm and immediately treat positive cases of
tub,erculosis and leprosy.  Suspected cases will be identified at all health
facilities by healt,. auxiliaries and professionals, and at home by health
attendants; laboratory examinations will be carried out at health centers
and unidades mistas; treatment will be prescribed by doctors and follow-up
of patient compliance will be carried out by health auxiliaries and
attendants at health facilities and at home respectively.
3.13    The Ambulatory and Basic Hospital Medical Care Program (AMH).  Both
the HOH and INAMPS have made progress in increasing efficiency of public
health facilities by establishing the health centers as the entry point to
the hospital health system, thus reducing overuse of hospital facilities
for ambulatory care and improving the screening of patients for hospital
care. The project will use this experience for the organization of medical
care in health centers and unidades mistas. Services in these facilities
will be limited to outpatient and inpatient care not requiring highly
trained professionals or expensive technology, thus ensuring simple but
effective patient care and patient referral to sophisticated levels of care
when required. The BHS package will be delivered at the household and
health posts by auxiliaries, and at health centers and unidades mistas by
auxiliaries and professionals.
Expansion and Upgrading of Health Systems
3.14(a)  Facilities and Equipment.   Facilities will be expanded and
rehabilitated by:
(i)   Constructing, furnishing, equipping, and maintaining about 349
health posts, 142 health centers, 43 unidades mistas, 70
obstetric/delivery units, and 4 laboratories;



- 11 -
(ii) Expanding, re-equipping, and maintaining about 161 health
posts, 99 health centers, 76 unidades mistas, 3 obstetrics/
delivery units, 6 hospitals, and 1 laboratory;
(iii) Refurbishing, re-equipping, and maintaining about 597 health
posts, 76 health centers, 52 unidades mistas, 8
obstetric/delivery units and 10 hospitals;
(b) Staffing. The project will require about 8,600 additional staff
for basic health services in project areas, and local and district
administration. This increase will cover vacancies and new personnel
needed for expanding the health services network and its local
administration. A total of approximately 1,000 new higher-level health
professionals (doctors, nurses, dentists) will be employed under the Health
Services component; about 1,800 mid-level staff and 5,800 other support
personnel will also be retained.
(c) Training. Implementation of the BHS program package in the newly
decentralized health network, will result in the training of existing and
additional staff as follows:
(i)   pre-service training for health attendants, auxiliary nurses,
supervision auxiliaries, technicians, and medical students;
(ii) in-service and refresher courses for health service staff;
(iii) continuing education workshops for doctors and other health
workers; and
(iv) teaching equipment and materials for administrative units and
for SES Human Resources and Health Education Units.
Staff training will take place in the service units themselves
during SES training seminars, in the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation or
at the universities. Special emphasis will be given to staff
training in new routines included in the BHS package, including
family planning services, building upon the experience gained in
planning of training courses under the first phase of the
project.
(d) Supervision. Personnel supervision will be strengthened through
improvements of existing supervision routines, continuing education,
guidelines and procedures, in addition to the expansion of transport and
travel allowances. To achieve this, the project will finance the
following:
(i)   continuing education seminars for supervisors and supervised
personnel;
(ii) travel allowances for incremental supervisory staff.
(e) Service Delivery. To ensure efficient delivery of the BHS package
through the decentralized health network, the project will finance:



- 12 -
(i)   salaries of about 8,600 incremental staff, including local
administrative offices; and
(ii)  supply of drugs, vaccines, surgical material, lab chemicals,
and other consumption materials.
(f)  Special Studies.  The project will support a series of special
studies to be carried out at the state and federal levels. The studies
will cover a range of discrete project-related topics to improve the
management and delivery of health care services and project monitoring.
The MOH will coordinate the preparation and implemet.zation of the studies
in collaboration with the seven SESs. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that draft proposals for special studies will be submitted by the
MOH to the Bank for prior review and approval (see para. 7.01a).
(g) Monitoring. The MOH, in collaboration with the seven SESs. will
establish different sets of indicators and performance criteria for
monitoring health service delivery in the project areas and overall project
implementation. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the MOH
will finalize the indicators and performance criteria to be used in project
monitoring for review and approval by the Bank within three months from the
date of project effectiveness (see para. 7.01 b). Financial issues will be
monitored through annual analysis of the POIs and of the sources and uses
of funds covering the states' health finances for the preceding year (see
para. 5.11). The MOH will also conduct periodic reviews of project
implementation jointly with the Bank (see para. 5.12).
Institutional Development
Institutional Development Package
3.15     Federal Level.  The Institutional Development component of the
second phase of the Northeast Basic Health Services Project has been
substantially enlarged at the federal level to enable the Government to:
(a) address the organization, management and financing implications of the
SUS established by Congress (see para. 2.04), and (b) strengthen MOH
support of the states' project activities, particularly in the area of
maternal and child health, through technical assistance, special studies,
training and supervision. A key element of this support will be the
financing of IEC (information, education and communications) activities
designed to inform and educate the public and special target groups (women,
adolescents) about health policies, programs, activities, products, etc.
The funds will be used principally for mass media production and
broadcasting and for the preparation of educational materials for health
agents and the various target populations. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that the MOH will prepare a two-year IEC plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, which will be updated annually and submitted to the Bank by May
31 of each year, the first submission having been made a special condition
of loan disbursement in respect of the MOHB's IEC component (paras. 5.02 and
7.03 c). The project will also finance a training facility for the
maintenance of health technology through expansion and equipping of a
national maintenance center run by the Hospital Foundation of the Federal
District in Brasilia. Regional maintenance and training centers located in



- 13 -
the States of Ceara and Paraiba will be strengthened through the provision
of equipment, training and technical assistance.  The MOH, in collaboration
with the states, wil organize regional seminars to review tha problems
encountered and lessons learned in planning and implementing maintenance
programs at the state level.
3.16     Strengthening of Decentraiization of Health Services.  Through the
SUDS system, authorities have chosen to expand and intensify at the state
level the administrative decentralization of health services, started in
the 1970s with the creation of, and transfer of administrative
responsibilities to, the level of the DIRES. The project will construct
about 26 new fa:Alities for strengthening of local and regional
administration, and logistical support to the local level; 23 warehouses or
stock rooms for furniture, equipmer%, drugs, vaccines, surgical instruments
and other materials; 20 workshops for maintenance and repair of buildings
and equipment; 9 laboratories for public health activities (e.g., food and
water analyses and support to local clinical laboratories in chemical
analyses); and 15 training centers for auxiliary personnel.
3.17     During project preparation of the first phase of the Northeast
Basic Health Services Project, Bank staff made a survey of the organization
and management of the State Health Secretariats.  Issues identified in
*           central and regional management, health planning, manpower management,
i           information systems, and financing were similar to those reported by the
MOH. The main problems encountered within SESs were the following:
- lack of clear division of responsibilities among the central
units of SESs,
- cumbersome clearance procedures,
- unclear health planning methodologies,
- inadequate communications between central and regional levels,
- few and unutilized administrative manuals,
- incomplete documents on norms and procedures,
- poor working conditions, and
- deficiencies in financial accounting and statistical information
systems.
3.18     As in the first phase of the Northeast Basic Health Services
Project, the project will implement a plan for technical assistance to
assist authorities in improvement of federal, state, and local organization
and management; manpower and information systems; work environment; staff
capabilities; and operational efficiency. Consultants' services will be
provided for improving management processes and tools (e.g., clearance
procedures, and administrative and operational manuals) and operation of
project-financed information systems; and for in-house workshops and inter-
state seminars for improving staff motivation, skills, and operational
practices at the local level and for promoting *he exchange of successful
experiences among the states. A detailed description of these activities
follows.



- 14 -
Organization, Management and Expansion of Administrative Systems
3.19     Improvement of Management Processes and Tools.  The MOH and SES
staffs, assisted by consultants, will carry out a plan of improvement to
strengthen the organization, management and operations of the MOH and each
SES. Towards this end, the project will provide about 1,700 man-months of
technical assistance under the Institutional Development component fors
(a) improving their organizational structure and managerial
capabilities by enhancing the planning and implementation of
systems at the local level for delivery of health care
services that will ensure an integrated approach to health
care; preparing policy guidelines on health services delivery,
manpower development, health infrastructure, and technology
development; strengthening the planning process with efficient
planning methodologies; reviewing present federal, state,
regional and local organization, and recommending required
modifications; streamlining clearance procedures; improving
communications at different SES organizational levels;
(b)  improving their management of manpower and information systems
by elaborating career plans, job descriptions and salary
structures; reviewing and updating selection and recruitment
criteria; improving manuals on supervision and training of
personnel; training staff in the appropriate use of these
manuals; assessing staff competence to carry out assigned
jobs; and proposing training activities for improving job
performance and promotion mechanisms; assessing staff working
conditions (space, equipment, comfort, satisfaction), and
proposing improvements; and preparing a proposal on career
development in the public health sector;
(c) preparing administrative and operational manuals for local-
level management (using existing manuals for health centers
and health posts), and for maintenance of faciiities and
equipment; and
(d) streamlining budgetary and financial accounting procedures,
complementing information systems with epidemiological data
suitable for service monitoring and evaluation.
3.20    Improvement of Staff Knowledge and Skills.  In-house workshops and
other training modalities for service and administrative staff involved in
the project will be carried out in the seven states, in order to improve
their knowledge, skills, and responsibilities in local level planning and
administration of the project; manpower management; management of the BHS
programs package; personnel supervision; and service monitoring and
evaluation. Additionally, about ten interstste seminars will be developed
for sharing experiences and lessons learned by SESs in the seven states on
efficient organization, administration, and lower-level operation; use of
health care technologies; training and supervision methodologies; design
and implementation of information, education and communications activities;
implementation of special studies; and monitoring of health services.



- 15 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The total cost of the six-year project is estimated at US$610.6
million equivalent, including contingencies, local taxes and duties, or
US$560.4 million after the removal of taxes. Of the US$610.6 million
total, investment costs amount to US$284.9 million, and incremental
recurrent costs amount to UF$325.7 million. Base costs amount to US$509.4
million, 83Z of total project costs. Duties and taxes account for US$50.2
million, 82 of total project costs. Foreign exchange costs of US$141.1
million amount to 232 of total project costs. The Health Services
Development component is estimated at abiout US$436.2 million (US$524.5
million including contingencies) and the Institutional Development
component at US$73.2 million (US$86.1 million including contingencies).
Further breakdowns of project costs by state, component, and year of
expenditure are provided in Annex 3, Tables 1, 2 and 3.
Table 4.1: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURES
US8mimlon            X Foreign  X Total
Local    Foreign     Total     Exchange  Base Cost
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Civil Works           76.1      16.8       93.9        20        18
B. Equipment             as.9      19.4       65.8        85        11
C. Training              25.0      6.2        81.2        20         6
0. Supervision           19.0       4.7       28.7        20         S
E. Consultancies          6.2      2.0        10.2        20         2
F. Special Studies        4.2       1.0        S.2        20         1
0. IEC s                 16.8       4.1       20.4        20         4
TOTAL INVESTMENT
COSTS                 18a.7      56.2      289.9        28        47
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Now Staff Salaries    98.5     10.9       109.4        10       21
B. Supplies              47.5     20.4        67.9        80        18
C. Maintenance           18.1      9.8        27.9        86         S
D. Drugs                 46.0     19.8        64.8        80        18
TOTAL RECURRENT
COSTS                 209.1      60.4      269.6        22        63
TOTAL BASE
COSTS                 892.6    116.6       609.4        28       100
Physical Contingencies   13.3     4.4       17.7        26         a
Price Contingencies    68.4      20.1       68.5        24        16
TOTAL PROJECT
COSTS                 469.5    141.1       610.6        28        120
* Figures Include an estimated US250.2 mIllion In local duties and taxes.
4 IEC = Information, Education and Ccmmunicatlons.



-16 -
1   4.02  The estimated unit costs for civil works vary from state to state
and by type of facility; however, an overall average of approximately
US$290 equivalent per square meter is a reliable measure for construction
of basic facilities, since it is based on unit costs of recent contracts
for similar works under the first phase of the Northeeast Basic Health
Services Project. The cost estimates for furniture and equipment are based
on coefficients applied to the cost and type of civil works.  The costs of
maintenance are based on coefficients of the costs of civil works and
equipment.  The costs of local and expatriate consultants as well as
training take into account recent experience in Brazil.  Estimates for
supplies and drugs are based on the type and number of health facilities
constructed, expanded or refurbished under the project. To estimate the
number of human resources necessary to operate the various facilities, a
matrix, based on the standards per health facility as pu'lished by the MOH,
was developed and epplied to all the state proposals.  The estimated costs
for human resources are based on the levels currently paid in the seven
states.
4.03  Dollar equivalent costs of July 1989 have been used throughout the
project.  Physical contingencies of 102 for civil works, equipment and
maintenance have been applied to base costs.  The rate of increase for
international prices was assumed to be 4.42 in 1990 and in each of the
succeeding years.  This rate was used for estimating price contingencies
both for local and foreign costs on the assumption that devaluation of the
Cruzado Novo would compensate for differences between projected US dollar
inflation and local inflation. Recent experience indicates that this
assumption may not be valid in some cases; increases in local currency
costs for civil construction over the last year have exceeded the rate of
devaluation of the local currency. Therefore, project costs would be
carefully monitored throughout the project implementation period. In the
event that this trend continues, it would become necessary for the
Government to finance these cost overruns, and the Bank, if needed, would
reduce its disbursement percentages to maintain participation through
project completion.
Table 4.2: PROJECZ COSTS BY COMPONENT
(US$ million)
Z Foreign X Total
Local  Foreign  Total   ExchanRe  Base Cost
A. Health Services Development  333.2    103.0   436.2         24         86
B. Institutional Development      59.6      13.6    73.2      19          14
Total Base Costs                 392.8    116.6   509.4        23        100
Physical Contingencies        13.3      4.4    17.7       25           3
Price Contingencies           63.4     20.1    83.5       24          16
Total Project Costs              469.5    141.1   610.6       23         120
*=      M22       --nm



- 17 -
B. Project Financing Plan and Financial Feasibility
Financing Plan
4.04     An IBRD loan of US$267.0 million equivalent to the Federative
Republic of Brazil is proposed to finance 48S of total project costs net of
taxes. Bank financing will cover foreign exchange costs of US$138.0
million (not including the estimated US$3.1 million in foreign exchange
costs of the two DIRES in the State of Ceara) and US$129.0 million
equivalent of local costs. The loan will be for 15 years, including five
years of grace. The federal and state gove,unments will finance an
estimated US$343.6 million equivalent (M   f the local costs, 22 of the
foreign costs, and 1002 of taxes). In addi.ion, the Government will
finance reserved procurement items not rzflected in project costs, such as
vehicles, computer equipment and software. To ensure timely and efficient
project implementation, various start-up activities, including those
related to bidding specifications, staffing, training, and employment of
consultants, are now being undertaken. Retroactive financing of up to
US$18.0 million equivalent has been approved to help cover eligible start-
up expenditures made on or after February 1, 1988, the date of appraisal.
4.05     Co-financing.  The Government intends to seek external financing
to support the project activities in two DIRES (Sobral and Itapipoca) in
the State of Ceara. During negotiations, agreement was reached that,
unless these arrangements materialize, the federal government would provide
financing of the relevant components in the two DIRES. It was further
understood that, should the Government enter in the future into a co-
I'nancing agreement, the Loan Agreement would be amended to reflect the
Bank's policy in respect of co-financing (para. 7.01 c).
4.06     Counterpart financing. Counterpart financing of project costs
(US$47.6 million of investment costs, and US$296.0 million of incremental
recurrent costs) is the direct responsibility of the MOH and the State
Secretariats of Health (SES).
4.07     Incremental Recurrent Costs.  The MOH and SESs will finance during
the project about US$296.0 million equivalent of incremental recurrent
costs, for the procurement of drugs, supplies, and maintenance
expenditures; and for salaries of incremental staff. The project will
increase the number of staff in basic health services by about 10-152,
within expected increases in state health budgets over six years.
Procurement of supplies is also within projected state finances. In
addition, with further consolidation of basic health finances under SUDS
and the utilization of the POI (Integrated Budgetary Planning) additional
revenues currently utilized by INAMPS for reimbursement of curative
services should, in principle, become available for defraying basic health
care costs (to the extent savings are achieved in curative services).



- 18 -
Tabl- 4.8a PROJECT FINANCIAL PLAN
(USS million)
I8RD        BRAZIL        TOTALS
MON    SES**
Amount    Amount Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works               84.U      6.7    22.2      112.4
Equipment                 64.0      8.0      9.2      66.2
Training                  82.8      1.8      2.8      U6.4
Supervision               24.S      1.1      2.8      27.9
Consultencies             11.9      --       --       11.9
Special Studies            6.1      --       --        6.1
ZEC **                    24.0      --       --       24.0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS    287.3    11.1    36.6      284.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
New Staff Salaries        --        --    180.6      180.6
Supplies                  --        --      81.2      81.2
Maintenanco               27.7      2.0      7.4      87.1
Drugs                      2.0    18.6    56.2        76.8
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS     29.7    20.6   275.4       326.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       267.0    31.7   811.9      610.8
* Approximately one third will be financed by INAMPS through SUDS agreements.
IEC = Information, Education and Communications.
C. Procurement
4.08     Architectural Designs and Supervision of Civil Works.  The State
Health Secretariats participating in the project either possess or
subcontract teams of engineers and architects capable of developing
blueprints and general specifications as well as overseeing construction
and works. All the states have a unit which centralizes bidding, drawing
up of contracts and implementation of civil works. These units report to
the SESs. As in the case of the Northeast Basic Health Services Project
(LN 2699-BR), the MOH intends to contract the FSESP to assist in the
supervision of civil works (see para. 5.06).
4.09     Civil Works.  Of a total estimated cost of US$112.0 million for
civil works, including physical and price contingencies, up to US$87.0
million will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures, which have been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that the practice of tomada de
preyos in Brazil would satisfy Bank requirements for procurement under LCB
(para. 7.01 d). As a result, the MOH will (a) establish single registries
of contractors and suppliers for purposes of the project to meet local
registration requirements for procurement, and (b) by January 31 of each
year, starting on January 31, 1990, publish ads in two newspapers of wide



- 19 -
national circulation in Brazil, acceptable to the Bank, in the Diatio
Oficial and in Development Business (or other specialized international
publication), acceptable to the Bank, containing information, satisfactory
to the Bank, about the project, the types and amounts of contracts expected
to be awarded in the next two years and requirements to be met for
inclusion in the registry referred to in (a). Average contract size of the
largest civil works item, the unidade mista, is approximately US$700
thousand, and thus does not warrant international competitive bidding
(ICB). Since it is very unlikely to attract contractors for small,
scattered works in remote rural areas, the remaining US$25.0 million of
civil works (new health posts, and refurbishings) will be carried out by
force account on the basis of agreements between SESs and the appropriate
municipal authorities.
4.10     Goods.  Equipment, furniture and maintenance items, amounting to
US$104.0 million including contingencies, will be grouped, to the extent
possible, in large packages to permit bulk procurement. Contracts for
equipment and furniture in excess of US$250,000, estimated to an aggregated
total of about US$20.0 million equivalent, will be awarded on the basis of
ICB. Groups of items estimated to cost less than US$250,000 will be
procured in accordance with LCB procedures (including tomada de pregos),
which are acceptable to the Bank. A small fraction of these items will be
purchased through the MOH, but most of the goods will be obtained directly
by dispersed entities spread over the seven project states throughout the
six-year life of the project. These items will amount to an aggregated
total of about US$70.0 million equivalent, which will represent about 65Z
of the total estimated cost of goods. Items estimated at less than
US$25,000 equivalent will be procured on the basis of quotations from at
least three suppliers. These items will not exceed an aggregate total of
US$12.0 million equivalent, or about 12Z of the total cost of goods.
Goods, such as printed and video materials, required to carry out IEC
activities (para. 3.15), amounting to about US$12.0 million, will be
grouped to the extent possible and procured through local competitive
bidding, since no package is expected to exceed US$250,000. Any eventual
contract valued above US$250,000 would be procured through ICB. Packages
valued at US$25,000 or less for an estimated total of US$1.0 million will
be procured on the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers.
4.11     About US$17.0 million equivalent on drugs and other supplies will
be directly provided by the MOH through the National Drug Center (CGME).
However, proceeds of loan will not be used to cover these expenditures.
Another US$60.0 million in drugs, of which only US$2.0 million will be
financed from the loan, will be grouped whenever possible to permit bulk
procurement. Packages estimated to cost US$250,000 or more will be
procured through ICB, but, as drugs and supplies will be purchased through
the seven local SESs and lower-level administrative units on a continuing
basis over a period of six years, most packages are expected to be
relatively small and to cost less than US$250,000. Therefore, groups of
items estimated to cost less than US$250,000 will be procured in accordance
with LCB procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. For the purpose of
comparing foreign and local bids under ICB, local manufacturers o4.
furniture and equipment will be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of customs duties applicable to competing imports or 152 CIF
price, whichever is lower. The MOH will assist the SESs in carrying out
procurement and will coordinate the procedures.



- 20 -
4.12     Other.  The Bank loan will not finance salaries nor vehicles and
computer equipment (hardware and software) which are considered reserved
procurement. The cost of these items, i.e., vehicles and computer
equipment, has been deducted from the project costs to determine the size
of the Bank loan. Technical assistance, including consultant services
required to carry out the IEC activities (US$11.0 million) and maintenance
services (US$2.0 million), will be obtained from consultants engaged in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Prior review and approval by the Bank
will be required on contracts with individuals which exceed three month's
duration and on contracts with firms above US$30,000 in the aggregate.
Draft proposals for special studies will be submitted to the Bank for prior
review and approval. Most training activities will take place at the state
level and be conducted by the SESs in cooperation with the local
universities. Training coordinated by the MOH will include inter-state
seminars and workshops for state health officials and training programs for
federal level employees. Supervision includes the costs of transportation
and per diem incurred in supervising the project from the federal level to
the state level and within the states from the central level to the regions
and from the regions to the local health units.
4.13     The table below summarizes proposed procurement arrangements:
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE, INCLUDING
CONTINGENCIES (USS millons)
PROCUREMENT METHOD
Tota I
Category                         iCB    LCB   Other V   N/A    Cost
- Civil Works             --      87     26        --     112
(-)    (76)   (17)      (--)   (84)
- Goods & Maint. Services    20   70    14         --    104
(20)    (58)   ( 9)     (--)    (82)
- Training                --      --    so         --    a8
(--)    C-.-)  (82)     (--)    (32)
- Supervision             --      --    --         28      28
()  (--)   (--)  ~(26)    (25)
- Technical Assistance    --      --    12         --      12
(__)    (__)   (12)  (~)     (12)
- Special Studies         --      __      6        __       6
- IEC Activities 2        --      12    12         --      24
(--)    (12)   (12)     (--)    (24)
- New Staff Salaries      --      --    --        181     131
(--)    (--)   (-)      (--)   (--)
- Supplies                --      58    28         --      81
(--)    (--)   (--)     (--)    (--)
- Drugs                   --      s0    27         --      77
(--)    ( 2)   (--)     (--)    ( 2)
TOTAL                       20    272    160        159    611
(20)   (184)   (88)     (26)   (267)
NOTE: Figures In parenthese are amounts financed by the Bank.
1/ *Other' includes local shopping, consultant services and training.
2/ IECO mans Information, education and communications.



- 21 -
4.14     Bank Review Requirements.  Prior review of contract awards for
civil works will be required on all contracts above US$600,000, or about
202 of the cost for civil works. All contracts for goods (including drugs)
of US$250,000 or more will be reviewed by the Bank prior to contract award,
or about 202 of the total cost of goods. Random checking of smaller
contracts will be carried out during supervision.
D. Disbursements
4.15     The Schedule of Disbursements has been prepared for a period of
six years (see Annex 3, Table 4). Project completion date will be December
31, 1995, and project closing date will be June 30, 1996.
4.16     The proceeds of the IBRD loan will be disbursed as followss
-   80Z for civil works, including architectural fees and site
development;
-   1002 of foreign expenditures, and 80Z of local expenditures for
goods (other than drugs) and maintenance services;
-   1002 for technical assistance and special studies;
-   10O2 of foreign expenditures and 902 of local expenditures for
training and supervision;
- 1002 for information, education and communications activities; and
-   10O2 of foreign expenditures and 902 of local expenditures for non-
CEME provided drugs.
No disbursements will be made against salaries of staff, vehicles and
computer equipment and software.
4.17     Disbursements will be made after receipt of full documentation,
except in the case of civil works by force account and goods and services
provided under contracts valued at under US$600,000 equivalent for civil
works and US$250,000 equivalent for goods, for which disbursements will be
made against certified statements of expenditure (SOE). The SOE will be
certified locally by the State Secretary of each SES, and at the federal
level by the Secretary General of the MOH. Supporting documentation will
be retained by each SES and by the MOH Secretariat of Budgeting and
Financial Programming (SOFI), and made available for inspection during Bank
supervision missions and by independent auditors.
E. Accounts and Audits
4.18     Bank loan funds will be deposited in US dollars in a Special
Account to be opened by the Government at the Central Bank.  Project funds
will be channeled to the seven states through Specific Project Accounts to
be opened at a State Bank by each SES. Funds from the Special Account will
be available for financing only the Bank's share of project costs. To
ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the project, the Bank
will deposit after loan effectiveness an initial sum of US$16.0 million for



- 22 -
financing of foreign and local expenditures in the Special Account, to set
up a revolving fund for financing eligible expenditures equivalent to an
average of about four months' disbursements. Of the US$16.0 million,
US$15.0 million will be deposited in a Special Account (CESA) in US dollars
in the Central Bank to cover local currency expenditures. The remaining
US$1.0 million will be deposited in a second Special Account (FESA) in the
Central Bank to finance foreign exchange expenditures.  The amounts
deposited in these Special Accounts could be increased or decreased later
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank to meet project needs. The
Bank will replenish both Special Accounts as requested upon receipt of
satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid were eligible for financing
out of the fund. A replenishment request will normally be sent to the Bank
at agreed intervals. Conversions from Cruzados Novos and other currencies
to US dollars will be made in accordance with Bank policy. The Central
Bank will request the replenishment of the Special Accounts from time to
time through applications for withdrawal using Form 1903. These
applications will be supported by the documentation described previously.
4.19     Separate Agreements between the MOH and the states of Alagoas,
Bahia, Ceara, Maranhlo, Paraiba, Pernambuco and Sergipe, through the
respective SESs will be drafted under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, for executing the project in each state. In these Agreements,
the MOH will authorize each SES to open a separate Project Account in
Cruzados Novos in a State Bank.
4.20     SOFI (para. 4.17) and the Administrative Divisions of the SESs of
Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco and Sergipe, will each
maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which will be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The Special
Account at the Central Bank will also be audited by independent auditors.
Copies of the participating agencies, and Central Bank's audited statements
will be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
The auditor's report will include an opinion (and comments, as necessary)
on the methods employed in compiling the statements of expenditures; their
accuracy; the relevance of supporting documents; their eligibility for
financing in terms of the project's legal agreement; and the standards of
record-keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will follow the
Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects" (para.
7.01 e).
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
5.01     The MOH and the seven SESs have capable managers and key staff to
initiate project implementation. The BHS program package has been
prepared. Initiation of activities for implementing the training of
personnel in the delivery of the BHS package is taking place in existing
health facilities. Preliminary drawings of new health facilities,
including those within the Institutional Development component, have been
completed. Site selection and acquisition of land is substantially
complete, and working drawings for all facilities included in the first
year of project implementation have been prepared. Each SES has appointed
a project team to work in project implementation activities, and the



- 23 -
central Government has given full support to the project. The MO': has
prepared a report, satisfactory to the Bank, which includes the States'
plans for decentralization and their detailed work programs for technical
assistance and training in the first year.  In contrast to the delay
encountered in initiating the first phase of the Northeast Basic Health
Services Project, the second phase of the project should proceed on a more
timely and effective basis because (a) the MOH has a core management group
experienced in Bank administrative, financial and procurement procedures;
(b) the MOH has experience in contracting the services of FSESP to assist
the States in managing the civil works component and in procuring
equipment; and (c) the additional project support to strengthen the
capacity of the MOH to closely monitor project implementation at the state
level, and the capacity of the states to implement project activities.
5.02     The following will be conditions of loan effectiveness to be
fulfilled by at least one State (a, b, c) and by the federal government (d)
respectively: (a) the signing of an agreement supplementary to existing
convOnios between the Government and the States, stipulating State
concurrence with conditions and project activities to be described in the
Loan Agreement; (b) evidence of counterpart funds, satisfactory to the
Bank, required to carry out the first year of the project, in the 1993
budget of the said state; (c) preparation by the said State of an update of
its plan for decentralization, satisfactory to the MOH and the Bank; and
(d) evidence of counterpart funds, satisfactory to the Bank, required to
carry out the first year of the project, in the 1990 federal budget (para.
7.02). As conditions of loan disbursement, (a) all other states will be
required to meet the conditions stated above in respect of each State
(para. 7.03 b); and (b) any eligible municipality owning and operating its
own health facilities, will be required to be mentioned in the agreement to
be entered by the corresponding State and to conclude with said State
adequate contractual arrangements acceptable to the Bank, with respect to
project expenditures in the respective municipality (para. 7.03 a). There
are several possible alternatives to satisfy said conditions by each
municipality. One of these is a Manual to which participating
municipalities would adhere. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that the MOH will prepare a draft Manual and send it to the Bank for
approval by November 30, 1990 (para. 7.01 f). A special condition of loan
disbursement, the preparation of a two-year plan satisfactory to the Bank,
will apply to the MOH's IEC component (see paras. 3.15 and 7.03 c). If by
July 31, 1990, no single state has complied with all of these conditions,
the Bank shall have the right not to declare the Loan Agreement effective.
B. Project Organization
5.03     Organization. The project organization has two levels: the Federal
level, represented by the MOH, which will have overall responsibility for
project coordination and implementation; and the State Level, represented
by the seven SESs, which will be responsible for executing the project in
their respective States. Although the MOH has ultimate responsibility for
the project, INAMPS and CIPLAN, as detailed below, will participate in the
monitoring of project implementation.
5.04     INAMPS and CIPLAN. A major objective of the project is to
reinforce implementation of on-going sectoral reforms. The institutional
development component of the project is specifically designed to strengthen
the organization and management of the health sector at the federal and



- 24 -
state levels, including the decentralization of financial resources and
administrative authority within the states. To attain these objectives,
however, the project must involve INAMPS, the principal source of financing
of the sector, and CIPLAN, the joint planning agency.  Therefore, the MOH
has agreed to have INAMPS and CIPLAN participate in the periodic review of
the project, as detailed in para. 5.12.
C. Project Management
5.05     Federal Level.  The MOH's Secretary General has overall
responsibility for the coordination, management, implementation and
monitoring of the Northeast Basic health Services Project. Despite the
fact that management of the project has twice undergone restructuring since
appraisal in January/February 1988, a core staff continues to oversee
implementation of the first phase and development of the second. Under the
new administration of the MOH (since January 1989), the Secretary General
has delegated the task of project management to the head of the planning
secretariat. In addition to the core staff and others in the planning
secretariat, the project manager assigns personnel, as needed, from the
secretariats of human resources, finance/administration and health system
organization to assist in project implementation. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the MOH will ensure that the project manager is
at all times a person whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 7.01 g). The Secretary General serves as the linkage
between the project ar.d other MOH divisions responsible for technical
programs, such as maternal and child health and immunization, as well as
with other MOH organizations, such as SUCAM, FSESP and CEME. The divisions
and organizations will cooperate in the technical support to the states, to
ensure that the decentralization program, Institutional Development
activities and the BHS program package are being implemented as planned,
including introduction of appropriate adjustments in management in the
light of experience.  The project-related management functions of the MOH
Secretary General are to: (a) enter into agreements with FSESP, INAMPS,
SESs and other agencies involved in project implementation and in the
financing of project operating costs; (b) approve plans and budgets for
project investments and operations; (c) monitor and evaluate project
implementation; and (d) report to the Bank on progress in project
implementation.  The MOH will manage the Special Project Account through
SOFI (see paras. 4.17 and also 4.20) and keep documentary evidence of
payments made for goods and services by the different project implementing
agencies from the individual accounts.
5.06     State Level.  Responsibility for implementing the project at the
state level will rest with the seven SESs. The SESs will supervise project
execution through the departments of Health Planning, Administration and
Services, with the cooperation of other units at the SESs headquarters.
Each SES has appointed a project coordinator with the concurrence of the
state's Interinstitutional Health Commission (CIS) for supervising the
planning, procurement, construction, training, supervision and technical
assistance activities of the project. The project coordinator reports
directly to the State Secretary of Health. During negotiations, agreement
was reached that the MOH will assist the States in managing the procurement
of civil works and equipment and implementation of civil works and equipment
installation activities and intends to continue to contract for that purpose
the services of FSESP (para. 7.01 h).



- 25 -
5.07     Each state has the capacity to effectively implement the project at
the central level through its respective DIRES; implementation is not
dependent upon decentralization. Nevertheless, each SES will strengthen its
DIRES and other administrative units (municipal agencies, Health Districts,
etc.), as appropriate, to enable them to implement the project components
within its area of jurisdiction (see Annex 4, Table 3 for description of
Health District). In keeping with the evolutionary nature of
decentralization to be emphasized within state action plans,
responsibilities for personnel selection and training of staff will
gradually be devolved to these same units. In the course of the project,
the SES will also provide each administrative unit with the budget adequate
to operate vehicles, purchase minor supplies and defray other administrative
expenses. Each such unit will constitute an administrative unit of its
respective SES and will coordinate services in its area. The unit's
director will manage the budget for his/her region, assisted by SES
professional staff in programming, monitoring, supervising, and logistical
support.
D. Technical Assistance
5.08     The project will finance approximately 1,700 man-months of
technical assistance in the following areas: organizational and
administrative studies; improvement of management processes and tools;
improvement of manpower development; development of information, education
and communication strategies and programs; design and implementation of
special studies; and improvement of logistical support systems, including
information, monitoring and evaluation. Progress on and plans for technical
assistance will be monitored as part of the periodic inter-agency reviews to
be coordinated by the MOH (see para. 5.12).
E. Staffing and Training
5.09     Over the projected period of project implementation, about 8,600
additional staff will be needed, of which 1,000 will be high-level
employees, 1,800 will be mid-level employees and 5,800 will be lower-level
employees.
5.10     The project will also finance necessary training for health
workers, including doctors, nurses, technicians, auxiliaries, health
attendants, and administrative and support staff. All SESs have gained
experience in the training of auxiliary personnel through the PIASS program
and Bank-financed health components; however, more attention will be given
to better planning, and improved contents and quality of training.
Consultants in these specific areas will be hired during the first year of
project implementation to assist the Human Resources Units of SESs in these
areas. Progress on and plans for training will be monitored as part of the
periodic inter-agency reviews to be coordinated by the MOH (see para. 5.12)
F. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
5.11     The Secretary General of MOH, will monitor the overall
implementation of the project and will submit to the Bank progress reports
every year. These reports will include a financial section showing for each
project component, by source, (a) actual expendit-res, and (b) next year



- 26 -
budgetary authorizations. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
the MOH will prepare by December 31 of each year a detailed analysis of
sources and uses of funds covering the states' health finances for the
preceding year (para. 7.01 i). Each SES, assisted by local universities or
research groups, will carry out special studies (see para. 3.14 f) to obtain
key information for service monitoring and evaluation. The MOH will
finalize the indicators and performance criteria to be used in project
monitoring (see para. 3.14 g). In addition to coordinating the periodic
reviews discussed below, the MOH will organize mid-term and final
evaluations of the project.
5.12     In order to improve the overall quality of the project review
process and to encourage further interinstitutional cooperation in project
and sectoral planning, there will occur periodic inter-agency reviews, with
membership drawn from the MOH, CIPLAN, INAMPS, FSESP, the seven SESs and the
Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the MOH, will conduct
periodic reviews (at least one per year) jointly with the Bank, in
collaboration with CIPLAN and INAMPS and the cooperation of each SES,
covering overall project implementation, plans for technical assistance and
training, adherence to the schedules of decentralization and the adequacy of
the delivery of health services and expenditure levels therefor. If the
Bank and MOH mutually agree that any of the States has failed to perform
satisfactorily in its participation in the implementation of the
corresponding State component, or in adhering to any of the schedules of
decentralization of financial resources and administrative authority for the
provision of health services within the State in question, or in maintaining
adequate delivery of health services and expenditure levels therefor, the
Bank may, after consultation with and by notice to the Borrower, reallocate
or cancel, or any combination thereof, any arount of the proceeds of the
loan in respect of that State (para. 7.01 j).
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01     Benefits of the services component of the project include reduction
in the prevalence of certain health problems, especially diarrhea,
pneumonia, pregnancy-related complications, malnutrition and infectious and
communicable diseases, for approximately 12.0 million rural residents,
particularly women and children, in the project states. In addition,
institutional development support of the basic health care system will
further extend benefits to include the remaining 23.0 million residents of
the project states, in the form of (a) an increase in the proportion of
overall public health resources going to basic health care; (b) improvement
in the management, administration, delivery and overall efficiency of basic
health services in the rural Northeast, partly as a result of system
decentralization; (c) extension and upgrading of basic health services in
rural areas of the Northeast that had previously been inadequately served;
and (d) containment of per capita and overall health care costs.
B. Environmental Impact
6.02     As the project will be directed towards improving the health and
well-being of the project area population, it will have a positive impact on
the human environment. In addition, present cadres of sanitary inspectors
and health education will have some positive impact on the manipulation of



_ 27 -
the physical environment, though the project does not provide for the major
investments needed to provide safe and convenient water supply and solid
waste disposal to the entire population. No negative environmental impacts
are foreseen, either for the project areas or beyond.
C. Project Risks
6.03     The Government has been moving actively to strengthen primary
health care services since 1983. The present Government has given special
priority to social programs in Northeast Brazil. Nonetheless, Health
Secretariats remain weak in many states. Some lack the managerial capacity
to develop an adequate system of service delivery and supervision. Most are
crippled by low salaries and lack of effective incentives for adequate and
superior staff performance. A risk is that Health Secretariats may thus be
unable to translate the intent of the basic health services project into
effective action in the rural Northeast, partly from the difficulties often
encountered in placing qualified staff in isolated areas. This risk should
be reduced by both th'.e management, analytical and administrative upgrading
to be imparted via the Institutional Development component, the systemic
efficiency to be expected from decentralization and the relative improvement
in higher-level salaries that has occurred as a result of SUDS.
6.04     Funding of recurrent costs is always a potential problem in social
projectn. There are many examples in Northeast Brazil of buildings in place
in rural areas which do not have staff to operate them. A risk is that the
hardware will be put in place by this project and then be inoperative for
lack of funds to pay staff and to purchase necessary supplies and
maintenance. This risk should be partially addressed by the effective
merger of the State Health Secretariats and INAMPS basic health programs and
resources, thus extending the diversion of INAMPS finances to basic health
care that was initiated with the AIS strategy. A result is that these
Secretariats are now better assured of having financing resources necessary
to staff their facilities and to offer basic health services. Agreements
similar to these have proven adequate to assure financing in the case of the
Slo Paulo Basic Health Care Project, and, assuming maintenance of
complementary state health financing at accustomed levels, should be
adequate for this project as well.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01     During negotiations, agreement was obtained that:
(a)   draft proposals for special studies will be submitted by the
MOH to the Bank for prior review and approval (para. 3.14 f);
(b)   the MOH will finalize and submit a set of indicators and
performance criteria to be used in project monitoring for
review and approval by the Bank within three months from the
date of project effectiveness (para. 3.14 g);
(c)   unless co-financing arrangements materialize, the fe4eral
government would provide financing of the relevant project
activities in the State of Ceara; moreover, should the
Government enter in the future into a co-financing agreement,
the Loan Agreement would be amended to reflect the Bank's
policy in respect of co-financing (para. 4.05);



- 28 -
(d)   the practice of tomada de precos in Brazil would satisfy Bank
requirements for procurement under LCB (para. 4.09);
(e)   the Government will follow the Bank's "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects" (para. 4.20);
(f)   the MOH will prepare a draft Manual (to which participating
municipalities would adhere) and send it to the Bank for
approval by November 30, 1990 (para. 5.02);
(g)   the MOH will ensure that the project manager is at all times
a person whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory
to tiue Bank (para. 5.05);
(h)   the MOH will assist the States in managing the procurement of
civil works and equipment and implementation of civil works
and equipment installation activities and intends to continue
to contract for that purpose the services of FSESP (para.
5.06);
(i)   the MOH will prepare by December 31 of each year a detailed
analysis of sources and uses of funds covering the states'
health finances for the preceding year (para. 5.11); and
(j)   the MOH, will conduct periodic reviews (at least one per
year) jointly with the Bank, in collaboration with CIPLAN and
INAMPS and the cooperation of each SES, covering overall
project implementation, plans for technical assistance and
training, adherence to the schedules of decentralization, and
the adequacy of the delivery of health services and
expenditure levels therefor. If the Bank and MOH mutually
agree that any of the States has failed to perform
satisfactorily in its participation in the implementation of
the corresponding State component, or in adhering to any of
the schedules of decentralization of financial resources and
administrative authority for the provision of health services
within the State in question, or in maintaining adequate
delivery of health services and expenditure levels therefor,
the Bank may, after consultation with and by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate or cancel, or any combination thereof,
any amount of the proceeds of the loan in respect of that
State (para. 5.12).
7.02     The following will be conditions of effectiveness to be fulfilled
before July 31, 1990, by at least one State (a, b, c) and by the federal
government (d) respectively:
(a)   the signing of an agreement supplementary to existing
convOnios between the Government and the State in question,
stipulating State concurrence with conditions and project
activities to be described in the Loan Agreement (para.
5.02);
(b)   evidence of counterpart funds, satisfactory to the Bank,
required to carry out the first year of the project, in the
I  fl *   .     .     .



- 29 -
(c)   preparation by the said State of an update of its plan for
decentralization, satisfactory to the MOH and the Bank (para.
5.02); and
(d)   evidence of counterpart funds, satisfactory to the Bank,
required to carryout the first year of the project, in the
1990 federal budget (para. 5.02).
7.03     The following will be conditions of disbursement:
(a)   for any eligible municipality owning and operating its own
health facilities, the conclusion of contractual arrangements
acceptable to the Bank, with respect to project expenditures
in the respective muricipality (para. 5.02);
(b)   in respect of any State that has not fulfilled the conditions
of effectiveness under 7.02 above:
(i)  the signing of an agreement supplementary to existing
convenios between the Government and the State in
question, stipulating State concurrence with
conditions and project activities to be described in
the Loan Agreement in all the States (para. 5.02);
(ii) evidence of counterpart funds, satisfactory to the
Bank, required to carry out the first year of the
project, in the applicable year budget for the said
State (para. 5.02); and
(iii) preparation by the said State of updates of its plans
for decentralization, satisfactory to the MOH and the
Bank (para. 5.02);
(c)   in respect of the MOH's IEC component, the preparation of a
two-year plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which will be
updated annually and submitted to the Bank by May 31 of each
year (paras. 3.15 and 5.02).
7.04     With the above conditions and assurances, the project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$267.0 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil, to be repaid over a period of fifteen years, including
five years of grace.



- 31 -
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEXES
1. COUNTRY AND NORTHEAST HEALTH STATUS
2. HEALTH SECTOR RESOURCES
3. PROJECT COSTS
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DATA
5. SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE



- 33 -
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 1
COUNTRY AND NORTHEAST HEALTH STATUS
Table 1   Population, Health and Nutrition Indicators
Table 2   BRAZIL: Life Expectancy by Region and Residential Status
Table 3   Proportional Infant Mortality, Brazil and some regions,
according to groups of death causes, 1979-1986
Table 4   Infant Mortality Ratio, Brazil and Northeast, 1980-1987
Table 5   BRAZIL: Morbidity Indicators (1979 and 1986).  Incidence
of Infectious Diseases.
Table 6   Nutritional Status of Children Under 5, Northeast Brazil,
1974-1986
Table 7   Routine Vaccination Coverage of Children Under One Year
of Age, Brazil, 1980, 1984, 1988
Table 8   Leprosy Patients Under Registered Control in Northeast
and Minas Gerais States, 1985
Table 9   Percentage of Currently Married Women Aged 15-44 who are
Practicing Contraception, by Region and Method, Brazil,
1986
Table 10  Contraceptive Prevalence and Method Mix, Latin American
Countries
Table 11  Proportion of Hospital Births, by Region, 1980
Table 12  Prenatal Care by Region, Educational Level and Age of
Mother
Table 13  Percent of Pregnant Women Receiving Prenatal Care, by
Monthly Family Income and ilegion
Table 14  Percentage of Women Reporting a Pap Smear in the Last 12
Months, by Age, Region and Educational Level



- 35 -
Annex 1
Table 1
Pouation, Health and Nutrition Ind
Total Population (mid-198                     141,400,000
Population Growth Rate (1980-87)                     2.2%
Projected Population (Year 2000)              178,000,000
Crude Birth Rate (1987)                           2811000
Crude Death Rate (1987)                            8/10Q0
Total Fertility Rate (1984)                           3.5
Ufe Expectancy at Birth (1987)                        65
Infant Mortality Ratio
(aged 0-1) (1987)                                 63/1000
Child Death Rate
(aged 1-4) (1985)                                  5/1000
Source:  World Development Report, World Bank, 1989



- 36 -
Annex I
Table 2
BRAZIL: Life E      y  /1, by Sex, Region and RSde       S
-SEX
ResIdnISAl           WENWOE
R-           S s          1060170  191980   19          7   1
Brazil       Total            51.6       56.3         55.9       62.8
Urban           52.0       57.5         56.2       64.1
Rural           51.2       54.6         55.5       61.0
North        Total            51.6       59.1         56.0       65.7
Urban           52.5       60.1         56.9       66.7
Rural           51.0       58.2         55.3       64.7
Northwest    Total            44.3       49.5         48.5       55.8
Urban           43.4       49.8         47.6       56.0
Rural           44.7       48.9         49.0       55.2
Southeast    Total            55.2       59.2         59.4       65.7
Urban           55.0       57.7         59.4       65.2
Rural           55.2       61.0         59.4       67.2
South        Total            58.1       61.6         62.6       68.2
Urban           57.3       61.6         61.9       68.1
Rural           59.8       62.1         63.4       68.6
Center-West   Total           54.9       59.5         59.4       66.3
Urban           55.0       59.8         59.5       66.6
Rural           55.1       59.4         59.5       66.0
Source of basic data:  IBGE - )emographic Census 1960 and 1970.
Advanced tabulation of the 1980 demographic data
11 Based on the statistics developed by Jose Alberto M.Carvalho
using the Brass technique. IFertility and Mortality In
Brazil - 1960170 and 1970/80, RBH CEDEPLAR, 1982
Prepared by Sebastiao Camargo, SPVICNRHIIPEA/SEPLA - PR



PROPORTIONAL INFAT MORTALrrY, BRAZIL AND SOME REBGIONS, ACCORDING TO GROUPS OF
DEATH CAUSES, 1979-1986
BRASIL         NORTHEAST              SOUTH.         SOUTHEAST
L nfatDeat... 1979  . : ion,                                                  1979      198l
Diarrhoea           26.2      16.6      44.0      29.9     17.0       8.8     18.5      10.4
Imm. Preventable     2.1       1.1       1.7       1.6      4.0       0.7      2.2       0.9
Septicomia           5.4       8.5       4.6       8.6      5.4       6.4      5.9       8.6
Malnutrition         6.5       5.5       4.2       6.5      6.8       3.1      7.7       5.2
Acute Respiratory
InfecIons          16.9      15.3      12.4      13.2     17.0      18.9     19.0      16.4
Congeniala           5.2       7.4       2.8       4.7      8.3      12.2      6.0       8.4
Prematurity          7.5       6.2       7.4       7.5     10.5       4.7      7.3       5.6
ExtemNal             0.5       1.0       0.5       0.7      1.2       2.9      0.4       1.0
Source:  11"IA"EUNICEF, Perfil Estatistico: Mortalldade e Saude Infantil, 1989, Draft
0,
wal 



- 38 -
Annex 1
Table 4
INFANT MORTALITY RATIO, BRAZIL AND NORTHEAST, 1980-1987
Brazil                Northeast
-1980                      75.0    -  .          t7
.......  1981         68.4                  10.4
1962                  64.6                   97.4
1983                  66.7                  107.2
.  1984               685.9                 103
. <.-.1986                     56.1        -          88.3.
1986            ~~~~63.2               7.
.1987                  51.-  78.8
Source:        IBGE/UNICEF. Perfil Estatistico de Criancas e
Maes no Brasil. Mortalidade Infantil e Saude
(draft)



- 39 -
Annex 1
Table S
BRAZIL: Morbidity Indicators (1979 and 1986
Ixidence of Infectious Diseases (Cases per 100,000 persons)
Cases                               1979                    1986
Malaria                             124.7                  320.3
Measles                              56.7                   84.3
Whooping Cough                       28.6                   17.3
Tuberculosis                         56.3                   60.5
Meningitis                           13.5                   17.7
Leprosy                              12.4                   17.0
Diphtheria                            3.9                    1.3
Typhoid Fever                         3.4                    2.4
Tetanus                               2.5                    1.8
Poliomyelitis                         2.2                    0.4
Source:  Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1986



NUTRMONAL STATUS OF CHILDREN UNDER 5, NORTHEAST BRAZIL, 1974-1986
Nutritional Status %) 
Number of                 1 st     2nd      3rd
: PilaoelY                           Year          Observatons   Normal    dgee   deree   deee
Urban Northeast                  1$'74/1975           8,728          38.7     44.7     13.9       2.7
Rural Northeast                  197411975            5,947          29.2     48.9      18.6      3.3
Rural Sertania (Pernambuco)
and Umbezeiro (Paraiba)         197811979              441          42.2     46.0      10.7      1.1
Agreste (Pernambuco), 4
rural municipalities            1980/1981            1,122          45.5     41.4      11.5      1.3
Urban Agua Preta
(Pernambuco)                        1981             1,087          39.9     44.4      14.7      1.0         o
Rural Sapeacu (Bahia)                1983               205          29.7     50.8      16.0      3.4
Rural Sume (Pemambuco)               1983               200           45      40.0      13.0      2.0
Rural Ribeirao (Pernambuco)          1984               216          39.4     44.9     13.4       2.3
Sao Luis (Maranhao)              1984/1985              998          47.7     35.9      13.1      3.3
Urban Recite; SIVAN                  1985            31,563          59.8     31.9      6.8       1.5
Nonheast Total                       1986             1,132          61.2     31.8       6.2      0.8
Urban Northeast                      1986               550          63.6     31.0      4.7       0.7
Rural Northeast                      1986               58            52        39        8        1
Source:  Chahad and Cervini, Crise e Infancia No Brasil, UNICEF, 1988, p.317



ROUTIE VACCINAIION COVERAGE OF CHaLDREN UNDER ONE YEAR OF AGE
BRAZL 1980, 1984, 1988 (percet)
Rio Grande
Brazil   Maranhao   Plaui    Ceara   do Norte   Paraiba  Pernambuco  Alagoas   Sergipe    Bahia
Measles        56        16      23       32       48        30        24       27        34      21
OPT            37         5       20      25        22        5        21        4        29       13
BCG                      13      27       42        41       43        27       30        51      30
Polio          69        13      26       31        45       35        40       25        57       18
1984
measles        73        as       45      8i-       39       48        67       67        65      61
OPT            68        57      77       85        66       84        62       40        66      ES
SOG            79        33       57      67        66       64        49       64        71      68
Polio          55        47      49       80        34       39        41       45        38      27
1988
Mea8se         69        26      40       70       66        33        36       47        52      44
DPT            86        20      40       56        57       30        35       41        48      39
BCG            '75       25      53       82        87       57        48       73        89      64
Polio          55        20      37       61        44       36        31       38        37      28
Source: MSISNABS/PNI



- 42 -
Annex I
Table 8
LEPROSY PATIENTS UNDER REGLSTERED CONTROL IN NORTHEAST AND
MNAS GHL4WS STATES, 1985
Total Registered      Under         Under
as of Dec. 1985     Hospital     Outpatient
(%)          Care          Care
ESrazI                   224064 (100)         493 -:        1180
Northeast &Minas Gerels    69800 (1.2        :2       .   23 023
.-:IUAhao             10.684 (4)            6 a -       4.084
Piaui                 3,477 (1.-        .   30         2447
enra:                 '-5,61.8 ($).        29X1        3,201
'Rio Grande do Norte .    284 (0.X)         as.5         170
P ba                    SO 963 ()39                      888
Pernambuco            4,862 .(2.4           71         3,582
Alagoas                 445(0               ...          371
Sergipe                 890 (0.4)           29           639
Bahia                 3,283 '(..)           80         1.757
Mtins GOOrais        39j.24 (17.1    ..761             6.784
Source:  Ministerio da Saude. Divisao Nacdonal de Dermatologia Sanitaria



- 43 -
Annex 1
Table 9
PERCENTAGE OF CURRENTLY MARRIED WOMEN AGED 15-44 WHO ARE PRACTCING
CONTRACEPTION, BY REGION AND METHOD, BRA23L, 1986
Total using     Female                     Inject-
Characteristic              contraception     Ster.   Pill    Barrier   ables   Other
Total                           66.2          26.8    25.2       2.1      0.6    11.5
Central East                64.5         2.7    23.6        2.3     0.3    12.6
Northeast                   53.2          24.6    17.3       1.2     0.6 Q9.6
North and Central West      63.0          40      1t2.4      0.5      1.O     7.2
Rio de Janeiro              71.1        .33.0    25.5        2.3     0.5      9.9
Sao Paulo                   73.9          31.4    24.3       3.8      0.9    13.6
South                       74.4          18.1    4t.0       1.s      0.4    12.9
source:      1986 BEMFAA/IRD Demographic and Health Survy



CONTRACEFIIVE PREVALENCE AND METIHOD MIX, LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES a/
Percent of married women aged 15-49 using:
Female
Year of    Any     Steril-                                        With-
Country              Survey   Method   Ization       Pill    IUD  Condom   Rhythm    drawal    Other
.   aa.       /         1988     85.6      26.      25.2      1.0      1.7      4.3       5.0      1.9
C.t Vuc e               1086     s9.5     13.9      20.7      8.0     13.4      8.1       3.1      2.3
.    m| nloanRop.       1986     50.0      32.9      8.8      3.0      1.4       1A       1.6      1.0
.    a  .    .          1983     51.4      1 10.9   19.3      2.0      7.6       1.1      1.9      8.6
Moi",                   1987     53.0 4i  18.8       9.7     10.5      1.9       bI         l     12.1
;     i MtflU          t1984     58.2 a   32A       11.8      0.0      1.6      2.3       1A       2.7
puorto R60coto          1982     64.1      38.6      7.7      3.6      3.7      4.4        bf      6.2
ColombIa                1986     64.8 dl  18.3      16.4     11.0      1.7      5.7       5.7      6.0
Trinidad & Tobago       1987     52.7 d4   8.2      14.0      4.4     11.8      2.6       5.3      6A
NgLteg    a/ For countries with contraceptive prevalence greater than 50%
b/ Included in other
d/ exduding abstinence, douche and folk methods
d/ preliminary or provisional
el Age range 15-44
Souroe:  United Nations (1988), "Levels and Trends of Contraceptive Use.' pp.116-126
0
OH
_~~~''.



- 45 -
Annex 1
Table 1 1
PERCENT OF HOSPrrAL BIRTHS BY REGION. 1980
BrazIl                              79.7
North                                76.7
Northeast                            59.8
Southeast                            93.9
South                                88.8
Center-West                          82.1
Source:  IBGE, National Household Sample Survey (PNAD), 1981



- 46 -
Annex 1
Table 12
PRENATAL CARE BY REGION, EDUCATIONAL I.RVEL AD AGE OF MOTHER
percent ot women
receiving prenatal
care
Overall                                     78.7
Realcn
Central East                               83.1
Northeast                                  60.5
North and Central West                     76.3
Rio de Janeiro                             88.7
Sao Paulo                                  93.5
South                                      86.1
Education   la
No education                               48.1
Primary                                    79.0
Secondary                                  96.1
University                                 98.9
AQe
15-19                                      73.1
20-24                                      79.2
25-29                                      81.5
30-34                                      82.5
35-39                                      75.9
40-44                                      62.6
Note:   Is Primay includes up to year 8 of educadon; seconday inwudes yes 9 to Il of edatiao
Proetal care refers to care received for the lest birh in the past five yars for the
women in the survey.
Source:  1986 BEMFAM/IRD Demograpic and Healtb Swvey



- 47 -
Annex 1
Table 1.
PERCENT OF PREGNANT WOMEN RECEIVING PRENATAL CARE, BY MONTHLY
FAMILY INCOME AND REGION.
number of
minimum wages        Brazil    North Northeast Southeast    South  Center-West
0-1                   45.6     33.4      37.6      57.0      65.7     5 0.9
1 -2                 63.X      70.3      51.3      74.11    72.0      62.2
2-3                   76.0     81.6      60.8      62.8      83.1'.   74.8
3-5                   83.3     79.9      69.6      68.3      84.0    .80.8
; 5 -1 0                           8.9       89.6      89.0   . .90.4    .89.5      07.:
Above 1O.  93.3                90.       09.5    --94.6      91.7     9 2.
Total                 70.9 0_0.        - 52.9        t9 .79.1         71.6
Source: IBGE, National Household Sample Survey (PNAD), 1981



- 48 -
Annex 1
Table 14
PERCENTAGE OIF WOMEN REPORTING A PAP SMEAR IN THIE LAS 12 MONTS,
BY AGE, REGION AND EDUCATIONAL LEVEL.
REGION
Norh          FgRiode
Center-East Northeast    Central-West  Janlero   Sao Paulo   South    Total
EDUCAIION %a
,W: : ..                                                                          Is 8  14  - 4',  27  16  1,
:  - : .   >  ::  -:    ~~~~~. ..   ..  .  -.. - -    .. . ........... ::   
y                          .28          -6 2. :27                                 31
AGE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...:.'',,.'.:'".  .'..'''..':ii.. . "   .....'..t _
, ''' ''''''' , ',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...5'..    .   ...'... ';..
:: ....                  34.. ..   . .  . .2 .    .                       4       3.
= Xf .............. ^ '. .  ............................     ..   f --: .     ..     .....   .......................... i,.:3
Notes: \a Primary education inciudes up to year 8 of education, secondary education Includes years 9 to 11 of
education.
ouc:198  BEMFAM.I Deorpi andHelhSry



- 49 -
BRAZIL
SECOND KRTREST BASIC HALTH SnVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 2
HEALTH SECTOR RESCES
TEABLES
Table 1   Brazil: Health Facilities by Type and Region, 1985
Table 2   Health Workers in Brazil, 1970-1980
Table 3   Health Professionals (per 10,000 population), Northeast
Brazil, 1970 and 1979
Table 4   Brazil: Medical Services Per Capita, by Region, 1985
Table 5   Percent of State Budget Devoted to Health, Ranked by
Percent in 1986
Table 6   Northeast States: Public Spending on Healtb at the State
Level (Constant end-1987 Cruzados)
Table 7   Total Public Spending on Health at the State Level,
Health Facilities and Rural Population by State
CEIRTS
Chart 1   Total and INAMPS per capita Public Spending on Health at
the State Level in 1986



BRAZIL: HEALTH FACELiIEBS BY TYPE AND REGION, 1985
-    -   ~~~PUSLI                    -        -- PRTNTV-
Healt Faciity  tmib    NiVae~Sciaisast So*   Catsr-    flxuil   NO&t   N04      southas   SeV*   caita-WestSml
Health Posts             1,058     3,532      497       629        414   6,130      15       29          8       15        7        74
Health Centers            332      1,605    1,740       967        501   5,145       2       is          6       10       0         33
Medcal care Posts
or Poi:cs                l01      1,413    1,219      635          52   3,420    284    1,298      2,445      492      146      4,66
Enmegency Units              2        14       61         0          4      81       2       23        124       18        6       173,
Mixed Unts                 152       232       21         4         35     444      20       28        23        4        9         84
Hospitals                  81        409      245       119         57     911    286       949      1,516    1,138     601      4,490
Sourc:   1985, Ministry of Health, Cadastro d Estabelecimentos de Saude, Brasil, 1985
Note:    The information refers to the facilities included in the census.
The coverage is estimated at about 90%
'SI
S. '



- 52 -
Annex 2
Table 2
HEALTH WORKERS IN BRA2IL, 1970-1980
1970                    1980        Change
Professlonal Categories                   No.                      No.              ___
HIGHER LEVEL 11                        84,824         28      174,853         29        106
--- -- . -- - - 5f 1                             1$       0~03  --:1-7  -          126
OntIslw..    ~~~~~3-,7                 1*4:
1261
. .----.- .-.4 .....974 '5                     - -              .2.       143
-~~~~~~~~~...-  ....  ....                                                 .-.     .,-,....    . ..
MIDDLE AND ELEMENTARY LEVEL           221.906         72      419,553         71         89
,~~WdIe                                     490            1 ,    S _,_           y     ;4 4  1  18 ;   
Nw-eAuxWwm --4 ~                                 44^ .. :: -:  9 -   - - .4. $: 124
:' - . 0j ~~~~~~~. .   - . -. . . . . . . ......-y--'....-,-077'-,. .
: ; ::- '---,4                                     1               =-.'      - 1   302
-                                                       . ...:.. .  :.   ,.    .  f   ;   :7 3 ..:
--:odonUsts                        3993=--:-.--   --- .       .                    :226
.13,031
LabomtwyTecnic~wii  ..42,:390-          .14      746,7                      16
---S- -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   . ..   .. ...........- -- --:---  --  8-J
$~~i~~ft~t~~usj*  16A9?              20,688 ~~~~20
TOTAL                  306,730        100      594,406        100         94
Notes:  11 Psychologists, Nutritionists and Socx  Assistants are excluded.
Source: IBGEJENSP. Resarch on Human Resources for Health In Brazil



- 53 -
Annex 2
Table 3
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS (PER 10,000 POPULATION), NORTHEASR  BRAZL
1970 AND 1979
YEAR
Professional Category             1970                 1979
PhysIcians                         3.4                  7.0
Dentists                           0.4                  1.3
Nurses                             0.4                  0.8
Source: MINTER-SUDENE, Northeast Social Indicators



- 54 -
Annex 2
Table 4
BRAZIL: bMDICAL SERVICES pER CApITA, BY REGION, 1985
Medical Visits Per Capita
Region                                              Total           Public          Private
.......~.......EST&MJA   ~A)                               28                1,
.........ha . ...                                                         07 
.....    ......   .    ..p
...  .   ...    .   ......8...                                                           O ~
..   .     . .  ..r .........2 3                                                              1.
~~wu:~    Anuario Estatistico do BrasIl- 1987 ~ ~ ~ .~5.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Table 5
PERCENT OF STATE BUDGET DEVOTED TO HEALTH, RANKED BY PERCENT IN 1986
Percent gowth In
Average, state budget deted
STATE                    1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1886  81-86  to health, 1981-86
. A~AfPA~~                4..Z.e,.,   - ' 4    5.7   4.5   3.5    .0   1.9   8..:    -46
; X              -        9-; 4.7   3-    2.   ,.    2-1   :.                  2  
MI$  ftI                   2.2    23 -2-.4  -A    ::  :   ::  --.              . 838.
, LAGOA$ y.9 5:4    4-4    t.3 -3                           37 4 
: A f  ::  ...            44    4 .                         4.   .  S.  8 4.
eMMA    .' f g:.:: :    -'.     ' v  . 4.    ....... . .  .4
PERI4A1J~c~..   '4;8     4.5   4.9   0. ,0          B2        .
.to140Wr'  4 - 4.7 -7A    7                    M3   7  6     - 6.7      190
TOTAL(ALLT "N}TATE)   4.'1  4.2    4.1    3.5   3.6   4.2            4.0       161
Sourcs: PrsUminsyanaylmio ontt d paitlng on hea_t for Fte Northa Badc Health 11 PoJLet. Minly of Health. Sacretary of Planning and World Bank



NORTHEAST SrATES: PUBLIC SPENDING ON HEALTH AT THE STATE LEVEL
Constan end-1987 '000 Cruzados
SOURCE            1981    9         1982    %         1983             1 1984            1985  96          1986   %    Chaonw,
Total                 48,715,603  100.0 50,739,242  100.0 39.090,466  Ioo.o 40.399,171  100.0 50,103,241  1oo.  56,491,068  100.0   16.0
State Treauiry         8,362,611    7.2  9,398,200   16.5  7,917,349   2o.3  7,492,245   186  10,762,679   21.8  13,801,219   24.4  65.0
INAMPS                35,841,456   78.6 36,038,138   71.0 26.530,711   67.0 29,010,777   71.A  33,964,298   e7.  36=28,175   64.1    1.1
Minisry of Heath       4S61136    9.3  5.302,903   to.s  4,642,406   tt.   3,896,146    9.0  5,356,263   10.7  6,461,674   lt.4     43.2
SUCAM               1.821,761    .7  2,184.009    4.8  1,832,652    4.7  1,652,575    4.1  2.404.272    4*   3,153,350    5.6   73.1
FSESP               2,252,506    4.0  2,309,459    4.0  1,977,039    51   1,586.348    3.9  1,769,254    36  2,407,051    4.8    6.9
Conmenlos            437,269   o0    809,436    I.    832,716    2.1   657,226    IS  1,182737    2.4   901,71    I             106.1
Source Prolminary anayls of state spending on health for the Northea  Basic Health 11 Projw, Ministry of Health, Secretary of Planning and World Bank



- 57 -
Annex 2
Table 7
TOTAL PUBLIC SPENDING ON HEALTH AT TH STATE LEVEL, EALTH FACILITIES
AND RURAL POPUIATION, BY STATE
end-1987 uS1.1
1986 total             1986 per  number of heatih facilities per
per capita   % of pop.    capIta   10.000 population. 1984
public    lMng in     INAMPS                Emergency
spending   the runr   spending  Health Posts/  ServAces/
8tate                on health   areas, 1980   on health  Centers  Clinics   Hospitals
Mararihao                 $11         87.3       $OA 0.05 .09                     0.14
Gara                      $12        46.0      $10        1A9       0.06        0.12
Sahia                      $13        49.8       $T       -1.81       0.03       0.11
A.ag                       $14        49.8      $10         1.79      0.06        0.12
|  : Mhas Geraa             $15         32.2     $11         1.78       0.01       0.07
Parilba                    $15    . 48.8        $12  1.                O.OS       0.23
*  Plau~~~~~~~~       $16         589       $1          1         0.19       0.13
Pnarnbuoo                 $17         37.7   -$1           0.81       0.15        0.09
:   RioGrande do Norte    . $18       40.5-                 2.73       0.09       0.25
Sergip.                    $20        45,0      $10         2.5       0.02        0.11
Source: Preliminary analysis of state spending on health for the Northeast Basic Health II Project
Ministry of Health, Secretary of Planning and World Bank
Information on Rural Population, Health Fadlities, INAMPS coverage from Anuario
Estatistico do BrashI, 1986, IBGE



Chart 1: TOTAL AND INAMPS PER CAPITA
PUBLIC SPENDING ON HEALTH AT THE STATE
LEVEL IN 1986
end 1987 US dollars
25
20
20
16   17      18
15                          14
11   12     13      1155
10
5   6      10      7      10      11     12      7      11      9      10
0                                                -
| StlMPS *pedSsg  Ittel  Uge1dle|
Preliminary analysis of state spendingon health for the Northeast Basic
Health II Project, Ministry of Health, Secretary of Planning
and World Bank.



- 59 -
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 3
PROJECT COSTS
Table 1 MOH and State Expenditures by Category
Table 2 Annual Expenditures by Category
Table 3 Annual Expenditures by Component
Table 4 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 5 Allocation of Loan Proceeds by Category
and Percent of Expenditures Financed



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
Table 1
BRAZIL
SECON4 NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
MHO AND STATE EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY
QUS8 thousnnds)
PERNAM-
ALAGOAS  BAHIA    CEARA MARANHAO PARAIBA  BUCO   SERGIPE    UOH   TOTALS
INVESTMENT COSTS
- Civil Works         16,720   21,488   18,546   14,718   18,802   20,925    9,760    1,474  112,485
- Equipment            7,464    0,9s0    7,102   11,618   11,040  14,187    4,718       888  66,247
- Training             8,725    0,071    4,414    8,502    2,916    6,883    1,899    8,560   86,420
- Supervislon          8,809   4,706    8,622    8,889    1,899   5,808    1,165    6,174   27,890
- Consultencles          699      699      874      699      699      874      699   6,677   11,928
- Special Studies        so0      850      625     a80       80       525      850    8,254    6,052
- ZEC                    525      699      699      626      626      699      850   19,981   28,958
- Subtotal         82,792   43,896   80,688   84,616   80,781   48,848   16,447   46,408  284,919
RECURRENT COSTS
- New Staff Salaries  17,850   89,426   28,0659   10,909   12,649  18,586   10,899        0  180,678
- Suppies             11,520   18,286  11,546   11,507   11,087   18,826    8,576         0   81,248
- Maintenance          8,516    4,588    8,797    6,626   4,897   11,906    2,718       168   87,144
- Drugs                9,728   18,527   14,086    6,476   ,891   19,592    6,594          0   76,748
- Subtotal         42,118   70,726  68,887   84,518   85,676   58,906   27,281       158  826,718
STATE IOTALS           74,906  114,620   67,020   69,184   68,406  107,252   45,728  46,566  610,681
Note: numbro may not s*m due to rounding



- 62 -
ANNEX 8
Table 2
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNUAL EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY
(USS thousands)
YEAR 1  YEAR 2  YEAR 8   YEAR4   YEAR S   YEAR 6    TOTALS
INVESTMENT COSTS
- Clvil Works                 60,001  8s,"8   10,185   9,809        4,002        0    112,485
- Equipment                   80,021   15,689  12,621    6,010      2,668      188    66,247
- Training                     4,176   6,822   6,714   6,290        6,697    6,216    86,420
- Supervision                  2,928   4,398    4,779   4,999       6,209   5,966    27,890
- Consultancls                1,618    1,798   1,991   2,079       2,170   2,26"    11,928
- Special Studies                836   1,090   1,024       959      1,116   1,086      6,052
- IEC                          2,897   8,6e7    4,668   4,247       4,484   4,629    28,958
- Subtotal                 92,471  62,597  60,482  82,881    26,297  20,240   284,919
RECURRENT COSTS
- New Staff Salaries           6,288  15,457  21,580  27,064    20,845  890,68       10,678
- Supplies                     2,984   9,129  18,850  16,988    18,771   20,076    81,246
- Maintenance                      O   8,985   6,677    8,038       9,098  10,066    87,144
- Drugs                        8,622   8,727  12,687   15,787    17,400  18,619    76,743
- Subtotal                 12,844  87,193  65,690   6,819    74,614  79,687   826,712
ANNUAL TOTALS                  1065,815    9,798  104,088  100,76   1W,911  9n,8n    619,631



- 63 -
ANNEX 8
Table- 
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTh SERVICES PROJECT
ANNUAL EXPENDITURES BY COMPONENT
(USS thousand.)
YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEAR 8    YEAR4    YEAR 6    YEAR 6      TOTALS
SERVICES COMPONENT
- Civil Works                  40,465   26,780   18,263    8,201       a,69a         0     97,289
- Equipment                    26,143   14,686   12,001    4,689       2,660       186    60,167
- Training                      5,841    5,014    5,W7    4,671        4,887    4,791      27,860
- Supervision                   2,401    8,270    8,889    4,689       4,217    4,920      22,716
- Consultancies                    788      817      8S8      691        980       971      6,246
- Special Studies                 418       486      456      475        496       518      2,798
- IEC                             699       627      654       68g       718       746      4,922
- Now Staff Saolares            4,288   12,859   18,120   23,170      26,149   26,608    169,588
- Supplies                      2,984    9,129   18,860   16,988    18,771   20,076        81,248
- Maintenance                       0    3,856    6,047    7,996       9,086   10,020      86,988
- Drugs                         8,622    8,727   12,567   16,787      17,490   18,619      76,748
- Subtotal                  84,980   85,6,6   91,196   67,692      87,728   87,806    624,651
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
COMPONENT
- Civil Works                   9,648    3,857       762    1,108        402         0     16,198
- Equipment                     8,877       904      820      870        118         a      6,090
- Training                        836    1,808    1,707    1,426       1,869    1,424       8,660
- Supervision                      522      763      910      950        m       1,086      6,174
- Consultencles                   885       981    1,188   1,188       1,240    1,295       6,677
- Special Studi-                  418       654      569      475        620       518      8,254
- IEC                           2,297    8,062    8,414    8,664       8,721    8,884      19,931
- Nw Staff Salaries             2,095    8,098    8,467    8,894       4,196    4,861      21,041
- Maintenance                        0       29       80       81         88        84        158
- Subtotal                  20,885   14,146   12,886   18,998      13,168   12,672      86,666
ANNUAL TOTALS                    106,816   99,796  104,083  100,70W    190,911   99,877    610,681



- 64 -
ANEX 8
Tabl* 4
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
I   DISBURSED      I  ACCtBULATED         M WIS3URSED    I
ISEVESTER ENDING...                 DIURSEIEffS                      BALANCE
I I                      ItNT                                     AMMu
IFY 1990                 1
I     December 81, 1989          o.e   0.01         6.6   6.61       267.0  1ef.061
I     Jun. 8U, 1000  1/  I      17.6   6.6X        17.5   6.6x       249.5  90.411
IFY 1091
December 81, 1990         11.5   4.8x        29.0  19.90       28U.0  89 .1X
June 80, 1991             12.6   4.7X        41.6   15.06      225.4   84.41X
IFY 1902
ODcemnber 31, 1901        19.0   7.21        60.9   22.81      206.1   77.211
June 80, 10M9             19.8   7.211       1.2  8U.O1        166.0   76.9X
FY 1098
December 81, 1092         24.7    9.31      194.9  89.81       162.1  96.71
June 80, 100              27.2   10.2X      182.1  49.51       14.9  W6.51
i   ~~~~ I 
IFY 1994
*~~~~ I   =I
I     December 81, 1008  1      27.1  10.11       169.2  59.61       197.9 40.4X
I     June 80, 1994       1     25.6    9.71      165.0  609.8X        2.0  80.711
jFY 1995                               
I     ODcember 81, 1994         26.6    9.71      216.0   79.01       60.2  21.611
I     June 80, 1996       1     28.2   8.71       284.0  67.61        88.0  12.411
1 FY 1990
I     December 81, 1995  j      20.2   7.6X       254.2  05.21        12.8   4.81
I     June 86, 19906            S2.8   4.81       267.0 O1O.O1         6.6   o.6x
1/  Includes USI 14.0 millon depeolted In CESA; Ut  1.0 mII Ion, In FESA



- 65 -
ANNEX 3
Table 5
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
BY CATEGORY AND PERCENT OF EXPENDITURES FINANCED
Category                         Amount                   _
Civil Works                       67.5        891 (of expenditures)
Goods (other than drugs but       66.0        10O  (of foreign expenditures)
including maintenance items)                  802 (of local expenditures)
Training and Supervision          46.5         901 (of expenditures)
Technical Assistance and          18.0        1002 (of expenditures)
Special Studies
Information, Education and        24.0        1002 (of expenditures)
Commmnications
Drugs (non-CEME provided)          2.0        100I   (of foreign expenditures)
902 (of local expenditures)
Unallocated                       43.0
TOTAL                     267.0



- 67 -
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION DATA
Table 1 Project Coverage
Table 2 Project Area
Table 3 Organization and Management of Health Systems
Table 4 Basic Health Care Modules: Facilities and Staffing Patterns
Table 5 Civil Works: Consolidated by Year and by State
Table 6 Human Resourcess Consolidated by Year and by State
Table 7 Vehicless Consolidated by Year and by State
Table 8 Prior Review Threshold and Procurement Methods



- 69 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
PROJECT COVERAGE
Total         Target    Population    No.       No. Munici-
State          Population          No.          Z         Dires   palities
Alagoas         2,254,558         990,825      43.95          3        49
Ceara           5,928,762       1,556,649      26.26          5        61
Sergipe         1,304,502         423,711      32.48         3         35
Bahia          10,803,375       3,045,333      28.19         9        114
Paraiba         3,041,421         811,587      26.68         3         57
Marant:ao        4,685,850      2,282,393*    48.71           4        50
Pernambuco      6,823,399       3,031,869      44.43          9       112
TOTAL          34,841,867      12,142,367      34.85        36        478
* Includes 532,061 population within Sao Luiz.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Proiect Area
Alagoas. The project area, with approximately 1,000,000 people,
includes the following three Regional Health Directorates (DIRES): (1)
DIRES III (Penedo), comprising the municipios of Campo Alegre, Campo
Grande, Coruripe, Feliz Deserto, Igreja Nova, Junqueiro, Olho d'Agua
Grande, Penedo, Piagabu,u, Porto Real do Colegio, Sao Braz. Sao Sebastian
and Teotonio Vilela; (2) DIRES IV (Santana do IpanemE , comprising the
Municipios of Agua Branca, Canapi, Carneiros, Delmiro Gouveia, Dois
Riachos, Inhapi, Maravilha, Mata Grande, Olho d'Agua do Casado, Olivenca,
Ouro Branco, Piranhas, Pogo das Trincheiras, Rui Palmeira, Santana do
Ipanema and Sao Jose de Tapera; and (3) DIRES VI (Arapiraca, comprising the
Municipios of Arapiraca, Batalha, Belo Monte, Cacimbinhas, Coite do Noia,
Cralbas, Feira Grande, Girau do Poncianco, Jacare dos Homens, Jaramataia,
Lagoa do Canoa, Limoeiro de Anadia, Major Isidoro, Monteir6polis, Olho
d'Agua das Flores, Palestina, Pao de Acucar, Taquarana and Traipu.
Bahia. The project area, with approximately 3,000,000 people,
includes the following nine DIRES: (1) DIRES II (Feira de Santana),
comprising the municipios of Feira de Santana, Anguera, Sao Goncalo dos
Campos, Conceicao da Feira, Santo Estevao, Ipecaeta, AntOnio Cardoso,
Ipiri, Pintadas, Serra Preta, Rio Chao do Jacuipe, Gaviao, Capela do Alto
Alegre, Pe de Serra, Tanquinho, Santa Barbara, Candeal, Ich(i, Irara,
Santanapolis, Agua Fria, Coragao de Maria, Conceicao do Jacuie, Amelia
Rodrigues, Teodoro Sampaio and Terra Nova; (2) DIRES X (Paulo Afonso),
comprising the municipios of Abare, Chorroch6, Macurure, Rodelas, Gl6ria,
Paulo Afonso, Santa Brigida, Jeremoabo, Pedro Alexandre and Coronel Joao
Sa; (3) DIRES XV (Juazeiro), comprising the municipios of Juazeiro, Curaca,
Uaea, Senhor Bonfim, Jaguarari, Itiuba, Pindobaqu, AntOnio Congalves,
Filad4lfia, Campo Formoso, Sento Se, Casa Nova, Remanso, Pilao Arcado and
Campo Alegre de Lourdes; (4) DIRES XVI (Jacobina), comprising the
municipios of Moro do Chapeu, Varzea Nova, Jacobina, Miguel Calm6n, Caem,
Mirangaba, Sadde, Caldeirao Grande, Vdrzea do Pogo, SerrolAndia and Capim
Grosso; (5) DIRES XVII (Mundo Novo), comprising the municipios of Piritiba,
Taperamuta, Mundo Novo, Mairi, Varzea da Ro9a, Baixa Grande and Macajuba;
(6) DIRES XXI (Irecg), Sao Gabriel, Jugara, Central, Presidente Dutra,
Utbal, Lapao, Canarana, Xique-Xique, Gentio do Ouro, Barra do Mendes,
Ibepeba, Ibitita, Barro Alto, America Dourado, Joao Dourado and Cafarnaum;
(7) DIRES XXII (Ibotirama), comprising the municipios of Barra, Buritirama,
Morpora, Ibotirama, Paratinga, Oliveira dos Brejinhos, Brotas de Macadbas
and Ipupiara; (8) DIRES XXIII (Boquira), comprising the municipios of
Boquira, Maca6bas, Ibipitanga, Rio do Pires, BotuporA, Paramirim, Agua
Quente and Tanque Novo; and (9) DIRES XXVI (Santa Maria da Vit6ria),
comprising the municipios of Bom Jesus da Lapa, Carinhanha, Malhada,
Brejolgndia, Tabocas do Brejo Velho, Serra Dourada, Santana, Canapolis,
Santa Maria da Vit6ria, Coribe, Correntina, Cocos and Jaborandi.



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 2 of 3
Ceara. The project area, with approximately 1,600,000 people,
includes the following five DIRES: (1) DIRES IV (Itag6), comprising the
municipios of IguatO, Saboeiro, QuixelO, Acopiara, CariCs, Varzea Alegre,
Antonina do Norte and Jucas; (2) DIRES X (Sobral), comprising the
municipios of Sobral, Santana do Acarau, Massape, Varjota, Reriutaba,
Carire, Frecheirinha, Alcantaras, Camocim, Chaval, Coreafi, Forquilha,
Granja, Martinop6lis, Meruoca, Moraujo, Mucambo, Parazinho, Pires Ferreira,
Senador Si, Uruoca, Santa Quiteria and Groairas; (3) DIRES XI (Ta6a),
comprising the municipios of Taua, Arneiroz, Auiaba, Parambo and Catarina;
(4) DIRES XII (Tiangua), comprising the municipios of Tiangua, Vicosa do
Ceara, Sgo Benedito, Ibiapina, Guaraciaba do Norte, Carnaubal, Pacuja,
Graca and Ubajara; and (5) DIRES XIII (Itapipoca), comprising the
municipios of Itapipoca, Acarai7, Amontada, Bela Cruz, Cruz, Iraucuba,
Itapage, Itarema, Marco, Morrinhos, Paracuru, Paraipaba, Sao Luiz do Curd,
Trairi, Umirim, Uruburetama.
'Maranhao. The project area, with approximately 2,300,000 people,
includes the following four DIRES: (1) DIRES IV (Santa InOs), comprising
the municipios of Santa Ines, Pindare-Mirim, Santa Luzia, Moncao, Bom
Jardim, Carutapera, Luis Domingues do Maranhao, Candido Mendes, Godofredo
Viana, Vit6ria do Mearim and Arari; (2) DIRES II (Bacabal), comprising the
municipios of Bacabal, Altamira do Maranhao, Sao Luis Gonzaga, Lago da
Pedra, Lago Verde, Olho d'Agua das Cunhas, Paulo Ramos, Pio XII, Sao Mateus
and Vitorino Freire; (3) DIRES III (Pedreiras), comprising the municipios
of Pedreiras, Esperantin6polis, Igarape Grande, Joselandia, Lima Campos,
Lago do Junco, Santo AntOnio dos Lopes, PoVto de Pedras and Barra do Corda;
and (4) DIRES (XI) (Pinheiro), comprising the municipios of Alcantara,
Bacuri, Bequimao, Cajapi6, Cajari, Cedral, Carurupu, Guimaraes, Matinha,
Hirinzal, Palmeirandia, Penalva, Peri-Mirim, Pinheiro, Santa Helena, Sao
Jobo Batista, Sao Vicente Ferrer, Turiacu and Viana; and DIRES I (Sao
Luis), comprising the municipio of S6o Luis,
Paraiba.  The project area, with approximately 800,000 people,
includes the following three DIRES: (1) DIRES II (Guarabira), comprising
the municipios of Guarabira, Alagoinha, Aruruna, Aracagi, Bananeiras,
Belem, Borborema, Cacimba de Dentro, Caicara, Cuitegi, Dona Ines, Duas
Estradas, Itapororoca, Lagot de Dentro, Marl, Mulungu, Piloes, Piloesinhos,
Pirpirutuba, Serra da Raiz, Serraria, Solanea and Tacima; (2) DIRES VII
(Pianc6), comprising the municipios of Aguiar, Boa Ventura, Boqueirao dos
Cochos, Curral Velho, Conceicdo, Diamante, Itaporang, Ibiara, Nova Olinda,
Olho d'Agua, Pianc6, Pedra Branca, Santana dos Garrotes, Santana de
Mangueira, Sao Jose de Caiana and Serra Grande; and (3) DIRES VIII (Catole
do Rocha) comprising the municipios of Bom Suceso, Belem do Brejo do Cruz,
Brejo do Cruz, Brejo dos Santos, Catole do Rocha, Jeric6, Sao Bento, Riacho
dos Cavalos and Lagoa. Other municipios designated as falling within the
area of influence of the services component of the project include, in
DIRES I, the municipios of Jacarad, Mamanguape and Sape; in DIRES III, the
municipios of Jacarad, Mamanguape and Sape; in DIRES III, the municipios of
Alagoa Grande and Areia; and, in DIRES V, the municipio of Pombal.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
Page 3 of 3
Pernambuco. The project area, with approximately 3,000,000
people, includes the following nine DIRES: (1) DIRES I (Recife), comprising
the municipios of Vitoria de Santo Antao, ChA Grande, Pombos, Cabo and Sao
Lourenyo da Mata; (2) DIRES II (Limoeiro), comprising the municipios of
Timba(iba, SAo Vicente Ferrer, Vicencia, Carpina, Jolo Alfredo, Bom Jardim,
Machados, Orob6, Passira, Cumard, Salgadinho, Limoeiro, Feira Nova, Gl6ria
de Goita and Surubim; (3) DIRES III (Palmares), comprising the municipios
of Palmares, Agua Preta, Lagoa dos Gatos, Barreiros and Rio Formoso; (4)
DIRES IV (Caruaru), comprising the municipios of Altinho, Agrestina,
Cupira, Ibirajuba, Panelas, Bonito, Barra da Guariraba, Camocim de Sbo
Felix, Saire, Sao Joaquim do Monte, Vertent>, Frei Miguelinho, Santa Maria
de Cambuca, Taquaritinga do Norte, Toritama, Caruaru, Riacho das Almas,
Pesqueira, Alagoinha, Po,co, Sanhar6, Belo Jardim, Cachoerinha, Jurema, Sao
Bento do Una, Sao Caetano, Tacaimb6, Bezerros, Gravata, Brejo da Madre de
Deus, Jatadba and Santa Cruz do Capibaribe; (5) DIRES V (Garanhuns),
comprising the municipios of Garanhuns, Brejbo, Caetes, Capoeiras, Saloa,
Iati: Paranatana, Angelim, Canhotinho, Palmeirina, Sao Joao, Bom Conselho,
Terezinha, Corrente, Lagoa do Ouro, Lajedo, Jupi and Calcados; (6) DIRES VI
(Arco Verde), comprising the municipios of Afogados da Ingazeira, Carnaiba,
Iguaraci, Ingazeira, Sertania, Cust6dia, Pedra, Buique, Venturosa, Sao Jose
do Egito, Brejinho, Itapetimi, Santa Terezinha, Tuparetama, Tabira, Solidbo,
Serra Talhada, Calumbi, Flores, Triunfo and Arco Verde; (7) DIRES VII
(Salgueiro), comprising the municipios of Belem de Sao Francisco, Salgueiro
and Cedro; (8) DIRES VIII (Petrolina), comprising the municipios of
Cabrob6, Oroc6, Santa Maria da Boa Vista and Petrolina; and (9) DIRES IX
(Ouricuri), comprising the municipios of Ouricuri, Bodoc6, Araripina,
Trindade, Ipubi, Exu, Granito, Sitio dos Moreiras and Parnamirim.
Sergipe. The project area, with approximately 400,000 people,
includes the following three DIRES: (1) DIRES I (Boquim), comprising the
municipios of Arada, Boquim, Cristin6polis, Estancia, Itabaianinha,
Indiaroba, Pedrinhas, Santa Luzia do Itanhy, Tomar do Geru and Umbadba; (2)
DIRES IV (Porta da Folha), comprising the municipios of Caninde do Sao
Francisco, Cumbe, Feira Nova, Gararu, Graccho Cardoso, Itabi, Monte Alegre
de Sergipe, Nossa Senhora da Gldria, Nossa Senhora de Lourdes, Pogo Redondo
and Porta da Folha; and (3) DIRES V (Propria), comprising the municipios of
Amparo do Slo Francisco, Aquidaba, Brejo Grande, Canhoba, Cedro de Sao
Joao, Ilha das Flores, Japoata, Malhada dos Bois, Muribeca, Ne6polis,
Pacatuba, Propria, Sao Francisco and Telha.



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND NCRTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Organization and Management of Health Systems
The organization of resources within Health Districts is a
strategy to improve access to, and efficiency of, basic health services.
As described below, systems chosen will vary from state to state in
accordance with differing service and administrative needs.
The Health District has been designed as the basic administrative
and functional unit of the decentralized health network. Health Districts
are to be established within defined geograpHical areas and will serve as
the locus for developing and following through on the set of basic health
actions. Health Districts are to be founded upon the same principles of
population, geographical specificity, program flexibility and
prioritization of preventive care as the earlier Basic Health Care Module
concept (see Table 4), with the added elements of administrative and fiscal
responsibility implicit within the SUDS initiative. Organization of the
Health Districts is to be guided by the principles of compatibility with
local conditions, extension to all appropriate institutions within the
service area, and technical and functional complementarity.
Implantation of the Health Districts does not imply imposition of
a rigid system of services. Rather, Health Districts are only obliged to
establish clear lines of responsibility for addressing the generalized
principles of the national Health Reform initiative in their respective
areas. In certain smaller states, Health Districts may closely replicate
functions currently carried out by the DIRES.
Based upon the primacy of the Health District as central operating
unit, and following upon the system integration accomplished via the AIS
initiative, unification of public health systems under SUDS will take
different shape in each state, as per local needs, resources and
capacities. However, in furtherance of the goals outlined in the Health
Reform initiative, the following basic guidelines as to delegation of
management and overview responsibilities are to be followed in each state.
Overall management responsibilities for SUDS will be assumed by
the Interinstitutional Commissions already established under AIS at the
state, regional and municipal level, those being, respectively, the
Interinstitutional Health Commission (CIS), Regional Interinstitutional
Health Commission (CRIS) and the Municipal Interinstitutional Health
Commission (CMS1). However, ultimate responsibility for program execution
within such interinstitutional management bodies will rest:



-74 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
(i) within the SES, at the state level;
(ii) at the Health District level, as followst
- by any such local authority, as determined by CIMS. if the
Health District is smaller than a municipality;
- by the Municipal Health Secretariat, or equivalent, if the
Health District is coterminous with a municipality; or
- by any such local authority, as determined by the Regional
Interinstitutional Health Commission (CRIS), if the Health
District comprises more than one municipality.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Basic Health Care Modules: Facilities and Staffing Patterns
The BHCM will include human resources and health facilities for
providing household care, ambulatory and local hospital care as follows:
(a) for clusters of 100-400 families (500-2,000 people) living in
a locality: there will be a health attendant per 100-170
families (according to scattering patterns) but not health
facilities within the locality. The health attendants will
be staff members of the nearest health facility;
(b) for municipios with about 5,000 people, of which over 2,000
live at the seat, and about 3,000 live in neighboring
localities: there will be a staffed health center type I at
the seat, and a health attendant per group of 100-170
families in neighboring localities. If there is a cluster of
about 2,000 people in a locality, a staffed health post will
be established;
(c) for municipios with 5,000 up to 10,000 people: if at least
5,000 live in the seat, there will be a staffed health center
type II located in the seat (if below 5,000, it will be a
health center type I); a staffed health post per clusters of
about 2,000 people, and/or a health attendant per group of
100-170 families;
(d) for municipios with more than 10,000 and up to 20,000 people:
if at least 10,000 live in the seat, there will be a staffed
health center type III located in the seat; staff health
centers type I in clusters of 2,000-5,000 people, and type II
in towns between 6,000-10,000 people; health posts in
clusters of about 2,000 and/or a health attendant per group
of 100-170 families;
(e) for municipios with 20,000 or more people: if at least 20,000
live in the seat, there will be a staffed Unidade Mista in
the seat (if below 20,000, it will be a health center type
III).  The number of beds will be variable, according to the
population distribution within the municipio and in the area
of influence outside the municipio.  Specifically, there will
be a bed per 1,000 people living in the municipal seat and in
the neighboring localities within the municipio; a bed per
2,000 people in the area of influence outside the municipio.
Example: A municipio with 45,000 people of which 22,000 live
in the seat, 23,000 in other localities within the municipio



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
and 10,000 in the area of influence outside the municipio, will have in the
seat a Unidade Mista with 50 beds. When the population living in the area
of a BHCM is greater than 50,000, and the main urban cluster is about
50,000, careful consideration would be given to construction of another
unidade(s) mista(s) within the BHCM.



- 77 -
BRAZIL4
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT                            M         I
CIVIL WORKS: CONSOLIDATED BY YEAR AND BY STATE
QUARTITY BY YEAR                            qJANTITY BY STATE
CIVIL WRKS            1     2      3     4     6     6   TOTAL    AL    BA    CE    VA    PS    PE    SE
Hath Post
Cnstruction             lfl    97    74    45    1S          849     26   122    55      4    22   to     1
pan?                          26    29    22    16          l61     14           12    9                 is 6
votion        337    66    72    76    82          597    177    7     48    77           B2    39
H onentrepton             12    27    17    12                         is 10   6    4                 1
xp n lon                12    17    1?      5     J          U      1i    is      6     J          17
Heath tenterI                28     4     7                      so       2    17     8     1           J     4
Conetruttion              23    16    12      B     5          64    a8    16       2     1     1     3    4
Expanolon                  B      9     7    1d     1          as       4    14     6           8    4      4
9     6     5     7                 26           11     5          10
Construction               6      5                            16       1     1     a     1           4
Expanioin                  6      2     2     1                10                   1     1     3     1    4
URnovt enI                    9     6     4     2                21       1           9     3     7           1
Construction              14      7     6     2     1          80       1     4     5     6     7    6      1
Expansion                 24    18    18      7     S          70       7     6     2     8     5    42
Renov tion                20    16      6     8     1          46                   9     6    12    16     8
Unidde MIsta I I
Con truction               5     6      8                      18       2     6           1     2     1     1
Expans on                         4     2                       6                         1     8     2
Renovation                 6      1                             7                         2     4     1
Hoasptal
Construction
Expansion                  8      1           1     1           6                   1                 2     3
Renovation                 6      2     2                      10                                     7     3
Cose de part"
I onstryction             23    17    10    10                 6s                  es
Ob t ctr ? Unit              6            2                       8
Construction               8     2                             16                  19
Expanolgn                  1     2                              8                   8
Renovation
Regional LaWoratory
1.nstryction               1      1     1     1                 41                              a
Ronovvtion111
SUB-TOTAL            754   871   295   206    e1        1,707    298   887   346   123    62   382    9O
INSTIUIAL DEVELOPMENT
Regional Heedquartero
Construction              14      7     2     2     1          26       4     6     8     5     1    2      6
txp nuion                  2      2                             4       1     2     1
Renovation                        1     1                       2                               2
warehouse
Constrycticn              14      4     1     8     1          28       6                 4     2     6     5
Expansion
Renovation
Maint nane Center
Ionetryction              1s      4           2     1          20       1                 4     2     8     5
Tra?ntng Center
construetlon               9      2     1     2     1          16                         8           7     5
Expanioin                  1                                    1                         1
L Re novtio0n              2                                    2       1     1
Construction               7      2                             9                         4                 5
Expanolon
Renovation
!ntoruation Unit
constructIon               8      1     1     2     1           8
Ixpanon
enovatlon
SUB-TOTAL             65    23      6    11     6         110      13     9     4    21     7    81    26
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS            019   894   601   217    so        1,817    811   896   849   144    89   418   116
AL a Alagos; BA a Bahia; CE a Coars; MA a Maranho; PB a Paraiba, PE a Pernambuco; S =    PO e



- 78 -
BRAZIL                                               AN4
SECD NOTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT                              Trblo 1
HUMAN  EOURCES: CONSOLIDAD BY YEAR AND BY STATE
AIm   BY YEA                               qUANTITY BY STATE
BUMI  RESmUMCES         1     2     a     4     C     0   TOTAL    AL   BA    CE    MA   PB    PE   SE
SERVICES
12     P 25   12         24     5   6S8    121  101    76   45    567           3a
Intecrud i t. Level
Technician   1/   ia4   82    1* 163         s     I 16    1P6  27    197        7      6 19       8
neslcLeveljn   8   1f669 2,666 1,3 5  1, 2   27  11   6 n        61 1        7      1    641 1,227  264
SUB-TOTAL          1,551 3,e666 s4 1,4   ,485   896   149 3,66 2  1,444 2,313 1,144   732   902 1,6JS  397
INSTIIJTINAIL DEVELOPMENlT
95    42    12    16   S~~~~~~~1  17a1     a     is   32      7 3        a
jtyu.medLTel. .evl         468  1942   472  76    0            616    17129    00154    44a  13             s
261   JO    18    42    19          411    16    24    12    79    82  119    95
SB-TOTAL             eo9   322   72   133   43         199    176   17    67   266         3   812   ase
TOTAL huMAN RESOURCES      2,309 8,887 2,619 1,456   459   146 9,961  1,622 2,492 1,231   973   985 1,947   667
J/ Includes technical staff 7n: Servicos Co peentnres, Sanosmento, Adminletueca.
2/Include  s" lr   taff in:  Enferosa_,geri co  Coeplie ntares, Sanee_ento, Aduinletraca.
9/eia   c BnocLel *tcff inL  En4 ri                                                       32 , S    cog Cer ic
AL * AlnDOOC; Bi * Bahis; CE * Caen; IA * Maranha.; PB * Para7ba; PE * Pernasbuco; SE = Sergipe
ini                        4RA2tTable 7
|                               ~~~~~~~~~~SECOND NO8RTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
VEHICLE5s CON4SOLIDATES BY YEAR AND EY STATE     1/
QUNTTY  BiY YEAR                           QUANTITY BY STATE
VEFiICLES           1     2     8    4      5     6   TOTAL    AL   BA    CE   IA   PB   PE   SE
ATrulance                   76 2v    20    1J        1         142    13    82    16       1    4    4    20
Truck   ~ ~~~~216            1    s    42    111    40  14                  1      9     3  1  4      1
P     UBT-ustL ruMO                     72  13 4     1          68    16    11    11      2      2     42  12
BgPyde            C~10   81     0    19      6         606    397    15   297                      ao
TOTAL VEFtCLES              060    74    45    92      9          356  76    71 233          6    13   04  68
1/ Vlh7cle will not be fin:nged unSer the proect  but roe t  be  purchse d independently by the stat
Ma7ntenance on vehicles *In: bE fnoanced uneri chC proJect.
AL a Alagoas; BA a Bahie; CE * Caere; MA a Maranhao; PB a Paraiba; PE a Pernambuco; SE a Sergipe



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLD AND PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ '000)
Prior review  Contract  Aggregate    Type of
Threshold     Value     Limit    Procurement
Civil Vorks
New Construction         >600      >600                    LCB
and Additions
New Health Posts                             25,000        Force Account
and Refurbishings
Furniture, Equipment     >250      >250                    ICB
and Maintenance
<250      70,000(est.) LCB
< 25      12,000       Prudent
shopping
Drugs                      >250      >250       30,000       LCB
Technical Assistance
Individuals              >3 months
Firms                    >30       > 30



- 81 -
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
ANNEX 5
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE



- 83 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
Section As   General Reports on Health Sector
A-1:    World Bank, 'Brazil - Public Spending on Social Programs;
Issues and Options," Volume 1, (Report No. 7086-BR), May 27,
1988.
A-2:    World Bank, "Brazil - Adult Health in Brazil: Adjusting to
New Challenges," (Report No. 7807-BR), September 11, 1989.
A-3:    World Bank, "Brazil:  Population and Human Resources,* Sector
Strategy Paper, March 18, 1988.
Section B:   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-l:    Ministry of Health, 'Institutional Development Proposal.
Second Northeast Basic Health Services Project," September,
1989.
B-2:    Ministry of Health and State Health Secretariats in States of
Alagoas, Bahia, Ceart, Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco and
Sergipe, 'Revised Proposals for the Second Northeast Basic
Health Services Project," July, 1989.
B-3s    Ministry of Health, 'Basic Data for Monitoring the Northeast
Project. Preliminary Draft," September, 1989.
B-4:    Vorld Bank, 'Public Spending on Health in the Northeast
States, 1981-86," (Complementary Note), June 27, 1989.
B-5:    Ministry of Health, "Commissao Nacional da Reforma
Sanitaria," (three volumes), 1987.
B-6s    MPAS/MS/MEC/State and Municipal Governments, "Integrated
Health Actions Program - AIS," 1984.
B-7:    MPASlMS/MEC/State and Municipal Governments, "Integrated
Health Actions Program - AIS, General Norms to be Applied,'
1984.
B-8s    Ministry of Health, "Program of Comprehensive Care for Women
and Children," 1984.



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
B-9:    Ministry of Health, "Manual for a Health Post,' 1983.
B-lOs   Ministry of Health, 'Orientation for the Organization of
Health Centers," 1982.
B-ll:   Ministry of Health, 'Guide for Leprosy Control,' 1983.
B-12s   Ministry of Health, "Manual on Norms and Procedures for
Tuberculosis Control," 1984.
B-13:   Ministry of Health, 'Vaccination Manual,' 1984
B-14:   MS/MPAS, "General Norms Governing Hospitals Jointly Managed
by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social
Security," 1983.



p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MAP SECTION
l 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



66      -                                                   1                              36o'~ 
e,,  jq                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~B R A Z I L
NORTHEAST REGION
PARA                            S
t  oPornof%C                                     - 
/    Sonto ln6t pecuopturMle t        (                 SUo,RTALEZA
4-       /je         v      \      K<    ez   5s                           t1''4.
*X_~~~~~~~A  N
_    >     ~~Afonso   -  ALA         MAE 1
l2,,R                                                                                             2 .   c
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 OLAD DO  NATAL   t   2    -
s.-Tz.es4Zer*                        f      /    J e   *        ~      ~~~~~~~~~ States under Second Project
.. J Jequlel / v i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  States under First Project
rdanr.V - .cct rocco ad
:   Nationai Capital
BRASILIA    I                                            __                                 State Capitols
so                     PIA U        .I -           -}   -o   Towns
.l     _ 6                            I a)                          9  X    S            -     Stote Boundaries    lot
B5 {MorreirgsClaros ._  ............... ofP /      _ _Region Boundaries
r~~~~~~~~
)   to  . /  /                a1   1 .~~~~~~. (
(,MI  ASGERAI  :orCoecros                 _                .HE
)~ a"     x                                                                        State unde Seon Project iI
- PEsPPvav.P \ r r < N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONM
0     100    200    300>t                                      {,<-L
KILOMS TERSS| I                                                                     X R ros
FD                             BELO HORwIZONTE/  -    VTRIA                      '
C    State Boundorres



VENEZUELA   *GU+ANAP.A
r fRENCH                                           B R A Z I L
COLOMBIAI SURINAW  (Fr.)                                      SECOND NORTHEAST BASIC                                                            ATOCEAN
S4>    '     /'                             HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT                                                                      OCEAN
RMO GPANDE
I))       00,~ NORTE
$  fiQANA A                      PROJECT AREA
~~ANHAO  ~~~~~~AREA OF INFLUENCE
B R A Z I L                        AMA U               -    REGIONAL HEALTH DIRECTORATE                                         *PodrokI
A  NAG B 0BOUNDARIES (DIRES)                                                                    *.,Jo
_-1   NORTHEAST </ASERGIPE                 IX  DIRES NUMBER
PERU   |      ..             REGION       BAHIA                        0   DIRES HEADQUARTERS                                              to
x,>                                                                   *   . 43STATE CAPITALS
\   BOLIVIA           BRASILIA                                 -   STATE BOUNDARIES
-. *  --  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
. to_ PARAdiuAy                                                                                   L\n
r {            ., L          ,        ATLANTIC                                                                                             0        0 2 00
PACIFIC! I / 1jE                                                                                                                                    KILOMETEi
OCEAN,'   ARGENTINA                /           CEAN
1)~~~*      J~URU G'bAY'~~                                                    h
e.fafapwf, j  nU W/ 0- ===fMARANHAO
PERNAMBUCO                                                                            PARAIBA                                                               8ATLANTIC
OCEAN
T EANT             0,        0      10,0
KILOMETERS                                                                                KILOMETERS
BAHIA                                                                                  SERGIPE
)   ;"e   Ju         lxPplugPo"bAonto                              )
froA    JacobiPd-v
a         '     1      t'.t*J'4''w.       "'t & de
q       < Xfl1                                                                                                                   ALV @/ .ALVADO
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /
/               _                ~~~~~~~~ATEANVIC                        <>
OCEAN
ATLANTIC     OCEAN
o    100  200                                                                          0     25    50
KILOMETERS                                                                              KILOMETERS
ALAGOAS                                                                              CEARAX                                           ATLANTIC   OCEAN
~    ('~           FORTALEZFO
Psrudo      ATLANTIC
OCEAN                                                                                                 r
100                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 so  100 
KILOMETERS                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
I                                                                                     l_________________________________________ _  I



