Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11638
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3085-ME)
FEBRUARY 8, 1993
Country Operations Division I
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEX$)
On June 24, 1992 the exchange rate in the controlled market was US$1 = 3,131.40 the free
market exchange rate stood at US$1 - Mex$3,120.
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF             -      Average Cost of Funds (see CPP for Spanish)
ADRs            -      American Depositary Receipts
AGROASEMEX      -      Agro Aseguradora Mexicana (Mexican Agro Insurer)
ANAGSA          -      National Agricultural Insurance Company
BANCOMEXT      -       Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior (Foreign Trade Bank)
BANOBRAS       -       Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (National Bank for
Public Works and Services)
BANPECO        -       Banco Nacional de Pequefio Comercio (National Bank for Retail Trade)
BANRURAL       -       Banco Rural (Rural Bank)
BNCE           -       Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
BdH            -       Banco de Mexico (Central Bank)
CETES          -       Mexican Treasury Bills
CNB            -       National Bank Cominssion
CNBS           -       National Banking and Insurance Commission
COI            -       Committee for International Operations
CNV            -       National Stock Exchange Commission
CPI            -       Consumer Price Index
CPIR           -       Country Program Implementation Review
CPP            -       Costo Promedio Porcentual (see ACF for English)
EFF             -      Extended Fund Facility
FSAL           -       Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FICART         -       Fideicomiso para Crddito en Areas de Riego y Temporal (Trust Fund
for Credit in Irrigated and Rain-fed Areas)
FIDEC          -       Fondo para el Desarrollo Comercial (Trade Development Fund)
FlRA           -       Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relaci6n a la Agricultura (Trust Funds
Related to Agriculture)
FOMEX          -       Fondo de Fomento de las Exportaciones Mexicanas (Fund to Promote
Mexican Exports)
FONATUR        -       Fondo Nacional de Fomento al Turismo (National Fund for Tourism
Promotion)
FOVI           -       Fondo de Operacion y Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda (Trust
Fund for the Operation and Bank Financing for Housing)
GDP             -      Gross Domestic Product
GIRA            -      General Interest Rate Agreement
GNP             -      Gross National Product
GOM             -      Government of Mexico
IFC            -       International Finance Corporation
IMF            -       International Monetary Fund
INFONAVIT      -       Instituto Nacional para La Vivienda de Los Trabajadores (National
Institute for Worker Housing)
ISPL           -       Industrial Sector Policy Loan
JEMIX          -       The Export-Import Bank of Japan
NAFIN           -      Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
PACTO          -       Economic Solidarity Pact
PCR            -       Project Completion Report
PECE           -       Stabilization and Growth Pact
PERL           -       Public Enterprise Reform Loan
PRONASOL       -       Programa Nacional de Solidaridad
REER           -       Real Effective Exchange Rate
SEDUE          -       Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (Secretariat for Urban
Development and Ecology)
SEDESOL        -       Ministry of Social Development
SHCP           -       Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP            -       Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
VAT             -      Value Added Tax
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 8, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Report on Mexico
Financial Sector Adiustment Loan (Loan 3085-ME)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Mexico - Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3085-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office,
with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
This successful project aimed at restructuring the highly controlled financial sector, moving it
towards a market based framework, while at the same time reforming the corporate and income tax system
and tax administration. Implementation of the project was good with some targets, such as those in the
fiscal area, being exceeded. While the supervisory and regulatory framework for banks and brokers was
modernized, the number of banks and trust funds was reduced and measures to limit subsidies and transfers
to agricultural financial institutions were introduced. The project has shown the possibility of introducing
financial sector reforms in an inflationary environment when strong macroeconomic policies are adopted
to redress the fiscal deficit, thereby succeeding in rapidly reducing inflationary pressures.
The highly satisfactory performance of the project and its likely sustainability are convincingly
highlighted in the PCR. At the same time, the PCR acknowledges that problems still exist in the areas of
development banks and trust funds, which extend credit at subsidized rates to small enterprises and low
income farmers.
This adjustment operation will be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 308S5-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
PREFACE ....................................................   i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY   ........................................                                                            iii
PART 1. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                  ..........   1
Project Identity . .............................................   1
Background ................................................   I
Project Objectives and Description   .................................                                               3
Project Design and Organization  ...................................                                                 3
Implementation of Reforms  ......................................                                                   5
Fiscal Sector . .............................................  7
Financial Sector .             ...........................................  10
Development Banks .........................................                                                    13
Supervision and Prudential Regulations of Banks and Brokers ...............    18
Results .           ..... ..............................                                ........ .....             21
Evaluation of the Reforms and Remaining Agenda ........................    24
Sustainability ...............................................  28
Credit Administration, Use and Coordination  ...........................    28
Bank's Performance   ..........................................                                                    29
Borrower's Performance  ........................................    29
Lessons Learned  .              ............................................    30
Project Documentation and Data  ...................................    30
PART 11. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                   ......  33
PART 111. STATISTICAL INFORMATION    ..............................    37
1. Related Bank Loans  ........................................    37
2.  Project Timetable   .........................................                                                 37
3.  Loan Disbursements ........................................    38
4.  Project Costs and Financing  ...................................    38
5.  Use of Bank Resources  ......................................    38
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Policy Matrix .               .............................................  39
11.  Evolution of Revenues of Federal District   ...........................    45
Ill.  Assets of Financial Institutions and their Relative Importance   ...............   46
IV.   Main Components of Assets and Liabilities of Commercial Banks  ....                                ........   47
V.   Commercial Banks:  Assets, Employees, Branches and Privatization   ....                              ......   48
VI.   Development Banks and Trust Funds  ..............................    49
VIl.   Interest Rates: Development Banks and Funds  ........................    50
VIII.   Composition of Credit Stocks by Economic Activity   ....................   51
IX.   Credit Flows by Funding and Economic Activity   ......................    52
ATTACHMENTS
1.  Comments from  IMF   ........................................    53
2.   Comments from  EXIM  Bank of Japan ..............................    54



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3085-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to Mexico
(Loan 3085-ME) in an amount equivalent to US$500 million approved on June 13, 1989. The adjustment
component of the loan has been fully disbursed. A small undisbursed balance under the Technical
Assistance component in the amount of US$1.6 million remains and the loan is expected to be closed on
June 30, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by the Mexico Country Operations Division (LA2C1) in the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the
Borrower (Part H). The Export-Import Bank of Japan and the IMF provided comments on the PCR
(Attachments 1 and 2).
Preparation of this PCR was started in November 1991 and is based, inter-alia, on the Report and
Recommendations of the President, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrowers; internal Bank memoranda and financial sector work
performed by LA2C1.



I



- Hii -
PRQJECT COMPLETION REPOR
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3085-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.           Objectives. The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan was part of three sector adjustment
loans of US$500 million each, presented to the Board simultaneously in June 1989 to support the
Government of Mexico's sectoral adjustment program and debt reduction efforts. The other two loans
supported public enterprise and industrial sector policy reforms. The three loans together provided a
comprehensive reform package combining macroeconomic policies with micro adjustments in key areas.
The focus of the FSAL was to support fiscal and financial sector policies consistent with economic
stabilization and the resumption of growth. The objective of the program was to help provide a policy
framework conducive to increased private sector investment (paras. 6-7).
2.           Implementation Experience. Overall implementation was exemplary. In many areas
implementation went beyond what was agreed under the program. The fiscal targets were exceeded.
Major changes to improve tax revenues were introduced. The reforms ranged from changes in the
corporate and income taxes to increasing penalties for tax evaders. The policy reforms were accompanied
by a complete overhaul of the tax administration apparatus. Tax reforms were not only introduced at the
Federal level but also in the Federal District (paras. 12-26).
3.           In the financial sector, in a very short period of time, Mexico shifted from a highly
controlled to a financial system based largely on market forces.  All non-prudential controls on
commercial banks were lifted. At the same time, a remarkable reform and modernization of the
supervisory and regulatory framework for banks and brokers was implemented. The development banks
and trust funds were reduced in number and size and the Government introduced measures to limit
subsidies and transfers to agricultural financial institutions (paras. 27-63).
4.           Operationally, implementation was excellent. The loan was signed two days after Board
approval and became effective the same month. The second tranche was released in February 1990, i.e.
two and a half months later than originally planned. The fast disbursing component has been fully
disbursed. The Loan is expected to be closed at the end of June 1993, two years behind schedule because
the Government requested more time to complete disbursements of the technical assistance component.
The audit reports and accounts for the Loan have been received on time and have been fully satisfactory
(paras. 95 and 96).
5.           Results. While it is difficult to separate the effects of the measures supported by this loan
from the effects of other policy changes implemented at the same time, it can be concluded that the loan
made a positive contribution to the achievement of its ambitious objectives. There was a remarkable
improvement in economic stability (inflation dropped from 90% over 1982-88 to 23% over 1989-91).
The sharp increase in private sector investment (more than 12% per year over 1989-91) and the



- iv -
resumption of growth (GDP grew by 3.7% over 1989-91) suggest that the goal of establishing a
framework conducive to private sector investment was achieved (paras. 67-70).
6.            In the financial sector, the disintermediation process was reversed. Monetary aggregates
relative to GDP increased rapidly. The decline in banking sector lending to the private sector was also
reversed. Banking sector credit to the private sector increased in real terms by 35% per year over the
1989-91 period. The improvement in the prudential regulatory framework and bank and broker
supervision helped establish an important pre-condition for the privatization of the banks by ensuring that
Government would be able to adequately oversee a private banking system. The privatization of the
commercial banks, which was not part of the FSAL, is proceeding well and is expected to be concluded
in July, 1992. There has been a sharp increase in foreign capital inflows and Mexico has regained access
to voluntary lending. The importance of directed credit in the financial system was reduced and
Government transfers and subsidies to development banks and trust funds were decreased (paras. 71-77).
Sustainability
7.            Mexico has successfully implemented a program of sweeping reforms. The GOM's full
commitment to the reform process is evidenced by the continuing deepening of the stabilization efforts,
the recent reforms of the financial system and the opening of the economy. The commitment of the GOM
to the reform of the financial sector is evident with the privatization of the banking system. The
integration of the financial system to international capital markets envisioned under the Free Trade
Agreement, currently under negotiations with the United States and Canada, is expected to further
consolidate the reform effort. The GOM and the private sector have adopted new roles. The private
sector has taken the lead in the economy and the Government is concerned with the provision of
macroeconomic stability and a rational incentive framework. Therefore, it is very unlikely that the
reforms in the fiscal and the financial sectors will be reversed (paras. 88-89).
8.            The one area where further reforms are needed but which may suffer some backsliding
is the area of the development banks and trust funds. There continue to be significant functional overlap
among these institutions and the bulk of directed credit is priced somewhat below market to various
degrees. One of the Government's main concerns is to assist the majority of the Mexican population to
participate in the general economic gains from the economic reform. The Government plans to use the
development banks and trust funds, in particular NAFIN, to assist small and micro-enterprises and
BANRURAL and FIRA to assist low-income farmers. The Government's concern is very valid,
however, it is not apparent that directed credit is the best way to achieve the Government's objective.
In lending to small and medium enterprises, it has not been convincingly shown that there is a market
failure that could be improved through Government intervention. In agriculture credit market where there
are market failures that warrant Government intervention, the form of intervention has to be properly
designed to succeed in reaching the small farmer. Past experience suggests that large, cumbersome
development banks are ill suited to reach targeted groups (paras. 36-38, 44 and 83).
Lessons Learned
9.            The main lesson derived from the experience of the FSAL is that financial sector reforms
can be introduced successfully in an inflationary environment if the reforms are part of a credible
economic package. The financial sector reforms took place in the context of consistent macroeconomic
policies, in particular, the fiscal sector accounts had been brought under control and strict fiscal targets
were consistent with available financing and inflation targets. At the micro-level, reforms that aimed at



- v -
eliminating price distortions and improving factor mobility, including foreign investment, were being
introduced simultaneously and a far-reaching trade reform was already in place. The reforms in the
financial sector were also part of a consistent package that placed strong emphasis on the strengthening
of the prudential regulatory and supervisory framework. The success of the reform was possible because
of Government's commitment and elevated implementation capacity (paras. 97-98).
10.          In the area of tax administration the Mexican experience again shows that it is possible
to improve the tax system if there is a strong political will and implementation capacity (paras. 20-22).
11.          In retrospect, the program could have benefitted from more time for preparation in some
areas. With more time, a careful review of all program components may have resulted in the exclusion
of the component dealing with State finances or a better design of the conditionality attached to it. A
more detailed evaluation could have enhanced the effectiveness of the technical assistance component.
The reluctance of the Government to allow significant Bank involvement in financial sector work prior
to appraisal of this loan may have been a factor in the design and implementation difficulties encountered
in the area of development banks and trust funds. This, however, has to be counter-balanced with the
benefits of the timeliness of the Bank's assistance. The Bank's quick response to the GOM's request for
support to its adjustment program helped propel and consolidate the reform momentum (paras. 10-1 1).
12.           Conditionality could have been strengthened by relying less on action plans and more on
concrete measures, particularly with respect to the restructuring of the development banks and trust funds.
This was in part a result of lack of up-to-date first-hand knowledge of the sector prior to project
appraisal. Although the preparation of the Action Plans themselves was a good vehicle to conduct policy
dialogue in critical areas, there was little follow-up on implementation after the second tranche was
released. A follow-up operation to support remaining reforms was envisioned when the FSAL was
designed. It never materialized, however, because further progress than expected was made in some
areas and the Government did not wish to press forward in others. Also, the subsequent improvement
in Mexico's external position eliminated the need for further balance of payments support (para. 100).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3085-ME)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name                :      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Loan Number                3085-ME
RVP Unit                   LAC Region
Country             :      Mexico
Type of Loan               Sectoral Adjustment Loan
Background
1.           Faced with the aftermath of the debt crisis of 1982, Mexico broke with earlier policies
of protection and state regulation and adopted an outward oriented and private sector-led economic
strategy. In 1983, an IMF-supported stabilization program was launched. The program succeeded in
reducing the fiscal and current account deficits and a fragile economic recovery started in 1984-85.
However, two major external shocks, the Mexico City earthquake of 1985 and the collapse of oil prices
in 1986, necessitated a more profound transformation of the economy. A new adjustment program was
adopted in July 1986. In addition to tough austerity measures, the program sought a greater integration
of the Mexican economy with the rest of the world and fresh resources from foreign creditors. While
the program helped achieve large non-interest current account surpluses, inflation climbed from 64% in
1985 to 106% in 1986. Economic stagnation and triple digit inflation continued until 1987. A stock
market plunge in October triggered a run on the peso and a financial crisis. The Government responded
with the "Economic Solidarity Pact" (PACTO). Under the PACTO, in return for commitment to strict
fiscal discipline and continued structural reform, labor and business agreed to temporary controls on
wages and selected prices, in particular the freezing of the nominal exchange rate against the U.S. dollar
through the end of 1988. The PACTO was a success: by 1988, inflation dropped to 52% and GDP grew
a modest 1 %.
2.           From 1982 to 1988 the financial sector was extremely restricted. In September 1982 the
commercial banks were nationalized and the constitution was amended to reserve banking to the state.
At the time many banks were insolvent as a result of a deterioration in the quality of their portfolios in
an inflationary environment and interest rate controls which had reduced their margins. The Government
merged and closed 60 nationalized banks forming the present structure of 20 banks', and in 1986
instituted a Fund to help rehabilitate and modernize the banks. The brokerage firms remained privately
1 Including two banks that were never nationalized. One being the subsidiary of Citibank and the other a bank owned
by a workers union,



- 2 -
owned and became increasingly important intermediaries as they were not subject to restrictive controls.
It was not until the drastic decline in equity prices in October 1987 that dubious practices and allegations
of widespread fraud surfaced.  Insurance companies were very small, and the annual premiiia they
collected was less than I % of GDP compared to between 6 to 9% of GDP in countries with similar per
capita income. There were in existence 8 development banks and 21 government financial trust funds
(see Annex VI). The development banks rivaled the commercial banks in asset size. During this period
the government's budget deficit garnered much of the economy's savings, and what was leti for the
private sector was poorly allocated because commercial banks were forced to lend their funds to favored
sectors at less than market interest rates. As a result, intermediation through banks had diminished in
real terms, while institutional brokers and the intercompany market channeled a growing share of the
money market.
3.            The reform efforts were strengthened in 1988. The economic strategy was to stabilize the
economy, to reduce the role of Government and to restore growth. Continued fiscal retrenchment was
needed to achieve lower inflation targets, therefore the private sector was to become the engine of
growth. Consequently, the policy measures sought to provide the framework for the increase in private
sector investment. In this context, the Mexican government recognized that a well functioning financial
system was essential for renewed private sector growth and started a far-reaching financial refoirm.
4.            The World Bank supported the Government's reform strategy with a series ot adjustment
loans during fiscal year (FY) 1987-91 for a total of US$5.2 billion. During fiscal year FY87 and 88,
the Bank approved 5 adjustment operations with quick disbursement components totalling US$1.6 billion.
The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan was part of a package of three adjustment operations, for a total
of US$1.5 billion approved in June 1989. The other two loans were the Industrial Sector Policy Loan
(ISPL) and the Public Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL). The broad objective of the three FY89 loans
was to restore private sector based growth within the constrains set by external creditworthiness. These
loans were linked to the Interest Support Loan for US$1.26 billion approved in FY90 which sought to
reduce Mexico's transfers to foreign commercial credits by supporting the Government's debt reduction
plan. Another three adjustment loans were approved in FY90 and 91 in the areas of agriculture, export
promotion, and telecommunications and transportation, for a total of US$0.8 billion. The Bank's role
in supporting the Government's adjustment efforts was to act as a catalyzing agent for a process of
renewed growth by relaxing the external constraint and signalling that fresh resources would indeed
trigger increased investment. The Export Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) strongly supported Niexico's
adjustment efforts. JEXIM's total financial support for debt and debt service reduction operations
amounted to US$1.9 billion. This support included cofinancing of the FSAL for US$300 million as well
as for the ISPL and PERL.
5.            Since the start of its adjustment lending in Mexico, the Bank has collaborated closely with
the IMF.  Most of the Bank's sectoral adjustment lending was carried out concurrently with IMF
programs. Since 1982, Mexico has benefitted from an extended arrangement (EFF) for SDR 3.4 billion,
a special emergency drawing for SDR 291 million after the 1985 earthquake, a stand-by for SDR 1.4
billion in 1986. In 1989, Mexico obtained a drawing of SDR 453 million under the compensatory facility
and a SDR 2.8 billion EFF that ran through 1992. The EFF was augmented to SDR 3.2 billion in
January, 1990 for interest support in connection with debt and debt service reduction operations. In May,
1992, the EFF was extended to a fourth year and further augmented by SDR 466.2 million. The Mexican
authorities have agreed not to draw the additional resources barring unforseen adverse developments.
Mexico's performance under the on-going EFF arrangement has been exemplary.



- 3-
Project Objectives and Description
6.            The FSAL was part of a program of Bank support to the Mexican Government's efforts
to stabilize the economy and resume growth. The FSAL was prepared in parallel with the ISPL and the
PERL. The three loans together provided a comprehensive reform package combining macroeconomic
policies with micro adjustments in key areas. The ISPL aimed at modernizing the industrial sector by
deregulating important industrial sectors and by increasing factor mobility, in particular, by facilitating
direct foreign investment, technology transfer and research and development and labor mobility. The
PERL aimed at improving the efficiency of public enterprises whose poor performance accounted for
much of Mexico's financial problems and at reducing the heavy burden that they imposed on the
Government budget. The focus of the FSAL was on macroeconomic stability and financial sector
reforms.
7.            The FSAL supported fiscal policies and external financing plans consistent with
macroeconomic targets that would help achieve macroeconomic stability. The reforms in the financial
sector were expected to: (i) increase competition in the system which would gradually reduce unusually
high intermediation costs; (ii) modernize the financial system, improving the quality of services and
expanding the array of financial services available; and (iii) deepen the financial system, thus increasing
the volume of resources available to finance the productive sectors of the economy. In addition to
deregulating financial markets, the reforms also sought to overhaul the prudential regulatory frariework
and strengthening bank supervision (Comision Bancaria). These improvements were critical because
prudential regulations and supervision become especially important when there is greater competition in
the financial markets. It was expected that the strengthened prudential regulatory framework would result
in healthier banks with higher capitalization levels.
8.           The program included a range of macroeconomic and financial sector measures. To
achieve stability the policy actions envisioned were: (a) the adoption of a macroeconomic program
consistent with the objective of stabilization and growth, including progress towards more flexible price
adjustments; and (b) the implementation of a consistent fiscal policy. This in turn had two dimensions:
(i) consistency of operational deficits with inflation targets and availability of foreign financing; and (ii)
consistency of deficit targets with existing expenditures and revenue plans.  To strengthen fiscal
performance the program included measures to reform the tax system and to improve tax administration;
to strengthen public investment planning; and to improve state and local finances. In the area of financial
reform the emphasis was on liberalization of the banking system, strengthening prudential regulations and
supervision, redefining the roles of development banks and trust funds and reducing interest subsidies and
transfers to those institutions. IFC took the lead on the reforms in the supervision of brokerage houses.
Other areas such as contractual savings institutions were not included in this phase of the financial sector
reform. The program also had a technical assistance component to support program implementation in
the area of tax administration and public expenditure programming. The measures are detailed in Annex
I which updates the original project document with the implementation experience in each area.
Project Design and Organization
9.            Overall the program was well designed. The policy reforms supported by the program
were part of a comprehensive and coherent reform strategy. The reforms were complemented by sectoral
reforms that were to be implemented at the same time, such as the reforms in public enterprises and in
industrial deregulation. The reforms supported by the FSAL provided an important basis for the
successful renegotiation of the foreign debt and for the re-privatization of the banking system. The



- 4 -
conceptual framework for further fiscal reforms, for liberalization of the financial system, for
strengthening the supervision and prudential regulation of the banking system, and for limiting subsidies
to development banks and trust funds was clear and well understood by all parties. The future role of
the development banks and trust funds is one area which still would benefit from a further exchange of
views between the Bank and Mexico despite attempts to reach an agreement. The importance of the
proposed reforms in State finances was not well substantiated and this was reflected in the inadequate
design of the conditionality in this area.
10.           The timing of the program  was impeccable but because of time constraints project
preparation was limited in certain areas. The Government requested Bank assistance to support its reform
program through three adjustment loans at the time of the IMF/Bank annual meetings in September 1988.
Initial agreement on the scope of the adjustment operations was reached, and for the first time the
Government of Mexico agreed to include financial sector reforms. The appraisal mission for the three
adjustment operations took place less than two months later (October/November 1988). Although there
was very little time for preparatory work, this was not a major problem in those areas where the Bank
had been actively involved, such as overall macroeconomic and fiscal sector issues. In parts of the
financial sector, however, the Bank had limited up-to-date first-hand knowledge because the Government
had been reluctant to allow Bank involvement in that area2. A major input for the preparation of the
financial sector component was a report prepared for SHCP (Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit)
with the involvement of external consultants. Some of the relevant economic and sector work to, k place
in the context of project implementation, after the project was approved. The lack of previous knowledge
may have influenced the design of the conditionality. Second tranche release conditionality often was not
the implementation of specific pre-defined actions but the adoption of action plans in the areas of
supervision and regulation of banks and brokers and in the redefinition of the role of the development
banks and trust funds.
11.           The program  was very successful in the area of macroeconomic stability and fiscal
reform, in the liberalization of the banking system, in overhauling the supervision and financial
regulations of banker and brokers, in reducing the subsidies to the development banks and trust funds and
improving transparency in their funding, and in improving the finances of the Federal District. Progress
was less satisfactory in improving the finances of States and in redefining the role of the development
banks and trust funds. The main reasons for the overall success was the commitment and conviction of
the Government that the reforms were essential to transform the economy according to the Government's
new development strategy, private sector led growth. The Government was committed to stabilize the
economy and the control of the fiscal deficit was a key element in achieving this goal. In the area of
financial reform the Government intended to privatize the banks at a later stage and the reforms were a
prerequisite for privatization. The performance in the area of State finances reflected the fact that the
complex issue of State finances was not the focus of the program. The conditionality attached to this goal
was "reduce non-matching grants to the States". The condition could not be directly quantified as the
necessary data was not available. In the area of redefining the future of the development banks, two
factors contributed to insufficient progress. First, the Bank did not have sufficient elements to identify
a well defined set of specific actions during project negotiations, and second the lack of a clear
framework for the Bank and the Government to agree on the appropriate roles for some of those
2 Since the mid-80s the Bank had discussed with the SHCP the need to address certain deficiencies in the operation
of the domestic financial sector but SHCP was reluctant to include conditionality on this sector in the sectoral adjustment
initiatives, partly because it did not wish to discuss the experience with the nationalized banking system.



-5 -
institutions.
Implementation of Reforms
12.           Macroeconomic Framework. The FSAL supported the Government's macroeconomic
program embodied in the PACTO. As indicated before, the PACTO was a combination of orthodox and
heterodox policies. Under the PACTO, in return for commitment to strict fiscal discipline and continued
structural reform, labor and business agreed to temporary controls on wages and selected prices, in
particular the pre-determination of the nominal exchange rate. It was recognized that ultimate success
of the PACTO would require the implementation of measures that would allow the economy to emerge
from the PACTO with the controls removed but its anti-inflationary gains intact. The most difficult issue
was the exchange rate, as there was concern that a significant exchange rate realignment would lead to
matching wage claims and additional pressure on nominal price controls. The exchange rate would be
monitored in the context of the IMF's EFF. A second-tranche condition of the FSAL was that the
Government's macroeconomic program would be consistent with the objectives of stabilization and
growth, including progress towards more flexible price adjustments. As discussed below, this condition
was unequivocally met.
13.           By all accounts there has been remarkable improvement in the overall macroeconomic
framework. Table I shows a few key statistics that indicate the degree of success of the prograrms. The
sharp reduction in fiscal deficit and tight monetary policies have brought inflation down, reduced interest
rates, spurred private investment and growth. Far reaching trade reforms have encouraged non-oil
exports and a successful debt deal have made the economy less vulnerable to external shocks.
14.           GDP growth and private investment surpassed the projected levels (see Chart 1). Inflation
also declined sharply although somewhat less than targeted. The fiscal primary surplus exceeded the
targeted level by 0.9% of GDP in 1989 and by 0.8% in 1990. Aided by lower real interest rate
payments, the operational deficit4 was lower than programmed at 1.8% in 1989 and turned into a surplus
of 2.3% of GDP in 1990. The reduction in real interest rates, from a peak of 36% in June 1989, was
partly a result of the favorable conclusion of the debt reduction deal in mid-19895 which boosted the
credibility of the adjustment effort.
15.           The PACTO has been highly successful. Inflation in 1991 was less than 20% and the
prices of about 90% of private production are free of regulation. Adjustment in the nominal wage has
consistently lagged behind inflation and has resulted in a 17% reduction in the real minimum wage since
December 1988. Average manufacturing real wages however, have been increasing and the minimum
wage is progressively becoming less representative of private sector wages. The rate of depreciation of
the peso has been gradually reduced from I peso per US Dollar per day, 40 cents per day and to 20 cents
per day (or 2.4% per year) from November 1991. In real terms, the peso appreciated by 15% from 1989
3 These results reflect not only the measures taken under the FSAL but the overall adjustment effort.
4 Primary balance minus foreign and (real) domestic interest payments.
5 The basic agreement was reached in mid-1989 although the legal implementation was delayed until the first quarter
of 1990.



- 6 -
CHART No. 1
CHANGES IN REAL GDP AND INVESTMENT
(Percentage change ovef same quarter)
25-
20
10-
CHART No. 2
.MONTHLY INFLATION-CETES RATES
(ANNUALIZD)
400% 
20%.
*200
500%
45%t
so     87     an      as     90     91
§_INFLATION -  CETES  l
CHART No. 3
REAL INTEREST RATES
ONE MONTH CEtEIS (ANNUAUZD)
f% A00,
w50%.
C.)0
44    a7    0 SO     9    90 20
A._L



to mid-1991. There have not been any visible signs of the appreciation of the peso hurting non-traditional
exports which have continued to grow at more than 10% per year.
TABLE 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
1988     1989      1990          1991
GDP Growth Rate                       1.1       3.2       4.4         3.6
Debt Service/XGNFS                  346.8    291.0    251.7         269.0
Private Invest./GDP                  14.1      14.4      15.8        17.0
Private Savings/GDP                  18.2      16.6      17.1        15.6
Current Account/GDP                  -1.4      -2.9      -2.9        -4.7
Fiscal Primary Balance/GDP            7.9       8.3       7.8         5.5
Inflation (annual average)          114.2      20.0      26.7        22.7
Real interest rate 1/                23.6      19.1       1.3         0.7
Source: Banco de Mexico INEGI and World Bank estimates.
1/ 2nd Semester One month treasury bill rate deflated by CPI.
e: estimated
16.           Rapid growth in exports and reductions in the foreign interest payments notwithstanding,
the current account outcome was significantly worse than programmed, due to an import boom. While
imports were projected to grow at an annual average rate of 6.5%, actual growth reached 20%. The
steady growth of imports reflected higher imports of intermediate and capital goods associated with higher
than projected investment levels. The current account deficits were more than offset by large capital
inflows resulting in an increase in foreign reserves of more than US$10 billion over the period 1988-
1991.
Fiscal Sector
17.           The implementation of a consistent fiscal policy was one of the central elements of the
FSAL.  Prior to Board presentation the Government approved a 1989 budget consistent with the
macroeconomic framework for 1989, and introduced a series of tax measures, mainly in the areas of
corporate and income taxes and implemented actions to strengthen tax administration. Fiscal policies for
1990 were also an important element in the second tranche release condition that required adoption of
a macroeconomic framework consistent with the program.



- 8 -
TABLE 2: FISCAL INDICATORS
Actual '88   Target '89   Actual '89  Actual '90   Actual '91
Primary Surplus/GDP             7.9%         7.3%        8.3%         7.8%        5.5%
Operational Balance/GDP         -4.5%       -2.1%       -1.8%         2.3%        3.3%
Overall Economic              -12.2%        -5.8%       -5.7%        -3.8%         1.4%
Balance/GDP 1/
Funding: External (net)        -1.1%                     -0.5%        0.6%        -0.9%
Domestic (net)         13.4%                    6.2%         3.2%         2.4%
Bank of Mexico         5.9%                     1.3%        -0.4%        0.7%
Bonds                  7.4%                     4.9%        3.6%         1.7%
Source: Banco de Mexico, Informe Annual 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991.
I / Refers to overall financial requirements, includes discrepancies with sources of financing and financial intermediation. Figures
for 1991 include proceeds from privatization of public enterprise and banks.
18.           The dramatic decline in inflation from 159% in 1987 to 20% in 1989 was not a product
of price controls agreed under the PACTO/PECE alone but was strongly supported by tight fiscal and
monetary policies. While the fiscal stance had remained strong since 1983, fiscal austerity was sharply
intensified as exemplified by a primary surplus which rose from 5.0% of GDP in 1987 to 8.3% in 1989.
The brunt of the adjustment was on expenditures, in 1989 non-interest expenditures fell by 4.4% of GDP
and capital expenditures reached a historical low of 3.9% of GDP on less than half the 1982 level. While
the cuts brought about increased efficiency in Government operations by eliminating most of the marginal
projects of the late seventies, expenditures on maintenance and social sectors were also reduced sharply.
Tight fiscal policies and increased credibility in the adjustment effort triggered by the successful
negotiation of the foreign debt, brought nominal and real interest rates down (See Charts 2 and 3). As
a result, nominal interest payments fell from 17% of GDP in 1988 to 10% of GDP in 1989. This
allowed a reduction of the operational deficit to just below 2% of GDP and a dramatic 6.5% of GDP fall
in the overall deficit (See Table 2). Lower financial requirements of the fiscal sector, resulted in a
reduction in the inflation tax6 to only 0.6% of GDP compared with 5% of GDP in 1987. These
favorable developments were further reinforced in 1990.
19.           During the period 1988-90, tax revenues increased by 1.8% of GDP, bringing the tax
effort to 11.4% of GDP. While this was a significant improvement, the tax effort in Mexico is still
below the levels observed in other countries of comparable development. The corresponding ratio for
Chile, for example, is 23% of GDP. Major reforms in the corporate and personal taxation were
introduced. Loopholes that favored the transport and agricultural sector were eliminated, taxes were
simplified and taxable income was indexed for inflation. The top marginal rates for both corporate and
personal taxes were lowered to 35%, from 42% and 55% respectively. While the yield of direct taxes
6 Calculated as the annual inflation rate times the non-interest bearing portion of the monetary base outstanding at the
end of the previous year.



- 9 -
improved only slightly from 4.9% in 1989 to 5.1 % in 1990, the economic efficiency of the system was
greatly enhanced. The VAT rates were reduced and harmonized. Finally, the legal framework was
modified to discourage tax evasion. On the expenditure side, until 1989 the brunt of the adjustment had
been on the public investment. In 1990, however, total public investment expenditures increased from
4% to 5% of GDP. This trend has continued, with emphasis on infrastructure, health and education
expenditures. Other non-interest expenditures remained constant as a share of GDP.
20.           Tax administration. The FSAL supported the Government's efforts to modernize its tax
system by providing technical and financial support through the inclusion of a technical assistance
component for US$15 million. This component was designed to assist the Government in addressing the
major problems that had plagued tax administration until 1988, resulting in a considerable gap between
taxes that should be paid and the amount effectively paid. While there were many reasons for this, one
key explanation was the lack of integration between tax legislation and tax administration. Furthermore,
the administrative implications of increasing the frequency of tax returns and payments to a monthly basis
to reduce the Tanzi-Oliveira effect', had brought the system near collapse. Over the last few years there
has been a concerted effort to develop an operational rationality to tax administration. The most
important measures implemented were: (a) establishment of a computerized current account, including
the computerization of customs; (b) reorganization of the auditing procedures; and (c) introduction of a
new management style based on accountability of results and monetary incentives to inspectors. In
addition, the administration of VAT collections was taken over by the Federal Government from the
states. The implementation of the changes was facilitated by a well designed training program for tax
officials.
21.           In 1990 all tax collection offices were computerized and in 1991 the tax returns and data
collection activities was contracted-out to commercial banking networks. All the regional offices of
SHCP's Undersecretariat for Revenues were computerized as well as all major international customs entry
points.   This measure improved the security of funds management and the service to taxpayers.
Inspection activities is another area where remarkable progress was made. The number of taxpayers was
increased and the cost effectiveness of audits was improved as indicated by the improvement in the
revenue/cost ratio from 4 in 1988 to 30 in 1991.
22.           The results of these measures were: an increase in the number of taxpayers from 1.7
million in 1988 to 2.7 million in 1990; increase in the share of tax revenues in total revenues from 32%
in 1988 to 38% in 1990; and improvements in tax collections as a result of better software and intensive
audit strategies. The targets for 1992 are to increase the number of taxpayers to 3.9 million and to
further improve the revenue/cost ratio of inspections to 40.
23.           Municipal Finances.  State and local government's tax-raising efforts and user fee
collections deteriorated steadily after the 1980 tax reform. The 1980 reform consolidated several tax
bases shared by local, state and federal governments into a single revenue sharing system, this resulted
in a significant increase in revenue. However, it also resulted in a sharp decline in real state tax and
property tax collections, the former declining by 61 % over the four years following the reform. User
fee collections also declined by about 40% over the same period. The problem was most serious in the
Federal District which was running an overall deficit equivalent to 0.6% of GDP in 1988.
7 This refers to the reduction in the real value of tax revenues in an inflationary environment due to the collection
lags.



- 10 -
24.            The conditions for release of the second tranche of the FSAL included the preparation
and adoption of two Action Programs related to municipal and state finances in the 1990 budget. One
Action Program aimed at the gradual reduction of non-matching Federal grants to the states in order to
create incentives for the states to increase their taxes. The other Action Program aimed at increasing the
District's self generating revenue by 10% in real terms with respect to the 1988 level.
25.            Because of lack of data, it is not possible to determine whether the states have actually
increased their own tax collections. Apparently, the most recent data on municipal and state tinances
corresponds to 1984, the same as at the time of preparation of the FSAL.  Difficulties emerged in
verifying compliance with this condition at the time of second-tranche review. However, the Government
had adopted a program to increase "matching" grant expenditures, and this measure was also aimed at
providing incentives to the states to increase their own revenue collection.  This was considlered
satisfactory implementation of the tranche release condition. Nevertheless, it seems that little progress
has been made in this area and that the problems identified at the time of FSAL preparation remain.
26.            The Federal District on the other hand, achieved a real increase in revenues of 85% over
the 1987-1989 period through the implementation of a comprehensive reform program (See Annex 11).
The objective of reducing Federal Transfers to the district was achieved; by 1989 transfers were less than
half the level registered two years earlier. The success of the program may be attributed to three basic
factors: (a) implementation of a tax administration reform  in 1989; (b) implementation of a taix policy
which revalued real estate and revised user tariffts; and (c) introduction of indexation of property valuation
and tariffs. The success of the reforms in the District contrast sharply with the stagnation at the state and
municipal level. Tfhe District has been offering advice to other municipalities who wish to retorm-l their
taxation system  in an ad hoc fashion.  It would be worth exploring the feasibility of replicating the
success of the District in other municipalities of Mexico.
Financial Sector
27.            Until 1988 the Government intervened heavily in the financial sector to fund Government
deficits and to favor certain economic activities. Commercial banks were forced to lend the hulk of their
funds to the Government, public enterprises and other favored sectors at below market interest rates. To
circumvent these restrictions the banks moved several types of transactions off the balance sheets,
estimated to represent 48%  of banking assets in 1987. At the same time, non-bank intermediaries such
as brokerage firms and the intercompany market for funds became important intermediaries. Under these
conditions the assets of the commercial banks declined in real terms and as a proportion of GDP, and
lending to the Government increased steadily while lending to the private sector declined.  All 8
development banks and 21 Trust Funds were channelling credit at subsidized rates'. NMany of themii had
poor credit collection practices.  Efforts to limit Government transfers and interest rate subsidies to
8 In economic terms, interest subsidies refer to benefits the final borrowcrs obtain through lbanis at less than ninarket
rates. Transfers refcr to Govemmcnt funds going through development banks and trust funds to finance cuirrcnt and capital
expenditures and assumption of debis. The Government of Mexico distinguishes between subsidized and prefcrential rates,
defining subsidized rates as rates below the Government's marginal costs of funds (CETES) and defining prcicreintial ratcs as
rates below comparable commercial rates.



- 11 -
development banks and trust funds had led to the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA)9 between the
Government and the World Bank in 1984 under which interest rates to final borrowers were made
variable and to be raised over time to at least CPP (Costo Porcentual Promedio)'° by 1987, except for
loans to small farmers and for housing".
28.            At the time of appraisal of the FSAL  in October 1988, the main issues were:
(a) extremely limited and highly directed banking credit to the private sector; (b) inefficient financial
intermediation and insufficient price competition because of deposit and lending rate controls; (c) unclear
roles for development banks and trust funds and an inadequate control of subsidies and transfers; and (d)
inadequate supervision and prudential regulation of banks and brokers.  Annexes III-IV present an
overview of the composition of the financial system and of the assets and liabilities of the commercial
banks over the period 1986-91.
29.            Commercial bank deposit rates were controlled and there were complex and onerous
controls on lending. No interest was allowed to be paid on demand deposits and the interest rate on
savings deposits was fixed at 20% while inflation was running at triple digits. Interest rates on term
deposits, although controlled, were altered frequently to reflect market conditions. Lending restrictions
were based on "captacion", a measure roughly corresponding to the total of demand, savings and time
deposits in pesos and excluding deposits in foreign currency. Lending rates were based on banks'
average funding costs and varied by sectors. The only rates that were not subject to controls - ~re the
rate on "free loans" and on commercial paper. About 60% of "captacion" was sub ject to controlled rates
substantially below market rates: 10% in required reserves, 31% in Government bonds, 10% forced
lending to the development banks. Each commercial bank had to lend 6% of "captacion" for housing,
1.2% to exporters and 0.6% to small farmers at or slightly below the cost of long-term funds. The rest
of "captacion" (about 40%), was at free rates but subject to an additional restriction: no bank could lend
more to the private sector than 85% of what it had in December 1987, except for housing and exports
(at the controlled rates). Finally, commercial banks had to lend any excess funds to the Government at
below market rates. The result of these controls was a marginal reserve requirement in excess of 100%.
These restrictions were equivalent to a tax on commercial banks. The amount of the tax varied over
time, but was estimated at 2.2% of banks assets in July 1988.
30.            Before Board presentation of the FSAL the Government implemented a series of measures
to liberalize the financial sector. The first step was the elimination of controls on commercial hanks.
The removal of controls started in October 1988 and was completed by April 1989, when most forced
lending and all interest rate controls on deposits had been removed. The reserve requirement equivalent
to 10% of deposits was eliminated. The only restriction that remained was a liquidity ratio of 30% of
deposits in Government tradable paper paying market interest rates or interest bearing deposits at the
Banco de Mexico. Commercial banks would no longer be forced to provide preferential credit. Any
9  The agreement covered Bank financial sector operations totalling some US52.3 billion. Thc agreenwcoit is legally
binding as long as there are loans outstanding undcr GIRA. New loans made after the signing of the GIRA Agreemcnt werc
incorporated in the GIRA.
it) A weighted average rate paid by the commercial banks on interest bearing deposits. The Bank of NMexico regularly
publishes this rate.
11 The sectors covered by the agreement were: Water Supply and Sewerage, Agriculture, Mining, Industry, Capital
Goods, General Industries, Agricultural Marketing and Export.



- 12 -
such credit would be provided through the development banks and trust funds.
31.            Far-reaching legislative and constitutional reforms supported the financial sector
liberalization process. None of these reforms were linked to FSAL conditionality but were important to
achieve the objectives of the program.  In December 1989, five laws12 governing various types of
financial institutions were amended with a view to increasing competition and reducing market
segmentation. Government regulation of insurance premiums and policies were simplified, as well as the
operations of mutual funds. The supervision and regulation of banks and nonbank financial institutions
were strengthened and the restrictions on participation of foreign investors in the capital of nonbank
financial institutions were relaxed. The constitution was amended in May 1990 to allow full private
ownership of commercial banks. Further reforms were introduced in July 1990, through the new Credit
Institutions Law and the Law Regulating Financial Groups and reform to the Capital Market Law. The
former establishes the principles of Government regulation and supervision of the banking system and
allows the privatization of the commercial banks. The law of financial groups allows the banks and
brokerage houses to come under control of a single holding company.
32.            The liquidity coefficient on marginal domestic currency deposits was eliminated in
September, 1991. At that time, the banks were facing difficulties in complying with the requirements
of holding Government securities because the stock of such securities was declining. The measure further
deepens the process of liberalization of the financial system providing greater flexibility to the links in
their choice of assets. The measure eliminates forced demand for government securities and is expected
to result in greater financing to the private sector.
33.            The effects of the changes were dramatic. Commercial banks' assets increased rapidly,
by an annual average of 24% in real terms over the 1989-91 period, and lending to the private sector
climbed from 25% of total assets in 1986 to almost 60% in 1991. A more liberal and stable financial
framework set the stage for the successful privatization of the commercial banks.
34.            The privatization of the commercial banks is expected to be concluded in July 1992. The
Government objectives in the privatization of the banks were to shape a more efficient and competitive
system to promote sound financial and banking practices, to ensure broad ownership but with Mexican
control to obtain a fair price, and to decentralize banking activities. The process is on-going and it is too
early to assess its results. Prior to the initiation of the divesture process, the Government restructured
some US$1.2 billion of interbank credit lines held by the six largest Mexican banks. This foreign debt
was viewed as a potential obstacle to the privatization. A Committee for the Divesture of Commercial
Banks, with broad representation from the public sector and recognized individual experts, was
established. The privatization process is proceeding well. As of March 1992 (see Annex V), 16 banks
out of 18 had been privatized at a sales price of about US$12 billion. The Government's interest in the
banks ranged from 66 to 100%. Prices have ranged from 2.5 to 4 times book value. The valuation of
the commercial banks has been based on the assumption that banking services will grow at about 10%
per year; this is supported by the low level of financial intermediation in Mexico: the credit to GDP ratio
is only 18% compared with 73% in the United States of America and 33% in Venezuela. The
12These were: Ley Reglamentaria al Servicio Publico de Banca y Credito (Public Services and Credit and Bank Loan);
Ley del Mercado de Valores (Capital Markets Loan); Ley General de Organizaciones y Actividades Auxiliares de Credito
(General Law of Credit Institutions); Ley de Sociedades de Inversion (Investment Societies Law); y la Ley General de
Instituciones de Seguros (Insurance Companies Law) y Ley Federal de Instituciones de Fianzas (Banking Companies Law).



- 13 -
Government has chosen not to use the sale proceeds of state enterprises, including the banks, for current
expenditures but rather to reduce its domestic debt.
35.           Increased confidence in the economy has been reflected in the reversal of capital flight,
the sharp increase in foreign capital inflows and the return to voluntary lending. Net foreign capital
inflows were reported at US$8.1 billion in 1990 and US$20 billion during 1991. In 1991, Mexico was
the single largest recipient of private foreign capital among the developing countries. Unlike the
experience before the debt crisis, when the bulk of funding was in the form of syndicated loans, since
mid-1989 Mexico has obtained funding through bonds, certificates of deposits and equity. During 1991,
foreign portfolio investments amounted to US$7.5 billion while direct investment was US$4.8 billion.
The first bond issued in foreign markets after the 1982 debt crisis was by BANCOMEXT in June 1989
for US$100 million five-year was placed at an initial yield-to-maturity of 17%, some 820 basis points
over yield on comparable maturity US Treasury Bonds. Since then there have been many private and
public placements with longer maturities and lower yields. In March 1992, yields on placements by
PEMEX and NAFIN were only 215 basis points over comparable US Treasury Bonds. Foreign equity
holdings of Mexican stock have increased from US$1 billion at the end of 1989 to US$24.5 billion in
February 1992, equivalent to one fifth of total market capitalization. The lion share of foreign equity
holdings, 73%, is in the form of American Depositary Receipts (ADRs). During 1991, the Banco de
Mexico was concerned about the size of short-term capital inflows. These flows were predominantly
through Certificates of Deposits in foreign branches of Mexican Commercial Banks, estimated , US$3
billion during the first 8 months of the year. Because the differential between domestic and foreign
interest rates exceeded the forward premium in foreign exchange markets, Mexican banks were profiting
through the issue of foreign exchange certificates of deposits whose proceeds were relent to the domestic
private sector or were invested in government paper. The profits of the commercial banks had a
counterpart in the sterilization costs of the Banco de Mexico. To reduce these flows, the Banco de
Mexico imposed a liquidity requirement on liability operations of Mexican Bank branches and affiliates
abroad. The requirement varied according to the maturity of the instrument with a maximum of 50%
which had to be held in US Treasury Bills. This measure was superseded on April 1, 1992 when the
Banco de Mexico imposed a 10% ceiling on foreign deposits as a share of total deposits. It is expected
that this measure would be more effective in reducing short-term flows.
Development Banks
36.           In 1988 the development banks and trust funds faced three sets of problems. First, the
roles of each of the many development banks and trust funds were not clear and there was considerable
overlap and duplication in their functions. Second, subsidies to final borrowers through cheap loans were
not as carefully targeted as they could be. And third, transfers to some of these entities, BANRURAL
(Agricultural Development Bank) and ANAGSA (National Agricultural Insurance Company) in particular,
were large and encouraged wasteful practices. In 1988 the assets of the eight development banks rivaled
those of the commercial banks (see Annexes V and VI). However, more than 80% of the assets
represented lending to the public sector'3.   Lending to the private sector was about  12%  of the
development banks assets equivalent to 20% of total private sector lending by the banking system. In
13 Ile three largest development banks are also agents of the government's external borrowing. Mexican law pemits
the Government to borrow externally only through its agents: NAFIN, BANCOMEXT and BANOBRAS. The Central Bank
and the Treasury may not borrow abroad directly.



- 14 -
addition, there were 21 trust funds set up by various Ministries, the Bank of Mexico, and other entities.
The development banks and trust funds provided targeted funds for many economic activities:
agriculture, industry, tourism, domestic and foreign trade, housing and mining. Sugar production and
fisheries benefitted from specialized development banks. The development banks had two convenient
sources of funding that did not appear in the Government's budget, one was forced lending from
commercial banks and the other was Government lending at below Government's marginal cost of funds.
37.           As mentioned before (para. 27), earlier attempts to reduce subsidies had led to GIRA.
Although the agreement only covers funds from the World Bank, and applies only to lending rates to final
borrowers in pesos, it helped focus the attention on the problem of reducing the level of Government
subsidies. GIRA included periodic reviews as part of the regular CPIR (Country Programming and
Implementation Review), since the Government refused to permit any formal Bank financial sector work,
the periodic review of GIRA was the Bank's main vehicle for a policy dialogue on financial sector issues.
GIRA was successful in reducing interest rate subsidies measured with respect to CPP, particularly for
industrial loans. In terms of GDP subsidies fell from 0.63% % in 1983 to 0.22% in 1987.
38.           Before Board presentation of the FSAL the Government informed the Bank that new loans
through development banks and trust funds would not carry any interest subsidy, except for low-income
producers in agriculture, and subsidies to this group would not exceed, as percentage of GDP, the level
of 1988. Interest subsidies were measured with respect to a reference rate, CPP or CETES, -.,t with
respect to market lending rates. The GOM stated that development banks should not be instruments to
distribute transfers but rather to help fund viable projects. Therefore, financial subsidies would be
eliminated and promotion policies would be focussed on technical assistance. There were two second
tranche release conditions related to the development banks and trust funds: (i) the Government would
adopt an Action Program that would redefine the role of each development bank and trust fund; and (ii)
fiscal transfers to BANRURAL and ANAGSA would, as a percentage of GDP, remain within the
amounts budgeted for 1989 (0.27% of GDP).
39.           At the end of 1989, the GOM prepared a Program for Structural Change and Financial
Modernization of Development Banks. The program redefined the roles of development banks and trust
funds. The major commitments under the program were to: (a) restructure the major rural sector
institutions by December 1991; (b) ensure that the development banking system would be complementary
to, rather than competitive with the commercial banks; (c) charge the development banks and trust funds
the full opportunity costs of funds raised by the Federal Government for on-lending to these institutions;
and (d) establish the treasury bill rate as the floor for future lending rates of the development banks. The
details of the most important changes by institution over the 1988-1990 period are presented in Annex
VI.
40.           A number of measures were taken to reduce the importance of development banks in the
financial system  and to increase their efficiency.  Forced lending through commercial banks was
eliminated with the lifting of restrictions on lending and interest rates in early 1989. The GOM adopted
its marginal cost of funds, the CETES rate, to lend funds to development banks. Inefficient institutions
such as ANAGSA (Agriculture Insurance Company)'4 and BANPESCA were closed. This measure went
14 It was replaced by AGROASEMEX which was established in June 1990. AGROASEMEX has managed to identify
a commercially viable portfolio, but it continues to rely on Government transfers to cover subsidized premiums.



- 15 -
beyond the reforms proposed in the Action Program. The largest bank, NAFIN, was transformed into
a second-tier lender. Four trust funds related to industry were merged with NAFIN, and FOMEX (the
fund lending to exporters) was merged with BANCOMEXT. Total assets of development banks and trust
funds were reduced by 46% in real-terms over the 1987-90 period, and the total staff was cut by 10,000
to 34,000 by 1990. The importance of the total assets of development banks and trust funds dropped
from 50% of the assets of the financial system in 1987 to 27% in 1990 (See Annex III), reflecting
elimination of direct lending to public enterprises.
41.            Limiting Government subsidies and transfers to the development banks and trust funds
was a major part of the program. The bulk of the transfers were in the agricultural sector and under the
program the Government agreed to limit transfers (measured as percentage of GDP) to agricultural
financial institutions to the levels registered in 1989. Table 3 shows the evolution of transfers and the
budgeted amounts for 1992. The figures indicate that transfers declined steadily from 1988 to 1991, and
are budgeted to remain at the same level in 1992. The program also sought to reduce interest rate
subsidies. By 1988 most lending rates were at or above CPP, with the exception of loans to low-income
farmers, low-income housing, foreign trade and fisheries. The implicit interest rate subsidies, measured
as the difference between the lending rate and the cost of funds until 1988 and with respect to CETES
since 1989, declined steadily from 0.63% of GDP in 1983 to 0.07% by 1989. The 1989 figure reflects
that all sectors, with the exception of agriculture and housing, charged rates above CPP. However, this
still implied preferential rates, as prime commercial borrowers had to pay at least 5 percentage points
above CETES during this period.
TABLE 3: TRANSFERS TO RURAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM
TRANSFERS TO RURAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM
(In USS million and as % of GDP)
1986            1988             1990             1991             1992'
Amount    %     Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %      Amount    %
GDP             GDP              GDP              GDP              GDP'
BANRURAL            552   0.43       867   0.50       348   0.15       296   0.10       290   0.09
ANAGSA              161   0.12       140   0.08       510   0.22         0   0.00         0   0.0
AGROASEMEX            -   -            -   -            -   -            4   0.00        65   0.02
FIRA                  9   0.01        13  0.01         54   0.02        79   0.03        89   0.03
FICART                3   0.00         9   0.00         0   0.00         0   0.00         0   0
PRODEL                3   0.00         9   0.00         0   0.00         0   0.00         0   0
Total                737   0.57      1036   0.59      920   0.39       388   0.14       444   0.14
a/     Budgeted amounts. Transfer to BANRURAL do not include additional capital transfers that may be needed to complement
BANRURAL's reserves to cover the removal of the 1989-1991 overdue loan portfolio estimated at more than to US$ 1.I billion.
Source: Direccion General de Banco de Desarrollo, SHCP.
42.            The reforms diminished considerably the role of directed credit. While in 1987 directed
credit represented more than 60% of total banking system net credit flows to the private sector and public
enterprises, it was less than 12% in 1990 (See Annexes VIII-X). In 1990 directed credit was important



- 16 -
only in three sectors: agriculture (FIRA), services and low-income housing (FOVI). In terms of
outstanding stocks, directed credit continues to be significant, representing 18% of total in December
1991. Furthermore, while there has been an important switch to second tier lending, less than 55% of
credit flows to the private sector through development banks during 1991 were rediscounts and the rest
was direct lending.
43.           There have been major achievements in rationalizing the development banks and trust
funds and in reducing transfers to but there remains substantial scope for further reform. Table 4
provides a snap-shot of each development bank, the most important development funds and their recent
evolution. Since 1988, the most significant reductions have taken place in BANRURAL, NAFIN and
BANOBRAS. Some small banks and development funds have expanded their operations over the period,
BANPECO has grown considerably as well as FIRA, FICART and FIDEC.
44.           The goal of completing the restructuring of the rural financial sector institutions by 1991
was not achieved. BANRURAL has undergone major reforms and has shrunk in loan volume, personnel,
branches and number of clients (it has shed a large portion of its clientele in high risk areas to
PRONASOL'5). Lending and recovery procedures have improved. However, loan recovery efforts
have been disappointing. Recently, about US$1.1 billion of overdue loans from between 1989 and 1991
(fall-winter) have been moved out of the portfolio of BANRURAL to a trust fund. Furthermore,
FICART has increased in assets during the period, and there remains an overlap between FICART and
FIRA. The role of FIDEC, financing agricultural marketing, and FINA financing the now private sugar
industry, are not clear. Completion of the reorganization of the rural finance sector is still underway and
is being discussed under a proposed Rural Financial Sector operation. This operation would support
reforms in BANRURAL, the concentration of second-tier agricultural lending in a single trust fund,
reforms in AGROASEMEX, the gradual elimination of interest rate subsidies to final users and other
measures to promote small farmers access to credit.
45.           BANCOMEXT has also undergone significant reforms supported by the Export Sector
Loan (ESC) of February 1991. The main achievements have been a reduction in its first-tier lending
activities to only 12% of its lending in 1991, the elimination of the COI (Committee for International
Operations) scheme whereby BANCOMEXT paid a commission to the commercial banks to use their
foreign exchange to provide export financing in Dollars on BANCOMEXT's terms, and the liberalization
of end-user interest rates except for loans to small enterprises.
46.          Important reforms were introduced in FOVI and BANOBRAS. FOVI introduced an
auction system to allocate its funds and increased the proportion of its lending to lower-income housing.
At present, the Government intervenes in housing through five different funds and major reforms have
been recently introduced in the pension funds that finance housing. The long run objective in this area
should be to further develop long-term capital markets and to make housing funding more attractive by
developing new financial instruments, such as secondary markets for mortgages. In this case the
Government's role would be limited to the lowest-end of the market, and only one fund could implement
Government's intervention. BANOBRAS has also undergone restructuring and in the current Government
structure, it plays an important role in lending and providing technical assistance to municipalities.
However, BANOBRAS also funds commercially bankable activities such as slaughter houses, and its
activities overlap with those of the Ministry of Social Development (SEDESOL) in the environmental
15 Programa Nacional de Solidaridad, which is the Govemment'i poverty alleviation program.



- 17 -
support areas. BANOBRAS functions should be reassessed and its technical capabilities strengthened.
TABLE 4: DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND TRUST FUNDS-ASSETS, LOANS AND EMPLOYEES
(Million USDollars, Number of employees and Percentage)
1_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~- 1m - hX        15U1
-l 40.057  u4m    MON    3174  SIAM    5M                       .4%    .40%
Dv"       40444   1.13   SU0 ,t14S   SIS    Stan    .40%   .4%    41
t1im    m      NA.      S      S                               Oad Now. 7,1IM
,m4    m        -0     ?a    61       am    -71%    34%
WM    I13      SAM   tUO    1113    141       4      -1%"
0,47   6174   1son    40    404  taM         .%    43
141    U       IO            11      w       70%    39%    1
7,313   SAW       1.1 63   SAN       1.,0    40%   -1I%
J       n      am    am      144    am       Ms3    1%
u~Ftmds          481321771    Rim    611    4.171   23*7    43%   40%
o      o              o      o
I,    sate     i      11n    14,     t        11%    1r%
Sl                            w mo am  7S  %  0%
*      56    NA.      6         s  IANA      1%   .7%
am    am       am   O          0                              MwA.d  NAIn INS_
11      4                                                nW       n o   tlow
13     U             103     U               1%    43%
71     U                     10            467%   40%
404    a% _ a                                S      11%
a                                          4 U  S0%
to     U        a no          ml       I     1      1%
5,7   it,tW     l       0      a                            33l sd "m SiNOU0MT tWOW
47.           NAFIN reduced its lending level sharply until 1990, but has since engaged in an
ambitious program to finance small and medium enterprises. To implement this program NAFIN may
again engage in first-tier lending operations. While there may be a role for providing access to credit
to small and microenterprises this should be approached with caution to avoid potential large default rates
and to avoid displacing efficient informal intermediaries. NAFIN performs other roles in addition to
lending to small enterprises: custodian and fiduciary in major capital market transactions, GOM agent
for foreign borrowing, promotes technological development and finances environmental related activities.
The GOM and the Bank had tentatively agreed that consultants would carry out a study on the future role
of NAFIN. The study was never conducted but the need to define the future role of NAFIN remains.
48.           In sum, major reforms have taken place in the development banks and trust funds but
there is still significant scope for further improvements to achieve the Government's policy objective in
this area (para. 38). First, the number of trust funds and development banks remains excessive and there
continue to be overlap and duplication between them; second, it is not clear that some entities, NAFIN
for example, do not compete but complement the activities of commercial banks in the new financial
sector environment; and third, the development banks and trust funds continue to channel significant
financial subsidies mainly by lending at preferential terms.



- 18 -
Supervision and Prudential Regulations of Banks and Brokers
49.           Conditions for release of the second tranche of the FSAL included the adoption of an
Action Plan to further strengthen bank supervision and prudential regulations. The Action Plan was
expected to address, among others, the following areas: (a) a system to classify loan portfolios according
to default risks; (b) stringent provisioning for loan losses; (c) detailed public disclosure of each bank's
financial state; and (d) a better system to supervise both banks and brokers. The loan documentation
itself was not specific with regard to the contents of the various changes in prudential regulations and in
the functioning of the supervisory agencies (CNB and CNV). To help fill this void, in June 1989, a Bank
consultant visited Mexico to prepare a report on the bank supervisory system and to identify areas which
needed strengthening. In the area of brokerage supervision, the Bank relied on the assistance from IFC's
Capital Markets Department who sent a renowned capital markets consultant to Mexico to identify
regulatory issues affecting the Mexican capital markets. Mexican Government officials included many
of the consultant's recommendations in the "Plan de Accion para Fortalecer la Supervisi6n y Regulacicn
de las Instituciones Financieras Mexicanas 1989-1994" (Action Plan to Strengthen Supervision and
Regulation of Mexican Financial Institutions 1989-1994) submitted to the World Bank in November 1989
in compliance with the second-tranche condition.
50.           The report on banking supervision and regulation system concluded that the institutional
structure was satisfactory, with the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Seguros (CNBS) independent of the
Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance. The most urgent problem identified was the need to alter the
loan classification system to identify problems at an early stage and to provision adequately against them.
Other recommendations included: tightening the definition for past due and nonaccrual loans; placing
strong controls on the capitalization of delinquent and unpaid interest; developing and implementing
procedures for monitoring interest rate and liquidity risk; requiring banks to implement loan review
systems and develop interest rate risk monitoring and measuring mechanisms; providing outside training
opportunities to all inspectors; and expanding the Inspection Manual to cover in detail all banking aspects.
51.           Considering that the CNBS was overloaded with a diversity of functions, the Government
decided to split CNBS in two institutions, the CNB, which would supervise banks and non-banks
institutions and the Comision Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas (CNFS), which would supervise insurance
and bonding companies. At present, banking supervision in Mexico is performed by Banco de Mexico,
the SHCP, and the CNB. This results in an overlap of functions which weakens the ability of the CNB
to act as effective bank supervisor since it is overshadowed by the SHCP and Banco de Mexico.
52.           CNB has made important changes in all the areas identified areas in the Action plan, plus
it implemented a major automation effort and made improvements in other areas not covered in the action
plan, such as: (i) loan concentration limits, (ii) limits to lending to related parties, (iii) managing foreign
exchange risk, and (iv) information disclosure. A brief description of the progress in implementation of
the most important recommendations in the action plan follows.
53.           Loan Portfolio Classification. Beginning August 15, 1991, each financial institution is
required, every quarter, to review the quality of most (at least 80%) of its loan portfolio and classify each
loan according to specified criteria. Loans are classified in five categories according to the probability
of repayment and the quality of the guarantees.



- 19 -
54.           Provisioning. The principle behind adequate provisioning is that full provisions should
be established for the expected loss for each loan category'6. The following percentages are required
in Mexico: Normal (none); Specially Mentioned Loans (1%); Potentially Problematic Loans (20%);
Doubtful Loans (60%); and Lost Loans (100%). Provisioning policy appears reasonable, although a
minimum provision of I % could be required for all loans regardless of their status.
55.           Interest Accrual. CNB has issued a Circular placing strong controls on the capitalization
of delinquent and unpaid interest. Separate balance sheet accounts have to be established for accrued yet
uncollected interest. In any case, no interest can be recognized as income for loans past due more than
30 days.
56.           Trainin2. The CNB has stepped up training and has become a very active member in the
CEMLA (The Latin American Center for Monetary Studies) sponsored meetings of Latin American and
Caribbean region supervisors.
57.           Inspection Manual. A major overhaul of the Inspection Manual was carried out in 1990.
The new Manual consists of four volumes, and provide the Inspectors with a wealth of information on
the rationale for the various inspection exercises and specific guidelines.
58.           Automation. CNB has just finished a major automation effort. The new syster allows
the fast processing of data necessary to provide timely assessments of the financial condition of
intermediary. The new computer system is the basis for the new early warning system which has been
established in the Surveillance Department (Area de Vigilancia). CNB analysts are now able to rapidly
analyze the financial condition of banks with data just one month old. Financial analysis has not only
been simplified, but has deepened thanks to special software programs which allow very sophisticated
analysis, including ratio calculation and sensitivity testing.
59.           Regulatory Framework of the Securities Market. The main laws which regulate the
Mexican capital markets, the Securities Market Law and the Mutual Fund Law, were subject to important
modifications in 1989 and 1990. Many of the modifications were prompted by the stock market crash of
1987 and the substantial drop in the market in October 1989, which exposed several weaknesses in the
legislation. As in the case of banking, the SHCP continues to act as the central authority, defining the
policies and general guidelines, interpreting the legal and regulatory dispositions, as well as granting the
authorization or revocation to firms wishing to act as intermediaries. Nonetheless, the role of the
Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV) has also been strengthened.
60.           The Commission fulfills its responsibilities through  integrated operating systems
comprising a centralized computer surveillance system and a nationwide field inspection program. Since
the late 1980s, the CNV started a program for strengthening its supervisory capabilities. The program
was described in Annex 2 of the "Plan de Accion para Fortalecer la Supervision y Regulacion de las
Instituciones Financieras Mexicanas 1989-94", presented to the Bank in compliance of FSAL
conditionality. The program included the restructuring and modernization of the CNV, the implementation
of systems for an automatic registration of trade orders, a revision of the investment regimes of Casas
de Bolsa, the establishment of stricter rules to prevent insider trading and enhance investors' protection,
16 The formula for reaching such a provision would be: [(Probability of default) * (Outstanding Loan Balance)] -
(Immediate liquidation value of guarantee + legal and administrative costs).



- 20 -
better disclosure of financial condition of intermediaries and issuers, among others.  Progress in
implementation has been fully satisfactory, the most important changes are discussed below.
61.           The regulatory environment of the Mexican securities market has been subject to
significant improvement in recent years. The legal modifications of the securities markets covered all
main elements: the regulatory authorities, issuers, investors, intermediaries, investment companies, and
other auxiliary institutions. The increase in confidence and the simplification of the administrative process
were the main objectives of the legal changes, which included: (i) imposing strong sanctions on the use
of insider information; (ii) modifying the trading regime by introducing automation of orders and
standardized contracts; (iii) forcing the use of external auditors; and (iv) increasing the capacity of the
CNV to regulate the market and establishing sanctions (previously these functions were shared with Banco
de Mexico and the SHCP). Despite the tightening of some regulation, the overall effect of the legal
changes was deregulation and administrative simplification. Self-regulation is recognized as a crucial
element of stock exchange intermediation, to be implemented internally by the Mexican Stock Exchange.
In this light, an important change effected in 1991 was the complete liberalization of commissions, which
previously required approval of CNV.
62.           The use of state of the art technology has increased effectiveness, without interfering in
market operations. CNV has a real-time on-line link with the computer system of the Mexican Stock
Exchange which allows it to watch transactions on a permanent basis. The whole trading s-,sion is
monitored and price and volume parameters have been established for each Mexican security so that
unusual price movements or sudden swings in volume could be automatically flagged for immediate
review.  Furthermore, a five year historical data base of trading activity supports insider-trading
investigations and other instances of questionable activities.
63.           CNV has also upgraded its inspection capabilities. On-site examinations and evaluations
of intermediaries (Casas de Bolsa), mutual funds and issuers are performed regularly, to control their
functioning and help prevent inside trading and market manipulation. These activities are complemented
by other surveillance techniques, such as the use of external auditors, as well as market self-regulation.
CNV is also reviewing the listing criteria as part of an integral strategy to increase liquidity in the market.
64.           New Developments and Pending Issues. An important recent development has been the
internationalization of the Mexican securities market. In June 1990 the Mexican Stock Market was
granted the status of "designated market" by the Japanese financial intermediaries and authorities. This
recognition allows Japanese brokerage houses to operate with Mexican securities. Similar status was
granted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, and 11 Mexican securities were recognized
as having a "Ready Market" receiving similar treatment as stocks traded in U.S. markets for purposes
of the "Net Capital Rule". In addition, Indeval, the central depository, has also been recognized by the
S.E.C. as a Qualified Foreign Custodian. These recognitions have facilitated operations by foreign
investors in the Mexican market (over US$24 billion foreign investment at market value in Mexican
equities).
65.           The Commission's agenda for the current year includes the creation of an over-the counter
market for medium size companies with a more flexible registration regime, and the introduction of
derivative products such as futures and options. In addition, the CNV is working on a program for
increasing the liquidity of stocks. In this regard, in recent months several companies have been forced
to delist due to low or nonexistent market movement.



- 21 -
66.           In the coming years, the Mexican securities market will require to increase both demand
for and supply of securities, and to increase liquidity to reduce market volatility. CNV should consider
introducing several recommendations made by IFC in the document entitled "Mexico-Current Issues in
Securities Market Development, Summary Report", which was submitted to CNV in September 1991.
Some of the recommendations have already been implemented, while others were considered of interest
and are being studied for further implementation. Those recommendations involving changing the
Company Law (Ley Mercantil) were considered more difficult to implement.
Results
67.           While it is difficult to separate the effects of the measures supported by the FSAL from
other measures and events that were taking place at the same time, it is clear that the reforms supported
by the FSAL made a positive contribution to the stabilization of the economy and the resumption of
growth. Key macroindicators are presented in Table 6.
68.           Stabilization. The average annual inflation rate dropped from an average of 90% over
1982-88 to 23% over 1989-91. While the drop in 1989 was partly achieved through price controls under
the PACTO, in 1991 the inflation rate, below 23%, was achieved in a context where most prices had
been liberalized. The prospects for 1992 are that the inflation rate will be reduced further, below 15%.
69.           Improved fiscal management. Sound fiscal management was maintained throughout the
period. The reforms in tax policy and tax administration introduced structural changes that will help
ensure the sustainability of the adjustment effort. The sweeping reforms in the public enterprise sector
and domestic and foreign debt restructuring, implemented outside the context of this loan, further
consolidated the fiscal stance.
70.          Increased private sector investment.  The share of private investment in GDP has
increased from 14.1% in 1988 to estimated 17% in 1991. This has been a result of real annual private
sector investment growth above 12% per year (See Chart 1). The private sector has become the engine
of growth, and growth has resumed to an average of 3.7% per year compared to zero growth during
1982-88.
71.           Deepening of the financial system. The disintermediation process was reversed. As
shown in Chart 3, monetary aggregates in terms of GDP increased rapidly, by 1990 M4 had regained
its 1987 level. There was also a significant shift in the composition of financial assets. While currency
over GDP remained relatively stable, the ratios of M2 and M4 increased sharply. This reflected strong
demand for bank deposits and for Government paper.
72.          Increase in resources available to finance the private sector. The decline in real banking
sector credit to the private sector was reversed in October 1988, following the implementation of the first
measures to liberalize the financial system (See Chart 4). In 1989, total credit to the private sector grew
by 50% in real terms while credit from the commercial banks increased by 64%. The rapid rise in
private sector credit has continued, by 28% in real terms in 1990 and by 34% in 1991. As of December
1991, financing to the private sector represented almost 60% of commercial banks assets compared to
28% in 1987 (See Annex IV). While the figures may overstate the increase in financial resources
available to the private sector, as a part of the increased lending may simply substitute for intercompany
loans which were very important during 1987-88, it is safe to say that financial resources to the private
sector increased during the 1989-91 period.



- 22 -
CHART No. 4
Mexico: Monetary Aggregates
Shares to GDP
4S
35
d ,0 ______ __________
40 , ,            --  
~2S  -                                           LM2
20
10'
60 61 82 63 84 865  8  67  68 69 01  il
CHART No. 5
BANK CREDIT TO PRIVATE SECTOR
OUTSTANDING STOCKS
7
DESARROLL.O



- 23 -
73.            Improved  allocation of resources.  The allocation of financial resources has changed
markedly, as indicated above, there has been a sharp shift from public to private sector funding. The
lifting of direct credit allocation restrictions favored commercial and construction sectors. By December
1991 commerce and services represented 54% of outstanding credit, excluding credit to State and Federal
Government, compared to only 39% in 1987. Construction credit was 12% compared to 7%. The
sectors that declined sharply were energy production, to 1% compared to 15%, and primary production
(agriculture, mining and fisheries) from 15% to 11 %. To determine the effects of financial liberalization
on the efficiency of resource allocation it would be necessary to carry out micro-level analysis of the
efficiency of the investment being funded and the productivity of the firms that had access to bank credit.
This type of analysis has yet to be conducted. Nevertheless, the increase in private sector investment and
GDP growth rates over the 1989-91 period suggest an improved overall allocation of resources.
74.            Increased competition and efficiency. Another objective of the reforms was to improve
the efficiency of the banking system. Table 5 shows traditional measures of bank efficiency, as well as
indicators of asset quality and liquidity. The ratios should be interpreted with caution as they are subject
to change over time in response to differences in capital structure, business mix and accounting practices.
As the table shows, interest margins and operating cost ratios have declined from 1988 to 1990, indicating
some efficiency gains. The ratios are still significantly higher than those of banks in other countries.
Furthermore, the banking system is highly concentrated in three banks who have more 60% of the
system's assets (See Annex V). While this does not necessarily imply lack of competitive behavior, this
fact compounded with the existing barriers to entry in banking (restriction to foreign participation and
high minimum capital requirements), may inhibit competition.
75.            Improvements in prudential regulatory framework and bank and broker supervision This
objective was achieved. As discussed in this report there have been great improvements in this area.
This was probably an important factor to increase the public's confidence in Mexican banks and
securities, facilitating the increase in banks' resource mobilization and the successful privatization of the
banks. It was also a necessary pre-condition for the commercial bank privatization, to provide the
Government with adequate tools to oversee a private banking system. The reforms also contributed to the
boom in the stock market, the Bolsa Mexicana de Valores (BMV) index increased by 266% in real terms
and by 405% in Dollar terms from end-1988 to end-1991.
TABLE 5: COMMERCIAL BANK SECTOR--FINANCIAL RATIOS
Mexico                U. S.
A.
1988        1989        1990   1985-
89
Operating Assets Ratios 1/
Interest Margin                                 9.5         9.1         6.7    3.4
Operating Costs                                 8.7        10.1         6.5    3.3
Return on average assets (pre-tax)              4.9         3.4         2.8    0.8
I/ Total Assets have been adjusted to include off-balance sheet items, defined as the difference betwecn captacion integral and
captacion propia.



- 24 -
76.            Improve the efficiency of the development banks and control subsidies. The importance
of development banks and trust funds in the financial system was reduced. Total assets were reduced
from US$45 billion in 1988 to US$39 billion in 1990, the personnel was reduced by about 10,000
employees and there was a reduction in the number of banks and trust funds. Government transfers to
the agricultural financial sector were curtailed from 0.59% of GDP in 1988 to 0.14% in 1991, although
the budgeted amount for 1992 is only 0.14% of GDP it does not include additional transfers to cover the
removal of US$1.1 billion of BANRURAL's overdue loan portfolio over the 1989-91 period. While
significant progress has been made in reforming the development banks and trust funds there is scope for
further improvement.
77.            Return to international capital markets. This has been the result of a sustained strong
adjustment effort and a successful debt restructuring.  The actions implemented under the FSAL
contributed to this result.  The inflows of foreign capital and the access to international funding at
improved terms have supported increased investment needed for sustained growth.
78.            Did the liberalization of the financial system result in higher real interest rates?  Real
interest rates became positive in early 1988 as nominal interest rates adjusted by less than the decline in
prices (See Charts 2 and 3). Real interest rates increased sharply shortly after the initiation of financial
liberalization but started to drop by the second half of 1989. However, it is very hard to isolate the effect
of financial liberalization on interest rates when other policy changes were taking place at the sarme time.
High ex-post real interest rates may have reflected the unexpected sharp and rapid decline in inflation and
lags in adjustment of expectation. It may also have reflected the lack of credibility in the sustainability
of the adjustment process, particularly on the ability to sustain the pre-announced exchange rate. Nominal
interest rates drop by 20 percentage points in July, 1989 following the announcement of the agreement
on debt restructuring" and the announcement of commercial bank reprivatization. However, interest
rates subsequently increased reaching 45% in nominal and 20% in real terms in March 1990. Since the
second quarter of 1990 nominal and real interest rates have observed a steady downward trend. In March
1992, CETES was only 12% in nominal terms.
Evaluation of the Reforms and Remainin2 Agenda
79.            Mexico has implemented breathtaking reforms and the results are impressive as indicated
in paras. 67 to 78. The ambitious objectives of the program have been achieved. The following
paragraphs comment further on the reforms in the financial sector and draw some parallels between the
experience of Mexico and that of Chile's reform of the mid-70s to highlight the key differences that help
explain the success of Mexico's reform.
80.            In a few months, Mexico shifted from a highly controlled financial system to one based
largely on market forces.  Far reaching financial reforrns were introduced in a framework of
macroeconomic instability. Inflation was running at triple digits during the three years preceding the
liberalization. However, the fiscal primary deficit was already under control and a comprehensive trade
reform had been implemented. Furthermore, the financial reforms were part of a credible reform
package. The basic conditions for a successful financial liberalization were in place. The Government
7 See D.Oks, "Devaluation Expectations and Interest Rates in Mexico: The Role of Domestic Debt Management', Latin
America and the Caribbean Region Internal Discussion paper Report No. IDP-098, May, 1991, for discussion of the relationship
between real interest rates and the credibility of the exchange rate policy during this period.



- 25 -
TABLE 6: FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
I GDP                                        ~Ll        2.0       3.5       351      32       4.4       3.6
GDP/CapitauGrowthRde                          .03       0.0       LS       LS        09       L0        2.0
Coasumptica/Capita Growth Rate                -2.2      0.7      -L8       -08       L0        L0       3.6
Debt Servic/XGNFS                            346.8    338.9    316.1    296.3    29L0       2517      269.0
Gros Investment/GDP                           2L0       19.0     2L5      23.6      22.8     19.6      25.5
Privatc/GDP                                  14.1      14.2     16.6     15.1      14.4     15.8      17.0
PublictGDP                                    4.4      4.2       4.5      4.9       3.8      4.0       5.0
Natonal Savingu/GDP                           19.5     17.1      19.8     2L9       20.4     2L6       20.9
Private/GDP                                  1.2       15.0     16.0     14.5      16.6     17.1      1S.6
Public/GDP                                    05        2.1      3.8      7A        3.8       45       SA4
XGNFS Growth Rate                            5.0       4.2      5.7       5.7      3.0       5.2       44
MGNFS Growth Rate                             37.6      5.7       5.8      8.1      19.0     22.9      182
Current Account/GDP                           -LS       -19      -L7       -L7      -L9       -2.2     -4.7
Reource RBalceGDP                              2.4      2.4       2.6      2.4       0.8     -0.5      -3.1
anm of Trade                                -10.5      2.2       0.0      0.0       39      -0.7      -4.8
Primary Balance/GDP                            7.9      7A        7.1      8.2       8.3      7.8       5.5
Operational Ba1anGDP                          -4.4     -2.7      -L3       L9       -LB       2.3       3.3
Iflatio (annual average)                     114.2      18.0     15.0     14.0      20.0     26.7      22.7
Real Effective Exchange Rate (1965100) /     1113                                 110.7    106.6      95.9
Real minimum wage index (1985-100)2V          752                                   70.2     63.8      61.8
Real manufacuring wap (19865100)              90.0                                 1002      103.3
Nominal interest rate 3/                      69.1                                  45.0     34.8      19.3
Real intere rate 41                           23.6                                  19.1       L3      -0.7
Memorandum ktem
O Price (US$ Per Barrel)                      12.2      14.0     14.7     15.4      1S.6      19.0     14.6
I/ Decrae in Index mea  exchange rte deprcato
2/ Repents change frm  Jul 90 to Jul 91
3/ O-mnth traury bill rate (annual averge)
4 2nd Semeste One month urasury bi rate deflteod by CQI



- 26 -
no longer needed to tax the financial system and the opening of the economy would provide the right
signals for the allocations of financial resources to their most productive use. In addition, sufficient
foreign resources had been secured to implement the program.
81.           Similar to the case of Chile, the reforms took hold in an environment of decelerating
inflation. Real interest rates soared, and were at about 30% per annum in real terms from the second
quarter of 1988 to mid-1990. Also, Mexico used the exchange rate as an anchor to reduce inflationary
expectations. However, unlike Chile, the Mexican banking system did not have a large corporate
portfolio which would deteriorate because of high interest rate lending that could lead to a financial crisis.
The most important borrower was the Government which was increasingly improving its creditworthiness.
Second, inflationary expectations were not influenced only by the exchange rate but by a broad agreement
between Government, labor and business: the PACTO. Thirdly, at the outset Mexico introduced
measures to upgrade its Supervision and Prudential regulation capabilities preventing speculative behavior
of Banks and putting controls on the capitalization of interest and refinancing of loans. Like Chile,
however, Mexico is confronted with large inflows of short-term capital, responding in part to interest rate
differentials, and there has been some appreciation of the real exchange rate. Nevertheless, there are no
significant signs yet of the export sector being adversely affected.
82.          The remaining a2enda. Mexico would seem ready for the last stage of full financial
liberalization and development of capital markets. This stage should seek to promote greater variety of
markets and institutions and to foster competition. The GOM is aware of the remaining obstacles that
may inhibit further improvements in bank efficiency, in particular, barriers to entry due to high initial
capital requirement and restrictions to foreign competition. To charter a new bank the minimum paid in
capital requirement is 0.5% of the paid capital and reserves of the whole banking system at the end of
December of the preceding year; this was about US$20 million in 1991. This restriction will become
stricter as the banking system continues to capitalize. At present, Mexico does not allow foreign banks
to establish branches or subsidiaries and total foreign participation in Mexican banks is restricted to 30%
with individual entities holding limited to 5% (it may be extended to 10%). The GOM may also wish
to consider further reforms in development banks and trust funds, continued reduction of directed credit
programs, the elimination of remaining capital controls, and further reforms of the contractual savings
institutions. The areas addressed under the FSAL where further improvements could be introduced are
discussed below.
83.          Development Banks. Major reforms have been introduced in the development banks and
trust funds. Their number has been reduced, interest rates have been brought closer to market rates,
transfers have been reduced and transparency in funding has been improved (paras 40-42). Nevertheless,
there continue to be significant functional overlap among the various development banks and trust funds,
directed credit is priced below market to various degrees and the agricultural sector institutions continue
to benefit from significant Government transfers (paras 4448). It is unclear whether there is a role for
some of the existing development banks, (NAFIN, BANPECO), and trust funds (FINA, FIDEC,
FONATUR, FICART) in the more competitive and market-based financial system and even in those areas
where a permanent and/or transitional role could be identified (FOVI, FIRA, BANRURAL,
BANCOMEXT, BANOBRAS) it has yet to be clearly defined how to transform the current structure .
84.          Banking Supervision. Banking supervision has been strengthened and modernized, there
are, however, some areas which warrant further changes: (a) the CNB should have more power to
become the real supervisor of the banking system. This could be done by amending the Bank Law to
upgrade the legal status of the CNB or its autonomy, and to increase its overseeing powers; (b) to further



- 27 -
improve the quality of the portfolio classification system, it would also be useful if the CNB could require
external auditors to assess the validity of the portfolio classification as part of the audit exercise; (c) the
staff requirements and composition of the CNB in light of its new organizational and state of the art
technology should be studied; (d) the emphasis of training could shift from computers to bank
inspections. The training program could be structured to allow bank inspectors to benefit from the
experience of inspectors from superintendencies with solid track record on the subject; and (e)
information disclosure could be further improved by providing summaries of the consolidated financial
statements of parties within a financial group in CNB's monthly bulletins.
85.           Securities market regulation and supervision.  Securities markets legislation and
regulations are quite advanced in Mexico. Nonetheless, there is still some room for improvement,
particularly to tighten capital requirements or reduce the leverage capability of Casas de Bolsa, and to
reduce potential conflict of interest between Casas de Bolsa and Mutual Funds due to their close
relationship and too flexible investment policies. CNV is aware of these issues and is working on
proposed regulations to correct them. Recommendations made in IFC's report (para. 66) that are being
studied by the CNV for implementation are: (a) review listing requirements to increase liquidity in the
market, increase minimum initial offering requirements from 15 to 20% and introduce a minimum
percentage of outside ownership of shares; (b) remove the ceiling of 9% in the annual interest rate paid
to non-voting shares that pay interest in lieu of dividends; (c) make preemptive rights negotiable and
transferable; (d) establish a securities ownership database and regular disclosure procedures to verify
equity ownership of all corporations above certain size; (e) improve information disclosure. In particular,
commercial paper holders should be obliged to make a prospectus available to potential buyers of such
paper; (f) improve Board representation and other investor protection measures; (g) with regard to
investment funds, require investment companies to prove the existence of a minimum number of outside
shareholders after a reasonable tolerance period following their establishment. Introduce limitations to
underwriters or lenders to act as fund managers, or to the purchase of securities underwritten by the fund
manager; and (h) remove restrictions that all trading of stock listed in the Exchange have to be done in
the Exchange by allowing trading outside the Exchange, as long as these are effected without agents.
86.           In the area of tax administration, the remarkable improvements achieved so far can be
further strengthened by addressing four remaining problems. First, the legal system should be stabilized.
Frequent changes have been introduced in tax legislation often without careful appraisal of its compliance
and administrative implications. Second, the authorities should initiate an integrated review of relevance
and cost-effectiveness of the current payment schemes (monthly) which were designed for a high inflation
environment, given that current inflation rates are below 20%. Third, SSI's organizational structure
should be reviewed to adapt it to the new computer information systems and to eliminate overlapping
functions and improve coordination among the six separate Directorates. Fourth, the adequacy of the
existing hardware for the computerization of taxpayers inspections should be reappraised. It appears that
the priority that was given to the development of a collection system obscured the mid-term hardware
needs of the targeting/evidence to provide support to inspection systems.
87.           Little progress was achieved in the area of State and Municipal finances. The successful
experience in tax reform at the Federal level and at the level of the Mexico Federal District suggest that
it should be feasible to make significant progress in State and Municipal taxation. This effort could
benefit from the experience of the reforms already implemented.



- 28 -
Sustainability
88.          Mexico has successfully implemented a program of sweeping reforms. The sustainability
of the reform is supported by the GOM's commitment to the reform process as evidenced by the
deepening of the stabilization efforts, the recent reforms of the financial system and the opening of the
economy. The commitment of the GOM to the reform of the financial sector is evident with the
privatization of the banking system which is expected to be completed in mid-June, 1992. Furthermore,
the integration of the financial system to international capital markets envisioned under the Free Trade
Agreement currently under negotiations with the United States and Canada, will further consolidate the
reform effort. The GOM and the private sector have adopted new roles. The private sector has taken
the lead in the economy and the Government is concerned with the provision of macroeconomic stability
and a rational incentive framework. Therefore, it is very unlikely that the reforms in the fiscal and the
financial sector will be reversed.
89.          The one area where the reforms may suffer some backsliding is in the area of the
development banks and trust funds. Despite the turn around in its economy, Mexico continues to face
widespread poverty. Therefore, one of the Government's main concerns is to assist the majority of the
Mexican population to participate in the general economic gains from the economic reform. The
Government has been using increasingly the development banks and trust funds, in particular NAFIN,
to assist small and micro-enterprises and BANRURAL and FIRA, to assist low-income farmers. The
Government's concern is valid, however, it is not apparent that directed credit is the best way to achieve
the Government's objective. In lending to small and medium enterprises, it has not been convincingly
shown that there is a market failure that could be improved through Government intervention. In
agriculture credit market where there are market failures that warrant Government intervention, the form
of intervention has to be properly designed to succeed in reaching the small farmer. Past experience
suggests that large, cumbersome development banks are ill suited to reach targeted groups.
Credit Administration. Use and Coordination
90.          Procurement and disbursement. Procurement procedures were designed to ensure rapid
disbursement of the Loan proceeds while preserving efficiency and accountability. The Loan had three
categories of items eligible to be financed. US$360 million were to finance the foreign costs of general
imports using a standard negative list including imports financed from other sources, goods subject to
Non-tariff Barriers in Mexico, crude oil, food stuff, military and luxury goods. The second category was
technical assistance in the amount of US$15 million and the third support to the debt reduction plan, in
the amount of US$125 million. All contracts over US$5 million were to follow International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Disbursements to finance general imports have been completed. The debt reduction
support component was disbursed in March 1990. Total disbursements under this component have been
US$540,000. The undisbursed balance of US$1.6 million is to be used to further improve the
Government's public investment programming and monitoring capabilities. The closing date for the
project has been extended to June 30, 1993 so that the Government can complete disbursements on this
component. The technical assistance component of the loan was initially earmarked to finance the
procurement of computers. However, it took a long time to resolve procurement-related matters between
the Bank and BANCOMEXT the executing agency and the Government decided to finance the computers
with its own resources and requested a change in the contents of the loan. Therefore, the Government
requested the Bank to cancel US$12.85 million of the technical assistance component and the remaining
funds were earmarked to support the creation of SHCP's public investment unit.



- 29 -
91.           Conditionality and Tranching. The import financing component of the credit (US$360
million) was disbursed in two tranches. The first, in the amount of US$250 million, was available in
June, 1989 upon effectiveness. The second tranche, in the amount of US$110 million was made available
in February 1990, upon satisfactory compliance with the conditions for second tranche release (See Annex
I). The conditions related to the implementation of macroeconomic policies consistent with a reduction
in inflation, price liberalization, mobilization of external financing, and the adoption of programs to: (a)
redefine the functions and restructure the trust funds and development banks and reduce fiscal transfers
to these institutions; (b) strengthen supervision of financial institutions and brokerage houses; (c) increase
self-generating revenues of the Distrito Federal; and (d) reduce non-matching grants to the States. The
condition on redefining the role of trust funds and development banks generated extensive discussions
between the Bank and the Government, on the future role of those institutions. Agreements were reached
after several exchanges of comments between the two parties. As discussed in para. 25, the condition
on reducing non-matching grants to States could not be directly quantified as the necessary data was not
available. However, the Government adopted a program to increase "matching" grant expenditures, and
this measure would also aim to achieve the objective of providing incentives to the States to increase their
own revenue collection. This was considered satisfactory implementation of the condition.
Bank's Performance
92.           The Bank provided strong support to Mexico's reform efforts. The support was both
through analytical work that provided solid foundations to our very active policy dialogue and through
substantial financial resources. A macroeconomic model developed by the Bank helped establish medium-
term consistent targets for fiscal policy. A study of the fiscal regime'8 provided the framework for the
reforms in Federal and municipal tax policy and tax administration. The Bank was instrumental in
designing the main components of the reforms in banking supervision.
93.           The Bank's performance during project implementation was fully satisfactory. The
dialogue on overall macroeconomic policy and financial sector issues continued during the implementation
of the loan. Particularly in relation to the fulfillment of second tranche condition. After approval of the
FSAL, at the request of the GOM, the Bank prepared several economic reports addressing the following
financial sector issues: reform of contractual savings institutions, opening of financial services to free
trade and the future of the development banks.
94.          In addition to contributing to policy formulation, the Bank played an important role in
establishing the credibility of the adjustment effort and in mobilizing financial resources. In the case of
the FSAL, the Bank mobilized co-financing from the Export-Import Bank of Japan in the amount of
US$300 million.
Borrower's Performance
95.           The commitment of the Government to economic stabilization and to liberalization of the
financial system very much explains the success of the FSAL. In many instances the Government went
beyond what was agreed under the project. Fiscal restraint was tighter than programmed, controls and
restrictions on commercial bank lending were fully eliminated earlier than originally envisioned, the
actions in strengthening prudential regulations and supervision of banks and brokers were broader than
18Mexico:Tax Reforrn for Efficient Growth- Report No. 8097-ME, World Bank (1989).



- 30 -
agreed, the closing of ANAGSA and BANPESCA also went beyond what was agreed under the FSAL.
96.           The Borrower's performance in carrying out its operational responsibilities under the
project was excellent. The audit report and accounts for the Loan were due within six months of the end
of each financial year. All audit reports have been received on time and have been fully satisfactory.
Lessons Learned
97.           The main lesson derived from the experience of the FSAL is that financial sector reforms
can be introduced successfully in an inflationary environment if the reforms are part of a credible
economic package. The financial sector reforms took place in the context of consistent macroeconomic
policies, in particular, the fiscal sector accounts had been brought under control and strict fiscal targets
were consistent with available financing and inflation targets. At the micro-level, reforms that aimed at
eliminating price distortions and improving factor mobility, including foreign investment, were being
introduced simultaneously and a far-reaching trade reform was already in place. The reforms in the
financial sector were also part of a consistent package that placed strong emphasis on the strengthening
of the prudential regulatory and supervisory framework. The success of the reform was possible because
of Government's commitment and elevated implementation capacity.
98.           In the area of tax administration the Mexican experience again shows that it is possible
to improve the tax system if there is a strong political will and implementation capacity.
99.           In retrospect, the program could have benefitted from more time for preparation in some
areas. With more time, a careful review of all program components may have resulted in the exclusion
of the component dealing with State finances or a better design of the conditionality attached to it. A
more detailed evaluation could have enhanced the effectiveness of the technical assistance component.
The reluctance of the Government to allow significant Bank involvement in financial sector work prior
to appraisal of this loan may have been a factor in the difficulties encountered in the area of development
banks and trust funds. This however, has to be counter-balanced with the benefits of the timeliness of
the Bank's assistance. The Bank's quick response to the GOM's request for support to its adjustment
program helped propel and consolidate the reform momentum.
100.          Conditionality could have been strengthened by relying less on action plans and more on
pre-defined concrete measures, particularly with respect to the restructuring of the development banks
and trust funds. This was in part a result of lack of up-to-date first-hand knowledge of the sector prior
to project appraisal. Although the preparation of the Action Plans themselves was a good vehicle to
conduct policy dialogue in critical areas, there was little follow-up on implementation after the second-
tranche was released. A follow-up operation to support remaining reforms was envisioned when the
FSAL was designed. It never materialized, however, because further progress than expected was made
in some areas and the Government did not wish to press forward in others. Also, the subsequent
improvement in Mexico's external position eliminated the needed for further balance of payments support.
Project Documentation and Data
101.          The Staff Appraisal report provided a useful framework for project implementation. All
major components were well discussed and the tranche-release conditions were clearly stated. The data
relevant for the preparation of the PCR was not readily available. Not all the supervision reports were
filed in the Divisional nor in the LAC Documents Unit and of those available some lacked Forms 590,



- 31 -
where data on composition and duration of supervision missions was to be obtained. Except for
information relating to technical assistance component regarding disbursements and the extension of the
closing date, there was virtually no information related to the project after the approval of the second
tranche release and the disbursement of the debt reduction component.






- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3085-ME)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. BACKGROUND
After many years of growth dependent on oil exports, the drastic decrease
of oil prices in 1982 forced the country to face up to an economic situation
seriously affected by ever-growing external debt and inflation rates.
In response to this crisis, the Government developed a long-term strategy,
which would encourage growth and give Mexico a competitive position within the
world economy.
The main achievements attained through this policy are:
-     Macroeconomic stabilization:  Substantial reduction of inflation;
stabilization    of    macroeconomic
variables.
-     Foreign trade liberalization: Elimination and reduction of duties
and non-tariff barriers; increase in
non-oil exports.
-     Public sector:                 Privatization    of    state-owned
companies; reduction of the public
sector   deficit;   elimination   or
reduction of subsidies; adjustment of
tax rates.
-     Deregulation of industry:      Enactment of new legislation aimed at
fostering foreign investment; changes
in regulations on the transfer of
technology; deregulation of ground
transportation; reclassification of
controlled petro chemicals; enactment
of    new    automobile    industry
regulations; flexibilization of the
in-bond industry.



- 34 -
-     Financial reform:               Renegotiation of the external debt;
creation of more attractive financial
instruments;  deregulation  of  the
banking system; consistent exchange
and interest rate policies.
In order to achieve these goals the World Bank made two export development loans
to strengthen and diversify the export base and two trade policy loans oriented
to reduce import protection, a key barrier to sustained export promotion. The
FSAL follows the TPL II to support Mexican Government in carrying out financial
sector reforms.
II. PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND IMPLEMENTATION
The FSAL was provided by the World Bank in an amount equivalent to US$500
million to support the financial sector adjust program and the Debt Reduction
Plan of the Mexico Government.
The loan components are:
Million US Dollars
Part A:  Imports                      360.0
Part B:  Technical Assistance          15.0
and Subsidies
Part C:   Debt Reduction Plan         125.0
The implementation of the project was excellent. Due to World Bank and
Bancomext staff efforts, the first tranche of the loan became effective in 11
days. The second tranche was released in February 1990, two months later than
expected.
As regards the debt reduction component, US$125 million was channeled in
March 1990 to the Federal Government to secure principal payment of the discount
bonds, according to the Implementation Agreement signed on February 4, 1990.
The loan also had a technical assistance component which was originally
committed to finance acquisition of computers. However, the Government decided
to finance it with its own resources and US$2.15 million was committed to finance
the creation of a unit to evaluate investment projects at SPP and the remaining
US$12.85 million was cancelled in December 1990.
Due to the disbursements under this new project,  should   be made in
accordance with the budget approved for this effects, the closing has been
extended to June 30, 1993.



- 35 -
III. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
TABLE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(Million US Dollars)
1989     1990      1991    Total
Part A:  Imports                       250.00   110.00      0.00   360.00
Part B:  Technical Assistance and        0.00     0.12      0.28      0.40
Studies
Part C:  Debt Reduction Plan             0.00   125.00      0.00   125.00
250.00   235.12      0.28   485.40
IV. LESSONS LEARNED
The success in the implementation of the financial adjustment program
depended heavily on the Government commitment to create the necessary
preconditions for financial market liberalization.
The World Bank support allowed the achievement of the main objectives of
the Mexican Government adjustment program, which allowed, inter alia, the
creation of favorable financial conditions that contributed to promoting the
inflows of foreign capital and the access to international capital markets.
The entire adjustment program was not abrupt.   It was phased and pre-
announced allowing the government to speed up the process of reforms by exceeding
the conditionality targets in some areas, such as the privatization of the
commercial banks, which was not included in the program.
In May 1990, Mexican Congress approved a bill submitted by the President
Carlos Salinas de Gortari to reestablish private ownership of commercial banks.
Thus, during 1991, nine of the eighteen commercial banks were privatized,
including the two biggest, Banamex and Bancomer.
With the banking privatization the Government pursued efficiency and
competitiveness of the banking system. During 1990 the financial system's legal
framework was modified to achieve greater capitalization of the banking system,
deregulate and provide a simplified supervision of its activities.
The specific steps taken towards financial modernization allowed a
simultaneous drop in interest rates and to an increase in real terms in savings
and lending to the private sector.
In this context the present Federal Administration has set as a goal for
its 1989-94 economic strategy, the gradual development and growth in economic
activity along with price stability.



- 36 -
Private investment - both domestic and foreign - will be the key to the
country's economic development.  The Government has, therefore, implemented a
firm and strong policy, through a competitive interest rates program aimed at
encouraging investors.
In general terms the program implementation was successful due to the
Government's conviction in carrying out the reforms, the coherence of the program
with the macroeconomic policies and the technical and financial support provided
by the World Bank and the macroeconomic climate achieved by the Government.
Notwithstanding the abovementioned issues the technical assistance
component showed some implementation problems due to the lack of an appropriate
evaluation by the Bank and the Government.
One of the main lessons derived from the project is that in technical
assistance components of the World Bank loans, is required a deeper analysis and
evaluation to allow a global support to the projects.



- 37 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3085-ME)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Year of                                                    Loan Amount
Approval  Loan No.   Loan Title                            (US$million)       Status
1987      2745-HE    Trade Policy                               500           Closed
1988      2918-HE    AGSAL                                      300           Completed
2882-HE    Trade Policy II                           500           Completed
2916-ME    Steel Sector                              400           Disbursements pending
2919-ME    Fertilizer Sector                         265           Disbursements pending
1989      3085-ME    Financial Sector                           500           Adj. Component Disbursed
3086-ME    Public Enterprise Reform                  500           Adj. Component Disbursed
3087-ME    Industrial Sector Policy                  500           Closed
1990      3159-ME    Interest Support                         1,260           Closed
3207-ME    Road Transport & Telecommunications    380              Closed
1991      3357-ME    AGSAL II                                   400           Disbursement ongoing
3309-HE    Export Sector                              25           Disbursement ongoing
2.   Project Timetable
Date                 Date                 Date
Item                                            Planned              Revised               Actual
Appraisal Mission                               Oct-Nov '89                                Oct-Nov '89
Loan/Credit                                     Oct-Nov '89
Negotiations                                                                             4/24-29/89
Report and Recommendations                                                                 05/22/89
of the President
Letter of Development Policy                                                               02/12/89
Board Approval                                                                             6/13/89
Loan/Credit Signature                                                                      6/16/89
Loan/Credit
Effectiveness                                 9/19/89                                    6/27/89
Loan/Credit Closing                             6/30/91               6/30/93
Loan/Credit Completion                          12/31/90              12/31/93



- 38 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$'000)
1989                1990               1991
Appraisal Estimate                235                  500                500
Actual                            235                  485                485.5
Actual as x of Estimate           100                   97                 97
Date of Final Disbursement
4. Project Costs and Financing
Prolect Financing
Planned
Loan/Credit
Source                     Agreement            Revised             Final                 Comments
(US$'000)          (US$'000)    X      (US$'000)    I
IBRD/IDA
Expenditure Categories
General Imports                 360                                  360
Technical Assistance             15            2.15                    2.15             US$12.85
was cancelled
Debt Reduction                  125                                  125
Co-Financing Institutions
Exim Bank of Japan              300                                  300
TOTAL                          800            2.15                  787.15
5. Use of Bank Resources
MISSION DATA
No. of     No. of      Staff      Date of
Month/Year          Weeks       Persons    Weeks       Report
Appraisal                 Oct/Nov. 1988          2                               May 22, 1989
Supervision I             June 1989              1            4          4       July 1989
Supervision II            Sept. 1989             1            2          2       Nov. 15, 1989
Supervision III           December 1989          1            7          4       January 1990
Completion                November 1991          1            3          3       March 1992



Annex I
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO - FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Issues                  Oblectives                       Actions to be Taken              Other Measures                   IMElementation
Before Second Tranche
(As of November 30, 1989)
A. Areas of Macroeconomic Management and Public Sector Planning
1. Macroeconomic ConsistencY
In order to             A macroeconomic                  Satisfactory assessment of       Periodic consultations           The fiscal results for
ensure a stable         envirormnent for 1989-90         the medium-term                  with the Bank on the              1989 were consistent with
macroeconomic           with low inflation and           macroeconomic framework          macroeconomic framework           the economic targets:  tax
envirorgnent in         minim.um uncertainty about       including progress towards       and on progress toward           revenues increased by 0.5X
1989, the               the main thrust of the           more flexible price              more flexible price              of GDP, the operational
projected               economic policy,                                                  adjustments,                     deficit was only 1.81 of
operational                                                                                                                GDP and the primry
deficit should be                                                                                                          surplus was 8.3X.
consistent with                                                                                                            Inflation dropped sharply
expected                                                                                                                   to only 20X in 1989.
lnflation, GDP                                                                                                             Greater flexibility in
growtH and                                                                                                                 pricing was introduced, as
possible foreign                                                                                                           of end 1991 - about 90
borrowing.                                                                                                                 percent of private
production was free of
price regulations.



Annex I
Page 2 of 6
Lsues                  Obl ctives                      Act1ora to be Taken             Other NLisuresI ol .UgtIti_n
Beforg SecndrM3Ct91.°
(A   f o9   6     90,10)
2. Pubilc Sector Plsuiino *nd Uudeetino
Iqprovmeents In        Wfthin the overall                                              (a) By SepteSber 1, 1969        FolLowing the
fnve tment             objective of recov ring                                         present term  of referenco      recammendtlions of the
efficiency             economic growth via                                             ot the Bank for a study of       study, * special unit to
towards a better       revived Inv  tments, the                                        Investtnet evaluation and       evaluate 1rmestont
plarming and           Governoant needs to                                             prograing, ecormic,              projects was established
budgeting systm.       achieve greater efffeency                                       financial and technical         at SPP. A m*nual for
in pl aming, prep ring  nd                                      criteria for  nvestment         project evaluatfon and
inple_ nting pubtic                                              valustion, establishment      -monitoring was Issued. An
nvs tm nts.                                                     of a centralized unit for       automated systm  Is being
investm_nt monitoring and      developed. At present,
leaving mArnuls; (b) by        the unit Is preparing an
October 15, 1989 conce          Inventory of existing
such study; (c) by April        Investment projects.  The
15. 1990 provfde to, and        process io on-going. A
disecus with Bank an            multi-year lnvestment
acceptable Plan of Action       budgeting syatm  Is
for measures In re pect of      expected to be in plae by        o
(a) above; and (d) monitor      1996.
leplemantation of new
budgeting and payment
procedures for externally
funded inve tment
projects, and exchanqe
vieu, by August 31. 1969,
with the lank on
1eplementation of
additionL mIssures, if
necessary.



Abo  I
Pag 3 of 6
Issues                Obi ettlYn                      elon~ to be Te n                th rNamur"rb l I                     ntomtion
12lfrSS  on  Trcneh
(Sof rwob 30, 1989)
3. Pubtic s etor kevwnu
Eroseon In tax         Inerear fn tax revenus                                                                       Tax adeinistratlmn w
base, amberse          thruoto t   torfr  wnd                                                                        iprovd through:  (a)
tax                    lprop od tax                                                                                  stobaishing a
adetnistrat10n.       adenistration.                                                                                e qut ril   d taxpayer
currant aeeent; (b)
reoranlaing auditing
po;       ; cc)
lntroducing a nrw
ma_gmnt stylo bomd on
=rnunt  bIlity of r ulte
and mon tary inrcntive to
Inep etors. As a reult.
the ixaber of texpayor
lneasd frax 1 7    iLon
In 198  to 2.7 t  t lon in
1990, nd tax cotlection 
ifroevod *sutantiltty.         J
Nejor reform  In the 
corpor te tax w
Introduced. Taxable
Income In fully Indexed
for inflatf0n and the tax
rate was lowd from 42
to 35 p rcunt. The
person l Income tax we_
impLified, the number of
brackets r due d  nd th
top marognal tax rate felt
from 55 to 35 percent.
Loopholes that favored
transport nd agriculture
were etimineted.
4. Bank ReLsutfons wnd S..mrvfsnon
Ned to                 To safeguord the solvency      Action Program for the                                        A new loan clessificatfon
strengthen            of the banking syst at nd       strengthening of 0'                                               provivion system based
supervision of        brokers.                        prudential supervision,                                       on improvd risk category
coe erclot banks,                                     This Action Progrm  I s                                       definition  as introduced.
and brokerge                                          expected to address, *on                                      An autom ted monitoring
houses                                                others, the following                                          nd surveiltanee system
(p udential                                           areas:  (a) classify                                          wae established.  The
regulationrs)                                         banks loon portfotioe                                         capital requirements were
according to default risk;                                    brouoht In tine with Big
(b) more stringent                                            ouidelines.  The 0O1s was



Pag 4 of 6
Issue                  Obiectiwco                      cions to    To                  o ther N  ou                    loDto  vtatto
(AS of NOWiiObe", 9)
provisioning for lomn                                           spl1t In two:  CO;
los    nd intoeret                                             Notionrl Bankin
aru lo; (c) disclote tie                                       Comis1io0n  nd Ca.
stats of sach bank's                                           National Insamce
financirl state In detlt                                      Comission. Thb
to tM publ1c;  nd (d)                                           supovision of brokers ma
ifprop   wd enforce the                                         odrn  ed and brokwr
supervision of brokeor                                          wer  reqL1red to tim
st W caonts orders nd
execute them se*quntltlly
4. Stoto nd Local Firmno
Fall In the stats     Iorovmint In wun tax            The 1990 Budget to be                                          lWile there   evidnce
bovernments'oun        raising efforts.                presented to the                                                that non-mtchins grants
tax ruvnuo.                                            conrideration of Congress                                       were reduced *  a
will  nctlude en action                                         p  erntage of total
progrem to gradually                                            grants, lack of data
redUc non-mtch ino grants                                       preclude  nv  Judo), nt
to the states.  AccordIng                                       with regard to stato  and       r
to the Plan  expenditur                                          micipalitios efforts to
of line NInistries in the                                       Improve their own tax
state  (i .e. non-m_tching                                      riefsfn  efforts.
grants), additionl ovr
1969 levels, wfil be spent
In an nereoeng oonnr
thru Pem_  26 (.e. FOR/MPS
develop_ nt progro_),
h1ich requires state to
mtch those expanditures.
Very  erious           Reduce budget trumfors to       Action Progrm, for                                               A comprehensive reform
detorioration In       the Federal Distrfct,            Increases In the Federal                                        progrm  mas iplemented
user charges wnd                                       Dfstrict's self-generotd                                          nd self-generated
property taxes In                                       revnus by at least 102                                          revwenue  increased bV 85
the Federal                                             In reel term  In Its 1990                                       percent In real term  In
District,                                              Budget to be presented to                                        1990 vis-a-vis 198.
requiring                                              the consideration of                                             Federal transfers to the
mountIing                                               Congress with respect to                                        District were reduced to
transferm to                                           the actual 1988 leveI                                            half their 1968 leve.
cover services.                                                                                                         The reform also increased
the efficiency in the use
of Federal District
servfces and rationalized
the tax structure.



Arimx I
Page 5 of 6
legn                obiectlar                     ActlomB to be Telke            oth r Nawx                     Ilmtrwtion
Beforg Second TrWchs
(As Of Nore 30  199°)
S. Fir.witl $te
1. Forced Lodi. to Pubilc Sctor
Private Sector        Commmrcala bs should                                                                       Bnks are free to decide
had extremely         not be csled to lend                                                                       their asst cpositlon.
tlo1t d weei to       to the govr,nIt or to                                                                      Atl force  lending
banking setor          ny sector. Their landing                                                                  ri rinnts were
fvmda  because        shold uep   to mrket                                                                       abolished by April 1969.
banks wre fored       fores.                                                                                     The only rstriction that
to lend a ltrge                                                                                                  r_emind was a 30*
port of their                                                                                                    Liquidfty rquirant to
fund  to the                                                                                                     be held In Government
Government aud                                                                                                   pper. In Septahr 1991,
other fvord                                                                                                      the liquidity reqire_ant
setors of the                                                                                                    was liminated.
ocooym                                                                                                                                          w
2. Cometitlw  Ervirarnmnt
Pe&aced ba*           To fester grter                                                                            Controls on Intest ratue
competition mid       ;etItIan bet_aen banks                                                                    on deposits were
dlit                  theby reising                                                                              eliminated over the 
ibtuatiton.           officiany, nd to                                                                           October 196-April 1969
biltfe ore deposits.                                                                       perfod. The dwclne in
reel bank deposits was
reved   w  N2 grew by 19
pecent In 1969.



Ame I
Page 6 of 6
lam tor be T                                               Imiamoentation
laum                   bctvsOh   m"r
3 Dewoliont lmk, *nd Credit Suaidies
Role of               To orpoe a*dinistrative       Action Progrm, for the                                       Several bwnks nd trust
evnlop -nt  Banks      ffieloncy  nd enoure that    redifinftiln of the role                                     funds wer m*rgd or
nd Trust funds         Asidies are well             of *ech Trust fwnd and                                       liquidmted. The lar  t
unetor.               targeted nd controllted.      Delopo nt BCrs,                                              bank, NFIN  was
ineluding in particuwlr a                                   transformd to second-tier
rev iw of the oe t I ns                                     lnder. Total sats of
nd finan   of NAFIN,                                        binks rd trust ftundB wr
anmom extnd Uan *>ro                                        reduced by 461 In real
*nd r trusturfng of                                         term  mwr the 1967-1990
BInratd oAMA; ee                                            prleod. nd the udr of
that their officfency of                                     mloyms o droqid frm
opeation  will iqp11 e 1    1int 40,000 In IMS to
md fistlo   trmnfers                                        abot 30,000 in 1990.
throush S ie  and                                           S nOermant transfers to
NAwA  weid ba                                               the aericultural *ector
esstantitlty retxcd.  In                                      mr     d t  rm 0.641 of      -
the mentim, the flosal                                      MP in 1967 to 0.391 of
trmfers thresi the                                          OP In 1990; hmver 
Uilet to DeMre md                                           transfe   or 1992 ae
MA wll not exCeed th                                        buheted at out 0.611 of
budet d leel  doWdb                                         GDP.
Conre for 1909 (0.27Z                                       The reorgnization of th
of MP)      t debt                                          entitioe  In th  rural
SMPt On   tht are part                                      finned sctor Is on
of the  aged   upon                                         going, thee contime to
finwcelt restructuring                                      ba ovetpping functlons
_ resmnts.                                                   mon  trust fi    and
banks md the future role
of s   entitis is yet to
ba clearly defined.



ANNEX II
EVOLUTION OF REVENUES OF THE FEDERAL DISTRICT
1988-1991
Blillon 1990 Pesos
Percentage Change
ConcW                  ~~~1988        1989         199          1991 *        90/88         91/90
Total Revenues                                        e675.7       B.413.0       9,453.9       8,999.5          9.0          (4.8)
PartIcipations                                        4,068.9      3,555.4       3,912.5      3,748.5          (3.8)         (4.2)
>e<|s4Y;v                     Ow             v           ¢w            o;35.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 ;(0.1)  '19.4)
Boffw   1g329                                                         26.1        1  7           52           (20.5)        44.2
Self-Generated                                        1,983.7      2,869.6       3,684.5      3,759.7          85.7          2.0
Taxes                                                 748.0        916.0        1,384.0      1,704.4          85.0         23.2
Real Estate                                          150.6        165.          478.5        679.0         217.7          41.9
Property                                             149.5        243.2         325.4        384.6         117.7          18.2
Payroll                                             416.3         4625          539.9        599.0          29.7          10.9
Other                                                31.7          44.8          40.1         41.9          26.5           4.5
Matching Contributions for Improvement                  3.4          2.5          40.9          65.5       1,102.9         60.1
User Fees                                             315.3        370.5         569.2         573.6         80.5           0.8
Water and Sewerage                                    72.7         88.7         258.8         258.8        256.0           0.0
Titles                                                59.2         67.3          54.6          71.6         (7.8)         31.1
AutomobIles                                          125.4        159.3         181.1         193.7         44.4           7.0
Fines                                                 47.8         40.3          55.1         29.5          15.3         (46.5)
Other                                                 10.1         14.9          19.6         20.0          94.1           2.0
Financial Asset Earnings                              827.6       1,478.4      1,441.1       1,273.7         74.1         (11.6)
Value Added Collections Program                        89.3         102.2        249.3         142.5         179.2        (42.8)
Sotac: Teeoo dd Depwtnt dd Dhb Fderl y s Dklbn GWW de Progunaion y Pvweuuseb del D.D.F.
* Estmwb



ANNEX III
Amu of Fnancal Institutions and their Relative Imponuc
t the end of Period                  1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
In billion Pesos
CknsmerdaBanks                        33636   78566  105460   155854  238251  366701
evelopment Banks                      33883    85259   99069  109305  103773  120552
Trust Funds                            3348    7876   1OS88   13445   14408    18789
InsuranceCompanies                     1939    4781    7949    11107   14111    19567
Mutual Funds                           1164    11212   24534   41769   61539   85583
Total                                 73970   187694  247600   331480  432082  611192
In percentage
Commercial Banis                       45.5     41.9    42.6    47.0    55.1       60.0                                         1
Dvelopment Banis                       45.8    45.4    40.0    33.0    24.0         19.7                                        o
Trust Funds                             4.5      4.2      4.3      4.1      3.3     3.1
Insulrance Companies                    2.6      2.5      3.2      3.4     3.3      3.2
Mutual Funds                            1.6      6.0      9.9     12.6    14.2    14.0
Total                                 100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0
Annual Growth rate
Commerial Banms                               -9.9    -11.5    23.5    17.7    29.6
Dcvelopment Banks                               -2.9   -23.4    -7.8   -26.9        -2.2
Trust Funds                                     -9.2    -11.4     6.1    -17.5      9.8
Isurance Companies                              -4.9      9.6    16.7    -2.2       16.7
Mutual Funds                                   271.7     44.3    42.2    13.4    17.1
Source: Banoo de Mexio, Indicadores Economicos



ANNEX IV
Main components of Assets and liabilities of Commercial Banks
t the end of Period                   1986     1987    1988      1989     1990     1991
As Percentage of Total Assets
Credit to Private Sector                25.1     27.6     38.1     50.7    55.3      57.3
Credit to Public Sector                 30.6    29.7      17.5     11.1      7.5      3.7
Investment in Private Securities         0.2      0.4      0.4      0.8      0.9      1.4
Investment in Public Securities         10.5     11.6     19.0     17.7     15.4     15.2
Financing to Private Sector             25.4    27.9      38.5     51.4    56.1      57.3
Financing to Public Sector              41.1     41.4     36.5     28.9     22.8      3.7
Real Growth
Credit to Private Sector                         -1.0     22.2     64.3     28.3     34.4
percentage of total Liabilities
Deposits                               55.0    59.5      31.3     52.3     66.2     67.9
Monetary Liabilities                   7.7      6.6      7.3      7.0      9.8     19.8
Short term deposits                    5.5      5.2      4.2      4.6      4.4     10.2
Term deposits 1/                      41.8    47.7      19.8     40.6     52.0     37.9
Financial Sector Borrowing              7.3      7.3      9.4      &7       8.9      9.9
Foreign Borrowing                      22.6    18.0      15.5     14.5     12.9      9.1
Other Liablities                       15.1     15.2    43.9      24.6     12.0     13.1
1/ Defimed as deposits with term longer than 30 days.



ANNEX V
ComIercal Banks: At, Emplokees, Brandies and Privatization
Asets % of Total  Employees       Branches in Mexiw            Privatization
June    June    June    June    June    June Amount Paid Amount Pribe/   Date of Auction
1988    1991    1988    1991    1988    1991 USS million       Sold BookValue
Banamex            28.6    235   29,632   31,747      734      725      3,171.9    70.7     2.6 August 23/91
Bancomer                 23.8    20.9  33,809   36,851      733      766     3,176.0    785       3.0 Oct.25/91
Serfin                   13.7    16.7  17,718   22503       536      619       925.0    NA        2.7 Jan/92
Comermex                  7.5      5.9  12,208   12,126     339      346       885.0    66.5      3.7 Feb/92
Internacional             5.6     6.4  12,159   11,494      371      367
Mexicano Somex            4.0     5.2             7,228     293      329       612.5    81.6      3.3 Feb.28/92
Dl Atlantico              2.2     2.3             7,336     203      204       479.1    685       5.3 Mar.27/92
cremi                     2.0      1.7            4,504     131      117       247.8    66.7      3.4 June 21191
BCH                       1.9     2.3             4,672     130      131       286.1   100.0      2.7 NovAU91
Mercantil de Mexico       1.3     2.2             3,456      84       96       219.4    77.2      2.7 June 7/91
Promex                    1.3      1.3            4,082     162      154       350.4    66.0      4.3 Apr.3/92                       c
Confia                    1.2      1.9            3,878     121      124       291.6    78.6      3.7 August 2/91
Banoro                    1.2      0.8   3,180    2,984      81       73       371.4    66.0      4.0 Apr.10/92
Mercantil del Norte       1.2      1.4            3,747     114      123       199.7    77.9      2.7 June 7/91
Bancrcow                  1.1      2.8            2,439      77       70       138.6   100.0      2.6 August 15/91
B DP                   1.0     1.1             3,079      99     102        178.1   100.0      3.0 June 15/91
DCentro                1.0        -   2,704               98
C toMeicano          0.7        -                       89
Oriente                0.3      0.3              875      36       38        72.9    66.0      4.0 August 9/91
Obrro                   0.3      1.0             1,160      26      24
Citink                    0.1      2.3             495        5        6
Total                   100.0   100.0           164,656    4,462    4,414
eAm
TotalAsset US BilLon             113.0
Sour=e Comision Naconl Bancaria and SHCP



- 49 -
ANNEX VI
busid"anPkoow a a                      -mftwdv
-1-
Sm.   de  _a" C_ ft,P iJL ha                  _17.vo               I.=       I'M      Ig                            _  *_
F4 w0 E     is o ~AhklmTod Yiv Owu  m pas       U        211
Cs4dN AuePk-i FE"
jFmi a. o.w ,.ie, r.       r                     MA                   a         U      U       a3
Ipm ,__-*)4                                                                                           _ _ _ _ _ ,
14-W de G tsm y - FeAw pan At.ryd MA                                1.       t,       t
PO=WG                                                    ' .M .CA) 
PdIle    _ I   Cpm a _ *_ de is    V Ting4       75      t.70       IV        17       12     1   W d _     et_
Ao*rAudw N-. A24wf I ft     LA. PA#MNA           MA        MA        MA        MA     kA      M4A   Oinids& F.eIL 5.f 1it   4 
_F__t_CS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                                          0_r. NN
ON"*n N.eakw Pp0m, I Pseimw LA. ~AP~A4CA         MA        MA        kA       PA      MA      MA   Clem"  ombw?7. 124
_,Ao N-w. pm O,i Pmq. 040           CA           MA        NA        M A      MA      PM      MA
Pvm           A.m.a Xr                          V7       2.7W       4l1       co       a       a
5      .4 dw PaqasOm        J5AI&                3       I.ts      1*A1      lnr      113    12?
P.4. pom d Oin,.is Cm4.MNWpl                     24       24         is        so      a       a 
hOW- PWAiMa SC.)NAM4                           41.717    $D.ie     &.DO       .4 Uf       1   40
Fef4s de 0mM." V Fgsuina Is bisisa *-iow y                  0       dm          0      13      0   MM3id WM APN Ant M 12
PwWm de E*.inAM  AiimkvWFM                       474        0        04         0       5          M5u N0 Af4M in  4
Fordo P IM. de PmoFf misOW F134                   72        S        54               MA       a   toM ho
PW-DmmM is CAN*00is P.qMin7 CbAiidm kUkWAIn      47         a        go         a     MA       S    wW  f  AMl 1n2I
Pan" Pon ha P pu4 s" deSudw  Pyi aMet                       a        is         a     M 0 kt   a Mwd .04k kAPIO in 24
. _~
_ ____Madol de C4ib  _  SA.                   ?.4        UN   " it          Is        a      a
"     _W   " %/oC   ,w  A1,m                                4 Xm                        2      a
P.ftM Sm a PmM is              i                1.216                         e IS  eh                         a  mw  in tI
- _.
P.4. is hwm   FVmw*m pm Ag.. P.Jm4 I                        5         4         50 MseSft  mm in in
A.wfMh'sl4d "AP.4
popm"    a P*O Fo 0*4 hadow  oAD                  s                   S         U _  _
Fmsi Mdedfd pwa km       PwOmlse                 *l        24        m         VI      10       a
Penis Mad,d de HPbt s pisws r024m                 4      1.4       t1.7      Ija3      to      II
Po4oeni ipuai v04 TSifwR NDwmis k                Wn      2364        U 
Penis mo.dmf iF"mo al TulWi PCNA1U              1.104     1*1        70       on        a       a
spek  wagh toew ad.u4eon ,W ft b*d a dekad~ U P%
21   MUe W                                         
a(  on 08GTo 31. IS  bm  f      rig" sWp.4OM  WM WON4C^* ft im no % M bma    pus*4
41 'D b*O"       _ wmft _ "    _ CM             1|.11 Of4 1,Te                X4  
_f Z   _-  _ mme 
KA
F~  _ 1s4e   1_          - F WOn S0 d% lintn
V   Oss   0_*. 0   _-_ w  MX
41 MM u24is0|1



- 50 -
ANNEX VII
INTEREST RATES. DEVELOPMENT BANKS AND FUNDS"
Sector                              1987      1988     1989      1990    June '91
Market Rate'"                       128.7     57.3      43.4     29.3      22.1
Reference Rate3                    ,104.3     45.5      40.4     26.0      17.7
Agriculture
Primary Activity
Low Income Producers            72.5      40.0 ,   37.5      23.7      15.9
Other Producers (basic          94.5      43.5     40.5      25.9     18.7
grains)
Other Producers (not basic      98.8      47.3     44.5      29.9     21.7
grains)
Sutar
Agricultural Activity              76.3     42.5     42.5      27.9      20.1
Industrial ACtivity               97.0      47.3     47.3      29.9     22.9
Commercial Activity              102.3      50.0     50.0      34.9     28.9
Fisheries
Capture Float        -            84.5      42.0     40.0      25.2     20.1
Industry end Commerc-             90.5      44.5     43.0      27.2     21.7
Industry
Support to Basic Grain.           96.3      42.5     40.0      24.9      19.8
Tourism Activity      1            96.3     45.8      45.8      N.A.     NA.
Support to Working Capital        96.3      45.8     45.0      29.9     24.9
Nousinc *nd Municipal Develooment
Housing                            78.5     41.8     40.0      24.9      19.9
Water Supply end Sewerage          81.3     40.8      40.0      -         -
Froreign Trade
Domestic Currenc                  105.0     48.0      48.0     28.9      23.9
Foreign Currency                  CF+2     CF+2      CF+2       -         -
.Trade
Market Merchante                   92.3     41.8      41.8
Othar                      -       94.3     44.5     44.5
1/  Simple average.  Nominal rates correspond to December each year.
2/ Rofers to interest rate on Commercial Paper.
3/ Refers to CPP during 1987-88 and to CETES during 1989-91.
4/ Dollar credits. CF refers to cost of fund.
Source: Direcci6n Ceneral de Banco dt D-earrollo, SHCP and Bank staff.



ANNEX VIII
Compo.idw ci Cm* Sbd. by Economic P4Iy Il
Dma 37              _______________________                  D.c. 00                        D.c. U                        D.c II
Tc       Duv.      Conmwr. Tc          Ow.       Commer. Tc          Ow.       Convair  Tc        Ow        Conuner. IT         Duv       Camawi.
I.:....                  ______                   bids   Buds                              6d                  bids   suds                                                  SmilE   Bud.
-                                                                                                                                                                                 I
100.0%     40.7%     Us.      100.0%     35.0%      65.      100.0%     214%      76.       1000%      13.2%     30.      100.0%      14.3%     IS.7Iq
PqIm*ar6. mb*i. mu1m                    16.3%     11.1%      4         13.1%     11.0%      6.       16.0%      6.2%       7        114%       6.3%      6.1       11.0%      2.6%
41.2%     161%      21        26.8%      12.3%     21        23.2%      6.3%     21         300%       4.6%               23.0%       10%      26.114
Ensigv                                  14.7%       6.7%      5.1       6.4%      4.3%       4.1       5.0%      1.4%      3.        2.1%       1.0%      1         1.3%      0.7%       0.
MmmIng                                 24.3%       31%      16.       26.3%      31%       131       26.5%      5.3%               212%        3.3%     13.4      21.1%      2.2%      16.3' -
Ccnudm,                                  1.7%       0.4%      1         11%       0.2%       1.4       2.7%      0.1%      2.        47%        0.1%      4.        67%       0.1%       68  -
Lnwicacsmlmsahiu                          4.3%      0.1%      4.        7.3%       0.1%      7         7.0%      0.0%      6          6.3%      0.0%      6.        5.3%       0.1%      5.3'
Uudm mid mum                           213%       10.7%     1         27.0%       6.3%     17        271%       7.7%     16.        311%       6.3%     24        36.3%       6.0%     211 -
Coumnum                                   61%       0.3%      6.       10.7%      0.7%      10.       16.3%      0.7%     15.        16.3%      0.4%     1         16.0%      0.7%      17.8
Il e* born Ccnirnmdi         bi.m  iudh.sous.
U,
I-.



ANNEX IX
FAIM           Tom     onm    Gon          m  TM      am-ma                   s      Oa-ma - ~      O        4      am -    ~      O        o     am      Gonaa
.4M -  .  w  O    m    f              Om      -w                 km    km      -                km -m .        4m    1      Me --             km
_1______                                                                                                                                                                       _ T_ D k0 km.   PT  am1 a_  sue.sDe _ue    su.
ad
am    4715    am               4M     IA       A am mm  4S   -mma 41         earn    a      am      4  am mm               mad     arn    san    m1
fpa4a#  Mi                  -am    -Tat    415      S"       m     415   tam    VA        161    415    am        "      4.15   4115    11101    win    at  m lo        m^     4
1 _p                          4-l5   41                41      1 1141111  4115   -?JW    N    WS   41"       am   .a11441 15    tan                         am      i,      n
__w              ~ft1    411    4111                          4164111  4S1    41             41M    41       los            -415   441    *15A             4115   4115   .ft
mom_rW4  4                               m         41us-                m 4 1 _4             mm    -atr   atm                in    4at    tao        4     IA      11m     n
Oambudkrn                      49r  4M         11a 1 _m       4am      am     -1A             WA     WAS   tam             t1m      am    tam              a,m     MM    PL
,, _Nbm_                       4115   411a 415                 41_    L.rt 41          IM    1611 _ 1        i1      y      UA am    am    tmm5      t      t     tM uIs    A     Nrf
_       _tes Om                 am   4mm       t4"            41rr    t 4ts   411              AI    4,1    4a m                am  mf A                   am    tlap    4an
4615   41    41.1A    4t        SM     1       Gm    4        Ma      am    t.1s              m5                    "              tam  am rte4  15   ta
am  tam   4m                  4m   mt  4m                   4tJmi  4        m -            -am   am    am                  4mmm  46a%
_ _ms                       415   4111    111              mm 1t15    615                415t    4 1    44L5            4115   41t   $am               515   4at6  tetl
UmV -mw                                                       mw                            maw                ta
MIMICR _   Told  11_    o . Om                    T_      on               Om    Tm      O_m  t _ tl            T_     D       O    _ Dk    1To"    DM                 OM
aM      m a     -              ter     ma      4m             a Mim       am          a      "a      WS tarnIr         NiM          FS     u        41
NM      amr     NaaM                   ma       aarn mmM               t      "aasa    am,    tun                            Ma     15       5
ma_ _a                       am   _u         a_             am   _r   1 -           _       i      am      un             am       m    _a               ter     m      trn      a
MAIN                           tim       at    Um              tNM      4_                    am_      "4tm                           a      ma             aim     44    fi
amw                     N~~aM   man    Ws              tim    IIm      am             "NS    mrn   .416             iMM      41    aa               mm       pa     mao
_waosow"                       ltm      o       ns             am      mm  r M                 iM     .t   1am               "a       m_    mm              trm     41    tim
o_-|~~~~~~~~~~N                 gm      PM       r r           us  _           ^      "       .n    I"e                       Is     wit            "    1_         as*1
kwomes"how"                     mm       4%     Ns      Inm     1 ti           an      I"   _M         4      u fl    41ma mIs _       5     TM rma                 ,n    mls 4a
ewdm Wd newtim                  40       mm     t      tIm      an    am       a      am       413    ma      m      am      m       TMn      I     "am      m     asarn
fW_WANO                         NM       4s a u   ma   _        a    41sS        atAm                 _   oern              torn      -s     u1s            atm     am      a m
Swim                tim~~~~~~~~l  us  am            ama     ma"   amwi             aim     ma       asM tern               rn              a    tam    tie       trn     O
NM      all _ 4 _       gm    "a               W        n    " es     wt.    Is              "a    11PS   4t                "
_$W: ll_e de md



Attachment 1
- 53 -                        Comments from IMF
* Office Memorandum
To:       Mr. de Ferranti                                    June 17, 1992
From:     Sharmini Coorey
Subject:  Comments on the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Ln. 3083-ME) Project ComRletion Report
We have only a few comments on this informative report.
Most importantly, please note in paragraph 5 (p. 2) that the extended
arrangement approved in May 1989 for SDR 2.8 million was augmented in
January 1990 by 40 percent of quota bringing the EFF through May 1992
to SDR 3.2 billion. (The augmentation was for interest support in
connection with debt and debt service reduction operations). In May
1992, the EFF was extended to a fourth year (ending in May 1993) and
the arrangement was augmented by a further 40 percent of quota (SDR
466.2 million). The Mexican authorities have agreed not to draw these
additional resources barring unforeseen adverse developments.
Incidentally,
1. It could be noted in paragraph 15 (p. 5) that the minimum
wage is becoming increasingly less representative of private sector
wages.
2. Table 1 (p. 6) and Table 6 need to be updated to reflect
revised national income accounts data. For instance, GDP growth in
1990 and 1991 are now estimated at 4.4 and 3.6, respectively. In
addition, average inflation in 1991 is estimated at 22.7 percent.
3. In paragraph 32 (p. 11), the elimination of marginal
liquidity requirements in September 1991 is described as "a natural
step' in the process of financial liberalization. This interpretation
may be questionable since the change in regulations was precipitated
by unstable conditions in financial markets brought about by
difficulties faced by commercial banks in meeting their liquidity
requirements as the stock of outstanding CETES declined reflecting the
improved fiscal performance.
4. Paragraph 35 (p. 12) needs to be updated to reflect
regulatory changes with respect to foreign borrowing by commercial
banks introduced in April 1992. The new regulations supersede those
described at the end of the paragraph.
cc: T. Reichmann



54                    Attachment 2
Comments from EXIM Bank of Japan
June 18, 1992
JEXIM's Comments on the Proiect Comoletion Report (PCR)
of the Financial Sector Adiustment Loan (FSAL)
In November 1989, the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) made available
to Mexico a loan amounting to US$300 million in cofinancing with World Bank's
FSAL. This cofinancing loan vas part of JESIM c financial support totaling
US$1.9 billion for Mexico's debt and debt service reduction (DDSR) operations.
JEXIM's support also included cofinancing with the World Bank's other two
ector adjustment loans prepared in parallel with PSAL in support of public
enterprise and industrial sector policy reforms.
The FSAL supported fiscal and financial sector policies consistent with
economic stabilization and the resumption of grovth. In the fiscal reforms,
the emphasis was on the tax systm, tax administration, public investment
planning, and state and local finances. In the area of financial sector
reform, PSAL aimed at liberalizing the banking sector; strengthening
prudential regulation& and supervision; rodefining the role of development
banks and trust funds; reducing transfers to those institutions; and ensuring
that subsidies are well targeted and controlled.
As PCR concludes, the FSAL program was well designed and overall
implementation of the policy reforms supported by the program was xcellent.
FSAL clearly made positive contribution to the achievement of its ambitious
objectives. Neverthelses, the following two points may be worth mentioning.
First, despite the deepening of the financial system and the increased
competition and efficiency of the banking systm, the sharp increase in
private sector investment was not accompanied by the recovery in private
sector savings, thus resulting in a widening of the external current account
deficit. In further reforms of the financial sector, therefore, a due
consideration should be given to measures which would promote private savings.
In this context, the Gov-rnment's recent decision to create the Savings for
Retirement program and to restructure the social housing savings scheme are
wlcome steps.
Second, PCR particularly singles out the role of the development banks
and trust funds as the one area where further reforms are still needed. This
issue is also important to 3EsIn as it has active lending operations with some
of those development banks, especially NAPIN. Given the importance assigned
to these financial institutions by the Mexican goverrment as main vehicles for
achieving various policy objectives, the consensus on their future role should
be formed between the government and the World Bank on the basis of objective
analysis of costs and benefits associated with these institutions' operations
vie-a-via the policy objectives.



