Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4952-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500.0 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C. (BNCE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
MAY 22, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (MEX$)
On April 10, 1989, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 - Nex$2,355.00; the free market exchange rate stood at
US$1 - Mex$2,370.00.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) - 10,000 square meters (m2) = 2.47 acres (a)
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   0.39 square miles - 100 ha
1 kilcgram (kg) , 2,205 pounds (lbs)
1,000 kilograme = 1 metric ton (t) - 0.98 long ton
1 liter (1)   0.26 gallons (gal)
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF       -   Average Cost of Funds (see CPP for Spanish)
ANAGSA    -   National Agricultural Insurance Company
BANRURAL  -   Banco Rural
BNCE      -   Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
BdM       -   Banco de Mexico (Central Bank)
CETES     -   Mexican Treasury Bills
CNBS      -   National Banking and Insurance Commission
CNV       -   National Stock Exchange Commission
CONASUPO  -   National Council for Popular Subsistence
COPLAMAR  -   Program to Provide Basic Needs in Marginal Areas
CPI       -   Consumer Price Index
CPP       -   Costo Promedio Porcentual (see ACF for English)
EFF       -   Extended Fund Facility
FFSP      -   Public Sector Financing Fund
FICORCA   -   Fideicomiso para la Cobertura de Riesgos Cambiarios (Private
sector external debt restructuring facility operated by
the BdM)
FONAPRE   -   Fund for Preventive Assistance to Commercial Banks
FSL       -   Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GATT      -   General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP       -   Gr-ss Domestic Product
GNP       -   Gross National Product
IMF       -   International Monetary Fund
IMSS      -   Mexican Social Security Institute
ISPL      -   Industrial Sector Policy Loan
NAFIN     -   Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NTBs      -   Non-Tariff Barriers
ORP       -   Official Import Reference Price
"Pacto'   -   Economic Solidarity Pact
PDR       -   Regional/Rural Development Program
PECE      -   Stabilizetion and Growth Pact
PEMEX     -   Petroleos Mexicanos
PERL      -   Public Enterprise Reform Loan
QRs       -   Quantitative Restrictions
REER      -   Real Effective Exchange Rate
SPASAs    -   State Secretariats of Health
SECOFI    -   Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development
SHCP      -   Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP       -   Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
SSA       -   Secretariat of Health
TPL I     -   First Trade Policy Loan (2745-ME)
TPL II    -   Second Trade Policy Loan (2882-ME)
UNAM      -   Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico
VAT       -   Value Added Tax
WPI       -   Wholesale Price Index



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY .........................                       i
I.  THE ECONOMY ........................                              1
A. Background                           .1
B.  Macroeconomic Development in 1988.                            4
C. Macroeconomic Policies in 1989.                                5
D. Towards Renewed Growth.                                        6
E.  External Debt and Creditworthiness.                           7
II.  ADJUSTMENT ISSUES AND THE FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM   . 7
A. Overview.                                                      7
B. Macroeconomic Consistency.                                     8
The "Economic Solidarity Pact" ("The Pacto) .8
Consistency of Fiscal Policy .10
Ceiling for the Operational Deficit ..................... 10
Taxation in Mexico .11
The Property Tax .11
The Value Added Tax .12
The Corporate Income Tax .12
The Personal Income Tax .13
Tax Administration .13
Public Sector Expenditures .14
Government Planning and Budgeting .15
Strengthening Parastatal Finance .16
State and Local Government Finances .17
C. Financial Sector Reform .18
The Institutional Structure .18
Financial Sector Issues .20
Commercial Banking Restrictions ......................... 20
Commercial Banking Reforms Since October 1988 .21
Prudential Regulations and Supervision .23
Development Banks and Trusts .24
Interest Rate Subsidies .25
D.  Prospects for the Medium-Term and Financing Requirements.. .26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- iv -
IIT.  THE PROPOSED LOAN .............................................. 28
A. Origin and Objectives        ....................... 28
B. Loan Amount and Tranching .      ............................. 29
C. Debt Reduction Support        ....................... 30
D. Poverty Impact          .......................... 31
Nutrition Support .............................        31
Primary Health Care .............................. 32
Elementary Education .............................      32
E. Benefits and Risks .............................           33
F. Technical Assistance Component ............................35
G. Disbursements, Auditing and Procurement .................... 35
H. Bank/IMF Collaboration .............................    . 36
IV. COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS ............. ..... 37
The Context of Bank's Assistance: The Government's Own
Development Objectives                .        .           37
Bank Strategy         ........... 39
Burden Sharing in the Financing Plan         .     .     . 40
Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending          .     .      42
Agriculture .............................................  42
Trade           ............................... 43
Industry ............................................... 43
Infrastructure ............................................. 43
Housing and Others ...... * ................................. 44
Social Sectors and Environment             .      .     44
IFC Operations ............................................. 44
V. RECOMMENDATION .............................................    45
ANNEXES:
Annex I    -  Mlexico:  Economic Indicators
Annex II    -  Status of Bank Group Operations in Mexico
Annex III   -  Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Annex IV    -  The Analytical Framework
Annex V     -  Medium-term Projections and Financial Requirements
Annex VI    -  The Technical Assistance Program for Taxation
Annex VII   -  Letter of Development Policy
Annex VIII  -  Policy Matrix



MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C., (BNCE)
Guarantor:           United Mexican States
Amount:              US$500 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 17 years, including five years of grace,
at the standard variable rate.
Objectives:          The proposed loan is part of a program of Bank's
support to the Mexican Government's objectives of
stabilizing the economy and resuming growth. It would
assist in ensuring that financial sector and fiscal
policies are conducive to achieving the afore-mentioned
aims.
Description:         The program includes measures required to:
(a) reinforce the Government's fiscal efforts,
including a series of taxation and related fiscal
measures: (b) consolidate reforms in the financial
sector, strengthening prudential regulations and
supervision, and reducing interest subsidies and fiscal
transfers for them. A technical assistance component
of US$15 million would provide assistance in priority
areas of fiscal management, tax collection, public
finance and investment evaluation and programming,
including training and the provision of equipment.
Benefits and         The above measures will improve the consistency of the
Risks:              mactoeconomic framework, including a sustainable
reduction in inflation, more efficient resource
allocation, better fiscal management and improved
performance in the financial sector. They are expected
to spur private sector investments in Mexico.
Additionally, the coverage of social sector programs is
being extended to benefit a larger segment of the
country's poor. Finally, the program outlined in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy would create
the preconditions for sustainable growth and, together
with the Bank's support in monitoring policy
performance, is expected to help secure the required
financing package.



- 2 -
The major risk facing Mexico's adjustment program is
that finance would not be available as and when needed
to implement the growth strategy. In addition, there
is a risk that the Government would fail to keep in
place a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
objectives of stabilization and growth, and a fiscal
policy that is sustainable and consistent with the
constraints of public finance. (The latter could be
provoked, for example, either by deteriorating terms of
trade or domestic pressures for excessive public
spending). The proposed loan, however, together with
the other two adjustment operations being processed
simultaneously, (Industrial Sector Policy and Public
Enterprise Reform Loans), should help attract external
financing to cover Mexico's net capital needs.
Fdrthermore, the new Administration has indicated its
strong commitment to adjustment and structural reforms.
Finally, the tranching of a substantial part of all
three Bank operations would contain the risk that Bank
funds would disburse in the absence of a sound
macroeconomic framework.
Disbursements:       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against
eligible general import expenditures in two tranches:
US$250 million upon effectiveness, and US$235 million
any time after November 30, 1989, upon meeting the
conditions of second tranche release. US$15 million
would be disbursed under the technical assistance
component, which would be available upon loan
effectiveness. The loan is expected to be disbursed
fully by June 30, 1991.
Retroactive
Financing:           Retroactive financing will be permitted for eligible
import expenditures up to US$100 million incurred
within four months prior to the signing of the loan.
Rate of Return:      Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:   Not applicable.
Schedule of
Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Years      1990     1991
----US$ Million----
Annual                            495        5
Cumulative                        495      500



INTERNATIONAL BAN; FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOM1ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.
FOR A FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (FSL)
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C., with the guarantee
of the United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$500 million to
finance the Government's financial sector adjustment program. The loan
would have a term of 17 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at
the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Background
2.       Between 1950 and 1974, Mexico enjoyed a remarkable period of high
gLowth, low inflation and moderate external debt accumulation. Real gr wth
averaged 6.4%, and inflation was in single digits throughout the period.
This era of fiscal conservatism came to an abrupt end in the early
seventies. Rapidly expanding government involvement in the economy pushed
up the rate of economic growth. However, increasing government expenditure
was not matched by rising public sector revenues. At the same time a
decline in private savings incentives (real interest rates turned sharply
downwards) prevented a matching increase in private savings. As a result,
inflation tax and external debt became increasingly important sources of
finance. The period of single digit inflation ended in 1973, the real
exchange rate started to appreciatel and the accumulation of external debt
accelerated above the GNP growth rate beyond 1973.
3.       In 1976, Mexico experienced a serious, but comparatively brief
financial and economic crisis, triggering a major devaluation of the
Mexican peso and financial austerity measures. However, after major oil
discoveries were announced the following year, the stabilization program
was quickly terminated. In fact, the subsequent period was characterized
by both rapidly expanding government revenues and vastly increased
borrowing of the public sector. The Goverament's share in total value
added increased by almost one third, and in total investment from 33.5% in
1970-75 to substantially over 402 in later years. Not surprisingly, the
real exchange rate once again started to appreciate, eroding the gains of
the 1976 devaluation. This expansion was largely fueled from abroad:
Mexico's external debt increased from US$16 billion to US$86 billion
between 1975 and 1982.
4.       The situation changed dramatically in 1982 when rising world
interest rates and falling oil prices put an end to Mexico's increasingly
1 The real exchange rate is defined as the price of foreign goods relative
to domestic goods. Appreciation means a decline in this relative price.



expansionary policies. The refusal of external creditors to roll over
Mexico's short term debt left no option but fiscal retrenchment. Mexico,
which had run non-interest current account deficits in each of the
preceding thirty years, suddenly needed to run surpluses on that account in
every following year. The ratio of external debt to GDP increased
substantially under the influence of rising interest rates and falling
growth rates. The gap between the real interest rates on external debt and
real GDP growth went from -3.32 in 1980-1981 to a full +10.52 in 1983.
Such a high difference meant that, even without a non-interest current
account deficit. the debt burden would increase rapidly, simply through the
compounding effect of interest on debt inherited from the past. In
addition, there were substantial capital losses on external debt due to the
necessary real exchange rate depreciation. Given the major decline in oil
revenues and rise in real interest obligations, the real depreciation of
the exchange rate was unavoidable, but it led to an increase in external
debt to GDP ratio of about 25 percentage points during the period
1982-1987.
5.       The counterpart to the non-interest current account improvement
was a sustained fiscal adjustment effort that is probably unmatched in any
country. A primary fiscal deficit of 7.62 of GDP before the 1982 crisis
was turned into a surplus of 4.9Z in 1987 and an estimated 5.8X in 1988
(Annex I, Table 1). And this was achieved while revenues from oil experts
declined by more than 72 of GDP between 1983 and 1988, and GDP growth
declined dramatically. Non-interest Government expenditure was reduced
from the equivalent of 35.42 of GDP in 1982 to about 22.62 in 1988. The
public enterprise divestiture program was successful in clesing or selling
roughly 700 smaller entities, out of a total of about 120v in 1982. In
addition, in the same period, Mexico has undertaken far reaching structural
reforms at an accelerating pace.
6.       An IMF supported stabilization program was launched in 1983,
during which the fiscal deficit was halved, international reserves
recovered, and inflation began to decline. However, in 1984 and 1985 there
was some fiscal expansion and monetary relaxation. Moreover, the
earthquake in late 1985 and a major terms of trade deterioration in 1986
due to falling oil prices worsened Mexico's prospects. In response, the
authorities adopted a deeper and growth-oriented stabilization program in
July 1986. In return for renewed monetary and fiscal austerity, this
program also called for a concerted financing effort on the part of
Mexico's creditors.
7.       The 1986 package included new elements of policy designed to
eliminate structural rigidities in the economy. The most significant
change was a major reorientation towards fuller integration with the world
economy. Exports of manufactures, spurred by a 422 real exchange rate
depreciation over the July 1985-December 1987 period, have overtaken oil
exports and more than compensated for the US$7 billion oil revenue loss
experienced over the same time span. Since mid-1985, Mexico has undertaken
a fast and far-reaching liberalization of the trade regime, aimed at
expanding the tradeables sector, opening it to international competition
and encouraging efficiency in both exporting, and import-substitution
activities. In 1986 Mexico aceded to the GATT. The trade liberalization
process was supported by Bank operations (Trade Policy I and II, and



Agricultural Sector I). While it will take some time before the full
impact develops, the initial results are promising, incentives have been
redirected and restructuring toward more efficient activity begun. For
example, in agriculture, the policy reforms initiated since 1985, and
especially since October 1987, have substantially reduced direct and
indirect price discrimination against produceri. Exchange rate policy has
become more favorable to all tradeable sectors. Import barriers have been
sharply reduced for major agricultural inputs such as machines, pesticides,
and other high technology inputs. Export restrictions on fruits and
vegetables, which represent 25Z of crop output, have been substantially
reduced, and most producer prices have been moved into a band of between
90Z and 125Z of international orices.
8.       The key reforms in the trade regime included reductions in the
coverage of NTBs and tariffs. The progress has been impressive. Import
licensing coverage is now less than one-quarter of what it was in June
1985, official reference prices have been completely abolished, the maximum
tariff is now one-fifth and the average tariff about one-half of what they
were in June 1985. Progress has gore beyond the Government's original
schedule, GATT commitments, and the targets in the Trade Policy Loans I and
1I and the Agricultural Sector Loan I.
9.       The ensuing fiscal retrenchment was unavoidable given Mexico's
sudden difficulty in accessing the international capital markets and the
adverse terms of trade shocks it experienced. As a byproduct, the severe
fiscal cutbacks have greatly increased the efficiency of many of the
remaining government operations. There is, for example, little doubt that
few, if any, of the many dubious large projects of the late seventies
remain in the public sector investment program. But, cutting back public
investments from almost 10 of GDP in 1982 to around 4.42 in 1988, clearly
has had its costs. Government investment has a role to play in areas that
heavily complement private investment and in the social sectors. Also
private investment has not made up for the decrease.
10.      With lower investment on the one hand, and restrictive demand
management on the other, real growth again stopped. There has been no real
growth between 1982 and 1987, and hence a severe decline in per capita
income (Annex I, Table 1). Also, inflation, rather than slowing down, in
fact accelerated towards the end of the period, partially in response to a
sharp nominal devaluation. This devaluation, however, had become necessary
because of the abrupt oil price decline in 1986. The subsequent de-facto
targeting of the real exchange rate, together with an increase in the
frequency of wage and cost adjustments, introduced an element of inherent
instability into the system. This latter became fully apparent towards the
end of 1987. The stock market plunge and less than perfect management of
private debt buy backs evolving from the 1987 debt rescheduling triggered a
run on the peso in October 1987. This resulted in reserve losses and
eventually a 372 devaluation, fueling inflation and expectations of further
exchange rate depreciations. The Government responded with the "Economic
Solidarity Pact" (Pacto), a concerted effort to bring down inflation that
was running well into triple digits by end-1987.



- 4-
D. Macroeconomic Development In 1988
11.      The "Economic Solidarity Pact" (Pacto) was negotiated in December
1987 between Governm._nt, labor, farming, and business representatives. The
program consisted of further tightening of fiscal and monetary policy, and
renewed structural reform efforts. Trade liberalization was accelerated,
credit subsidies substantially reduced, and the program of public
enterprise divestiture reinforced. These measures were supplemented by a
freere of minimum wages, public sector prices and tariffs, and, what was a
corner stone of the 'Pacto", freezing the nominal exchange rate against the
U.S. dollar. This partial freeze was originally intended for a couple of
months only, but it was extended at three month intervals through the end
of 1988.
12.      On almost every target that is under direct or indirect control of
the goveranent, performance urder the 'Pacto' has been exemplary and often
went beyond what was initially planned. Trade reform was accelerated,
partly because of the potential efficiency gains, partly because of its
restraining effect on price increases. The fiscal deficit was brought
closely in line with the low inflation targets embedded in the 'Pacto'.
This effort was all the more noteworthy, given the negative budgetary
impact of further drops in oil prices and increasingly high real interest
rates on foreign debt towards the end of the year.
13.      Horeovez, this has been achieved in spite of high domestic real
interest rates. These have been at around 30X in real terms during most of
1988, and have crept up to a compounded real rate in excess of 40Z towards
the end of the year. And, it must be stressed that real interest rates on
Government debt swung from a negative 3Z in 1987. With the domestic debt
in 1988 equivalent to around 20Z of GDP, such a turn around caused a
massive increase in real interest payments to service the domestic debt.
14.      The fiscal measures, backed up by the exchange rate freeze and an
array of formal and informal price controls, have had a dramatic success in
reducing the rate of inflation. Inflation figures for October 1988
indicate a monthly rate of 0.8X for the CPI and 1.4% for the WPI. In
November 1988, the WPI actually declined and the CPI inflation rate slowed
down further to 1.32. In December 1988, CPI inflation was 2.12,
substantial food price increases notwithstanding but the WPI went up by
only 0.8Z. This is a tenfold reduction compared with the beginning of the
year; if the October-December 1988, rates could be sustained, Mexico's
inflation rate would be at an annualized rate of approximately 15Z. This
woulit clearly be a dramatic change with respect to the 159Z inflation rate
in 1987.
15.      The policy of a fixed Peso-Dollar rate came under increasing
pressure in 1988 as the year went by. The real exchange rate against the
US Dollar appreciated by 9.22 since January, and by 5.52 since March, the
first month with low inflation. The appreciation of the dollar between
March and September 1988 added to the pressure: on a trade weighted basis
the real exchange rate appreciated by almost 7.4Z between March and August.
This should be set against a sharp real depreciation of 422 on trade-
weighted basis between July 1985 and December 1987. July 1985 was the
month preceding a nominal devaluation of 17% and the beginning of a much



more aggressive exchange rate policy. However, falling oil prices and
rising international interest rates in the second half of 1988 added to
pressure on the real exchange rate.
16.      Doubts about the sustainability of the exchange rate may have been
behind the second striking feature of 1988, an extraordinary surge in
imports which increased by 48? in 1988. It seems that a substantial part
of the import boom was related to speculation against the exchange rate,
and, possibly, a gamble on future trade reform rollback.
17.      At the same time, non-oil exports increased by 16? in dollar terms
in 1988, (the 1987 over 1986 increase was 23.7?). But because of the
falling revenues from oil, total exports grew by only 5? in nominal terms
in 1988 over 1987. In addition there was a strong increase in exports from
the 'Maquiladoras," the import/export industries along the US border.
While separate export and import data for the "maquilae sector are not yet
available for 1988, preliminary data iadicates that value added increased
by 401 over 1987, adding a US$2.3 billion to the trade surplus in 1987 (as
opposed to US$1.6 billion last year). The increase in exports was due to
improved competitiveness since mid-85; as mentioned before, although the
exchange rate depreciated in real terms by 42? between July 1985 and
December 1987, some of the gains have been eroded since the beginning of
1988. Also, since 1985, Mexico's competitors have improved their
competitiveness by almost 10X.
18.      The net result was a deterioration in the current account of
US$6.8 billion dollars from 1987 to 1988 (a swing to a deficit of US$2.9
billion in 1988 from a surplus of about US$3.9 billion in 1987).
C. Macroeconomic Policies in 1989
19.      In December 1988 the Mexican Government and the various sectors of
society agreed on a renewal of the 'Pacto* as the initial phase of economic
policies for 1989. This renewed Pacto now called Stabilization and Growth
Pact (PECE) aims to consolidate price stability and containb specific
guidelines through the end of July 1989. Within this framework, public
sector prices and tariffs were adjusted, minimum wages were increased by
8X, and the peso is being depreciated daily according to a pre-announced
schedule of one peso a day. Under the PECE it is expected that inflation
will decline from 522 during 1988 to 20? during 1989. The fiscal measures
approved by Congress in the 1989 budget will contribute to a reduction of
the operational deficit. The fiscal stance, in conjunction with
appropriate monetary and exchange rate policies, should help bring about
the gradual recovery of investment and output, as well as lower inflation
and the strengthening of international reserves.
20.      The first quarter of 1989 indicates that the PECE is performing
very much like the Pacto, with the same successes and weaknesses.
Inflation, after accelerating to 2.1 and 2.4% respectively in December and
January, came down to 1.4X in February and 1.1Z in March. Current rates,
if continued, are compatible with the Government's stated 20% year-end to
year-end target (one percent a month until December implies 172 December to



- 6 -
December inflation), an impressive reduction from the 159Z and 522
inflation rates in 1987 and 1988, respectively. Also, the nominal daily
devaluation of the Peso has led to a small real depreciation of the
exchange rate against Mexico's main trading partner, the USA. Current
exchange rate policy and inflation targets are broadly consistent with a
stable real exchange rate (a small real depreciation from December 1988 to
December 1989). Exchange rate policy will be monitored in the context of
the proposed IMF's EFF.
D. Towards Renewed Growth
21.      The predominant long term problem in Mexico is the continued low
Srowth rate of the economy. This is .aot only an issue of great social
concern, but also presents a major inefficiency and a threat to the success
of the short term stabilization program as well. An efficiency issue,
because it suggests that the rationalized incentive structure that is
beginning to emerge as a result of the ongoing reform program is not
sufficiently exploited; and threat to the stabilization effort because any
fiscal deficit is much harder to finance at low than at high growth rates.
Thus low growth rates increase the probability that recourse to reliance on
the inflation tax is imminent. For all these reasons restoration of growth
to the levels prevailing before the expansionary mid seventies is
imperative.
22.      It is clear, however, that because of the short-term problems,
fiscal efforts cannot be the main engine of growth. In the short run,
balance of payments considerations leave no option but export led growth.
Then however, supply bottlenecks will develop in time, with the consequent
need for additional investment. At present, investment is equivalent to
20.32 of GDP, public investment being at its lowest histor':al level. With
fiscal retrenchment necessary in the face of low inflation targets and the
likely negative impact of external shocks on public finance, private
investment will have to lead the way. This is also more in line with the
structural reforms currently underway in Mexico; these reforms seek to
reduce rather than increase the role of the public sector. This then sets
the stage for the three proposed adjustment operations: Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSL); Industrial Sector Policy Loan (ISPL) and Public
Enterprise Reform Loan (PERL); how to restore private sector based growth
within the constraints set by external creditworthiness. A starting point
would, therefore, have to be tt- design of a policy-financing package that
will provide the framework for .he increase in private investment necessary
for resumed growth. The proposed operations are clearly an important
component of such a package.
23.      The need for a solution to Mexico's external debt problems is not
only essential for the recovery of growth, but would also contribute
significantly to the chances of success of the stabilization effort.
Clearly, cutting back Mexico's access to foreign capital markets would in
fact reduce Mexico's creditworthiness because it would slow down GDP
growth. Sustained access to external capital markets is necessary to
provide room for the additional investment needed for renewed growth. But
fears of the consequences of a lack of access to capital markets, with its
implications for fiscal and exchange rate policy, are clearly among the
factors holding this investment back. In turn, the resulting sluggish



-7-
growth performance and public finance problems are among the factors
causing the lack of access to external capital markets to begin with, thus
closing the vicious circle.
24.      It is exactly in such a vicious circle situation that the Bank has
a major role to play. On the one hand, it can provide external funds as.
for instance, through the three proposed adjustment operations and help
secure other sources of financing, thus relaxing the external constraint
that is stifling growth. But, at the same time the Bank would, through the
policy package it supports, give a signal that the increased external funds
will indeed, trigger the increased investment necessary for growth. Thus,
Bank lending would play a major catalytic role in the process of breaking
out of the macroeconomic bind in which Mexico finds itself. This is the
main rationale for the three proposed adjustment operations: to act as a
catalyzing agent for a process of renewed growth, where Mexico and all its
external creditors play an active participatory role.
B. External Debt and Creditworthiness
25.      Mexico's gross external public and private debt increased by
nearly US$ll billion during 1983-88, and net debt by about US$9 billion.
The debt service ratio increased from 47.1% of exports of goods and non-
factor services in 19&' to 60.52 in 1988, mainly due to large repayments of
around US$3.5 billion of private sector debt and a decline in oil prices.
At the end of 1988, the Bank's share of Mexico's long-term debt was 8.2%,
and its share of Mexico's long-term debt service was 7.62. Mexico's share
in the Bank's total exposure was 8.7Z in 1988. This latter ratio is
expected to rise somewhat by the end of this decade because of Bank
expanded assistance program, but will remain below 102 of the Bank's total
portfolio. Provided that sound domestic economic policies continue to be
pursued, and that the external environment remains favorable for the
execution of these policies, Mexico is considered creditworthy for planned
Bank lending.
PART II - ADJUSTHENT ISSUES AND TEE FIRANCIAL SECTOR REFORK PROGRAM
A. Overview
26.      A comprehensive adjustment program should concentrate on four
major areas: public enterprise reform, industrial deregulation,
macroeconomic stability and financial sector reform. The proposed Public
Enterprise Reform and Industrial Sector Policy Loans would support the
Government's program in the first two areas, while the proposed FSL would
focus on the remaining areas. The main objective of the Government's
financial sector reform program is to provide a policy framework, so that
private investment can play the major role in the resumption of growth.
This is fully in line with the structural reforms undertaken during the
past few years; these reforms have been geared towards the opening up of
the economy and a substantial reduction of the economic role of the public
sector.
27.      A stable macroeconomic environment is a necessary condition for
renewed growth. High inflation, fears of future recessionary policies, and



balance of payment crises are all incompatible with the confidence
necessary for renewed private investment. To avoid these, fiscal policies
and external financing plans that are consistent with other macroeconomic
targets are necessary. The achievement of such conditions of consistency
is part of the basis of the proposed FSL. Consistency of fiscal policy not
only requires consistency between fiscal deficits and available financing
given macroeconomic targets, but also consistency between existing spending
and revenue plans with those deficits targets.
28.      Even within a stable macroeconomic environment, however, there may
remain obstacles to private investment. Some have to do with the tax
system, and constraints in the Mexican tax system are analyzed in
paras. 44-55. Another problem for Mexico has been that, until recently,
its banking system has not been able to play effectively an intermediary
role in the financing of private investment. To overcome these obstacles,
the proposed FSL would support the implementation of a comprehensive
financial sector reform program (paras. 70-102).
B. Macroeconomic Consistency
29.      The consolidation of the stabilization process and the resumption
of growth are the Government's highest economic priorities for 1989. The
achievement of these objectives will require policy actions in two main
areas: the formulation of an economic program to be implemented after the
current phase of the "Pacto" expires on July 31, 1989; and restrictions on
the overall fiscal deficit consistent with low inflation and renewed growth
in 1989 and beyond.
'The Economic Solidarity Pact' ("The Pacto')
30.      The success of the Pacto itself is probably the most urgent
precondition for renewed growth. There can be little doubt that a
resurgence of inflation and possible backsliding on the many trade and
industrial reforms implemented over the past few years would prevent output
growth for many years to come. Experience elsewhere in Latin America
provides ample proof. Any program for growth should, therefore, start with
measures that allow the economy to emerge from the "Pacto" with the
controls removed, but its anti-inflation gains intact.
31.      The Pacto has been a success so far (paras. 12 and 20).  However,
signs of stress became obvious towards the end of 1988, particularly in the
exchange rate, public sector prices and some relative prices. Since
appraisal of the three adjustment operations in October 1988, the
Government has taken policy actions towards a more flexible system. The
current phase of the Pacto includes adjustments in public sector prices, a
daily depreciation of the exchange rate, and selective adjustments in
controlled prices in response to shortages of particular products
(para. 19). This is a clear move in the right direction and further
progress towards a more flexible system should be an important component of
the economic policies to be implemented after the current phase of the
facto expires on July 31, 1989.
32.      Price controls affect mainly some agricultural commodities and
have been in effect since well before the start of the Pacto. A medium-



- 9 -
term policy objective should be the gradual relaxation of these controls.
In the interim period until the controls are fully removed, there should be
periodic price adjustments so as to avoid shortages and prevent sectoral
misalignments.
33.      A gradual decontrol strategy could exploit individual windfalls,
as they occur. An example would be to release prices of agricultural goods
at harvest time, possibly backed up by stockpile releases where possible.
In this method in particular there could be a coordinated approach with
further trade liberalization. There are several agricultural commodities
where import quotas put upward pressure on prices while controls are trying
to keep them down. Simultaneous release of such quota together with price
controls would clearly be advisable.
34.      Price flexibility, like exchange rate policy, brings up an issue
that is both the strength and the weakness of the Pactot its concerted
nature. Clearly, the fact that all the major actors in the Mexican economy
were participants in it has been essential for its success. But the same
concerted approach that made it work initially also makes it difficult to
get out of it with anything less than a comprehensive package approach.
The real wage is a particular stumbling block. The possibility to combine
price decontrol or even exchange rate realignment with, for example,
improved targeted food assistance programs or lower payroll taxes deserves
attention.
35.      The most difficult issue involves the exchange rate.  There is
concern that any significant exchange rate realignment would lead to
matching wage claims and additional pressure on nominal price controls.
Also, in a relatively open capital market like Mexico's, the money supply
is not really under control of the Government under a fixed exchange rate
regime, so the money supply could adjust quickly too. It is possible that
in such circumstances a nominal devaluation would in fact bring about a
real devaluation for only a very short time. As the existing agreement
underlying the PECE very much relies on the nominal exchange rate policy as
announced, this agreement would probably be in jeopardy when the government
deviates from it on such an important policy instrument. This would result
in increased wage- price pressure, which would diminish the impact of any
nominal devaluation on the real exchange rate. A cautious policy would
therefore be to continue the PECE as announced until its expiration date;
but to reassess the exchange rate situation in a few months.
36.      The Government intends to manage the exchange rate so as to be
consistent with the attainment of the balance of payments and inflation
objectives of the program, also taking into account, the behavior of
international reserves, the trade balance, and the real effective exchange
rate. Exchange rate policies will be monitored in the context oi the
proposed IMF's EFF (para. 143).
37.      The particular policy actions to be implemented after July 31 to
consolidate the stabilization effort cannot be fully defined at this time
because they depend to a large extent on the uncertain external economic
environment that the Mexican economy will face in the second half of this
year. However, tne Government has agreed to continue the on-going periodic
consultations with the Bank on the broad outline of its intended economic



- 10 -
policy and a satisfactory assessment of the consistency of the macro-
economic program and satisfactory progress towards more flexible price
adjustments would be a condition for second tranche release.
Consistency of Fiscal Policy
38.      There are two major dimensions to the problems of fiscal
consistency: first, whether the projected fiscal deficit is in line with
other macro-economic targets, in particular for inflation, and availability
of foreign financing. The second is whether the deficit projection is
realistic given likely revenues and expenditures, if the Government is to
play fully its supportive role in the process towards renewed growth. The
deficit is discussed in paras. 39-43. The second dimension is covered in
the subsequent paragraphs (tax revenues, paras. 44-55; public sector
expenditures, paras. 56-58; government planning and budgeting, paras.
59-62; parastatal finances, paras. 63-65; and state and local finances,
paras. 66-69).
Ceiling for the Operational Deficit
39.      The consistency between Government Budget and other macroeconomic
targets, in particular output growth and the rate of inflation can be
studied starting from the Government Budget constraint. There are three
sources to finance public sector expenditure beyond what can be obtained
from the regular tax system: external borrowing, monetization and issue of
domestic interest-bearing debt. Macroeconomic targets and sustainability
imply constraints on each of them. An econometric model has been developed
to assess the macroeconomic framework of Mexico for 1989 and beyond under
different assumptions about those macroeconomic variables. The model's
structure and the results of the simulation are included in Annex IV. The
model focuses on the concept of wfinanceable5 deficit, which is defined as
the deficit which does not require more financing than is compatible with
sustainable external and internal borrowing, and existing targets for
inflation and output growth. The most relevant results are summarized
below.
40.      If there is no foreign finance available, (ze J net foreign debt
increase), an inflation rate of about 15Z and growth of 1.52 in 1989 would
require a reduction in the projected operational budget deficit for 1989,
compared with 1988, of about 4.4Z of GDP, with a corresponding increase in
the already high budget primary surplus of 5.8% of GDP achieved in 1988.
41.      To put this in perspective, this would amount to a wholesale
scrapping of the entire public sector investment program. In fact, the
fiscal effort should be even larger than that; at unchanged policies the
operational deficit is likely to worsen in 1989 unless the international
price of oil remains at current relatively high levels. Measures to cffset
this expected deterioration in the operational deficit would be necessary
in addition to the 4.42 of GDP increase in the budget primary surplus
mentioned above.
42.      If additional foreign financing were available to at least
maintain the real value of the debt, a smaller cut in the operational
deficit would be sufficient. An operational deficit for 1989 of about 22



- 11 -
of GDP (down from about 4.4% of GDP in 1988), is compatible with an
inflation target of 15Z. This implies a 32 current account deficit, or
refinancing of about half of interest payments.
43.      The above results highlight the crucial role of transfers abroad
for macroeconomic consistency. Without renewed access to foreign capital,
Mexico faces a grim fiscal situation in 1989. The 1989 Budget approved by
Congress in late December 1988, implies a primary surplus of 7.3Z of GDP,
including 0.4Z of GDP revenue from asset sales, and an operational deficit
of 2.1% of GDP. At current oil price projections ($14 in 1989) the primary
surplus might in fact reach 7.8% of GDP, including the 0.42 asset sales.
This is in line with the macroeconomic targets for 1989 of about 202
inflation, a current account deficit of 2% of GDP, and 1.5% growth. The
Government has undertaken to exchange views with the Bank periodically on
budget implementation and to take the necessary corrective actions to
ensure the achievement of the macroeconomic program.
Taxation in Mexico
44.      By international standards, Mexico has had and still has a low
ratio of tax revenue to GNP (about 102 of GDP in 1988). In the fifties and
sixties, this was supported by fiscal conservatism that kept the size of
government small. During the strong expansion of the mid-sevent4es and
early eighties, oil revenues and recourse to foreign borrowing made up for
inadequate tax revenues. With both of these sources in steep decline,
improving the tax system has taken on new urgency.
45.      The Mexican tax system has been reformed extensively in the recent
past. As a result, Mexico now has a well-designed value added tax system
(VAT), and a much improved corporate tax structure. Since project
appraisal in October 1988, additional measures have been incorporated in
"Ley de Ingresos" 1989, to remove remaining inconsistencies in corporate
taxes and to raise additional revenues. These measures will result in a
net increase of 0.9 percentage points of GDP in tax revenues in 1989 as
compared with 1988. Nevertheless, in the long term, the potential for
increased revenue from taxation in Mexico is substantial. There seems to
be ample room for improvement in tax administration, and if international
comparisons are anything to go by, a comprehensive personal income tax
reform could substantially increase revenues. For example, in Mexico
personal income taxes constitute only 2% of the GDP whereas countries like
Chile and Turkey obtain two or three times that with similar rates. Such a
reform should focus on increasing coverage, simplification, greatly reduced
deductions and administrative improvements. In the short term, revamping
of the property tax offers possibility of significant revenue improvement.
The Property Tax
46.      There is an extensive system of property taxation in Mexico,
covering both rural and urban areas. The tax is collected by states but
transferred to municipalities. Revenues from it have declined
precipitously over the last decade, however. This is one of the main
reasons (the other being incomplete cost recovery on municipal services)
why own sources of revenue of state and local governments have fallen by
nearly 702 in real terms over the last six years. At issue is not so much



- 12 -
raising rates, but updating of cadastral register and values, reversal of
the real erosion in assessment values and improvement in collection effort.
As to the first, BANOBRAS has offered an update of the cadastral system.
This has not been pursued by the municipalities that are by constitution
responsible for this tax. The problem lies in the current relationship
between the municipalities and the states. Municipalities need state
approval for expenditures and rely on revenue sharing with the state to
finance those expenditures. Therefore, municipal mayors have little
incentive to raise an unpopular property tax. Moreover, non-compliance and
inadequate coverage also result in poor revenue yields. This problem
arises because, under the preseat arrangements, the state is the collecting
agency for the property tax but does not retain it and, therefore, it has
little incentive to increase collections. A reform that provides more
incentives to the states to collect this tax, for example through a sharing
arrangement, is advisable.
The Value Added Tax
47.      The VAT is collected by states and shared with the Federal
Government. VAT collection has improved over the past two years, mostly
because of administrative changes that gave the states, who administer this
tax, stronger incentives to enforce compliance and improve collection.
This was done by reducing unconditional revenue sharing in return for a
share in the VAT collected by the states themselves. Introducing incentive
compatibility in tax collection is good policy. However, there remain
problems of poor collection of the VAT in metropolitan areas, especially
the Federal District, because of administrative difficulties. Improvements
in collection could yield substantial revenues and reduce dependence of
metropolitan areas on federal transfers.
The Corporate Income Tax
48.      Several measures have been taken with respect to the corporate
income tax since project appraisal in October 1988. Rates are being
gradually reduced to accord with international levels relevant to Mexico.
The rate has gone down from 39.2Z in 1988 to 37% in 1989 and will equal the
U.S rate of 35% in 1991. The five year transition period to fully adjust
taxable bases for inflation has been eliminated, which substantially
simplifies procedures reducing compliance costs. Dividends are no longer
deductible at the corporate level. This reduces evasion at the individual
level while maintaining the overall rate on dividends at around 40% (see
discussion on personal income taxes below). Dividends paid out to
residents and nonresidents are to be treated equally, which further
strengthens the competitive environment in Mexico. A 22 minimum tax on
assets, creditable to the income tax, has been introduced, which helps to
fight evasion and broadens the base. To reduce metropolitan congestion,
the immediate depreciation allowance on investment in the three main
metropolitan areas has been reduced to 602 of the general rule. Consistent
with the Bank's appraisal mission recommendations, these measures further
streamline corporate taxes in Mexico, removing outstanding loopholes and
inconsistencies.



- 13 -
The Personal Income Tax
49.      Following project appraisal, several changes have been introduced
in the personal income tax. The maximum rate has been reduced from 502 to
402. The personal exemption equivalent to one minimum wage have been
replaced with a tax credit emounting to a 10 of three times the minimum
wage. Furthermore, an additional 102 tax is to be levied on dividends
received by individuals to raise the effective tax rate on dividends (after
corporate tax) to 412. While these steps are in the right direction, there
remain problems with the personal income tax system, treatment of special
tax bases (BETs), and exemptions.
50.      The problem of special tax bases, BETs, seriously affects the
personal income tax base. BETs for administrative ease, defined on an
annual basis, can be easily included in the tax base. However, legally
sanctioned BETS, which result in the exclusion of the transport and
agriculture sector from the income tax base, are a major source of revenue
loss and are much harder to deal with. It is clear that such BETs are huge
loopholes in the tax system. A reform program could include three major
steps: step I would involve identifying incomes and thereby bringing the
sector into the tax base, step II would identify deductions, and finally,
implementation would take place in step III.
51.      There remain a large number of exemptions in the Mexican personal
income tax code that contribute to a shrinking of the tax base. Among them
is the exemption of fringe benefits in labor income. This is a serious
loophole but its complete elimination would be politically difficult.
Tax Administration
52.      Fiscal austerity during the past several years has lead to an
increasing deterioration of the capacity to administer taxes. Budget cuts,
public employment freeze and deteriorating quality of technical and
professional skills, have seriously affected tax managers' ability to carry
out their institutional mandates. Despite these constraints, the
authorities have been working hard to redesign administrative operations to
improve efficiency through the continued implementation of three ongoing,
interrelated, programst (i) decentralization of computerized registration
and collection of income taxes, (ii) automation of custom taxes operations
and, (iii) strengthening of the campaign against evasion. The programs aim
to update and modernize tax administration which has remained backward due
to technological lags and increasing inability to deal with the growing
evasion and collecLion problems. An Action Plan, consisting of measures
directed towards improving internal evaluation and strengthening the
decentralized systems already in operation has been prepared and will be
supported under the proposed technical assistance component (Annex VI).
53.      The program to decentralize income tax registration and its
computerization was launched in 1988 and has been advancing at a fast pace.
The program consists of transferring highly centralized data processing
from the Subsecretaria de Ingresos in Mexico city to regional levels of tax
administration. The resulting proximity to tax payers will enable
authorities to immediately respond to noncompliance, leading to a tight
compliance environment. Automated operations have already been



- 14-
decentralized by installing 2232 computers in 273 locations throughout
Mexico with software that enables registration and follow-up of individual
transactions at the local level. The next stage is to create an
interconnected automated supervisory and monitoring ring, with somewhat
larger computers, that would enable the authorities to adequately follow-up
decentralized operations. Given the nature of activities involved and the
current possibilities of abuse, such improvements are essential. It is
expected that the implementation of supervision and monitoring systems for
the entire Mexican territory will be completed during 1989.
54.      For improving the administration of customs taxes, the Directorate
General of Customs has recently devised an action plan for the processing
and control of substantially increased number of foreign trade transactions
(which increased from 2 million to 5 million between 1982 and 1988). The
Action Plan envisages two stages: (i) administrative adjustments, and
(ii) automation. These stages will be implemented in 18 months starting
March 1, 1989. The administrative adjustments are expected to be completed
in six months, while automation will take about 15 months.
55.      Finally, strict compliance will require more than the improvements
in administrative and collection operations outlined above, laudable as
they are. The de la Madrid administration launched a vigorous "crusade
against evasion" in 1988. The measures included doubling of the audit task
force as well as incentives to motivate taxpayers to meet obligations. The
present Administration has reinforced this strategy with severe penalties
for evasion. It is also studying, in more detail, the nature of tax
evasion and the use of automated data processing to strengthen current
capacity of the task force on evasion. Training programs are planned to
improve working of the task force.  The authorities plan to develop a
specialized system of internal audit to maintain quality and minimize the
high risk of corruption.
Public Sector Expenditures
56.      Since 1982, a major retrenchment of public expenditure has
occurred of a dimension unprecedented in Mexican terms, if not for most
developing countries. Non-interest spending declined by 36Z in real terms
(from 35.4? of GDP in 1982 to 22.6? of GDP by 1988, Annex I, Tables 2 and
3). However, the composition of cutbacks was, perhaps, not ideal from the
standpoint of growth. Real investment expenditures, particularly in
agriculture, oil, and basic infrastructure, were cut more deeply -- by
roughly 43? in real terms -- (from 10.22 of GDP in 1982 to 4.4? of GDP in
1988) whereas other current spending declined by 28Z (from 25.2? of GDP in
1982 to 18.2? of GDP in 1988). As a result, infrastructural bottlenecks in
areas such as roads, communications, urban services, and skilled manpower
availability could impose severe constraints on the sustainability of
growth as the economy sseks to recover the 4-52 per annum growth rates
considered necessary to create enough jobs while permitting depressed
living standards to recover. Moreover, considering the sharp real cuts in
public wages, and smaller, but still sizeable reductions in outlays on
current goods and services, the adjustments in carrent spending have also
had adverse effects on future growth potential, since capable civil
servants are now beginning to abandon public service in growing numbers and
the productivity of those who stay is being hampered by the scarcity of



-15 -
even basic materials needed to carry out their duties -- paper,
photocopiers, telephones, gasoline for rural extension vehicles, medical
supplies, etc.
57.      Clearly, there is a need to upgrade real public wages selectively
to retain competitiveness with the private sector for vitally needed skills
as well as to raise budgets for vitally needed equipment. But a real
increase in non-interest current spending sufficient to fund significant
near-term improvement in wages and working conditions seems unlikely. On
the other hand, a significant improvement in labor productivity could be
achieved through an orderly reduction in the size of the public work force
accompanied by a reallocation of current spending toward complementary
purchases of material and supporting services. Higher productivity would
allow for improved wages and benefits consistent with fiscal discipline.
58.      The restoration of growth will require a gradual increase in
annual public sector investment by 1994. Major real investment increases
are required in agriculture, ecology, transportation, energy and the social
sectors. The Base Case macro-economic scenario (para. 103) assumes an
average of 8.92 real increase per annum in Government investment during
1989-94. As a share of GDP, public investment would rise from 4.42 of GDP
in 1988 to an average of around 6.02, which in relative terms would bring
non-oil public investment back up to the moderate levels of the late 1960s.
Government Planning and Budgeting
59.      The deep and sustained cuts in public investment since 1983 meant
that few new projects have been initiated over the past six years, with the
result that a steady erosion of the institutional capacity to plan,
prepare, monitor, and evaluate projects has taken place, both in the
Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting (SPP) and in the line ministries
managing sectoral investments. In addition, in the absence of a multi-year
budgeting system, the Government was lacking an essential instrument in the
past asexenio' for introducing efficient and balanced cut backs in public
investment levels. As a result, it was difficult to protect ongoing
programs in such a manner as to minimize the economic cost of postponing
the completion of new investments initiated earlier and deferring
maintenance expenditures.
60.      The proposed FSL would support a blend of short and medium-term
plans, consistent with the Government's aims for strengthening investment
planning in three key areas. To strengthen the screening of public sector
projects and to introduce a multi-year investment programming, the
Government would carry out an agreed Action Program designed to develop
manuals, setting economic, financial and technical criteria for sector
specific investment evaluation and establishing a central monitoring
function. Terms of reference, satisfactory to the Bank, for the required
study would be submitted to the Bank by September 1, 1989 and the study
would commence not later than October 15 and be completed by March 15,
1990.   The Government would, by April 15, 1990, provide a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Bank, for adopting measures to improve public
investment evaluation and programming procedures. The Government would
make an effort so that initial measures to improve the existing system can
already be undertaken in the budgeting year 1990.



- 16 -
61.      It is expected that institutional measures, required to strengthen
the monitoring for all public investments would complement the proposed
actions. The new system of multi-year investment budgeting would help
separate projects into "core" priority investments which would be protected
from fluctuations in budgetary availabilities, and secondary projects which
would be subject to interruption.
62.      Since loan appraisal, the Government has introduced, as part of
the 1989 budget, substsntive changes in budgeting and funding procedures
for externally financed investments involving the Government's financial
agents and central departments. The new budgeting and payment procedures
for externally funded projects may bring about a reduction in the executing
agency's approved investment budget ceiling, if disbursements from the
external loan do not materialize to meet the agreed levels of project
expenditures. Given the already depressed levels of budget allocations,
this is an effective measure to promote investment project implementation.
The Bank has reviewed these arrangements and found them to be fully
consistent with earlier Bank recommendations for facilitating the
implementation of externally funded projects. Agreement has been reached
that the Government will monitor implementation of the new system, exchange
views with the Bank before August 31, 1989, and discuss any further
measures that would be introduced to achieve the objectives of improved
project implementation and disbursement performance.
Strengthening Parastatal Finance
63.      A review of public sector prices suggests the need to adopt
different criteria to judge their appropriateness, depending on whether
their outputs are internationally tradeable goods or not. Prices of public
non-oil manufactured tradeables (coal, iron ore,sugar, fibers,
petrochemicals, fertilizer, and steel) fell as much as 28? below prices of
comparable international goods during the first quarter of 1987, when a
rapid real depreciation of the exchange rate was taking place, but moved
closer to international prices after introduction of the Pacto, reflecting
domestic price adjustments of from 22-852 during December 1987 - February
1988. As of July 1988, the domestic prices of these tradeables were about
10 below international levels, a comparatively modest divergence, but, by
March 1989 the average price lag on tradeables had increased slightly.
64.      On the other hand, the key question for non-tradeable parastatal
prices (power, water, telecommunications, etc.), is whether they are
adequate to cover long run marginal costs. While detailed case-by-case
studies would be needed to determine these costs for different parastatals,
selected comparisons made during mid-1988 of some major utilities prices
(using 1970 base real tariff levels) suggested potentially serious
shortfalls, a situation unlikely to have changed materially since then.
65.      In fiscal terms, the parastatals as a group still absorb a
proportionately excessive share of federal resources to cover operating
costs. The drain of transfers to cover parastatal losses has diminished
from over 5s of GDP in 1981 to an estimated 2.1? in 1988. However, some
recovery in real parastatal investment is likely to be needed in the future
if they are to remain viable enterprises. Moreover, the bulk of the
investment that does take place is currently financed through a combination



- 17 -
of borrowing and federal government capital grants. Considering all that,
some further upward adjustment of relative parastatal prices beyond those
introduced during late 1988 and early 1989, would appear to be required in
the not-too-distant future. During the negotiation of the proposed Public
Enterprise Reform Loan and in connection with agreements under other
existing Bank operations, the Government has developed an Action Plan to
bring about the gradual increases of real parastatal prices needed to
reduce the need for budgetary transfers among the five major enterprises
which. currently absorb more than 901 of total transfers to parastatals.
State and Local Government Finances
66.      States and municipalities have benefitted enormously from a
sweeping tax reform in 1980 which consolidated a number of tax bases shared
by local, state, and federal governments into a single revenue sharing
system. The efficiencies of consolidation have resulted in a significant
increase in revenue sharing which now constitutes roughly 11% of federal
revenues and over 602 of state and local income.
67.      Unfortunately, as their revenues from tax sharing increased, state
and local governments' cwn tax-raising efforts have seriously deteriorated.
For example, in the four years preceding the 1980 tax reform, real estate
tax collections by the states increased by roughly 29Z in real terms, in
line with a cumulative GDP increase of 27Z, whereas during the four years
following this reform, they declined by 61! even though GDP grew by a
cumulative St. Although data on municipal and state finance beyond 1984 is
not yet available, the prospects for future property tax collections may
have worsened as a result of the decision to increase the share of real
estate taxes transferred to local governments from 15% to 1002, while
leaving the responsibility for collection in the hands of the states. This
is because the states now have little incentive to put in the effort
required to ensure compliance and adequate coverage. In the first year of
this new experiment, property tax collections declined by 40Z, as the
states appear to have largely lost interest in enforcing its collection.
At present, the ratio of property tax collections to GDP in Mexico is by
far the lowest among the larger Latin American countries at a mere 0.12,
compared to 0.32 in Brazil, 0.4% in Colombia, 0.7Z in Peru, and 1.5% in
Argentir.a. To improve collection in i4exico, a new sharing formula needs to
be developed that rewards the states for better collection performance in
t'le same way as the VAT formula does. The Government shares these
concerns, and as condition for second tranche release it will prepare an
Action Program for the gradual reduction of non-matching grants to the
states, so as to create incentives for them to increase their own tax-
raising efforts.
68.      User fee collections tells a similar story.  In the four years
prior to the revenue sharing reform (1980), collections remained
approximately unchanged in real terms, whereas from 1980 to 1984, they
declined by one quarter, with charges for water and sewerage declining by
40! in real terms. This was about one-third larger than the decline in
real wages, and eight times larger than the fall in real per capita
national consumption.



- 18 -
69.      The deterioration in user charges and property taxes appears to
have been most serious in the Federal District, where non-tax revenues
declined by 72 annually, compared to 5.12 annually in the other
municipalities. The District's overall deficit in 1988 is estimated at
about 0.52 of GDP and it is likely to increase unless increases in real
user charges and taxes take place. Additional revenues could be generated
by revamping property taxes adopting a three year plan for increasing
assessed values. The authorities are also considering unification of real
property values used for claiming depreciation while calculating income
taxes, with those used for the local real estate tax. The preparation of
an Action Program for the increase in the District's self generated revenue
by at least 102 in real terms in the 1990 Budget would be a condition for
Second Tranche Release.
C. Financial Sector Reform
70.      An efficient financial system could help the Government's
restructuring efforts by ensuring that credit, and hence investments and
other resources, are put to their most productive use. Mexico had an
extremely distorted financial system with a patchwork of regulations and
controls imposed over the years to influence various economic activities.
The government recognized that a comprehensive reform of the financial
sector was needed and has started an extensive reform process. This
process has been accelerated, in particular, concsrning the commercial
banks and brokerage houses since the discussions with the Bank on this
sector commenced in October 1988.
71.      The external debt crisis in 1982 required the large, but now
shrinking, budget deficit to be funded domestically; but the problems in
Mexico's financial system did not arise from the budget deficit alone.
Over-regulation of commercial banks through interest rate controls, credit
limits and forced lending schemes (described below) implicitly taxed
commercial banks, causing the private sector to turn to less regulated
intermediaries. Brokerage firms, acting through the mutual funds they
managed, became important intermediaries. Commercial banks sought to
retain their business by moving many transactions off their balance sheets
with the authorities' tacit approval. Such attempts at circumventing
misguided controls subverted prudential regulations. Past financial crises
elsewhere have shown the economic damage that could result from the
collapse of large imprudent financial intermediaries. In addition, the
development banks and trust funds must have clearer roles and be made to
operate more efficiently. Since project appraisal, the Government has
implemented sweeping structural changes in the financial sector to address
the problems discussed above. The following paragraphs discuss the
institutional structure of the sector, the main issues at the time of
project appraisa: and the Government's response in the context of the
financial sector reform supported by the proposed FSL.
The Institutional Structure
72.      Mexico's financial system now consists of a central bank (Banco de
Mexico), 20 commercial banks ("bancos multiples"), 8 development banks
(nbancos de desarrollo"), 21 government trust funds ("fideicomisos") and 25
privately owned brokerage firms ("casas de bolsas"). Other financial



- 19 -
institutions like insurance companies ("aseguradoras"), factoring companies
(lafianzadoras*), leasing companies ("arrendadoras"), credit unions
(Ouniones de credito") and currency exchanges ("casas de cambio') are less
important. Their development in recent years is briefly described below.
73.      Commercial banks have been univers"l ("Bancos Multiples") since
1976, and can both lend and invest in equit0es. Many banks operated as
part of industrial groups lending to, and investing in the equity of,
related firms. Banks with net foreign curru.ncy liabilities lost much of
their capital when the peso was sharply devalued in 1982. Inflation
exacer'ated the situation because bank interest rates were controlled and
slow to change thus reducing their financial margins while their loan
portfolio worsened. Many banks were insolvent when they were nationalized
in September 198Z.
74.      The Government then took several steps to improve the financial
system. Several of the 60 financial institutions2 were merged to form the
present 18 (excluding the small foreign bank and the union-owned one) 1.nd
bank holdings in related non-banking firms were sold. Many failing
commercial banks were restored to solvenz- and their capital increased
since 1984. A fund financed by a 211000 annual levy on bank assets, Fondo
de Apoyo Preventivo or FONAPRE, was instituted So restructure banks and
help the less efficient enes adopt better technology. In 1987, 342 of the
commercial banks' (non-voting, class 'B") equity was sold to the private
sector and the government reiterated its intention that commercial banks be
run independently, responding to market forces. Laws governing money
markets were enacted to help delineate contracts, and distorted credits
were reduced.
75.      Other sigrtificant problems, however, remained.  Commercial banks,
the financial sector's most important intermediaries, had been forced to
finance the Govermient and other favored sectors. Banks' adm!nistrative
costs are higher thlan those abroad but even within Mexico, the
administrative costs of the multi-regional banks are almost twice as high
as the three large banks. Development banks and trusts rival commercial
banks in size but }nostly fund the government, rather than development.
76.      The 6 national banks now account for 76.42 of total commercial
banking assets (with 62.1% in the big three), the 7 multi-regional banks
for 16.4% and the remaining 5 regional banks for 7.2Z. Commercial bank
capital is now 3.tZ of total assets (the requirement is 3.5% of a defined
group of assets), small by international standards but higher than the 1.6%
in 1984.
77.      The 8 development banks together rival commercial banks in total
assets.  They focus more on lending than on deposit gathering (less than 92
of their assets are funded by deposits) because over two thirds of their
funds are from abrcad.  The 4 largest development banks account for 91.2%
of total developrment banking assets, with NAFIN alone accounting for 432.
2 Of the 60 institutions, 35 were universal banks, 10 were deposit banks
("bancos de deposito"), 9 were finance companies ("sociedades
financieras"), 5 were venture capital firms ("sociedades de
capitalizacion") and a mortgage bank ("banco hipotecario").



- 20 -
The 21 government financial trust funds lend through commercial or
development banks ("2nd tier" operations) but the 7 largest trusts total
barely 52 of the assets of the banking system.
78.      Many of the 25 privately owned brokerage firms are run by former
bankers who moved after bank nationalization. Brokers trade equities,
bonds, and commercial paper. Brokers are allowed to underwrite securities
but lack the capital of commercial Sanks who therefore dominate this
business. Brokers have become extremely active, especially after 1976 when
the government began borrowing through treasury bills (CETES) which
accounts for 68.62 of government securities outstanding in August 1988.
Brokers manage several of the 90 mutual funds ("sociedades de inversion").
There are now 300,000 investors in these funds, up from 19,000 in 1982, but
below its peak of 390,603 in 1987. The stock market crash of 1987 caused
investors to flee and made several brokers insolvent. The larger non-
financial firms also lend surplus funds to each other, but little is known
about this active intercompany market.
Financial Sector Issues
79.      When discussions on the proposed loan began in October 1988, the
main issues in Mexico's financial system were: (1) extremely limited and
misallocated commercial banking credit to the private sector;
(2) inefficient financial intermediation and insufficient price competition
because of deposit rate controls; (3) unclear roles for development banks
and trust funds and an inadequate control of subsidies and transfers; and
(4) supervision and prudential regulations of banks and brokers. The
Mexican authorities have begun reforming the financial system, beginning
with the commercial banks. These issues and the Government's financial
sector reforms supported by this loan are discussed below.
C.omercial Banking Restrictions
80.      Commercial bank lending to the private sector had been severely
restricted until October 1988. In addition to the usual reserve
requirement (102 of deposits or "captacion"), commercial banks were forced
to lend a large part of their funds to the Government (31Z), to development
banks (102), to housing and other favored segments of the economy (7.82),
and to development activities (16.22) at different, but below market,
interest rates. Lending at different interest rates could misallocate
credit, and hence resources in the economy. In addition, under the "Pacto"
lending to the private sector had been limited to 85Z of its December 1987
nominal value, with any excess going to the Government at less than market
interest rates. Consequently, direct commercial bank lending to the public
sector, excluding reserve requirements, had grown from less than 3.62 of
assets in 1980 to over 35.3Z in July 1988. Commercial bank lending to the
private sector, meanwhile, had fallen from 43.5% in 1980 to about 302 in
July 1988.
81.      There were also controls on commercial bank deposits.  Interest on
deposits were set nationally, preventing the more efficient banks from
growing by competing for funds. No interest could be paid on checking
accounts, whose aggregate balances fell from over 18.12 of total commercial
banking assets in 1980 to 6.42 in mid 1988. The interest on savings



- 21 -
accounts were set at levels far below the market, reducing these balances
from 14.9? of assets in 1980 to 4.51 in mid 1988. The low rates on savings
deposits are regressive when savings depositors are poor and
unsophisticated. The interest on time deposits, however, were set at close
to market rates and such deposits, predominantly under 3 months maturity,
rose from about 37.5? of assets in 1980 to over 50.5? in July 1988. Total
deposits declined from 25.72 of GDP in 1982 to 20.5? in 1985 but later rose
to 23.3? in 1987 while their total assets have fluctuated around 40Z.
82.      Brokers, unlike commercial banks, were free of such controls and
could therefore offer a lower spread, channelling more of the funds
remaining for the private sector. Brokers may not accept deposits but they
manage trusts and mutual funds. Investors may also have discretionary
brokerage accounts and although brokers are not supposed to guarantee
investment returns, many are alleged to. These funds are lent to the
private sector through commercial paper and to the government through
treasury bills. Brokers thus became important intermediaries, giving rise
to three concerns. First, credit could be misallocated if the paper of
smaller firms, even if profitable, was harder to place. Even so, brokers
alleviated the harmful effects on the economy of the controls on banks.
The second concern was that implicit promises to investors could not be
kept if returns were low and capital was impaired. This too was because
controls on banks forced those who would normally deposit in banks invested
through brokers. The third concern was that trading on margin (i.e.
borrowing against securities) had become common and delayed settlements or
postdated checks for payment allowed margin limits to be evaded. This flaw
was exposed in the aftermath of the 1987 stock market crash and better
supervision is therefore warranted. There have been some widely publicized
arrests of some prominent financiers accused of having violated the
securities market laws.
83.      Commercial banks sought to retain private sector business by
circumventing the forced lendings through off-balance sheet activities.
They opened trusts or investment funds into which excess funds from many
bank deposits (e.g. Ocuenta maestra") were swept daily, reducing the amount
subject to controls. Prudential regulations are undermined when commercial
banks move their business off their books through such instruments as non-
traditional bankers acceptances. Not all bank borrowers could obtain funds
in this fashion, and those that could not were penalized.
Commercial Banking Reforms Since October 1988
84.      The Government began tackling these problems in October 1988.  The
timing was propitious. Before, the lend'ing rates of many forced lending
schemes were pegged to a commercial bank deposit rate index which lagged
the rapid decline in market rates. This unusual, albeit temporary,
interest rate structure converted the effective "tax" on commercial bank
intermediation which the controls implied, into an unintended but
substantial subsidy (about 4.9Z of commercial banking assets, or 22 of GDP)3
which the government could ill afford. By eliminating the controls on
commercial banks, the government could reduce its borrowing costs
3 These estimates are calculated by multiplying the difference between the
market interest rate and that paid on forced lending by the peso amounts
involved, translated on a per cent of assets and of GDP.



- 22 -
immediately while simultaneously ridding commercial banks of what would
normally have been an onerous tax (of about 2.22 of commercial banking
assets or 0.7Z of GDP).
85.      These changes were made in two steps.  In the first step,
commercial banks were essentially allowed to gather uncontrolled deposits
which displaced the controlled system. The second step was in April 1989,
when most forced lending and all interest rate controls on the older
deposits were removed, thereby freeing the commercial banking system.
86.      Until October 1988, the off-balance sheet commercial bank
activities through unorthodox deposits ("aceptaciones bancarias'), though
exempt from credit limits and forced lending, were not to exceed a bank's
capital. Bankers acceptances in Mexico ("aceptaciones bancarias') are not
the same as in other countries; and even in Mexico, the instrument has
changed over the years. Normally, a bank Oaccepts' the credit risk of a
commercial firm's obligation; but in Mexico a bank may accept its own
obligation ("aceptaciones non-tradicional"). Although such acceptances are
really bank deposits by another name, they are legally distinct and so free
from the forced lending and interest regulations that apply to other
deposits.
87.      In October 1988, the limit on unorthodox deposits was lifted, but
such deposits had to be included in banks' balance sheets, thus subjecting
them to capital adequacy requirements. The newer deposits, however,
remained free of the credit limits on lending to the private sector,
reserve requirements and forced lending schemes. The allocation of credit
have improved considerably. Although 302 of these funds have still to be
lent to the government, doing so through tradeable instruments ensures that
market rates are paid, making the government's costs more transparent.
88.      These new deposits began to quickly displace the (mostly time)
deposits in commercial banks still subject to the plethora of controls. By
December 1988, the new deposits accounted for over two thirds of total
deposits. The limit on commercial bank lending to the private sector,
which the newer deposits were exempt from anyway, was eliminated in January
1989. From early April 1989, all interest rate controls and forced lending
schemes on the older, much reduced, deposits were also eliminated. The
commercial banking system has thus been freed, even of reserve
requirements, and all that remains is the uniform 302 holdings of tradeable
interest paying government paper.
89.      This switch to unregulated deposits has encouraged greater price
competition between commercial banks for funds. Each bank may now set the
rates and other terms on their deposits and loans. The 302 holding of
government paper could be construed as a liquidity ratio; but banks are
better placed to decide liquidity levels and composition and any fears of
insolvency are better assuaged through increased capital requirements.
Considering commercial banks' meagre capital (about 3.4Z of assets),
deposits of very short maturity, loan portfolios of dubious quality, and
the need for better banking supervision, the forced holdings of qualified
tradeable instruments (only CETES, BONDES and Bank of Mexico deposits now
qualify) is of less immediate concern.



- 23 -
90.      The Mexican constitution only allows state owned banks to accept
*deposits" from the public. Although brokers may not accept deposits, they
may manage investment funds without promising a return. Client accounts
with brokers and in commercial banks may now be electronically linked,
however, allowing funds to be automatically transferred between them. This
allows brokers and their funds to offer a comparable range of services,
including check writing, and compete with banks. Such competition for
funds would ensure that the more efficient institutions, whether banks or
non-banks, would grow thereby reducing the costs of intermediation. So the
substantial changes necessary to increase competition between commercial
banks and with non-banks are well underway.
Prudential Regulations and Supervision
91.      Prudential regulations and supervision become especially important
when there is greater competition in the financial markets. Although there
are no tangible improvements in banking supervision yet, the authorities
are aware of the dangers and are studying the issue. They bave sought the
Bank's technical assistance and the proposed loan will support these
efforts.
92.      Four agencies supervise the Mexican financial system: the Comision
Nacional Bancaria y de Seguros (CNBS) oversees commercial and development
banks and their trust funds; Comision Nacional de Valores (CNV) oversees
the brokers and their investment funds; Banco de Mexico functions as the
central bank; and the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP) also
supervises the development banks, makes any budget transfers necessary. As
the government is the controlling shareholder of the commercial banks, the
SHCP also oversees the commercial banks. FONAPRE, the fund which finances
bank restructuring, is administered by a technical committee of
representatives from the Banco de Mexico, SHCP and CNBS. The legal
framework for supervision is set by the Ley de Sociedades Nacionales de
Credito, the Ley del Mercado de Valores y de las Sociedades de Inversion,
the Auxiliary Credit Organisations Law and the Banco de Mexico Law.
93.      The CNBS classifies loans as either current or past due.  When
loan servicing is delayed beyond 15 days, they are classified as past due
and if they are not serviced in an additional 15 days, the CNBS reviews the
specific loan. If, despite the non-payment, the borrower is deemed a good
prospect, the bank is asked to refinance the loan. Furthermore, even if
the borrower is not refinanced, only that particular loan is considered
past due and the other loans of the same borrower are considered current.
Even when loans are classified as past due, the CNBS has the discretion to
decide whether banks should provision for these possible losses (ostensibly
to prevent banks from writing off these losses against their taxable
income). The classification of bank loans is subjective and probably does
not accurately reflect the quality of the portfolio. In 1987, for example,
all banks' write-offs, depreciation and amortization were a mere 0.46Z of
assets (or 1.19? of income or 0.70% of loans outstanding). This appears
unrealistically low considering that four multi-regional commercial banks
in the system are being aided by FONAPRE.
94.      Loans should be classified by default risk and interest accrual,
or the roll over of bad loans, should not be permitted. The four



- 24 -
supervisory agencies should be better coordinated and share information. A
full public disclosure of the financial state of each bank would help
ensure prudence. The Government is reviewing the current system in light
of the on-going financial sector reform program and a satisfactory action
program to improve the regulation and supervision of banks and brokers
would be a condition for second tranche release. This action program is
expected to address, among others, the following areas: (a) a system to
classify loan portfolios according to default risks; (b) stringent
provisioning for loan losses; (c) detailed public disclosure of each bank's
financial state; and (d) a better system to supervise both banks and
brokers.
Develop,ent Banks and Trusts
95.      A separate problem in the financial sector relates to development
banks and trust funds (Ofideicomisos'), which rival commercial banks in
size. There were three concerns at the time of project appraisal. First,
the roles of each of the many development banks and trust funds were not
clear and there was considerable overlap and duplication in their
functions, contributing to administrative inefficiencies. Second,
subsidies to final borrowers through cheap loans were not as tightly
controlled or carefully targeted as they should be. Third, transfers to
some of these entities, BANRURAL and ANAGSA in particular, were large and
encourage wasteful practices. The proposed FSL will support the
implementation of a comprehensive set of actions to address these issues.
96.      The 8 development banks and 21 government trust funds have
overlapping activities and operate inefficiently. Some are second tier
institutions lending through commercial banks, but others like BANRURAL
have a large branch network. It is unclear, given the extensive commercial
banking system, if development banks need a branch network; and if they do,
how it could be made to operate more efficiently. Some trust funds are
managed by development banks and there are conflicting interests that may
result in self-serving rather than efficient decisions. Furthermore,
development banks have some commercial operations which are better clearly
separated from development activities. Development banks have lent
substantial amounts to the government and to public enterprises (84Z of
their loans are to the public sector with 582 to the Federal government
alone), raising doubts about their development role.
97.      The Government must carefully define the purpose of each
institution. Defining the role of each development bank and trust fund
would reduce their overlap and number, thereby improving their
organization. Trust funds operating through commercial banks could
efficiently channel external funds, provide long-term credit unavailable
elsewhere in the market, or subsidize credit to carefully targeted groups,
thus making retail operations by development banks unnecessary.
98.      Subsidies and budget transfers are two distinct concepts.
Subsidies refer to what the final borrower obtains through loans at less
than market rates. Transfers, on the other hand, refer to funds going to
the development banks and trusts, either to finance current or capital
expenditures. In the long run, subsidies could only be provided from
transfers; but over any short period, the two could (and do) differ
considerably and it is important to control transfers as well.



- 25 -
99.      Transfers to the developmernt banks and trust funds may take
several forms. Uncollected loans result in subsidies far greater than
those implicit in low interest rates. Eventually, the losses have to be
recognized reducing the bank's capital. Periodic infusions of capital by
the Government are therefore non-transparent transfers. Equity in
development banks and trust funds should be kept low, as it is all too easy
to treat it as a zero interest rate loan. Such current and capital
transfers are often substantially augmented by the government taking over
the debts of the entities.
100.     Total transfers to development banks and trusts in 1988 were
Ps.2,293 billion or 0.54? of GDP. The agricultural development bank
primarily serving small farmers, BANRURAL, accounted for the lion's share
with Ps.1,908 b. (or US$ 843 m.). The public agricultural insurance
company, ANAGSA with whom BANRURAL borrowers are forced to insure their
crops, accounted for Ps.317.5 b. (or US$140 m.) of the transfers. Over
half the transfers to BANRURAL in 1987 and 1988 were through the government
assuming its obligations. Transfers to BANRURAL could be substantially
reduced without jeopardizing credit to small farmers without access to
commercial banks. BANRURAL should stop subsidized credits to commercial
farmers and commercial nejidatarios" whose incomes are well above the
poverty definition. It should also substantially reduce its operating
costs, and improve loan evaluation to curtail future loan losses.
101.     The losses in ANAGSA could be similarly substantially reduced.
The level of losses on insured crops suggests fraud. ANAGSA should avoid
this and the moral hazard by only insuring against specific natural acts
such as hail, flooding, frost or hurricanes with accurate actuarial
estimates. Crop insurance for BANRURAL borrowers should not be compulsory,
as now. In addition, ANAGSA could reinsure groups of producers, who insure
their crops on a mutual basis, using area-wide regional yields to
statistically estimate probable losses. As condition for Second Tranche
release, the Government will prepare an Action Program, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the redefinition of the role of each Trust Fund and Development
Bank, including in particular a review of the operations and finances of
NAPIN, BANCOMEXT and BANOBRAS, and restructuring of BANRURAL and ANAGSA, so
that their efficiency of operations will improve, and fiscal transfers
through BANRURAL and ANAGSA would be substantially reduced. In the
meantime, the Government has agreed that the transfers to BANRURAL and
ANAGSA will not exceed the budgeted level for 1989 (0.27? of GDP), except
debt assumptions that are part of the agreed upon financial restructuring
agreements.
Interest Rate Subsidies
102.     Until recently, the subsidies to final borrowers varied
uncontrollably with domestic interest rates, inflation and external market
conditions because development banks and trust funds lent at fixed nominal
interest rates. Furthermore, these fixed rates were often lower than the
deposit rates of commercial banks, allowing arbitrage. Since project
appraisal, the Government has taken actions to eliminate most interest rate
subsidies. The new policy is that new loans through Development Banks and
Trust Funds will not carry any interest subsidies, except for those to low-
income producers in agriculture (PBIs). Therefore, average subsidy level



- 26 -
will decline as existing sub-loans mature. Subsidies will be measured in
comparison to the average cost of funds (CPP). Subsidies to PBIs will not
exceed, as a percentage of GDP, the level of 1988.
D. Prospects for the Medium-Term and Financing Requirements
103.     The fundamental assumption for a most likely macroeconomic
scenario is that the process of fiscal adjustment is adhered to, and that
the policy actions discussed before in the areas of macroeconomic
management and financial sector are implemented, as well as the actions in
industrial deregulation and parastatal reform supported by the proposed
Industrial Sector Policy and Public Enterprise Reform Loans. This scenario
assumes moderate (around 22 of GDP) current account deficits over the
1989-94 period. Oil prices are assumed to remain at the estimated 1989
ievel in real terms over the whole period (US$14/bbl). Total investment is
expected to increase gradually, reaching about 25Z of GDP by 1994. This
investment behavior will lead to a gradual resumption of GDP growth, which
would climb slowly from about 2? in 1989 to about 52 by 1994 (Annex V.
Pages 1-4).
104.     This Base scenario assumes that the necessary external financing
will, indeed, be forthcoming. If this external financing were not
available, a substantial further adjustment in the public sector would
become necessary or current net transfers to external creditors would have
to be reduced. If public investment were to take the burden of the
additional fiscal adjustment, it would have to be reduced from the already
very low level of 1988. Other macroeconomic benefits of a satisfactory
financing package, such as lower domestic real interest rates, would not
materialize, with accompanying negative impact on private investment.
Output growth under this scenario would slow down, remaining below 21
through 1994. The slowdown in growth has a perverse multiplier effect on
the need for public sector adjustment. Slower growth leads to a fall in
private sector savings, which requires a larger fiscal adjustment than
would otherwise have been necessary. Not surprisingly, employment growth
would slow down too, and remain within 1Z in any year of the 'sexeniou
under this scenario. The simulation clearly demonstrates the importance of
a satisfactory solution to Mexico's debt problem.
105.     Mexico's total financial requirements in the base case scenario
amount to about US$58.7 billion in the 1989-94 period (Annex V, Page 4).
Identified capital inflows (direct foreign investment, international
organizations and bilaterals) are expected to amount to about US$20.6
billion, and therefore there would be a need for additional financial
inflows of about US$38 billion (the 'financing gap") in the 1989-94 period
(Annex V, Page 4). This assumes considerable fiscal effort in Mexico to
contain the current account deficit (at current debt obligations) at about
22 of GDP throughout the Sexenio, and a strong IBRD and IMF lending
program. In addition, reserve accumulation is assumed in line with the
targets embedded in the IMF letter of intent for the EFF. Assuming that
commercial banks amortizations due were to be rolled over, the 'financing
gap" would decline to US$24.8 billion in the 1989-94 period.
106.     Mexico's net capital needs are substantial and sensitive to
declining oil prices. If oil prices would drop by 152 with respect to the



- 27 -
base case, Mexico's trade surplus would shrink rapidly because of
stagnating oil revenues, and reverse itself into a deficit of nearly US$1
billion by 1991. As a consequence, Mexico's financing gap would increase
from US$38 billion to US$45.8 billion over 1989-94. Thus, any financing
plan should include contingent provisions covering major unanticipated
changes in external factors, such as oil prices and international interest
rates. Contingency facilities, even if actually not used, would contribute
to expectations of a more stable environment, thus encouraging investments.
107.     At this stage, the key is to reduce financial uncertainty by
putting external debt management on a long-term footing. Continued
uncertainty about future financing availability means continued uncertainty
about the public sector's tax and exchange rate policies and thus continued
high internal real interest rates. But this in turn would put severe
strain on fiscal policy. Also, continued uncertainty and the risk of new
balance of payments crises in the absence of a satisfactory multi-year debt
relief package would shake investors' confidence and discourage the return
of flight capital. Therefore the Mexican Government has established its
own objectives in terms of a combination of new money, refinancing and debt
relief that results in providing a predictable and stable financing for a
multi-year period. Anything short of such a multi-year approach is likely
to compound the macroeconomic problems that currently exist because of the
very uncertainty such an approach would also lead to.
108.     Given past experience, it may be difficult to obtain commitments
for new financing for a multi-year period, which would be needed to restore
confidence and revive investments, thus helping recover economic growth.
Thus any new money package will almost certainly require complementing debt
reduction measures. However, the expected presence of the IMF with a
three-year program and the policy content of the proposed FSL and the other
two adjustment operations should offer a measure of comfort to Mexico"s
creditors as they consider providing a new financial package in 1989,
including some form of debt relief that can reduce net transfers to
external creditors, thus meeting the financing gap correspondingly.
109.     To resolve the internal macroeconomic problems that would be
aggravated by continued external uncertainty, debt reduction to be
effective will need to be on a significant scale. Anything less will have
the same vulnerability as short-term new money packages. Moreover, the
mechanisms through vhich debt reduction is pursued will need to be designed
so as not to jeopardize the fiscal and monetary restraint the domestic
stabilization effort requires. In particular, caution is necessary when
assessing the contribution reserve based debt buy backs and public debt for
private equity swaps can make to debt relief. Reserve based debt buy backs
maximize the potential for capturing secondary market debt discounts
because creditors receive fully liquid instruments in exchange; but they
imply a negative cash flow effect early on. Debt equity swaps involve
fiscal problems, because, obviously, public debt can only be swapped for
private equity if the public sector acquires the equity first. But
acquisition of the private equity thet is to be used for the swap needs to
be financed. Under present financial conditions in Mexico, debt equity
swaps on a significant scale would lead to serious fiscal problems. For
these reasons, the Mexican authorities have focussed on debt reduction
measures that avoid such fiscal problems like interest rate reduction,



- 28 -
reductions in the stock of debt and so on. To make its debt reduction
program a success, on the scale required, the Government might consider
some commercial techniques, such as interest rate recapture or commodity
linked pricing. Such contingency arrangements for an optimistic outcome of
Mexico's macroeconomic developments are expected to persuade creditors who
otherwise may not participate in debt reduction.
110.     Given the sensitivity of Mexico's macroeconomic growth prospects
to the availability of external finance, adequate resource mobilization for
Mexico in 1989-94 will be of crucial economic and political importance.
The success of the adjustment program to be supported under the proposed
FSL then hinges on Mexico's access to external finance. The Government has
already initiated discussions with principal external creditors, including
creditor nation governments, key bilateral donors and commercial banks to
design a financing package consisting of a blend of debt reduction,
restructuring, and new money in adequate amounts to alleviate net transfers
abroad and meet the projected financing gap over the medium term. A
condition for loan effectiveness would be substantial progress in obtaining
adequate financing for Mexico's requirements for 1989-90. Continued
substantial progress in obtaining financing for 1989-90 and for the medium
term would be a condition for second tranche release.
PART IIIt THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. OriRin and Objectives
-11.     The Government has, as described in the previous sections,
undertaken renewed ef4orts since end-1987 to stabilize the economy and
create the preconditions for sustainable growth. After a 'sexenio" without
economic growth, deteriorating consumption and real wages, the Government
has assigned top priority to growth oriented adjustment measures and
requested the Bank's financial assistance during the 1988 Annual Meetings
at Berlin. The Bank -- benefiting from extensive economic and sector work
program and substantial involvement in Mexico's adjustment process over the
last 'sexenio', especially since 1985 when the country's economy began to
be integrated more fully with the world economy -- responded to this
request without delay.
112.     The three adjustment operations were appraised in October 1988.
Negotiations took place in March/May 1989. The Mexican delegation was led
by Lic. Enrique Vilatela, Director General of SHCP. The measures to be
supported by the proposed FSL would provide a framework for macro economic
consistency, assuring a permanent reduction in inflation and a sustainable
fiscal stance over the medium term, thus providing the precondition for
recovery of growth. Two other adjustment loans -- processed in parallel
with the proposed one -- are designed to strengthen Mexico's adjustment
policies and to promote growth by enhancing the supply response to new
policy initiatives. An Industrial Sector Policy Loan would promote
efficient resource allocation and competitiveness through industrial
deregulation and further trade measures and rational pricing policies, and
a Public Enterprise Reform Loan would address policy and institutional
reforms which will assure that the enterprises remaining in Government
ownership after a major divestiture program can operate in a competitive



- 29 -
environment, enjoying financial and managerial autonomy and accountability.
The latter of the two adjustment loans would help strengthen the
Government's fiscal efforts, minimizing the burden of aggregate transfers
and making them more transparent.
113.     The rationale for Bank support lies in the unprecedented
adjustment effort made in the past 'sexenio' and further measures already
taken by the new Administration since December 1988. The three proposed
Bank loans are particularly timely, as they would lend critical support to
renewed adjustment efforts at the beginning of the new 'sexenio".
B. Loan Amount and Tranching
114.     A US$500 million FSL is proposed to support the policy objectives
outlined in the previous sections and provide finance ($15 million) for a
technical assistance component. The Borrower would be the Banco Nacional
de Comercio Exterior (BNCE). This development bank has extensive
administrative experience in managing Bank supported operations and would
be in a position to intermediate efficiently the proceeds of the loan. The
Government, as Guarantor, would, in addition to substantive reform measures
already taken, carry out the agreed programs under the proposed operation.
115.     The proposed loan would consist of two tranches.  A US$250 million
first tranche would be released upon loan effectiveness. The following
would be conditions for effectiveness of the proposed loan:
(a) BNCE would submit subsidiary agreements to the Bank for
passing on the proceeds of the proposed loan to the
Government on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
and
(b) Substantial progress in obtaining adequate financing for
Mexico's requirements for 1989-90 (para. 110).
116.     A series of specific conditions in areas of fiscal management,
taxation, poverty alleviation, and financial sector have already been met
since appraisal, as followss
(i) The Bank has found the 1989 budget consistent with the
macroeconomic framework for 1989 (para. 43);
(ii) The Government has, since appraisal, introduced a series of tax
measures, mainly in the areas of corporate and income tax and
taken actions to strengthen tax administration (paras. 44-55);
(iii) The Government has, since appraisal, taken a series of measures
in the financial sector: eliminating forced lending to the
public sector and favored subsectors, and allowing commercial
banks and brokerage houses to compete for deposits by setting
their own interest rates. Additionally, the Government has
indicated that new loans through Development Banks and Trust
Funds will not carry any interest rate subsidies, except for
low-income producers in agriculture (subsidies to them will not
exceed, as percentage of GDP, the level of 1988) (paras. 84-90
and 102); and



- 30 -
(iv)  The Government has, since appraisal, launched the  Programa
Nacional de Solidaridad', which adequately addresses the issues
of the worst forms of poverty and helps alleviate the short-
term impact of adjustment under an action plan affecting over
1200 Imunicipios'. The 1989 budget allocation is US$450
million equivalent, which would be increased in 1990
(paras. 121-122);
117.     To provide support to Mexico's phased adjustment program under the
proposed loan, a second tranche of US$235 million would be released any
time after November 30, 1989, upon furnishing satisfactory evidence to the
Bank that:
(i) The Government's macroeconomic program is consistent with the
objectives of stabilization and recovery of economic growth, as
set forth in the Letter of Development Policy, including
progress toward more flexible price adjustments (para. 37 and
Annexes VII and VIII);
(ii)  An Action Program for the increase in the Federal District's
self-generated revenues of at least lOX in real terms over the
1988 level in the 1990 Budget has been adopted (para. 69);
(iii) An Action Program for the gradual reduction of non-matching
federal grants to the states have been adopted in the 1990
Budget (para. 67);
(iv)  An Action Program has been adopted which redefines the role of
each development bank and trust fund, including a detailed
review of the finances and operation of NAFIN, BANCOMEXT,
BANOBRAS, BANRURAL and ANAGSA; in the meantime, fiscal
transfers to BANRURAL and ANAGSA would, as a percentage of GDP,
remain within the amounts budgeted for 1989 (para. 101);
(v) An Action Program has been adopted for the further
strengthening of bank supervision and prudential regulations
(para. 94); and
(vi)  Continued substantial satisfactory progress has been made for
financing Mexico's requirements for 1989 and 1990, and for
financing over the medium term in the context of the agreed
upon adjustment program and growth targets (para. 110).
118.     Agreed Action Programs as second tranche release conditions would
include a specific timetable for implementation and all legal and
administrative arrangements required to put the measures in effect.
C. Debt Reduction Support
119.     As explained previously (paras. 107-109), any financing short of a
multi-year commitment would compound macro-economic problems and would lead
to continued uncertainty about Mexico's public finances and tax and
exchange rate policies. It is unlikely that new money in the amounts
required could be secured for a multi-year package. Therefore, the



- 31 -
Government intends to include some form of debt reduction in its next
financing package, which would be expected to restore confidence and thus
spur investment and help recover growth.
120.     Since without specific Bank assistance i:. may be difficult for the
Government to put in place effective debt reduction schemes, subject to
Bank agreement, up to US$125 million equivalent under the second tranche of
the proposed loan could be used for the implementation of debt reduction
plans which, in the Bank's judgment, shall meet the requirements of the
Bank's support of debt reduction programs.
D. Poverty ImPact
121.     Throughout the 1970's and up to the early 1980's, absolute poverty
in Mexico was on the decline as a result of income growth and welfare
programs. Between 1960 and 1985, life expectancy at birth increased from
58 to 64 years, and infant mortality declined from 74 to around 50 deaths
pet 1000 live births. With improvements in primary education, illiteracy
fell from 441 in 1950 to 171 in 1980. Some of these gains, however, are
threatened by the recent public expenditure cutbacks resulting from the
Government's fiscal efforts to combat the root causes of the 1982 crisis.
The social sector's share in public expenditures -- declining in real terms
-- dropped from 20? before 1982 to 13t currently. This trend is
unsustainable, given Mexico's already waning job opportunities, reduction
in real wages and worsening inter-personal and inter-regional income
disparities. While the response by non-government organizations to help
the poor to overcome these difficulties is impressive, they cannot entirely
replace the Government's essential role in providing basic needs.
122.     Upon assuming office in December 1988, the new Administration
unveiled its Programa Nacional de Solidaridad" to address the worst
manifestations of poverty. In the first stage, the Program covers 1276
rural municipios in the ten poorest states of Mexico. These are Chiapas,
Guerrero, Hidalgo, Oaxaca, Guanajuato, Puebla, Tlaxcala, Queretaro, San
Luis Potosi and Zacatecas. The urban poor are addressed through a series
of special measures in the metropolitan areas of Mexico city, Monterrey,
Guadalajara, Zacatecas as well as other state capitals. Total resources
set aside for the program in 1989 are about US$400 million. Of the total,
20? will be spent on directly productive activities in agriculture, 302 on
infrastructure related activities and the remaining 50 on social services.
123.     The continued expansion of the program is expected to cost three
times as much next year. The plan eventually is to set aside substantially
larger resources to cover all poor groups by 1996. The Program coordinates
and focuses the existing ongoing activities of entities such as CONASUPO,
IMSSICOPLAMAR, PDR and other government bodies. The amounts set aside for
the Program are in addition to those budgeted for the normal development
activities of these organizations. Salient features of the program are:
Nutrition Support
124.     One of the worst manifestations of poverty is malnutrition, which
contributes to high infant mortality and the relatively high incidence of
low weight at birth (at 15? in Mexico, it is twice as high as in other



- 32 -
countries with similar income levels), and causes physical and mental
damage for life. The short term impact of adjustment on employment, income
and consumption (especially due to the elimination of food subsidies), may
have compounded an already serious problem. To remedy this, the Government
has expanded its food subsidy program targeted to the poor. 500 lecherias
(of which 100 are already in operation) are to Ire set up where subsidized
milk (at about a third of the market price) will be sold. CONASUPO also
plans to start popular kitchens in the urban areas to provide subsidized,
nourishing meals to the urban poor (20 kitchens are already in operation).
Similar food supplement programs are planned for the rural poor by
rehabilitating nearly 13000 rural stores and providing them with additional
working capital, to enable the poor to obtain basic necessities at
subsidized prices.
Primary gealth Care
125.     Despite significant achievements at the aggregate level, the
geographic distribution of health services is not satisfactory. In rural
areas, especially in the poorest states such as Oaxaca, Chiapas, Guerrero
and Hidalgo, and at the periphery of the largest cities, general health
care is poor and child mortality rates are high. The uninsured face
special difficulties in obtaining first and second level health care. To
provide additional primary health care to the poor, IMSS/COPLAMAR programs
are to be revitalized at the cost of about MEX$40 billion. The program
will be spread over April through July 1989 and will provide additional
health centres in 12 states (Vera Cruz and Nayarit, in addition to the 10
listed above) for treatment and preventive measures. For the poor,
nutrition support and primary health care are closely related. The program
aims to provide nutrition support to about 1.5 million pregnant and
lactating mothers (this represents an addition of nearly 30? over the
previous year's target). Free school lunches provided to malnourished
children of school-age will be increased from the present level of 0.5
million to 1.5 million. All of these are sound short-term remedial
measures. However, given the magnitude of the health problem, long term
solution lies in the full implementation of the National Health System
('Sistema Nacional de Salud") through the Federal Secretariat of Health
(SSA) and the State Secretariats of Health (SEASAs). The program offers
relatively inexpensive solutions in those states where infrastructure is
already well developed. In other states integrated rural development
projects can help focus on the health care problems of the rural poor. A
project is being prepared by SSA to provide basic health care services to
the uninsured, covering about 30 million people by 1994. The program is
expected to raise the productivity, quality and coverage of services by
improving maintenance and providing adequate equipment and trained
personnel. It would, by 1994, help save the lives of some 40,000 mothers
and children, and avoid physical and mental damage to an estimated 60,000
children.
Elementary Education
126.     Although education standards in Mexico have shown impressive
improvements in the past, the majority of the poor have access only to
primary education. The poorest states rank lowest in terms of the
indicators of primary education, mainly because of the shortage of school



- 33 -
facilities, inadequate maintenance and poorly trained and badly paid
teachers, as well as poor transport facilities and the prevalence of child
labor which hampers school attendance. Unless the coverage in primary
education is extended in these areas, the r -al poor will have only limited
employment opportunities and will remain locked into poverty. In the
poorest states remittances account for nearly 302 of family income. This
could be improved through education wh.ich can help secure more off-farm
jobs.
127.     Estimates show that reassignment of approximately 92 of the
existing education budget would be sufficient to remove the above
bottlenecks. If targeted only at the poorest four states, Oaxaca, Chiapas,
Guerrero and Hidalgo, the annual cost of an adequate program would be only
2Z. As for sources of financing, it has been estimated that if the cost
recovery of higher education were to be improved by restoring UNAM fees
back to their 1950 level in real terms, the additional revenues would fully
cover the costs of the program in the above four states. If coupled with
nutrition support programs, which would be delivered through the primary
school system, school attendance would become much more attractive to poor
families and the incidence of child labor could be curbed.
128.     The recent measures address the problems outlined above.  A
program of rehabilitation of primary and secondary schools is planned,
starting in June, 1989. The target between June- September this year is to
rehabilitate 25000 schools costing approximately Mex$ 45 billion.
129.     The new program focuses on some additional measures; responding to
a persistent demand of the urban poor during the election campaign, 300,000
residential urban plots are to be regularized to establish ownership rights
of the occupants. Among the longer term objectives of the program is to
focus the development activities of the PDR on the structurally poor in
rural areas. This will include the rehabilitation of 150,000 hectares of
agricultural land in semi-arid poor states such as Zacatecas, Durango,
Coahuila and Nuevo Leon. Investments are to be undertaken in tubewells,
other irrigation works and rural infrastructure development.
130.     It is clear from the measures taken since project appraisal that
the new Mexican Administration is committed to expand social programs, in
order to satisfy basic needs of the poor in nutrition, primary health care
and education. In providing these services, the focus of Government action
is to improve the targeting and delivery mechanisms through close
monitoring at the coordinated federal level, of programs implemented at the
state and municipality level.
Z. Benefits and Risks
131.     The proposed opel  ion would provide critical support to the
adjustment efforts of the Mexican Administration that took office on
December 1, 1988 for a six-year term. Building on the macroeconomic
framework that was put in place toward the end of 1987 and implemented
since then, the measures taken during loan preparation and those to be
supported under the proposed loan would provide a broad framework for
macroeconomic consistency, efficient resource allocation in the public
sector, sound fiscal management and improved financial sector performance.



- 34 -
Achievement of these objectives would spur investment and create the
preconditions for recovery of sustainable economic growth in Mexico.
Growth would generate jobs and help alleviate the worst aspects of poverty.
Permanent reductions in inflation resulting from a consistent macroeconomic
framework would benefit the economy by rationalizing the expectations of
investors and eliminating the regressive inflationary tax affecting mostly
the wage earners and the poor.
132.     Highly visible Bank support to Mexico's adjustment efforts through
the three proposed policy-based loans would help restore domestic, as well
as international confidence, as the new Government stays the course and
achieves the objectives of economic recovery. The Bank would, with the
three operations, help encourage investments, especially in the private
sector, and -- perhaps most importantly -- help mobilize external resources
and achieve some degree of debt relief required to meet Mexico's financing
needs for the medium term giowth strategy.
133.     Mexico's growth oriented adjustment program faces several
important risks. Above all else, the program's success will hinge on the
availability of external finance, as and when required, to cover the
current account deficit in the balance of payments. Clearly, Mexico's
ability to grow and service its debt would be at stake, if the projected
financing gap were to remain unfinanced. The Bank's three proposed
adjustment operations -- each with quick disbursing components -- would
provide the downpayment of the net external capital needs of the adjustment
program. With significant up-front policy content attached to each
operation, and in particular to the proposed FSL, the seed money of the
first tranche disbursements and the Bank's monitoring of further adjustment
measures is expected to help win the confidence of the international
financing community and key bilateral donors. The Bank has assessed
Mexico's financial needs and has been encouraging its external creditors to
mobilize the resources required over time through a menu of restructuring,
relief and new money under a market-based phased multi-year program.
134.     The recovery of growth will also depend on whether the Government
maintains a macroeconomic framework that is consistent with the objectives
of the program, as stated in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex VIII).
Investment, in particular private investment, will largely depend on the
extent to which the new Government can rebuild public confidence by keeping
steady policy signals, a realistic exchange rate policy, fiscal prudence
and an overall policy framework that is conducive to keeping inflationary
expectations low, thus guaranteeing a reasonable return on investments.
Assessment by the Bank that an adequate macroeconomic framework is in place
is a condition of second tranche release, which would not only protect the
Bank's interest, but also act as a deterrent against deviations from a
consistent policy framework, because any Bank sanction under the proposed
loan might have serious implications for the Government's ability to
attract external resources.
135.     A third risk facing the objectives of the proposed operation is a
potential failure by the Government to achieve the fiscal targets of the
program. Such a risk may materialize, if revenues were to be adversely
affected by an unforeseen decline in Mexico's terms of trade (oil) or a
rise in international interest rates or protectionism in industrialized



- 35 -
countries during the implementation of the adjustment program, or, if for
any domestic reason, the targeted primary budget surplus were to be eroded,
because of excessively high public spending, or poor tax revenue
performance. While no one can control adverse external developments, the
risk of below target domestic performance is mitigated by the strong
commitment of the new Administration to eradicate the root causes of
Mexico's economic malaise, i.e. the inadequate fiscal policies and inward-
looking orientation of the past.
F. Technical Assistance Component
136.     The proposed Loan would provide finance for a technical assistance
program of US$15 million equivalent, which would be available upon loan
effectiveness (Annex VI). This component would provide assistance to the
Government in priority areas of fiscal management, public finance and
public investment evaluation and programming. More specifically, the
following would be provided: (a) technical assistance and training, for
modernizing the tax administration and collection systems, including
improvements in customs administration (Annex VI); (b) acquisition and
utilization of computer equipment and software; (c) studies in the public
and finance sectors; and (d) studies of public investment evaluation and
multi-year investment procedures, including the preparation of manuals,
setting economic, financial and technical criteria for sector specific
investment evaluation ard establishing a centralized unit for monitoring
investments. Consultants to be financed from the loan would have terms of
reference. conditions of employment and hiring procedures that are in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
0. Disbursements, Auditing and Procurement
137.     The proposed loan would be disbursed in two tranches.  The first
US$250 million would be disbursed upon effectiveness (para. 115), and the
second tranche of US$235 million would be disbursed after November 30, 1989
provided that the second tranche release conditions have been met
(para. 117). The closing date of the proposed loan would be June 30, 1991.
138.     Disbursements under both the first and second tranches would be
against 1002 of the foreign exchange costs of eligible imports of the
private and public sectors. For the purposes of the loan, eligible imports
would include goods in general except, however, that goods still subject to
quantitative import restrictions, goods financed from other official
multilateral or bilateral sources, intended for luxury consumption or goods
imported for military or paramilitary purposes, would be ineligible for
Bank financing. Taking into account the unprecedented growth in imports
(para. 16) in 1988, retroactive financing is recommended up to an amount of
US$100 million for eligible import expenditures incurred from February 15,
1989. Disbursements under the technical assistance component would finance
100X of the expenditures of consultants, and 1002 of the cost of equipment
and goods required for implementation of the agreed technical assistance
programs.
139.     Imports to be financed by the Bank up to US$5 million equivalent
would be purchased under contracts awarded on the basis of the commercial
procurement practices of the importer in the private sector, and standard



- 36 _
Government procedures in the public sector. The Bank has reviewed the
Government's standard procurement procedures and found them satisfactory.
Single purchases of goods costing in excess of US$5 million would be
procured through international competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Goods under the technical assistance program would be procured
through local shopping for items costing up to US$50,000 equivalent, and
local competitive bidding above that threshold for contracts up to a value
of US$300,000. Higher contract values are not expected.
140.     BNCE, the Borrower, would be responsible for managing the loan
account and documenting and processing withdrawal applications.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures to
be prepared by the Banco de Mexico, certifying the individual import
expenditures, the goods imported, the payments made and the amounts
involved and demonstrating their eligibility under the loan. Application
for withdrawals will be made in consolidated statements amounting to no
less than US$5 million.
141.     Supporting documentation for the statements of expenditures would
be kept by the Borrower for review by Bank staff and would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of each
fiscal year of the Guarantor.
B. Bank/IMF Collaboration
142.     BanklIMF collaboration has been close over the years, especially
since 1982, when the Fund began to assist the Government to help address
the underlying causes of the economic crisis. Since that time the
Government benefited from an EFF of SDRs 3.6 billion, a special emergency
drawing of SDRs 291 million after the 1985 earthquake, and a stand-by of
SDRs 1.4 billion. Currently, the Government is com itted to its commercial
creditors under the terms of the 1986 multi-facility financing package to
engage the Fund in an enhanced surveillance of the macroeconomic program.
Since the ending of stand-by in 1988, the first such review has taken place
in the beginning of 1989.
143.     Extensive consultations have taken place between Fund and Bank
staff concerning Mexico's current economic situation and prospects,
covering fiscal, monetary, financial and exchange and interest rate
policies, and there is an understanding about the policy actions to
consolidate the stabilization program, strengthen the balance of payments
and recover growth in 1989. Since the time of appraisal, discussions
between the Government and the Fund have advanced considerably about a
possible EFF. Currently, it is expected that a three-year facility would
be in place before the scheduled Board date of the proposed FSL. Further
consultations would take place between the two institutions to monitor
macroeconomic performance during the implementation period of the proposed
FSL.



- 37 -
PART IV - COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS
The Context of Bank's Assistance: The (overnment's Own Development
Objectives
144.     The Government's overriding objective for the current Sexenio is
the restoration of growth after six years of falling per capita income.
But the experience of the past six years has made it clear that without
macroeconomic stability and access to external financing, sustainable
growth will remain out of reach; thus the Government considers the success
of the stabilization effort and a resolution of the debt overhang problem
as prerequisites for any success towards renewed growth. The stabilization
program has been a success so far resulting in a dramatic reduction in
inflation from 1592 in 1987 to 522 in 1988 and to an estimated rate of only
202 in 1989 (paras. 11-12 and 19-20). Increased growth will have to go
together with increasing living standards for the poorer segments in
society, both in its oan right and to maintain the consensus underlying the
Government's program. To this end the Government has embarked on a
significant expansion in policies oriented towards poverty alleviation
(paras. 121-130).
145.     In addition, the Government strongly feels that growth should be
private sector based, with the Government providing a supporting role.
Thus the Government intends to continue its reform program towards a
modern, rationalized incentive structure for the private sector. This will
reduce the need for government intervention, improve private sector
resource allocation and provide full support for efficient private sector
investment by foreigners and domestic entrepreneurs alike. To allow the
public sector to play a supportive role towards private sector based
growth, the Government intends to modernize the machinery of the state and
focus its role on legitimate public sector functions. This involves
continued privatizationlmodernization where called for, and improvement of
the efficiency of the remaining parts of the public sector.
146.     With these in mind, the Government has adopted a policy agenda,
which involves the structural reforms being supported by this Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan as well as the two other accompanying loans on
Industrial Sector Policy and Public Enterprise Reform (paras. 22, 26-27 and
112). The Government is committed to the implementation of macroeconomic
policies that are consistent with the objectives of the recovery of growth,
increased fiscal efforts, improved efficiency of the financial system,
reduction of interest subsidies and strengthened prudential regulation. To
improve the efficiency of public enterprises (PEs). and to reduce the heavy
burden they impose on the economy, the Government is focusing on:
(i) *disengagement' of enterprises, including privatization, liquidation,
mergers, and transfer of PEs to local governments; and (ii) a program of
reforms in the policy and institutional environment to improve the
efficiency of PEs which would be retained by the Government. These
measures will improve the competitive environment and provide greater
managerial and financial autonomy and accountability to PEs, increase
market forces, decentralize decision making, strengthen managerial
capabilities and incentives and improve the allocation of resources. To



- 38 -
help complete the transformation of Mexico's industrial sector from its
inward-oriented and highly protected structure to an open system where the
factors of production and services compete freely, the Government is
undertaking a broad deregulation effort. This is designed to provide, at
the same time, for technological change and modernization, so as to ensure
an adequate supply response to new policies.
147.     Provided the Government is able to resolve these intertwined
stabilization, debt, growth, and efficiency issues, maintains satisfactory
progress in advancing the major structural adjustment policies already
described, and benefits from a reasonably favorable international
environment, the fundamentals for sustained rapid growth look promising.
First, Mexico has a rich natural and human resource base and close
proximity to the world's largest market. Secondly, the rationalization of
the trade regime has created incentives strongly favoring international
competitiveness and improved investment efficiency. Lastly, low Mexican
unit labor costs make the country attractive as an industrial base. The
Bank's base case macroeconomic scenario shows that with moderately
favorable external conditions and consistent macro policies and deeper
adjustment efforts, GDP growth would climb slowly from about 2? per annum
in 1989 to about 5Z per annum by 1994 (paras. 103-110). The realization of
this scenario is contingent on foreign financing. If this financing were
not available, or if Mexico's external conditions were to deteriorate,
output growth would slow down and employment opportunities would not keep
pace with population growth. Mounting social pressures, in that case,
would make it very difficult for the Government to stay the course and the
efficiency gains of structural reforms may be lost. An under-financed
adjustment program would simply compromise Mexico's ability to service even
its current debt.
148.     Given the fiscal crunch under which Mexico's policy makers must
operate, more effective programs are necessary in the social sectors,
including health, education, and nutrition, which are designed to target
resources and cushion the needy against the impact of adjustment, while
permitting the benefits of structural reform to be reaped. Therefore, the
new Administration has, in December 1988, unveiled the "National Solidarity
Program' to address the worst manifestations of poverty in the ten poorest
states of the Union and the urban poor in Mexico City and all state
capitals. Of the total of approximately US$400 million allocated to the
program for 1989, 20% will be allocated to agriculture, 302 to
infrastructure, and 50% on social services.
149.     Historically, ecological and natural resource management issues
have ranked low on the list of Mexican policy priorities. However, over
recent years extremely serious environmental problems have been affecting
the health of most Mexicans and the country's economic growth potential.
The worst problems have been encountered in air and water pollution, soil
erosion and deforestation. These and other issues in Mexico's management
of its ecology and natural resources have received increasing Governmental
attention and the Government is now committed to put in place a strategy
that can deal with these issues effectively over the medium and long term.



- 39 -
Sank Strategy
150.     The Bank's assistance strategy is designed to support Mexico's
major reform initiatives through an expanded policy dialogue and
substantial volumes of lending, thus contributing to the consolidation of
an outward-oriented development model and serving as a catalyst for
mobilizing external finance in the required amounts for the restoration of
the growth of the economy.
151.     The Bank has transferred increasing amounts of resources to Mexico
through policy-based and sector adjustment loans in the context of an
adjustment-oriented framework that was supported by the 1986-87 commercial
financing package; it has become Mexico's la-gest single source of new
money. Six Bank loans in trade, exports, agriculture, and industry were
linked to the multi-facility financing scheme, providing drawdown
conditions for the parallel money and growth facilities which were
mobilized fully in March 1988. The Bank also put up guarantees of US$750
million. In addition, the Bank facilitated Mexico's efforts to issue
securitized bonds for retiring old debt in January 1988. The Bank's
strategy supported primarily policies designed to open the economy.
152.     Given the challenges the Mexican Government is facing over the
medium term and its stated development strategy, the Bank's country
assistance objectives are to: consolidate the excellent policy dialogue
with the Government, and focus on remaining priority issues, support the
Government's development program through sustained high levels of lending,
help maintain an adjustment oriented framework that can help secure multi-
year external financing packages, and support innovative market based debt
reductions schemes, including the use of Bank resources in forms acceptable
to the Bank. To lend effective support to the initiatives of the current
Administration, the Bank's overall assistance strategy would focus on:
(a) promotion of adjustment with recovery of growth; (b) strengthening of
incentives for efficiency; (c) alleviating poverty; and (d) improving the
environment. The Bank has taken a staged approach to implementing its
strategy. As a first step, the Bank has reviewed Mexico's adjustment and
structural reform priorities and, jointly with the Government, defined a
broad program of Bank support through three major adjustment operations,
including a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, a Public Enterprise Reform
Loan and an Industrial Sector Adjustment Loan. The policy conditionality
of these three operations provides the central element of the Bank's
support for Mexico's program in 1989.
153.     To provide continued support for Mexico's development program and
the intellectual underpinnings of a broad policy dialogue, the Bank is
carrying out jointly with the Government an expanded program of economic
and sector work, including (a) a review of the current regulatory and
financial framework in industry and agriculture; (b) a study of future tax
reform options; (c) an intensive analysis of urban air pollution in
collaboration with the World Health Organization; (d) an assessment of
infrastructure and energy sector issues; (e) the development of strategies
for integrated health and nutrition initiatives; (f) an assessment of
improved programs to ameliorate rural poverty; and (g) an analysis of
environmental issues to come up with a set of recommendations. This
collaborative effort will help monitor the evolving requirements of



- 40 _
Mexico's development priorities and adjust the policy content of Bank
lending from time to time. For the design of new lending operations as
well as the monitoring of the Bank's existing project portfolio, the semi-
annual country strategic and implementation review between the Bank and the
Government -- introduced in 1985 -- affords the Bank a timely opportunity
to adapt to new conditions.
154.     The above outlined strategy will be implemented with the help of
sustained high levels of Bank lending to Mexico over the medium term, which
would be maintained at US$2 billion per year. Such high levels of new
commitments would, of course, hinge on the maintenance of a consistent
macroeconomic environment and the depth and quality of Mexico's further
structural reforms. As 17? of the Bank's past lending to Mexico has been
in support of adjustment since 1986, it is the Bank's intention to cut back
on quick-disbursing policy based operations and, in a manner consistent
with the requirements of the recovery of economic growth, focus on sector
investment operations which are designed to support agreed investment
programs in high priority sectors. To keep resource transfers at adequate
levels, the Dank and the Government are currently reviewing the
requirements of time-slice financing, which would be an essential feature
of the sector investment operations. To help achieve the stated objectives
of the Dank's country assistance strategy, the policy content of the
proposed lending program, in more specific terms, woula be directed ats
fiscal issues, financial sector efficiency, domestic deregulation, trade
and export development, subsidy control and pricing issues, improved public
sector and parastatal enterprise management, decentralization and
deconcentration of the public sector, social welfare and poverty programs,
and environmental measures. Proposed lending levels at US$2 billion per
year would increase the Bank's exposure by US$4.8 billion by 1994 and, for
the expected blend of quick disbursing and investment operations, increase
Mexico's share in the total of the Bank's loans disbursed and outstanding
to 9.71 in FY90, which is expected to remain below 102 in the FY90-93
period.
Burden Sharing in the Financing Plan
155.    As outlined in paras. 103-106, the total required capital inflows
amount to US$ 58.7 billion in 1989-94 (Annex V, page 4). Financing would
come from direct foreign investment (DFi), international financial
institutions (IFI), bilaterals and commercial creditors. Assuming that all
amortization on commercial debt is rescheduled, the required flows are
reduced to US$45.4 billion over the 1989-94 period (Annex V, page 4).
Assuming as a benchmark case that commercial creditors provide sufficient
amounts of new money (disbursements in excess of scheduled amortization) to
meet Mexico's needs after official sectors have made their contribution,
the burden sharing among Mexico's various creditors is shown below:



- 41 -
Sharing the Burden of Mexico's Financitg Needs
Percentage of Mexico's Financing Needs           Increase in Net
met by Various Creditors               Exposure (USS billion)
89-91     92-94     89-94                   89-94
DPI                27.2      40.5      33.4                     15.1
IFIs               17.6      -4.6       7.3                      3.3
of which: IBRD     14.8       5.6      10.5                      4.8
IMF       2.8      -9.4      -2.9                     -1.3
IDB       0.0      -0.8      -0.4                     -0.2
Bilaterals          8.6       0.4       4.8                      2.2
Commercial
Banks Creditors   46.7      63.7      54.6                     24.8
TOTAL            100.0     100.0     100.0
Source: Annex V. Page 3 and 4.
------------------------------------------------------------------------__--
156.     In this scenario, net exposure by the Bank would go up by US$4.8
billion over the 1989-94 period, provided that, in addition to continued
policy reform, individual project conditionality is satisfactory and
adequate disbursement mechanisms are in place. The Bank's total share in
the financing would be substantial in the early phase of Mexico's
adjustment program: 14.82 over the period 1989-91. However, as time
progresses, the Bank's share woujld diminish to a still positive 5.62 in
1992-94. Over the next six years taken together, the Bank would assume
10.52 of Mexico's financing requirements. The Bank's share in Mexico's
total debt would increase from 7.1? at the end of 1988 to 9.5Z at the end
of 1994.
157.     On the basis of current comuitments, the IMF would increase its
net exposure over the first three years by US$0.7 billion, but reduce it by
US$2 billion over the next three years, for a total decline in net exposure
of US$1.3 billion over the period 1989-94. Similarly, the IDB, under
current commitments, would reduce its net exposure by US$0.2 billion over
the whole period. Finally, Mexico's bilateral partners would have to make
available a net amount of US$2.2 billion over the 1989-94 period, for a
share in the financing burden of 4.82. In total, official creditors
disburse in excess of amortization an amount of US$5.5 billion to Mexico
over the period 1989-94, which constitutes 12.12 of Mexico's needs over the
corresponding period.
158.     The remainder would have to come from DFI and commercial
creditors. Current projections imply that one third of that total would
come through DFI; the assumed amounts are not implausible given historical
experience plus the reforms concerning foreign investment implemented under
the auspices of the Industrial Sector Policy Loan. The remainder would
have to be met by new money contributions by Mexico's commercial creditors.



- 42 -
This would imply that commercial creditors would need to contribute 552 of
the required financing over the 1989-94 period. Their total exposure in
Mexico would rise by US$24.8 billion.
159.     Of course new money is only one of several ways in which
commercial creditors could assume their share of the financing burden.
Various forms of debt relief or debt service relief could alternatively, or
in combination with reduced new money commitments, be used instead. The
set asides in the Bank's and the IMF's lending program could be used in
support of a debt reduction plan agreed upon as part of such a financing
plan. The World Bank participation in support of a debt reduction plan
would be in coordination with the IMF and subject to a review of the
quality of the debt reduction package. Reduction of commercially held debt
would arithmetically increase the Bank's share in Mexico's total debt; for
example if debt reduction operations result in a 202 reduction in
commercially held debt at the end of 1994, the Bank's share in Mexico's
total debt would increase from 9.52 to 11?. Since such debt reduction
operations would also increase Mexico's creditworthiness, such a small
increase should not be a cause for concern, particularly if the adjustment
program, as expected, is accompanied by a significant increase in exports.
Sectoral Composition of Bank Lending
160.    As of March 31, 1989, Mexico had received 111 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$11.5 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 75 loans, totalling US$5.5 billion, were fully disbursed and US$2.4
billion remained undisbursed. The B-nk's exposure was US$5.89 billion (on
book value basis) (Annex II), while in a cash basis this is equivalent to
US$7.4 billion. The sectoral compAjitior. and some of the specifics of past
lending, as well as the design of major new lending operations are
discussed below for key areas of the Mexican economy in which the Bank has
been active over the years.
Agriculture
161.     Because of the crucial importance of agriculture for the one-third
of the country's population living in rural areas, some 32Z of the Bank's
past lending has supported agricultural development, and nine operations
are currently under supervision. The Bank's lending program in agriculture
is aimed ats (a) helping correct the incentive regime in agriculture
through gradually reductions in input subsidies and export controls;
(b) promoting more efficient and rationale use of natural resources
supported by improved technologies and services; (c) generating employment-
intensive investments in rural areas and effective assistance to small
farmers; and (d) creating an integral framework for sound rural
development. To support these goals, the Bank made a US$300 million
Agriculture Sector Loan during FY88, and, starting in FY90, expects to
support policy adjustment in agriculture, rehabilitation of the irrigation
infrastructure, including improved cost recovery and maintenance
operations, investments for agricultural marketing and storage facilities,
food security, poverty alleviation, and forestry development.



- 43 -
Trade
162.     About 142 of past Bank lending has been for trade, and three loans
remain under supervision. Two trade policy loans of US$500 million each
were made in FY87 and FY88 in support of the Government's sweeping trade
reforms. The two operations supported the speedy reduction of non-tariff
barriers (quotas and official reference prices) and rationalization of the
tariff system (reduced levels and dispersion). The Bank supported the
development of non-oil exports through two export development operations in
MY83 and FY87. These export development loans were intended to strengthen
the supply response by Mexican industry to the new trade policy signals. A
third export loan is under preparation, which would strengthen the
temporary import regime, provide further support to indirect exporters,
assure automatic access to finance by exporters under the various credit
programs, streamline financial and administrative procedures, and seek
further reductions in export controls.
Industry
163.     Some 18? of the Bank's lending has supported industry, and
currently seven projects are under supervision. The Bank's lending
strategy for industry, covering small and medium-scale industry, mining,
the capital goods industry, industrial restructuring and technology
development, is designed to support: (a) trade policy reform;
(b) financial sector policies to reverse the prolonged contraction of
savings mobilization through interest rate decontrol and the development of
a wider menu of savings instruments, and the rationalization of credit
allocation in support of viable, competitive private companies;
(c) industrial restructuring, regulatory reform, clarification of foreign
investment rules, and export prototion to assure a vigorous supply response
to trade liberalization and increased international competitiveness.
Recent Bank operations provided support for restructuring of the
fertilizer, steel, automotive parts, textile, and flower sectors, and other
key private industrial subsectors demonstrating a capacity for undertaking
integrated restructuring operations.
Infrastructure
164.     Lending for transportation, power and water accounts for 232 of
the Bank's total in Mexico, with 12 projects currently under supervision.
Lending for infrastructure is focussing on regional development,
decentralization, more efficient public investment allocation, and improved
cost recovery. Recent Bank loans supported the highway, railways and port
sub-sectors. Emphasis was placed on obtaining more realistic user fees and
deferring all but the highest-yielding investment projects so as to permit
a minimum of budgetary outlays for maintenance expenditures and protect the
existing capital stock. Proposed loans would support the Government's
decentralization initiatives, cost-based pricing, and managerial
improvements. Loans are being prepared to finance the upgrading,
rehabilitation, and maintenance of roads at the state level, the
construction of toll roads cofinanced with the Mexican private sector, the
restructuring of several ports, water supply and sewerage, urban
transport, and power.



- 44 -
Housing and Others
165.     The Bank has lent some 13Z of its total for tourism, urban
development, housing and vocational training. Currently two housing loans
are under supervision. Government housing programs designed to improve
cost recovery, while providing transparent and controlled credit subsidies
only to the truly needy, have been supported by Bank financing. A Second
Housing Finance loan would support graduated loan cost recovery linked to
the income of final borrowers, thus ensuring a reduced drain on the fisc
and affordability for low-income beneficiaries.
Social Sectors and Environment
166.     The Bank is assisting the Government in redesigning public health,
education, and human resource programs to make them more cost effective and
targeted to meet the needs of the poor. A proposed health project would
support decentralization measures, finance new primary health facilities,
and strengthen professional services. Similar initiatives are being
pursued in education and nutrition. A pilot project under preparation
would improve the well-being of women in low-income areas.  It includes the
provision of piped water, health and educational services, training for
productive activities, and credit for launching new microenterprises.
These focussed operations would be followed by broader programs, once the
institutional conditions and capacity for project implementation can
support a larger Bank presence.
167.     The Bank is also undertaking jointly with the Government and the
World Health Organization a major review of air pollution issues to
determine how the Bank could best contribute to new Government programs for
cleaning up polluted urban environments. With strong Government
commitment, the Bank would focus on technical assistance operations,
include strengthened environmental components in investment loans, and --
as soon as the policy framework and suitable institutional arrangements are
there -- make loans for sector-wide environmental programs and in support
of remaining environmental policy issues.
IPC Operations
168.     The IPC has worked with the Bank tot  (i) identify private sector
investment opportunities likely to thrive in the current climate of growth-
oriented adjustment and greater integration with the world economy; and
(ii) assist in strengthening the country's capital markets through economic
sector work and venture capital operations. As of March 31, 1989, the IFC
had invested US$990.7 million in 37 companies in Mexico, of which US$690.2
million had been sold, repaid, or cancelled.



- 45 -
PART Vs IICOIUINDATIOI
169.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 22, 1989
Washington, D.C.



MEXICO                                                         ANNEX I
FINANCIA  SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                                 Pfage 1. of 3
10160-89 I96o-7 1971-76 1977-I    196    1966   1970   197    19160    1961    10112   IW1O    1966    196   1966I" 19 f el 1601
op ....................... .....7.06   7.41   6.16   S."3   6.161  6."6   4.5    8.86    7.16   4.111   4.86    8.86    2.76   -4.05             1.41    1.1is
cm donsto.6.  ............. 6.16   8.1   18.611  29.916  4.96   9.80  10.9   19.016   5.76   27.99   61.5   99.95   61.71   58.91   74.86   189.-4   1-0.8
UIf ltl.. RDt" ~1.comebrjDecetmr) .       .     .      ..     .      .       .    4.1   27.5%  50.16   5.70   96.16   60.1    59.5   86.76  106.7    189.5   "1.8l
MP weE clie 4...........               2t'    8.'8'6   8'.11   a'. 76   6.1s   8.'6   6.11   1.5    1.45    S.11s   4.11   -7.11    0.16   46.11   -1.41  0.86   4Q.06
Ccaemtloa pe capita.........68.86   6.5   9.96   8.16  -1,16   1.51   1.46   1.76    4.9                 4.16   -1.46    9.1     0.58   4.86   -7.76    40.91    2.511
RamS tadowlcist Wages........... 1.86   8.13   4.061  -1.111  1.761  4.96   0.16  10.16   -4.46    1.59    1.961  -26.46           .96    1.16  -19.53   -4.16  -10.065
Ia,eboet4tbWses (so I of OM):
T40t0l ZI*eetamo ............           16.9   19.81  91.9  25.9   16.0   99.8   99.6  11.8   26.1    99.0    91.8   20.8    19.9   91.9    18,8    34.11   5.15
obioar l Sevifge . . .........       14.1   17.8   28.6   91.8   18.4   18.8   19.0   10.8   26.7    26.9    17.6   96.4   99.4   97.8    17.9           91.8    18.6
Rap cuerrest AscumI...........           -9.1   -2.1   48.1   43.9   -9.6   42.0   43.0   48.6    -4.4    -.8.    48.8   8.6     2.8     0.7    -1.8       9.7    -1.7
NW (elIlIIe. 136)
Qwre.t Acoeat .............(181)  (479) (9.306  (6.486)  (16)  (416) (1,91) (6.786)$ (6.71) (18.648  (6.m)   .418   4.59    1.996  (1.78    8.661  (2.927
Imports .f duis & lb Peel. Serwicee..   W    1.966  8.060  18.6991.872  1.946  9,6167  7.090  99.99   29,947  25.187  97198.8    786   166 9.1    .1
,W aereimAl Regerve  (and period)    879    691  1.591  2.160    469    "7a    1    741   4.004   5,06      us8  8,67    1,76    2.16    2.767    6.676   1.66
btenel ectr adlemtere (percent):
Isports OM6 rel growth rate ..5...      .7    5.2    7.9    9.9    1.9    8.0  -6.6   16.6    6.9    11.    21.7    18.7    5.7   -4.1            1.8     12.2     7.8
all Import. real groth rote......... 25.8   49.9    ..a .                                  .     6.0   81.4    86.6       1.7   12.6   -5.6   .4.4        -0.8     0.0
Maioil Impxortral gro)  th rate (Deod.)         ..   0.8    9.6      .-.            .      .     ..7     9.2   456.2    67.    5.1.   .4.6    861.6       14.1,  , 7.1
60port @06 mammal Oeroth rate..... 9.7    6.9   18.0   27.4    8.9   16.7    0.0   19.7    86.0   25.6    -9.9            8.9    18.9   48.4   -20.8    26.0J   'S. 
Import. of @06/Curreat GOP.......18.4    9.8    6.0   12.8   11.4    7.5    6.8    7.1    10.7   10.4    18.8   19.0   17.4    18.4    18.9               19.2    16.8
Kaporte O06 rel growth rate ...... 4.4    6.7    9.4    9.6    9.9   .8.   10.1    1.0    81.9    17.6   460.0   -W.?    17.8    18.8  -44.4               8.7    88.9
leport an@ nomIalo groMt rate.....11.6    6.6   19.8   91.0   18.8    4.7   91.1I  -0.6    86.9.   86.2  -40.6   46.1    26.0    18.6   -11.7              4.9    46.8
Ioompot of @06/CurrentGO 5.1.....      6.6   11.4    9.6  12.0   18.9    9.6    9.0    9.8    18.0    19.9    10.6S    9.4       9.6    10.5   12.6    12.0    14.0 
etmowre blaesce/OurretbGO 5.......-1.9   -9.1   -1.6    0.8   -2.6   -1.6   -2.5   -2.2   -2.8   -9.8            8.0     9.6     7.8     4.9     4.8      7.2     2.2
Terme ot Tradle Tod" (1WO * 100)....  96.7   16.6   83.5  104.9   18.7   66. 1   69.4   76.8  100.0   102.9    96.9    76.7    77.15   711.2   38.9    62.7    66.0
Rags Eximehoge ROat lade (190110.10) b/cl 118.8  106.8  106.9  111.8  118.   106.8  104.8  106.8   10.0   60.7   186.8   187.8   114.0   11.7   145.9    181.4  .26.6
P@o'e;Un Debt Indicateorj.1
Totel OM QUIlinU1)......... 55)8,514 11,240  88126                   ..  2.912  4,9661 92.177  87,480  709290  e66.1U   96.067  96.O   96,675 181.054  107,61  %",.10
,ubl la OM ..9.........99...              22    7,866 81,861            11,487  9,186 17,104  80.180  16,096  7601  78.257  76.619  61.180  16.951   11.78   94.5110
Pr;Vat OW d/.1 ..........                   .916  8.604 51.6617     ,    754  2.770  4,646   7,80   10,260  6CM   14,660  16.296  15.745  18,10    3A14.6   9.576
Total OWjEmporta O    M0 (6) ......146.6  211.1  61.6                .   118.6  164.4  818.9   260.    269.    M2.1   842.4   818.0   86.9   462.0    892.0   86.0
Total U00/corrent'0pM (1........             18.0   18.4   87.0    .. 10.9   12.9  51.8    5.64    81.6    60.8    68.0    64.0    66.1    77.9    75.4    86.
Debt sarv).. ILT (041 11 Ion 536 9/ ......          1.995  6.15      .    486   6"1  2,26    7,901    ou51    WM9  114    11,406  10,88          .9901811    .2  .1   22.917
Debt service 19.T/Curret 5(6)P   * ....2.1    1.9    5.2    ..             2.1    1.8    2.8    4.1      8.4      8.8     7.6    .6.      6.9     7.1      0.7     6.9
Debt wsvl co W./ftm        CMt @ M (1) e/ . 9-4.0   24.0   46.0    2.5.1  25.7   81.0    66.5    5.4    86.0    49.2   67.6    89.2    42.2    86.9    42.8
lateret "L.T (Ml iMe 156) O/ .186...i                862  S.669      ..      7    218  1,06    6,696   4,6316  6.U18   6,681   7.807   7,799   6.68    0.009   S.862
Intereet "LT/experts a06 M(1   .....86.5   10.2   19.8               .     4.8    8.0   18.4    171.0    18.60   58.6    96.4    24.9    50.0    29.7     2t.8    99.7
Imteremt HU./Ce.rrowt ep (6) /.1.....0.8    0.6    2.4    ..               0.4    0.6    1.1     2.0     1.9     8.f     4.8     4.8      4.9      .       4.2     6.7
MemrIm Item:,
F$Ww. I of 099......     .4...... -.7   48.0   40.9  -10.0   -2.7   4,.9   43.5   -9.9   -7.0  -18.7   -18.9   48.9    4.0    48.9   -14.6   -15.6   -12.9
Primry iblae. (soel of OMP)............ .                                  0.0   -1.4  .4.8   -9.1   -7.6   -2.6          5.4     8.0     6.0     8.4      4.9     6.8
lataetlca Ujeeted Raitan  (as I at OM    .     .       .      .      .    -1.1  -4.6   48.8    -4.0   -10.1  :-10.6   .4.6    40.1    -8.9   -4.9          9.5    -4.4
316/5 C"e 3 of O   ............18.0   22.7  25.1   27.9   1.8.   91.1   86.7  25.5    91.6    97.6    5B.7                6.1.   27.0    59.0    97.1    26.8    5.4
lbmetry lb-e (gowth rte")........10.7   14.6   81,0   88.1    1.0   12.9   10.7  25.6    41.9   46.1    90.4    861.1    54.1   17.5    47.7    70.8    42.8
"/ trfere bo 1966-70.
A*.I. measured by meissive uhlwaeePele pie Indexe".
c/. Aft nogresee I. the lade so" reel deprecitien.
/.Private 06m,41eaI .te
..It Includes o13P UStAVOl Public Det.
Sources: SUC? and IBRD staf f estimates.



ANNl I
MEXICO                                   Page 2 of 3
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Real _ il4ntor4st Publi. Somodio. 1978-88
(billion. of 1980 pes)
Aw. Annual Change
1978   1979   1986   1981   1882    1988   1984   1985    1986   1987  19882  1978-82   1982-88
Total Non-lnterest Expenditure  942    6      1280  1569   1710   1294   1295   1301    1280   1218   1115    16.1               4.9
Current                        652    720    848    996   1218    968    964   1613    1ll    925    89S              18.9      -5.0
Weg"                        286    296    296    843    887    81o          812    8no      362    362    8w6       9.8      -4.9
Federal                  131    145    1S        172    198    148    18a    162    148    1S3    las    16.9             -5.9
Public entrprises  lJ    1       121    128    149    164    139    184    148    187    12              128     9.7      -4.7
PEMEX                  21      28      21      28      24      28      24      86      28      84    3a        a.3       8.8
Other                  92      90     107    121    140    111    116    118    169            96      94    11.1      -6.4
Otherentitlee             21      20      17      19      24      28      14      26      19      19     26      3.3       1.3
Other curren'               38      484     547    657    e88       648    862    684       769    623    6o1    21.1        -5.8
Purchssesoods a sr.         241    286    299    485    420         889    422    467    468    879    36c          14.9     -2.8
Federal                   11      27      51    145    106       a6       67      64      71      34   n.a.      77.9    -20.0
Public entrpries         269    215      227    817    36  801           845    894    88sa    38    na..        9.4       2.3
PEEX                      89      SS      64      76      72      s       72      89      96      77   n.o.      16.e       L.1
Other Public Enterprise   170    180    168    242    227    260    278          an      288    259   n..        7.5       2.7
Other entities               21      28      21      28      14       9      16      10       9      10   n.t.     -9.1      -7.9
Transfers and other         145    168    246    172    411         269    236    216       240    244    287      29.7      -8.8
Capital                        290   380    411    6O1         498    86      821    288      249    298    88a       14.1     -8.8
Federal                      99    121    133    2"8    179         127    113    1065       91    116       59    1S.9    -16.9
Public enterprie m          156    19S    227    294    261         169    1S6    189       116    141    184       12.7    -10.0
PEMEX                     69    116    120    177    140          86      76      62      66      63      84     12.2    -14.7
Other Public EnterprIss  67       so    17    117       1ll      78      s0      77      66      78      86     18.4     -5.8
Other entities               3s      43      S1      76      63      SO      62      43      42      42      48     15.4    -4.2
Meorandum ite:
GDP (billion Pesos)        2387    8688    4277   5874   9798   17879   29472  47403   79864  195616  398656
GOP DefIator (1903 a 166) 6.60   e.789   1.666   1.286  2.028   8.982   8.145   9.685  16.794  40.818  80.809
Fixed Inavestnt Deflator 6.680  0.789   1.666   1.266   2.M28   3.93e  6.286   9.891  19.106  37.461  74.388
Sourcsat SWCP and DBRD staff estimates.
)/ PublTc enterprises under budgetary control.     / Total of purchases of goods nd services a current transfers.
V Estimated.



ANNEX I
MEXICO                    Page 3 of 3
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ths-Ig_w.i*t Public Se_4iee. 109704
(Shares In MP, percentae.)
_ - __ _ ~~~-- -- -- _-- -- -- ------ - - - - -_--                                                           -__- -
1978    1979    1960    1981    1982   1988    1984    1986   1011    1987    1988
_ __ ~~~~- - - - - ___- - - - - _  
Non-interet Expedituro        26.03   27.01  20.8!  84.8!  85.43   20.11   26.91   6.6X   27.4S   24.SX   22.6!
Current                      18.4!  18.41   19.7!  21.41   25.21   20.71  2W.1S   26.61  21.4   19.8!x  18.21
Wage. 7. 6                          7.8!   0.91    7.8!   8.81    6.7!   6.6X    8.7!    .4!    .ax    6.ox
Federal           '      8.71X    .7!   8.61   8.7X    4.1!   8.21    8.4!   8.8x    .S1         8.21    2.8!
Public enterprie         3 8.2!   8.1!    .oX    8.2x    8.4X    8.X    2.x    3.0       2.9X    2.7!   2.6X
PEMEX                 0.6X    6.6x    .5!   6.6!   o.6s    0.6X    0.5X    o.6x   09.6        0.7!   6.61
Other                 2.6!   2.5!   2.5X    2.6!   2.90    2.43    2.83    2.4!   2.81   2.6O    1.91
Other entities           0.6!   6.SX    0.4!   0.4X    6.6S    6.SX    9.ax    9.4X    0.4S    6.41    6.6!
Other current                10.9X   11.2!   12.8x   14.13   17.21   14.0X   18.6!   18.3X   15.0S   18a.8    12.2X
Purchase  of goods A serv    6.83X    0.6!    7.0 X   10.4!    0.7X   s.4x    8.8     9.5S    9.81t  7.91    7.4!
Federal                     o.8x    0.7X    1.2X1   8.1    2.2X    1.4X    1.4!    1.8!    1.51   0.7X    n.n.
Public enterprise           5.91   S.61X   5.8!   8.6!    8.2    0.8%    7.21   8.6!    8.10    7.6!    n.*.
PEMEX                    1.1!    14X    1.5X    1.8!    1.5X    1.4!    1.651   1.X    2.0X    1.6X    n.u.
Othor Public Entorprlse  4.sx    4.1X     8.as   5.2X    4.7X    6.4%    5.7x   6.21   6.12   5.4X    n.n.
Other entities              O.6!X  0.X    C.SX   0.56    9.8!    0.2X    0.21   0.2X    6.2s   0.2X    n.e.
Current transftes and other   4.1!    4.8!    5.8X    8.7!   8.AX    6.6!    4.81    4.4!    5.21   5.13    4.sx
Capital                       s.2X    9.2X    9.61  12.91   10.2X   7.41    6.s1    G-ox 6     .60x    5.6    4.41
Federal                     2.s8    8.1X    8.1!    5.11    8.7!i   2.83    2.42    2.21    2.2X    2.11    1.13
Public enterprise o /       4.41    5.X    5.8!a   6.8!    6.2    8.5x    8.8x    2.91    2.82    2.7!    2.6X
PEM                      2.5!    2.83    2.8%    8.6x    2.9!    1.91    1.6!    1.8X    1.21   1.21    1.6!
Other Public Enterprise  1.98    2.21    2.65    2.6X   2.ax    1.6!    1.7X    1.061   1.O      1.6X    1.61
Othor entitles              1.O!    1.1!    1.2X    1.5%    1.8X   1.1      1.13    6.9s    1.8    9.8X1   6.s
ammorandu  Item;
GOP (bi II) on Pesos)       2387    86s8    4277    5874    9798  17879   29472   4740a   70984  190516  896596
Sorcee : SWCP and IB80 staf Sources: SWc and 1910 staff estimates.
IJ Public enterprises under budgetary control.



- 49 -
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                      ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO  1/          Page 1 f 2
A. Statement of Bank Loans
(A* of March 81, 1989)
(US$ million)
_____________________________________________________________________________________________
Fiscal                                                 Amount loss        Undis-
Loan No.     Year        Borrower              Purpose             Cancel lati ons    bursed
75 loans fully disbursed                                   5,462.00
1706-6       1979   NAFIN              Irrlgation                        81.80         15.14
lBSB-5       1980   NAFIN              Irrlgation                        64.40         1s.1i
1990         1981   BAN0ORAS           Urban Development II             144.16         10.01
2048         1992    NAFIN             Integrated Rural D-v.            176.00          8.07
2142         1982   NAFIN              Capital Goods Industry           162.30          0.40
2154         1962   NAFIN              Pollution Control                 18.09          4.40
2262         1988    NAFIN             Agricultural Marketing           115.00         12.21
2281         1988   BANO0RAS           Third Water Supply               100.80         80.84
2825         1968   NAFIN              Third Sm/Med Industry            175.00          1.84
2881         1983   BANCOMEXT          Export Development               850.00          4.22
2426         1984    BANO0RAS          Highways                         200.00         85.00
2450         1984   BANPESCA           Ports                             6e.80         89.22
2526         1985   NAFIN              Chiapas Agric. Oev.               58.00         42.63
2546         195s   NAFIN              Sm/Med Scale Mining II           106.00         89.12
2559         1985   NAFIN              Vocational Education              61.00         28.90
2575         1985   BANO0RAS           Railways V                       800.00        167.84
2612         1986    BANO0RAS          Low Income Housing I             150.00         26.07
2968         1986    NAFIN             Proderith II                      86.a0         71.20
26s6         1986   BANOSRAS           Earthquake Rehab                 400.00         88.56
2666         1986    BANOBRAS          Municipal Strengthening           40.00         88.62
2669         1988   BANO0RAS           Solid Waste Pilot                 26.00         19.68
2746         1967    BANCOMEXT         Trade Policy Loan I              600 00         10.69
2746         1987    NAFIN             Industrial Recovery              150.00         65.83
2747         1987    NAFIN             Technology Development            48.00         84.67
2777         1967    BANCOYEXT         Export Development II            250.00         88.16
2824         198T   BANOBRAS           Urban Transport                  125.00        101.12
2837         1987    NAFIN             Agricultural Credit              400.00         51.55
2868  8/     1987    NAFIN             Sm/Med Industries IV             100.00        100.00
2865         1987    NAFIN             Agricultural Extension            20.00         16.95
2875         1987   BANOORAS           Highway Maintenance              138.00        126.00
2876         1988    NAFIN             Manpower Training                 80.00         83.68
2916         1988    NAFIN             Stoel Sector Restruct.           400.00        842.68
2918         1988    NAFIN             Agricultural Sector Loan         800.00        201.99
2919  3/     1988    NAFIN             Fertilizer Sector Loan           266.00        265.00
2948  8/     1988   BANODRAS           Ports Rehabilitation              60.00         50.00
2947  8/     1988   BANO8RAS           Housing Finance                  800.00        800.00
Total                                           11,469.86
Of which has been repaid                         3,112.06
Total now outstanding                            8,346.80
Amount sold                92.84
Of which has been repaid: 92.84                      0.00
Total now held by Bank  2/                       8,846.80
e==8e
Total undisbursed                                              2,449.18
1/  The status of the projects listed In Part A is in a separate
report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which
is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors
on April 80 and October 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
8/ Not yet effective.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
MEXICO                             Page 2 of 2
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
9. Statement of IFC Inv.,tment
As  March 81, 1989
(USS Million)
------------------------------------------------------------__---__________--__------------------------__
Fiscal                                                                   -----original Approva ls---------
Year          Obligor                         Type of Buoineas              Loan      Equity      Totsl
19S8/69        Industrial Perfect
Cirele, S.A.  */             Industrial Equipment          0.80        0.00       0.80
1958          Bristol de Mexico, S.A.   */    A.C. Engine Overhal            0.60        0.00       0.60
1981           Aceros Solar, S.A.  */          Twist Drills                  0.30        0.00       0.30
1962/6/8/8    Fundidora Mionterray, S.A.  */  Steel                          2.30       21.40      23,70
19683         Tuboo de Acero de Mexico         Stainloss Steol Pipes         0.90        0.10       1.00
1968           Quimica del Rey, S.A.  */       Sodium Sulphate               0.70        0.00       0.70
1984/6         Industrie del Hierro, S.A.      Construction Equipment        0.00        2.00       2.00
1970          Minor* del Norte   8/            Iron Ore Mining               1.60        0.00       1.60
1971          Colanes Mexican*, S.A.  */       Textiles                     12.00        0.00      12.00
1972          Promotora Papel Periodicos,
S.A. do C.V.   a/            Pulp and Paper                0.00          b/         b/
1973/9         Cementos Veracruz, S.A.         Cement                       16.90        0.00      15.90
1974/81        Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                       1.00        0.80       1.30
1975/78       Mexinox, S. A.                   Stainless Steel              12.00        3.20      16.20
1978/81/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.          Pulp and Paper               10.70        6.00      16.70
1978          Tereftalatos Mexteanos, S.A.   Petrochemical                  19.00        0.00      19.00
1979/81/87    Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa, S.A. Tourism                         0.00        4.20       4.20
1979/84       Empresae Tolteca, S.A.           Cement                      168.00        7.90     175.90
1979          Conductors* Montorray, S.A.    Electrical Wire  Cable        18.00        0.00      18.00
1980           Industries Resistol, S.A.       Particle 8oard               25.00        0.00      25.00
1980          Vidrio Piano de Mexico, S,A.    Flat Class                   114.90        0.00     114.90
1980          Miner. Real do Angeles, S.A.   Mining                        110.00        0.00     110.00
1981/86       Celulosicos CentOuro, S.A.       Pulp and Paper               59.50        0.00      69.50
1991          Corporacion Agro-
industrial S.A.             Agri-Business                 1. s0        3.00      14.30
1984          Capital Goods Facility  */       Capital Goods Financing     100.00        0.00     100.00
19i4/88       Metalsa, S. A.                   Auto Chasis                   8.00        1.40       9.40
1985          Proteison, S.A. de C.V.          Agri-Business                 2.00        0.80       2.80
198S          Promociones Industriales
Mexicanas, S.A. do C.V.      Petrochemical                16.40        0.00      16.40
1986          Celulosa y Papel do Durango,
S.A. de C.V.                 Pulp and Paper               10.00        3.10      13.10
1987          Agromex Phase I (AESA)           Veg and Fruit Processing      1.50        0.50       2.00
1987           Industries Sulf-x,
S.A. do C.V.                 Chemical & Petrochemical      2.00        0.50       2.50
1988          Sealed Power de Mexico           Auto Assembly                 9.00        0.00       9.00
1988          Spasco, S.A. do C.V.             Cement                       46.00        0.00      46.00
1988          Salumi, S.A. de C.V.             Food end Food Proceseing     20.10        2.00      22.10
1988          Crescent Market Aggregates       Construction Material        87.00        0.00      37.00
19B9          Grupo Femeal Visa                Consumer Ooode Conglamorat   80.00        0.00      80.00
1989          Serfin                           Development Finance          60.00        0.00      60.00
1989          Polimer (ABS)                    Petrochemical                14.50        0.00      14.50
Gross Total Commitments                                     990.80       66.40    1046.20
LoSe Cancellations, Terminations,
Repaym nts snd Sales                                     690.20       28.40     718.60
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                           300.60       27.00     327.80
Total Undisbursed (Including Participants)                   76.60        0.10      76.70
*/ Investentw which have been fully cancelled, torminated,
written off, sold, or repaid.
b/ USS2S,000O



- 51 -
AMu III
Page 1 of 2
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare program: 2 months
(b) Program prepared by: Secretariats of Finance and Public Credit,
and of Programming and Budgeting
(c) First Presentation to Bank: end-September 1988
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1988
(e) Completion of negotiation: May 1989
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1989
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following have been established as loan effectiveness conditions:
(a) Substantial progress in obtaining adequate financing for Mexico's
requirements for 1989-90 (para. 110); and
(b) BNCE would submit subsidiary agreements to the Bank for passing on
the proceeds of the loan to the Government on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
The following conditions have been established for second tranche release:
(i) The Government's macroeconomic program is consistent with the
objectives of stabilization and recovery of economic growth,
as set forth in the Letter of Development, including progress
toward more flexible price adjustments (para. 37 and Annexes
VII and VIII);
(ii) An Action Program for the increase in the Federal District's
self-generated revenues of at least 102 in real terms over the
1988 level in the 1990 Budget has been adopted (para. 69);
(iii) An Action Program for the gradual reduction of non-matching
federal grants to the states have been adopted in the 1990
Budget (para. 67);



- 52 -
ANM= III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)  An Action Program has been adopted which redefines the role of
each development bank and trust fund, including a detailed
review of the finances and operation of NAPIN, BANCOMEXT,
BANOBRAS, BANPJRAL and ANAGSA; in the meantime, fiscal
transfers to BANRURAL and ANAGSA would, as a percentage of
GDP, remain within the amounts budgeted for 1989 (para. 101);
(v)  An Action Program has been adopted for the further
strengthening of Bank supervision and prudential regulations
(para. 94); and
(vi)  Continued substantial progress has been made in obtaining
adequate financing for Mexico's requirements for 1989-1990 and
over the medium term in the context of the adjustment program
and growth targets set forth in "Mexico's Economic Strategy'
issued by SHCP (para. 110).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 19
- 53 -
MEXICO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
THE ANALYTICAL FRAMEWORK
A. Consistency of Fiscal Policy
A fiscal stance that does not conflict with sustained low inflation, even
in the event of unfavorable external developments and continued high real
interest rates, is clearly necessary, although possibly not sufficient, to allay
inflationary fears. Only if the inflation compatible with public finance
requirements is compatible with the inflation rate implied by the exchange rate
regime, is the latter going to be sustainable.   And this in turn is the
cornerstone of the Pacto. Thus medium term consistency requirements, when
violated, give a signal that will greatly complicate short term macromanagement.
This will require restrictions on both the overall deficit and its mode of
financing.
There are three sources of financing public sector expenditure beyond what
can be obtained from the regular tax system: external borrowing, monetization
and issue of domestic interest-bearing debt. The amount that can be expected
from each source will depend on other macroeconomic targets, such as inflation,
output growth, interest rates and so on. The revenue from these three sources
of financing can be combined into the calculation of a "financeable deficit".
This is defined as the deficit that does not require more financing than is
compatible with sustainable external borrowing, existing targets for inflation
and output growth, and a sustainable internal debt policy. If the actual deficit
equals this "financeable" deficit, fiscal policy is consistent with the
macroeconomic assumptions and targets underlying the calculation of the
financeable deficit. 1/
Underlying the framework suggested here to calculate the financeable
deficit is a model describing private portfolio choice as a function of
inflation, output and interest rates. This gives the amount of currency, demand
deposits and time deposits the private sector is willing to hold given output,
inflation and the level and structure of interest rates. This is coupled with
a simple financial sector model incorporating reserve requirements and other bank
regulatory policies to derive the demand for reserves by commercial banks. The
demand for reserves is then added to the demand for currency already derived to
get an estimate of the total demand for base money given inflation, interest
rates, and so on. All this is used to derive total revenue from monetization,
1 This should be interpreted with care. Consistency with macroeconomic
targets does not guarantee that those macroeconomic targets can or will be
achieved; only that the fiscal deficit is not inconsistent with them. To actually
achieve the stated macroeconomic targets may require other measures, possibly
including fiscal retrenchment beyond what is required for consistency as defined
here.



- 54 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 19
net of interest payments on reserves, for different output growth rates, interest
and inflation rates and regulatory policies. To revenue from monetization must
be added the revenue the government can expect from external and internal debt
issue given its external borrowing policies and debt management approach. One
can then calculate the financeable deficit. 2/
The difference between the actual deficit in 1988 and this financeable
deficit is called the required deficit reduction, RDR. A deficit cut equal to
RDR will restore consistency with other macroeconomic targets. The results of
such an exercise for Nexico are summarized in Table 1. The table lists the
results  for various  assumptions  on other macroeconomic variables.    The
operational deficit in 1988 equaled 4.40 of GDP. RDR is measured with respect
to that number.
In the calculations underlying the Table, it is assumed that issue of
interest-bearing domestic debt is kept down to a rate that will maintain the
real value of the domestic debt constant. The reason for not allowing a faster
rate of domestic debt issue is the high interest rate it currently carries; at
around 30% per year, it is well above the real growth rate of the economy. At
this rate, debt-service will escalate as a percentage of GDP if more extensive
use is made of debt-issue to finance the deficit. As to foreign financing,
different options are explored. The first row of the table assumes that the
nominal value of the foreign debt stays constant (CAD-O). The second row looks
at the consequences of changing that option to either a constant real value of
the debt or to assuming a constant debt-output ratio.
The actual deficit in 1988 needs to be cut by 4.4 percent of GDP for
compatibility with an inflation target of 15 percent, or the entire operational
deficit needs to disappear. This reflects the fact that Mexico receives very
little from the inflation tax and seigniorage, because of low growth and the
practice of paying interest on reserves. Even for a 50* inflation target, the
RDR still amounts to a hefty 3.3 percent of GDP.
2 A simple version of this framework was first used in Anand and van
Wijnbergen (1989). "Inflation and the Financing of Government Expenditure: An
Introductory Analysis with an Application to Turkey, I World Bank Economic Review.
The current version incorporates external debt considerations and implications
of the financial structure for inflation tax revenues and is based on Anand and
van Wijnbergen (1988), 'Inflation, External Debt and Financial Sector Reform:
A Quantitative Approach to Consistent Fiscal Policy with an Application to
Turkey"). Working Paper No.2731, National Bureau of Economic Research.



- 55 -                      ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 19
TABLE 1: REQUIRED DEFICIT REDUCTION (RDR) FOR CONSISTENCY WITH VARIOUS
MACROECONOMIC TARGETS (AS PERCENT OF GDP).
1. NO REAL EXCH.DEPRECIATION; CAD-O; OUTPUT GROWTH 1.5%
INFLATION TARGETS             p:  0          5            15  50
MDR: 5.1         4.8        4.4  3.3
2. NO REAL EXCH. DEPRECIATION; INFLATION 15%; OUTPUT GROWTH 1.5%
FOR.BORROWING        CAD:  0          3.1 I/       4.0 2/
RDR: 4.4         1.3          0.4
3. NO REAL EXCH. DEPRECIATION; INFLATION 15%; CONST.B*/Y RATIO
OUTPUT CROWTH TARGETS           n:   0            1.5        4      5
RDR:-1.5         0.4    -1.3  -1.9
3. INFLATION 15%; OUTPUT GROWTH 1.5%; CONST. B*/Y RATIO
____________   ___________   ____________   ___________   ________a __
REAL EXCH.RATE                      c:  0           5          10
DEPRECIATION                     RDR: 0.4           3.0       5.7
Notes: l/ Constant real debt case
2/ Constant debt/GDP case
c     :Rate of depreciation of the Real Exchange Rate
CAD  :Current Account Deficit
n     :Growth rate of real GDP
p     :Inflation Rates
RDR  :Required cut in fiscal deficit compared with 1988
(operational) deficit of 4.4% of GDP
B*,B :Foreign, Domestic Debt
y     :GDP
Of course more liberal access to foreign financing changes all that. The
second row shows that the current deficit in fact is compatible with an inflation
target of 15 percent if enough foreign financing is available to at least
maintain the debt/ output ratio constant. A less liberal target would keep the
real value of the debt constant; at 1.5% real growth this implies a three percent
current account deficit, with a correspondingly higher need to cut back on the
fiscal deficit. A three percent current account deficit implies refinancing of
about half of interest payments.



-56 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 19
The third row of the Table shows how, under a constant debt-output ratio
target for foreign borrowing, fiscal leeway increases with output growth. The
RDR falls from 2.8 percent of GDP at a zero growth rate to a zero RDR at a four
percent real growth rate for GDP.
With real interest rate differentials as large as they are now, debt
management takes on a great fiscal importance. Take for example a debt/equity-
swap scheme where say lObUS$ is retired but a corresponding amount of domestic
debt is issued by the public sector to acquire the private equity used in the
swap. With a staggering 25 percentage points real interest rate differential,
this operation would INCREASE the real interest rate burden by no less than 1.5
percent of GDP, raising the required deficit reduction for a given inflation
target correspondingly. The impact on the operational deficit would be smaller,
but still 1.2 percent. The smaller effect is because the operational deficit,
somewhat inconsistently, counts payment of nominal interest rate charges on
foreign debt, rather than just real foreign interest payments, like it does in
the case of domestic debt. The whole operation would have a major impact on
equilibrium inflation: even as small a debt/equity swap as the $10 bUS considered
here would, at current interest rate differentials, raise equilibrium inflation
by no less than 50 percentage points (see van Wijnbergen et al. (1988) for the
methods used to arrive at this claim). The numbers are so large because in Mexico
the base for the inflation tax is very low; commercial bank reserves basically
carry market rates, so the inflation tax base is just currency in hands of the
public, an almost negligible amount.
This points at the general issue of domestic debt. At 1.5% real growth
and no net increase in foreign nominal debt, the fiscal gap is 4.4 percent of
GDP for 15 percent inflation. What if this gap is filled by issuing internal
debt rather than foreign debt? Since interest rates on internal debt exceed the
real growth rate by such a margin, this funding policy would solve today's fiscal
problem at the cost of a substantially more serious one in the following year.
This strategy would raise the required deficit reduction for a 15% inflation rate
from 3.1 percent to 4 percent of GDP within one year. If continued for six years,
the debt-output ratio would have risen from 19 percent to 52 percent of GDPI This
clearly highlights the fact that internal debt issue should be avoided at almost
any cost in the current situation in Mexico.
The final exercise demonstrates the extent to which high real interest
rates are at the root of Mexico's current fiscal problems. Table 2 shows the
equilibrium inflation rate, i.e. the inflation rate for which no fiscal
adjustment is required, for various real interest rates on Mexico's internal
debt. All this on the assumption that no net increase in the nominal value of
the foreign debt is allowed (i.e a zero external current account deficit for
the public sector).
Table 2: EQUILIBRIUK INFLATION AND THE REAL INTEREST RATE ON
INTERNAL DEBT
NO REAL EXCH.DEPRECIATIONs CADO0; OUTPUT GROWTH 1.5%
REAL INT.RATE ON DOK.DEBT R  30                 15          10
EQUILIBRIUM INFLATION           p 150           22          0



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 19
At the current interest rate, the required deficit reduction is 4.4 percent
of GDP; alternatively, an inflation rate of 150 percent is needed to cover this
amount through inflation tax. At a more reasonable 15 real interest rate, the
equilibrium inflation rate, for which no fiscal adjustment is required, falls
to 22 percentl At a real interest rate of ten percent, the equilibrium inflation
rate falls to zero. Note that as inflation rises, additional revenue from
inflation tax falls, necessitating increasingly larger increases in inflation
to cover a given increase in the operational deficit. This is because at higher
inflation rates the elasticity of money demand increases, thus lowering the
additional marginal revenue that a given increase in inflation rates yields as
inflation rises.
B.    Macroeconomic Stability, External Balance and Growth
The model presented below has been used for the macroeconomic projections
and is designed to shed light on the key questions raised in this report: can
the objectives of external balance and satisfactory output growth be reconciled?
What is the role of fiscal policy in this trade off? Which real exchange rate
path is compatible with the various policy scenarios and growth requirements?
What is the relation between exchange rates and external balance? The model is
used in an empirical investigation of the trade off between output growth and
external balance, and the role relative prices have to play in this trade off.
Real interest rates play an important role in the model. High real interest
rates, by depressing private investment and consumption, create more room for
fiscal deficits for any given external balance target. At the same time, high
real interest rates complicate fiscal management, since they raise the cost of
servicing the domestic part of the public debt. Crucial parameters are the
sensitivity of private savings and investment with respect to the real interest
r-te; these receive detailed attention in the empirical section below.
A second channel between fiscal policy, output growth and external debt
depends not so much on the interrelation between aggregate fiscal deficits, real
interest rates and the current account, but more on the composition of the public
sector expenditure program. A substantial part of aggregate investment in Mexico
has traditionally been undertaken by the public sector. As a consequence, the
government's allocation of its total expenditure over consumption and investment
is an important determinant of output growth for any given aggregate expenditure
level and time path of the real interest rate.
Another important relative price that is antagonist in the model is the
real exchange rate. The real exchange rate plays a role in the allocation of
expenditure over different goods at a given moment of time, similar to the way
the real interest rate influences the intertemporal expenditure of expenditure
for given intra-temporal allocation (cf van Wijnbergen (1989) for a detailed
exposition of the theory underlying this model). This is a rather different
approach from most other empirical models, where the real exchange rate, if it
is antagonist at all, is often derived from current account considerations. In
our setup, the real exchange rate also influences the current account, but in
a rather complicated manner, through its impact on aggregate supply and
investment behavior. No empirical evidence could be found to support the
Laursen-Metzler notion that the real exchange rate also influences consumption
expenditure.



- 58 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 19
It is in fact more natural to think of the real exchange rate as the
relative price clearing the market for "Mexican" goods. Its equilibrium value
is thus not derived from current account considerations, but from commodity
market clearing conditions. The level of external transfers, the composition of
government expenditure over home and foreign goods, and commercial policy all
have an important impact on the real exchange rate in this approach. Explicit
nominal exchange rate policies targeting the real exchange rate may, if
successful, cause persistent commodity market disequilibrium ( van Wijnbergen
(1989b)).
In the following pages, we provide a simplified exposition of the
analytical structure of the model. We then discuss the empirical application to
Mexican data.
B.1  Real Interest Rates, Fiscal Policy and Output Growth.
As long as domestic interest rates are not completely linked to foreign
interest rates (plus exchange rate depreciation) there is an additional degree
of freedom in macroeconomic policy. Then changes in domestic real interest rates
can resolve potential discrepancies between fiscal deficits and external targets
through their impact on the net private savings surplus (i.e private saving minus
private investment). In the process, private investment and hence output growth
will be affected. This is one of the more important links between fiscal policy
and output growth embedded in the model. The mechanism is shown in Figure 1.
Underlying this figure is the following identity derived from the national
accounts, but with behavioral content built into private savings and investment:
GAS - FS + NPS(r)
- FS + PS(r) - PI(r)
The private sector's surplus of savings over investment, NPS-PS-PI, is shown as
a function of the real rate of interest. A higher real interest rate will slow
down private sector investment and increase private savings, thus increasing NPS.
Empirical evidence on these effects is presented in Section 4.3. This is
represented by the upward sloping line "NPS" in Figure 1. The sum of NPS and the
fiscal surplus (FS; this equals minus the deficit) equals the external deficlt
that is compatible with given real interest rates and with FS. The external
deficit is represented by the line CA in Fig. 1. The horizontal line TCA is the
target value for the current account. The real interest rate at which the
current account target TCA equals the current account CA is the real rate at
which fiscal policy and current account targets are in line.
An increase in the fiscal deficit represents a decline in the fiscal
surplus and hence a downward shift in the feasible current account line FCA. To
still meet the same current account target, a higher interest rate is needed to
call forth the required extra surplus of private savings over private investment
(r shifts from rA to rB). A cut in fiscal deficits will thus allow lower real
interest rates for given current account targets, and hence higher private
investment.



ANNEX IV
~ 59 -                   Page 7 of 19
CA,N>S                                                          C
NPS
-__________ 
=                                      tC
04F-
TSe analysis so far is not enough to tie the link between fiscal deflcits
and output growth. It has focused on the impact of the fiscal deficit on private
investment; output grot depends on total investment, however, sst just on
private investment. Clesxly, the impact of ehpnges in fiscal deficits on output
growth depends on whether the underlying adjuste>nt is made out of public
investment or out of public consmtion. Th   odel therefore breaks dow puiblic
expenditure in public consumption and investment. Output growth depends on the
sum of public and private investent.
Of course, interest rate arbitrage between domestic and foreign rate m ay
elijuinate any leeway for the dometic real interest rate to reconcile fiscal
deficits with current account *tarets. In that caseo, another degree of freedom
is lost. For any given rate of real depreciation, the link between fiscal
deficits and the current account is direct If real interest rates at home and



- 60 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 19
abroad cannot diverge more than the expected real rate of depreciation. The
remarlably close link between the fiscal deficit and the current account in
Mexico (cf Figure 2) suggest that interest arbitrage is in fact taking place in
Mexico; the no-arbitrage version of the model, with real rates reconciling fiscal
deficits and external balance , thus seems too extreme. We hence have used the
model for given real interest rates, rather than fixing the fiscal deficit and
having the real interest rate adjust endogenously. Of course the real exchange
rate is not fixed in the real world, nor is its rate of change exogenously given.
Policy measures will have a direct or indirect impact on both level and rate of
change of the real exchange rate. To this we turn now.
B.2  Commodity Market Clearing and the Real Exchange Rate.
The presentation has until now focused on the current account, fiscal
deficits, and the real rate of interest. But what about the real exchange rate?
Popular discussions of the current account invariably involve the latter
variable. This stems from an approach where the current account is analyzed
using partial equilibrium trade flow equations, with little attention for the
underlying macroeconomic and intertemporal aspects. Modern theory is questioning
some of the predictions of this approach. The real exchange rate of course does
have an impact on the current account, but in a much more ambiguous and indirect
maner than in the standard open economy models inherited from the fifties and
sixties.The approach adhered to here starts from the simple observation that the
real exchange rate can be viewed as the relative price of Mexican (non-oil) goods
(we will omit the "non-oil" qualification in the remainder of this section) in
terms of foreign goods. The "market" which the real exchange rate clears
(possibly only after periods of disequilibrium), is the market for Mexican goods.
The real exchange rate is thus a static relative price in that it measures the
rate at which two different (aggregate) commodities can be exchanged at a given
moment of time. The real interest rate measures the rate at which commodities
can be exchanged at different moments of time, through savings or investment
processes; it thus is an lntertemporal relative price.
Consider the determinants of aggregate demand and supply in that market.
Figure 3 provides a diagrammatical elaboration (see Edwards and van Wijnbergen
(1988) for a similar approach in a static framework). First aggregate demand
for Mexican goods. ')ne component comes from Mexican consumers (and investors).
At a more apprecia. .d real exchange rate (de < 0), Mexicans will tend to allocate
their aggregate expenditure towards foreign goods rather than towards Mexican
goods. Similarly, an appreciated real exchange rate will, ceteris paribus, cause
lower export sales (foreign demand falls off). This is represented by the upward
sloping curve Ad in Figure 3.



ANNEX IV
-61-                         Page 9 of l9
S~
S.
IL
0
0.
.             .  -- , ,             ,,,_._._._m _n._   *
175             1980            1165   198
NICACC
-   -  *  PRIMBAL
Figure 2
Aggregate supply of Mexican gooda is likely to increase when the real
exchange rate appreciates (again, de < 0), if 'only because then intermediate
Imports will become cheaper in terms of menxican goods (see the econometric
evidence presented below). The aggregate supply curve A. therefore slopes down
in Fig. 3 (note that e is defined as foreign over domestic prices, or the inverse
of the relative price of home goods). The equilibriu" oxchange rate is the rate
at which aggregate supply and demand for Mexican goods are In equilibrium: the
intersection of A. and Ad Ln fig. 3. Above that intersection, there is excess
demand for home goods and output will be supply determived: the exchange rate
is undervalued (excessively depreciated). Below the intersection, supply exceeds
demand and output is h6nce demand determined. The real exchange rate is
overvalued and there is Keynesian unemployment.
An increase in government expenditure on home goods would shift the A4
curve down and so reduce excess supply and Keynesian unemployment problems
(dotted line in fig. 3). As a consequence, the comodity market clearing.
nequilibrium" real exchange rate would fall (de > 0 from E to F in Fig. 3).



- 62 -
AUNE I
e                                                            Page 10 of 19
AD
AS
As, Ad
Aregae Supply (AS) VW Deand (AD)
FIgue 3
B.3 The Real Exchange Rate, Interest Rates and the Current
Account.
What about the current account? First note that the real exchange rate
that equilibrates aggregate demand for Mexican goods with their aggregate supply,
can do so at any level of the external deficit. An external defilcit indicates
that aggregate expenditure, by Mexicans but on foreign and domestic goods,
exceeds aggregate income. It provides no indication however, that aggregate
demand, by Mexicans and by foreigners, but now on Mexican goods alone, is in
excess of aggregate supply of Mexican goods at the going real exchange rate.
That does not mean that the real exchange rate and the current account
are entirely unrelatd. Figure 4 draws on the preceding ones and demonstrates
how the current account, the real interest rate and the real exchange rate
Intevact. Consider first commodity market equilibrium, but now not in Oe-A
space, but with the real exchange rate and interest rate on the axes. Assume
that at B commodity market equilibrium obtains. If one then moves to the left
(the exchange rate appreciates, de<0), excess supply develops. This was also
demonstrated in Fig. 3. To restore equilibrium, demand need to be curtailed;
one way of doing that is raising real interest rates; that lowers demand for
all consumption and investment goods (see the empirical evidence presented
below), thus also for domastic goods. The commodity market equilibriuu locus
thus slopes upward in r-e space.
Consider next the combinations of r and e that will allow achievement of



- 63 -                       ANN    IV
Page 11 of 19
a particular current account target, say CAS, for given fiscal policy. If at
E that target is achieved, moving up (higher r) will lead to overachievement:
higher real interest rates will, ceteris paribus, reduce private consumption
and investment and thus lead to a CA improvement. Which way will the exchange
rate have to move to bring the CA in line with its target? As theory suggests,
and the empirical analysis presented below confirms, the answer is sometimes
unclear. Theory suggests that for constant rate of time preference the exchange
rate has no effect on the private consumption ( Razin and Svensson (1983)). The
empirical analysis presented below shows that this is in fact the case for
Mexico. On the other hand, investment will be affected negatively, mostly because
of the impact on intermediate import prices of a devaluation, but this effect
takes place with a one year lag only. In the short run the only effect at play
is the negative impact of a real depreciation on aggregate supply. Thus in the
short run a real devaluation is in fact likely to deteriorate the current
account. However, in the longer run the negative impact on investment will
reverse this, like in the standard J-curve effect, although through a different
mechanism. This means that to restore the CA to its target in the short run a
depreciation is needed (the CA curve slopes also upward, like the GM curve; see
Fig. 4.B), but in the longer run an appreciation will be necessary, leading to
a negative slope (Fig. 4.A). Since this analysis has a medium run focus, we still
concentrate on the case where the slope is negative.
'What does this analysis suggest will happen if, say because of "inertial"
inflation and a fixed nominal exchange rate, the real exchange becomes
overvalued? This is represented by the move from E to D in Fig. 4.5.A. First of
all, there will be excess supply of domestic goods and hence falling exports,
declining capacity utilization, and Keynesian unemployment. What happens to the
current account depends on whether the CA curve slopes up or down; if down, it
deteriorates when moving from E to D and if up it actually improves. If the two
effects wash out, nothing will happen to it. In the medium run however, a
deterioration is more likely according to the empirical analysis presented below.
If the government responds to the rising unemployment and falling capacity
utilization by raising government purchases of domestic goods rather than
devaluing, the GM curve shifts to the left and the commodity market problem is
resolved. However, especially if this fiscal expansion is not matched by
increased revenues, the CA will deteriorate and the CA curve shifts up. This
means that the original CA target will increasingly get out of reach. Thus an
overvalued exchange rate will lead to unemployment and possibly to a
deteriorating CA as time goes by, or to no unemployment but a real CA problem
if fiscal policy is used to offset the employment effects of the overvalued
exchange rate. In this case the appropriate policy response to falling exports
and sluggish capacity utilization is in fact a real depreciation, to which a
nominal depreciation may contribute.
Of course, like in the preceding subsection, interest rate arbitrage takes
away one degree of freedom: the real interest rate, for given rate of
depreciation, confines the economy to the line at r+Ae). It will also pin down
the growth rate, for given any public investment program; this can be seen in
the left quadrant of diagram 4.



-64-                         ANNEX IV
Page 12 of 19
r
/- \M                               GM
~~~~~~~ Z 
Grwh                                      Rea Exchange Rate
F4A~~~~~~~~~~~~.
GM
n =i/                                10 .
Grwth                          Ol       Rachange ERate
Flu 4.A



- 65 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 13 of 19
B.4  Empirical Results
Aggregate Sunnlv and Aggregate Demand
Consider first aggregate expenditure. Government expenditure, both on
consumption and on capital goods, is considered a policy instrument. Consumption
expenditure depends on estimates of permanent and temporary income, and on the
after tax real rate of interest. The measure of permanent income is based on a
simple trend regression of real disposable income on time, with a trend break
from 1984 onwards (i.e. the decline in 1983 is interpreted as a surprise). The
results of this regression are:
(1)   log(ym,t) - 2.19 + (0.063 - D83PLUS*0.017)*t
(64.9)  (21.3)          (7.21)
R2-0.96 DW-1.58 1965-1987
Inflationary expectations are derived from a four year weighted average
of actual CPI inflation rates. The predicted value of this weighting procedure
is used in the calculation of real after tax interest rates. The nominal rate
used is the nominal after tax time deposit rate series presented in Gil-Diaz
(1988) for 1965-1986, and the three month after tax time deposit rate for 1987.
With these definitions of temporary and permanent income and of the real interest
rate, the econometric results for private consumption are:
(2)   log(Cp,1t) - 5.18 - 0.44 log(l+rrTD.t) + 0.70*log(YDRT)
(25.6) (1.83)               (4.41)
+ 0.86*1Og(YM,T))
(12.2)
R2-0.97, DW-1.14, 1970-1987
The results are promising; a coefficient with respect to permanent income
that is highly significant, but not significantly different from one; a
coefficient on temporary income that is significantly lower than the coefficient
on permanent income; and, finally, a significant ( at the 10 percent level) and
negative coefficient on the real after tax deposit rate. However, the low value
of the DW coefficient indicates some remaining specification error. The
regression results deteriorated significantly when the real exchange rate was
included; that variable never received significant coefficients and was thus
omitted. This finding has important consequences for the assessment of the impact
of a real devaluation on the current account.
The second interest sensitive component of aggregate expenditure is private
investment (fixed capital formation). Private investment depends on real interest
rates, the relative price of intermediate inputs and the output capital ratio
as a proxy of capacity utilization, for which no data are available before 1980.
The real interest rate used is based on the pre-tax nominal interest rate
reported in Gil-Diaz (1988); this rate is converted into a real rate using a VAR
of GNP deflator inflation on its own past values going back three years, plus



- 66 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 14 of 19
a constant term. The predicted values of this equation are used as proxy for
inflationary expectations; this proxy, in turn, is used to derive the real
interest rate, rrp. The measure of intermediate imports prices is the
dollar-based unit-value of intermediate imports deflated by the dollar-based
Mexican GNP deflator. This yields the following results:
(3)  log(Ipl1t) - 0.75 - 0.60*1og(l+rrwp(-l)) -0.26*log(1+rrr,
(-2))
(0.80) (2.64)                 (1.05)   +
1.59*log(yt/Kt) - 0.30*log(P,nt(-l))*E(  l)/P,p(-1))
(7.18)            (2.12)
R2-O.95, DW-1.23, 1970-1987
The results show a strong negative dependence of private fixed capital
formation on real interest rates and on the relative price of intermediate
imports in terms of final goods. Both enter with a lag, as should be expected;
II, is actual investment expenditure, not orders.
Private investment and consumption expenditure plus total government
expenditure and inventory accumulation (considered exogenous in the current
version of the model) make up aggregate expenditure.
Aggregate supply of non-oil Mexican goods depends on the beginning of
period capital stock, on the relative price of intermediate imports and on the
relative final price of Mexican goods in terms of an index of foreign competitors
prices abroad. The latter is measured as an aggregate of the dollar-based WPI
in Mexico's main trading partners, with 1980 export weights.
(4)   log(y^Kt) - - 2.02 + 0.39*1og(PMp/P1) + 0.l8*log(P"P(-l)/Pfr(.))
(2.15) (5.51)              (2.95)
- 0.13*PDL(log(Pj,,(&l)/PGP(-l))
(1.64)
R2-O.96, DW-1.38, 1974-1987
The equation shows a strong positive response to the (inverse of the) real
exchange rate: a real appreciation increases aggregate supply. Also, an increase
in the relative price of intermediate imports or a decrease in the capital stock
both lower aggregate supply.
Aggregate employment, Nt, depends on the real product wage and on aggregate
non-oil output:
(5)   log(Nt)-log(Nt_j) - 0.006  - 0.13*(log(W/Pap)-log(W(-l)/P?p(-l))
(1.11)   (1.87)
+ 0.54*(log(yt)-log(yt_j))
(5.22)
R2-0.67, Dt-1.74, 1966-1987
A small negative real wage elasticity, significant at a ten percent level, and
an income elasticity substantially below one.



- 67 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 15 of 19
Next year' s capital stock depends on this year' s and on total fixed capital
formation:
(6)   Kt+1 - (1-0.04)*Kt + (Ir,t+4.t)
The assumption of a four percent depreciation rate is based on SPP data with
some correction for the likely understatement of true depreciation in the
national accounts in inflationary periods due to historical cost accounting
practices.
The intertemporal part of the model is rounded out by the current account
identity:
(7)   CA - yt + X011*P*11,*E/Pg  - i*Bf"jp   - Cr,t - Ip,t - Gt
B.2   Allocation of Expenditure and the Real Exchange Rate
The part of the model presented in the previous section focused mostly on
intertemporal trade. It thus dealt with the allocation of current production and
expenditure over the present and future periods, rather than over domestic and
foreign goods. In line with that focus, the most important relative price
variable was the real interest rate. In this section, the focus is intratemporal
trade ! allocation of expenditure over current Mexican versus current future
goods, and the relevant relative price variable is the real exchange rate.
Consider first the allocation of domestic expenditure over foreign and
domestic goods. We do this by explicitly estimating import demand equations for
the different import categories. The volume of capital goods imported, Mcap,
depends on the relative price of.capital goods imports versus investment goods
in general ( the GNP deflator for investment) and on aggregate investment:
(7)   log(Mcap) -
14.11 - l.l2*log(P5 V E/Pv) - 0.74*log(P ,0(-l)E(-l)/Pnv(-l))
(5.93) (5.63)                       (2.72)
+ 0.71*log(Ip+I,) - 0.88*MQUSH(-l)
(5.77)             (4.52)
R2-0.94, DW-1.40, 1970-1987
The variable MQUSH is the fraction of imports covered by QRs; it is
included in an admittedly crude attempt to capture to many changes in trade
regime that have taken place in Mexico over the sample period. The results show
relatively high elasticities, all estimated with great precision ( high
t-statistics). The trade regime variable seems to pick up the degree of
repressiveness of the trade regime: it enters with a strong negative sign.
Consider next consumption goods imports, Mcon:



- 68 -                      ANNME IV
Pase 16 of 19
(8) log(Mcon) -
2.34 - 2.l2*log(Pa.=8E/Pcn) - l.23*log(P.m (-1)E(-l)/PFf(-l))
(0.94)                   (4.85) (2.7)
+ 1.31*log(Cp) - 0.96*MQUSH(-l)
(4.15)         (2.54)
R200.82, DW-1.54, 1970-1987
Once again high and significant price elasticities and a strong negative
impact of the proxy for trade intervention. Finally demand for intermediate
imports, Mint:
(9)   log(Mint) - - 18.7 - O.64*log(Pdt,8E/p,) + 2.84*log(y)
(2.20) (5.29)                   (10.2)
- 0.96*MQUSH(-l)
(1.34)
R0.91, DW-1.40, 1970-1987
This equation shows a somewhat lower, although highly significant price
elasticity, and an unusually high income elasticity.
One can deduce total demand for Mexican goods by domestic residents in
any given period by combining the import demand equations with the equations
for aggregate domestic expenditure, and scaling by the relevant relative prices.
To complete the analysis of commodity market equilibrium in the market for
(non-oil) Mexican goods, an additional element is needed, however: foreign demand
for Mexican goods or export demand.
In the specification of the export demand equation, we assumed that Mexican
exporters compete not so much with domestic producers in Mexico's export markets,
but with other exporters to the same markets. This is a reasonable assumption,
given that Mexico's two main export markets are the US and the EEC. Empirical
analysis for other developing countries tends to confirm this view ( cf Xharas
(1988), van Wijnbergen and Arslan (1989)). This means that the relevant activity
variable is aggregate imports into Mexico's export markets (weighted by their
share in Mexico's total exports), and the relevant relative price variable is
the ratio of Mexico's export price over the aggregate price index of imports into
Mexico's export markets. This yields:
(10)  log(XD12X j,(-1)) - 1.55 - 0.95*log(RPXPF/RPXPF(-l))
(0.96) (2.79)
- 0.12*log(RPXPF(-l)/RPXPF(-2)) + l.50*log(MF/MF(-l))
(0.40)                         (3.38)
R2-0.59, DW-2.56, 1968-1987
where RPXPF-(Px $/PW), the dollar price of Mexican non-oil exports over the
aggregate dollar-based price index of imports into Mexico's export markets. NF
is the volume of imports into those markets (again, weighted by each country's



- 69 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 17 of 19
share in Mexico's total non-oil exports). Analysis of the error structure
suggested estimation in terms of rates of change rather than of (log) levels.
The equation performs reasonably well: significant price elasticities and a
high, significant "income" elasticity. However it would probably be useful to
distinguish different export markets.
The model is completed by a commodity market clearing equation for current
Mexican non-oil goods:
(11) Yt - Cp,.d + Ip,,d + Gd + XD 1i1
In this set-up, the relative price of exports in terms of aggregate home goods,
RPXPF-(PX./PF), is considered exogenous. This is relaxed in the next section.
An Extension: Export Supnly Considered Explicitly
In the analysis presented so far, no explicit distinction was made between
supply of home goods for domestic versus for foreign markets. Hence there is only
one domestic output price. In practice however, it is more than likely that such
an explicit supply does exist, either because of product differentiation or
because of non-competitive market structure and different degrees of competition
in home and foreign markets. A shorthand way of capturing this would be to
endogenise the relative price of exports versus goods sold at home and estimate
an explicit export supply function, according to which firms choose to sell at
home or abroad depending on that relative price. Commodity market equilibrium
would then involve two separate equations, one for goods sold at home and one
for goods sold abroad.
(12) log(XSrLL/yt) - log(XS.i1g(-l)/y1(-l)) -
0.12 + 0.12*log(RPXY/RPXY(-l)) + 0.51*log(RPXY(-l)/RPXY(-2))
(0.41) (0.63)                    (2.76)
R2 -0.31, DW-1.97, 1966-1987
with RPXY-P1,0E/Pp. The R2 is low, as is to be expected for an equation estimated
in rates of change; but supply elasticity with respect to price is significant
and of the "right" sign. In this set-up, equation (11) is replaced by commodity
market clearing for goods sold at home and for goods sold abroad:
(lla) yt - .XSsOl - Cpad + IW,d + Gd
(llb) XS=, - XDnoij
The extra relative price variable is RPXY.



- 70 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 18 of 19
References
Anand, R., A. Chhibber nd S. van Wijnbergen (1988). "External
Balance, Fiscal Policy, and Growth in Turkey," PPR Working
Paper Series WPS-86, September.
and S. van Wijnbergen (1988).  "Inflation, External
Debt and Financial Sector Reform: A Quantitative Approach
to Consistent Fiscal Policy," NBER Working Paper No.2731.
Buiter, W. (1985). "A Guide to Public Sector Debt," Economic
Policy, No. 1.
Cumby, R. and S. van Wijnbergen (1987). "Fiscal Deficits, the
Crawling Peg and Speculative Attacks on the Central Bank:
an Empirical Analysis of Argentina," NBER Working Paper No.
2376, forthcoming Journal of International Economics.
Dornbusch, R. (1977). "Deficits, Capital Accumulation and
Inflation," Journal of Money. Credit and Banking.
Drazen, A. and E. Helpman (1987). "Stabilization Policy with
Exchange Rate Management," Ouarterly Journal of Economics.
Friedman, M. (1968). "The Role of Monetary Policy," American
Economic Review, Vol.LVIII, No.l.
Gil-Diaz, F. (1988). "Macroeconomic Policies, Crisis and Growth
in the Long Run: Mexico Country Study," World Bank
manuscript.
Kharas, H. and D. Ghosi (1988). "Measuring Real Effective
Exchange Rates in Development Countries," World Bank
manuscript.
Lopezlira Nava, E. (1988). "Expectativas Racionales y la Demanda
por Activos Financieros," Banco de Mexico.
Razin and Svensson (1983). "The Terms of Trade, Spending and the
Current Account," Journal of Political Economy.
Rocha, R. and S. van Wijnbergen (1988). "Inflation and the
Fiscal Consequences of Financial Reforms," mimeo, World
Bank.
Sargent, T. and N. Wallace (1982). "Some Unpleasant Monetary
Arithmetic," Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis,
Quarterly Review.
van Wijnbergen, S. (1988). Inflation, Balance of Payments
Crises, and Public Sector Deficits, Economic Effects of the



- 71 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 19 of 19
Government Budfe, MIT Press: Cambridge, MA., London, U.K.
.......------ (1989a), "Growth, External Debt and the Real
Exchange Rate in Mexico," forthcoming in L. Solis and D.
Brothers (eds.), Mexico in Search of a New Development
stlategX, Yale University Press.
------------ (1989b). tReal Exchange Rate Rules, Interest Rates
and the Current Account," mimeo, World Bank.



- 72-
7-by-99BMW Cos                     MEICO                                                          ANNEX V
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                             Page 1 of 4
Key Macroeconomic Indicator.
Actul                            Pro).cted
1965   198 190? pI loss      1989  1t9"   1991   100    1008  1o4
-n           enee-n-n--~~~~~~~.....  -   ----e--
COP                                  2.7   -4.9    1.4    1.1    2.0    5.5    8.6    4.1    4.6    4.9
GOP/Capita Groth Rate               4.1   -1.4    9.4   40.9    6.0    1.5    1.5    2.0    2.6    2.6
Coneumtion/Capita Growth Rnto       -0.8   -7.7   4.9      2.2    9.7   -1.8    -.9   -0.2    8.0    4.4
Total DOD (US, 9e8l 10)             6875 1154 182 19416  199688  118521  117869 1262  123988  12774
DOO/XG&NFS                         860.9  462.0  892.9  869.2  886.9  816.1  290.8  278.4  257.2  240.6
DOD/CDP                             58.1   77.9   75.4  56.0   54.6   54.6   54.9   62.1   49.2   40.5
Debt Service (US$, 8i II)          18700  12314  18814  17494  16718  18278  18158  16584  18374  16962
Debt Service/XGSiFS                 49.6  56.6   46.4   60.5   51.7   60.9   45.7   42.5   88.1   81.8
Debt S.rvice/G/P                     8.2    9.9    9.8    9.9    8.8    8.6    8.5    8.0    7.8    6.1
Interea/XNFS                        86.8   88.1   29.5   80.7   88.3   01.7   28.8   25.4   22.7   20.8
Intereet/GoP                         6.1    6.4    6.7    5.9    5.6    6.6    5.2    4.8    4.8    8.9
Gror   Inveatmnt/OP                 21.9   10.5   18.6   20.8   19.9   21.5   28.6   25.7   26.6   25.8
Change of Stock.                     2.7    0.9    0.2    1.0    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2
Private                           1.7    9.8   -0.2    1.8    0.6    0.6    9.6    0.0    0.6    0.6
PublIc                            1.O    0.1   -0.2    9.5    0.66       .6    9.6    0.6    9.6    9.6
Fixed Capitol Formation             19.2   17.6   18.9   18.5   17.6   209.    22.4   24.5   24.6   24.1
Private/1OP                      18.2   11.6   18.4   14.1   18.6   15.8   17.5   19.2   16.6   18.1
Public/GDP                        0.9    6.0    5.5    4.4    4.2    4.5    4.9    6.8    5.6    6.0
National Savlng/Gp                  22.6   17.2   21.8   10.7   17.1   19.8   21.9   28.9   24.0   23.8
Gross Private Saving.            19.5   16.0   18.5   18.2   15.0   16.6   14.6   15.5   15.6   15.8
Gre" Public Savings               8.1    1.2    7.9    0.6    2.1    8.6    7.4    8.4    0.4    7.5
Oreg Domestic Savinga               28.0   22.6   25;9   22.6   21.4   24.1   26.9   27.7   27.5   26.5
Exporto of GUNFS Ral Growth Rate    -4.1    1.6   12.2    7.8    4.2    5.7    5.t    5.9    5.9    6.0
Noo-Oil Export of GNFS Growth Rate  -2.2    1.9   11.6    6.9    7.4    7.4    7.8    7.4    7.4    7.4
Exports/GOP                         15.4   16.9   19.2   16.8   16.1   17.8   16.5   18.9   10.1   19.8
Iporta of GWS Real Growth Rate    18.8  -14.4    1.9   88.9    5.7    5.8    8.1    8.0    6.1    9.1
ImPort*/GOP                         16.5   12.6   12.0   14.0   18.7   14.7   16.1   16.9   17.4   18.1
Current Account (US1, 811I)         1287  -1675   8661  -2927  -S820  -8565   -8679  -4217  -4665  -5563
Current Account/GOP                  0.7   -1.8    2.7   -1.7   -1.9   -1.7   -1.7   -1.8   -1.6   -2.0
Resource Balnceo/COP                 4.9    4.8    7.8    2.8    2.4    2.6    2.4    2.0    1.7    1.2
Torm of Trae  (1986d51)             -1.2  -80.9   14.1  -10.5    2.2    0.0    9.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Primary Balance/GDP                  5.0    8.4    4.9    5.6    7.41/  7 1    0.2    8.0    7.7    6.8
Operational Balance/GOP             -8.9   -4.9    2.5   -4.4   -2.t7/ -1.8    1.9    2.5    2.9    9.9
Memorandum Item
11I price (US$ per barrel)          25.4   11.9   16.2   12.2   14.0   14.7   15.4   16.0   16.8   17.3
1/ In addition, the governmant expect. to raise 0.4% of GOP In 1989 through as*so. as.
Sources: Government figures and Bank staff estimates.
1



I Mt-U  Oa" Ca"                                     ;3COd*                                               ANNEX V
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                     Page 2 of 4
Balance of Payment-
1903    19806   1n7       19M  16      10      191    1992    1998    1994
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- - - - - - -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -                              - -- -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
A. Export. of Good. & NFS             27699  21675   27526   26906   82J87   85011   8969s   48712   43179   58142
1. Mrchandise                         21664   1681   26656   265s3   28687   25419   27928   26569   8856  80749
Oil                              14767    6807    8680    6709    ? 77    7672    6017    0886    0372   9061
Non-oil                          6097    9724   12626   18949   157680   17747   19065  22281   24829   27786
2. Non-Factor Services                 5945   5644    GM64    6247    9806   16492   117608  1814    14679   16894
In-Bond Industries                1268    1203    1598    2826    2628    2959    8819    3707    4149    4024
S. Import. of Good. A NFS             16475   16812   17111   24814   27526  8s578   84582   89062   48926   40845
1. Merchandise                        18212   11482   1222S   18968   20970   28290   28306   29757   88402   87971
2. Non-Factor Services                 S268    4866    4633    5911    6557    7268    8226    ss06   10464   11674
C. Reource Balance                     9184   s5s5   16409    4091    4809    586a    5158    4650    4258    6297
0. Not Factor Ineme                   -8990   -7761   -7196   -7598   -9288   -9587   -9560   -95s6    -9654   -9611
1. Factor Recelpt.                     2186    1615    2248    2781    2337    86n    8046 4     821    2989    2648
Other Interest                      446     849     649    1         764     9106    974      992     946     892
Interest. Retained Abroad          1876    1114    1269    1280    16ff   1660   1526    1440    1866    1280
Worker. Remittances                 814     852     891     487      478    S51      t5O      589     681     676
2. Factor Payment                     11684    916    9444   10874   12075   12568   12544   1257    12518   12459
Interest Psyment.                11616    6842    6116    S877   10945   11894   11282   11123   10954   10780
Remitted Dividende                 s86     685    8S5      486      427     440     504      609     616     666
Reinvested Dividend.               282     587     662      749     427     440     604      569     616     666
Othor                              206     262     261     268      276     296     868    a81       828     841
8. Net Transftrs                       1002     465     66e6       6 5   664     68      668      689     717     745
E. Current Account Balance             1287   -1678    8031   -2927  -8820   -8565   -8679   -4217   -4695   -1568
F. Long-Tore Capital Inflow             261    1146    4856      276    7629    6699    6464      016    5965    6848
1. Diroet Investment                    491    1528    8246    2980    2652    2154    2408    2678    2888    2996
a. New Foreign Investment           270     944    2866    2182    1625    1714    1899    2164    2247    2882
b. Reinvestmente                    282     587     662     749      42?     449     564     669      616     666
c. Other                            -10      -8     266     160        0       0       0        a       0       O
2. Net LT loan                          204    1622    4608   -2985      477    8945    4061    8242    8102    8850
a. Disburemeent.                   5826    681    9826    6872   11244   10824   16981   1764   16522    9966
of which: financing gap             0       6       a      -O    596    5510    6891    7186    719?    6480
b. Repayments                      5122    4709    4696    667    5767    68?9   60920    7462    7420    6116
8. Other Item  (Net)                   -484   -1999  -8522      28        -       -       -        -- 
0. Other IteMS (Net)                  -8826    1512  -1818   -4475  -1690   -166M   -1526   -1440   -1860   -1280
1. Net Short Torm Capitol             -1703     691  -8157   -8616                --      --       -       -       -
2. Errors end Omlislono               -2086     821    1644   -864        --      --               -       -       --
N. Change In Gros Reerves             -2826     985    6924   -7127    2106      984    1265      259       0       0
1. Use of IMF Credit                    616    1091   l116     -104      612      86      87   -578    -744    -666
2. Change In Net Reserves             -298    -106    5821   -7023    1491       896    1226    68        744     008
Shares of GOP (current USS)
1. Resoure Balance                      4.9     4.8     7.8     2.8      2.4     2.6     2.4      2.0     1.7     1.2
2. Total Interest Payment.              6.1     6.4     5.7      5.0     6.5     5.5     5.2      4.8     4.8     8.9
8. Current Account Balance              0.7    -1.8     2.7    -1.7    -1.9    -1.7    -1.7    -1.8    -1.8    -2.0
4. LT Capital Inflow                    0.1     1.2     8.2    -1.7      2.7     1.9     1.9      1.4     1.2     1.4
S. Net Credit from the IMF              6.8     0.8     0.8   -0.1       0.8     0.0     0.0    -0.2   -4.8    -0.2
Mmorandum Item
GOP (1ililons of US1)                182847  129801  148126  177111  206695  207869  214212  281788  252162  274964
Foreign Exchang Reserv e
1. Net International Rsrv.             2868    2757    8578    1655     8044    3944    5172    69o9    6758    7421
2. Gros Internotlonal Reserv          5686    6791   1815    6588    8691   90625   1669    11149   11149   11149
8. Gros Reserves In Months Imports    1.6       2.6     4.5      2.0     2.8     2.4     2.6      2.4     2.2     2.0
Exchange Rate.
1. Nominal Off icia  X-Rate           257.9  611.4    1S86    22560   2462    2654    8298    8646    4032    4460
2. Real Effective X-Rat Base 1980   111.7  146.9  151.4   122.4   116.8  122.1   128.2  126.2  128.2  126.2
Sources:  Government figures and Bank staff estimates.



04-May-89  Bas. Cose                          X                                              ANNEX
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                  ANNEX
Projected Forelgn Exchange Requirements                          Page 3 of
-----------------------------------_--
1986-88 1989-90 1991-94 198I-94
Gross Disbursoments
Multilateral                                   6,420   4,893   8,380  13,263
of which: IBRD                              4,479   4,460   7,188  11,635
Bilateral                                      6,57a   8,576   5,190   9,676
Private                                       18,369      10       0       10
IMF Purchases                                  2,436   2,682   1,515   4,197
Financing Cap                                      0  10,907  27,198  88,105
Total                                   81,998  22,069  42,173  64,241
Net Disbursements
Multi lateral                                  2,893   2,879   1,729   4,608
of which: IBRO                             2,48e   2,894   1,873   4,788
Bi lateral                                     3,000   1,703   1,494   3,197
Private                                        2,428  (6,716)(18,178)(19,S94)
IMF Purchases                                  1,740     648  (1,958) (1,35)
Financing Cap                                      0  10,907  27,198  38,106
Total                                    10,061   9,422  15,289  24,712
DObt Service Assumptions
Principal Repayment.                                 198940 1991-94  1989-94
Multi lateral                                          2,018   8,682   8,846
of which: IBRD                                      1,566   5,313   8,888
Bilateral: Scheduled                                   1,873   3,690   5,479
Projected                                   1,873   4,640   6,518
Private: Scheduled                                     8,726  11,404  18,130
Projected                                    6,728  18,178  19,904
IM:F Schoduled                                         2,034   2,776   4,810
Projected                                         2,034   3,488   5,502
Financing Cap: Scheduled                                   0       0        0
Projected                                  0        0       0
Total: Scheduled                                      12,646  24,418  37,064
Projected                                      12,648  27,917  40,5684
Interest Paymnts
Multi lateral                                          1,92n   4,820   6,640
of which: IBRD                                      1,424   3,766   5,190
Bilateral                                              1,883   3,263   4,945
Prvat.e                                               16,258  21,754  87,012
IMF                                                      881   1,509   2,390
Financing Cap                                          1,178   9,184  10,857
Total                                                 22,339  44,095  90,484
Key Ratios
1908    1989    1990    1991    1992    1998    1994
Interost/XCS                                    32.2    38.0    33.9        9    2.4    2.4    20.5
DOD/XCS                                        328.6   311.6   291.6   275.2   258.8   242.4   228.2
Neot Oibursemente/Interest                     -88.1    50.0    84.8    88.2    29.1    26.8    8S.7
Net Transfers/CDP                               -6.7    -2.7    -8.8    -3.8    -3.4    -8.1    -2.5
_ -- - ------------------- - ----------                  --
Sources: Government figures and Bank staff estimates.



- 75 -
AI   V
MEXICO                                     Page 4 of 4
FINANCILL SECTOR LOAN
Financing Requirements: 1989-94
Sources and Need. of Foreign Exchange 1/
(in billions of USS)
1898-91
*Need.                                  Souree
Current Aceount Doticit    11.1         Direct Foreign Investm.      6.8
of which: Interest Pay.   88.6         Multilaterals (net)         4.8
Other Capital               4.7           of which: IBRD             8.0
Gross Reserves              4.8         eilnterals (net)             2.1
Amort. Commercial Sanks     6.9
Other Creditors (not)       4.2         Total Identifiled Inflows   18.0
Financing Gap              17.8
Total                      SO.8         Total                       8o.3
1992-94
Nee"s                                   Sources
Current Account Do icit    14.4         Direct Foreign Invest..    8.6
of which: Interest Paym   82.9         Multilaterals (net)         -1.0
Other Capital               4.1           of whichl: IBD             1.2
Gross Reserves              0.8         Bilateral* (not)             0.1
Amort. Commercial Banks     7.4
Other Creditors (net)       2.8         Total Identified Inf lo      7.6
Financing Gap              20.9
Totel                      28.4         TOt l                       28.4
1989-94
Need.                                   Source
Current Account Doeicit    25.5         Direct Foreign Investm.    16.1
of which: Interest Pay.   68.4         Multiloatral. (net)          S.3
Other Capital               8.8           ot which: IBRID            4.8
Ore.. Reserves              4.6         Bilateral. (nat)             2.2
Amort. Commrclal Banks    18.8
Other Creditors (net)       6.6         Total Identified Inflows   26.6
Financing Cap              8l.1
Total                      68.7         Total                       68. 
1/ Note: Other Capital Is the bookkeeping counterpart to the current
ancount Item: Interest Retained Abroa.
Sources: Government figures and Bank staff estimates.



- 76 -
AM= VI
Page 1 of 3
EXCO
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR TAXATION
Background
1.       One of the root causes of Mexico's economic crisis in 1982 was the
increasingly lax fiscal management in the public sector since the 19709.
After repeated short-lived attempts to stabilize the economy had failed,
the Government in 1987 demonstrated the necessary political will to go
through with a sustained fiscal reform, in an effort to eliminate the
imbalances and distortions in the economy. The program, initially relying
heavily on measures designed to contain expenditures, has been extended to
focus on priority revenue issues. These measures consisted of a thorough
reform of the value added tax system, corporate and personal income tax
codes, and tax administration. Despite these measures, the tax base and
revenue performance have remained below those of other middle income
countries with comparable level of economic development. Therefore, to
reinforce the Government's fiscal efforts, a major tax administration
program is being launched by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
(SHCP), which would be supported through a technical assistance component
under the FSL.
2.       The SHCP had first introduced modern computing equipment for
income tax administration in 1962, with a view to setting up a centralized
registry of tax payers, while the regional offices of the fiscal
administration continued to operate tax revenues manually. In 1980 manual
processing gave way to integrated and fully computerized revenue
administration. Eight centers were set up in large cities and the Federal
District and one national computing center was created in the capital. In
addition, some 45 fiscal administration offices supervised the more than
1300 federal treasury offices that operated throughout the republic. To
reduce costs and simplify administration, the number of these treasury
offices had been reduced to 278, each serving currently in excess of 15000
tax payers, with responsibility to operate the registry of tax payers,
collections, accounting and cashiers.
3.       Customs installed a central information system in the 1970s, which
supported the operation of 15 control centers. Currently, some 40 customs
offices administer Mexico's external trade, covering all ports of entry
through all modes of transport. In mid-1988 Mexico introd. ed the GATT
consistent harmonized information system for the documentat.on and
classification of all export and imports, which requires some adjustments
in procedures.
Weaknesses of the Existing Systems
4.       A major decentralization effort has been undertaken over the last
five years, but the process has not yet been completed, because all the



AM=1 VI
- 77 -                     Page 2 of 3
necessary equipment and systems are not yet in place.  The task that lies
ahead of SHCP is to put in place a system that is internally compatible and
allows the central authorities to exercise supervision, control and
adequate audit.
5.       Efficiency in income tax collection leaves something to be
desired, because the existing computer hardware and the software employed
are not fully compatible, do not allow supervision with an acceptable
confidence level because of limited capacity, make ex-post auditing
difficult, and in some instances impossible, leave unduly wide margins for
evasion, and the available staff is not well trained at all levels of the
nationwide tax administration to reap the full benefit even of the existing
systems, let alone the required familiarity with the fully automated
system.
6.       The national center has two IBM 3031 computers, using an
operational system that has not been maintained properly since 1986. IBM
3380 disks are used, which have faster processing speeds, but because of
systemic interface problems, the full efficiency of the more modern
equipment cannot be achieved. The regional fiscal administration centers
are using IBM 43XX computers, with a DOS VSP 2.0 operational system, which
are also somewhat obsolete.
7.       In view of the above, modernization is required in the national
center, both in terms of hardware and software. Of the 45 fiscal
administration centers scattered around the nation, some 27 need to improve
their computing capacity, in order to improve the quality of supervision
and auditing, and to establish a secure control base for information. In
addition, some 82 of the 278 federal treasury offices need improved
computing equipment to conclude the automation of their various functions,
such as registries, collection, accounting and cashiers. As can be seen,
the SHCP has already advanced considerably on the upgrading of hardware
capacity, but the above additional improvements are urgently needed to
conclude the process. Furthermore, considerable improvements will be
needed in procedures and software development, to acquire the desired
degree of automation, without which SHCP could not fully benefit from the
almost complete decentralization of income tax administration.
8.       Customs is also faced with new circumstances, which are likely to
tax its administrative and informational capacity beyond tolerable limits.
The introduction of the new harmonized trade classification system, the
unprecedented growth in both imports and non-oil exports in recent years
and the need to increase customs revenues by minimizing irregularities and
enabling effective audits to be made, all require some improvements in the
existing system. The most promising steps are the proposed
decentralization and automation of customs administration througilout the 40
entry points, 15 control centers and the information center in the Federal
District. Under the existing procedures, the data recorded on magnetic
tape is being controlled ex-post, after the merchandise left customs. This
involves some 17 steps. The proposed automation would allow that the
Opedimento', the merchandise transactioni, is checked and controlled,
including all 17 steps, before the merchandise is taken out of customs.
This would greatly reduce errors and minimize revenue losses.



-78 -                     AM= VI
Page 3 of 3
Proposed Tax Administration Program
9.       To conclude the decentralization and automation of income tax
administration and customs, putting in place procedures which permit proper
supervision, ex-ante controls, auditing and secure data base systems, SHCP
has undertaken a program to purchase, install and start-up new hardware,
develop software systems and train specialized SHCP personnel.
10.      New equipment would be provided in 109 treasury and fiscal
administration offices, and 56 customs offices. It is proposed that the
equipment and systems to be used would be fully consistent between tax and
customs administration, so that in case of temporary breakdowns the data
disks can be processed without delay using the hardware of the other
office.
11.      The program is estimated to cost about US$15.0 million, including
a modest contingency allowance oi VF$0.5 million, as follows:
Component                        Cost in US$ (millions)
Equipment                                10.7
Start-up, software
development and training                  3.8
Contingencies                             0.5
Total Cost                               15.0
12.      The proposed program would be carried out by several agencies
under SHCP under the overall coordination of the Directorate General of Tax
Collection. The technical specifications of all equipment to be purchased
would be developed by Mexico's statistical office, INEGI, which has
responsibility for all computer purchases within the public sector. Budget
authorizations for the proposed expenditures would be made by SPP. The
"Oficialia Mayor* of SHCP would be the contracting agency, as is the case
for all procurement by the Secretariat. The technical assistance program
would be directly implemented by the Directorate General of Tax Collection
and the Directorate General of Customs. The overall effort is being
coordinated personally by the Director General of Tax Collections, whose
office has responsibility for improving tax administration in Mexico.



ANNEX VII
6x1                                           79 -                     Page I of4
ININISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
MExico, D.F.  May,  12 ,1989
SECRETARA
E
0cUAy^cTPCO
HR. BARBER B. CONABLE
PRESIDENT
WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C.
1.  During the last several years and with the purpose of correcting the
existing imbalances and distortions in the mexican economy, the mexican
government has undertaken a comprehensive economic adjustment program. This
program has contributed to establish the necessary conditions for the
implementation of a medium term economic development program whose main
objetives are to resume an adecuate rate of economic growth, to consolidate
price stability and to promote the gradual recovery of real wages.
2.   In order to achieve such objectives, the program requires actions that
ensure macroeconomic consistency, while increasing public and private
savings, promoting the structural changes required to foster economic
efficiency and encouraging productive investment and the recovery of
domestic consumption.
3. In order to assure an adequate level of economic growth, Mexico's
economic program requires a significant reduction in the net transfer of
resources to its external creditors.   This reduction will be attained
through the combination of debt service and debt service reduction schemes,
a multiyear commitment to refinance certain payments due in the next
comming years and the restoration of market access to voluntary credit.
4.   In December 1988 the government and the various sectors of the mexican
society agreed on the "Pacto para la Estabilidad y Crecimiento Econ6mico"
(PECE), with the initial objetive of consolidating price stability.   In
accordance with the PECE, the public sector prices and tariffs were
adjusted, minimum wages were increased by 8X and the daily depreciation of
the Peso was resumed.   Fiscal, monetary and exchange rate policies are
consistent with the gradual recovery of Investment and production and with
the achieved lower levels of inflation and the strengthening of our
international reserves.



ANNEX VII
031                                     - 80 -                   Page 2 of 4
AlREAll
SMEUTARIA
BE
UACOUIOAcREOO POU
5.   Both expenditure and income policies for the public sector are in line
with the objetives set forth in the 1989 budget approved by Congress.
The primary fiscal surplus, after oil price corrections, will be of the
order of 7.3Z of GDP, the operational deficit will be around 2.52 of GDP,
while public sector borrowing will decline to 7X of GDP.  Public sector
prices and tariffs are consistent with our inflation targets, while
protecting the purchasing power of the low income groups, and with the
strengthening of the public sector finances and the improvement of the
overall allocation of public resources.  Every development in this area
will be closely monitored to allow for timely adjustments.   In order to
improve public sector efficiency, the government will further strengthen
its planning, budgeting and investment evaluation processes.
6.   Mexico has recently undertaken an important tax reform in order to
increase its total fiscal revenues, while promoting greater economic
efficiency and international competitiveness, and improving income
distribution.
7. In an effort to medernize our tax system, the government is studying
further measures that will increase the total fiscal base, will lower the
tax rates and will simplify the tax collection system, thus improving its
administration.   To this end, we will continue to descentralize   and
computarize the process of income tax registration and collection.
8.   In order to improve the total fiscal revenue, while giving incentives
to the states,. municipalities and the Federal District to actively
participate in the collection of taxes, several measures will be taken to
increase their own share from the collected taxes and to target federal
resources to the most needed areas.
9.   In order to ensure an efficient financial intermediation and the
channeling of resources to productive investment and industrial
modernization, the government has taken a series of reforms in the
financial sector. Commercial banks were strengthened through merger and
capitalization schemes, equity shares were issued and sold in the capital
markets, the subsidized credit schemes have been gradually cut back and the
money markets regulations have been modernized.   In order to stimulate
competition, the role of the development banks and trust funds is under
current revislon and prudential regulations and supervision are being
continuously improved.   The remaining financial subsides will be
rationalized and more precisely targeted.



- 81 -
63.1                                                               ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
SECUETARA
DE
NAcIEUATCMITO P13I
10.  Among the measures recently undertaken in order to improve the
efficiency and the competitiveness of the financial sector, the interest
rates have been liberalized, and forced lending tc. the government
provissions via reserve requirements were eliminated. These measures will
necessarily enhance the market efficiency and will stimulate a more
competitive environment for the financial institutions, while promoting
savings and investment.
11. The federal government has recently outlined the specific actions to
be undertaken in order to improve public enterprises efficiency and to
rationalize their holding of assets. The number of public enterprises has
already been reduced and more non-strategic and non-priority corporations
will be sold to the private sector. In order to attain a gradual reduction
of fiscal transfers, public enterprises will be strengthened and a more
competitive environment will be-created.
12. Nexico's active participation in the world economy will stimulate
efficiency and will foster economic growth. Trade policies will attain to
consolidate a more efficient productive structure and a modern and
competitive economy. In addition to the sigdificant reduction of effective
protection accomplished during the last years, the mexican authorities are
continuing the process of reducing tariff dispersion and will pursue with
the elimination of any remaining distortions.
13. The Government of Nexico has a long standing and very successful
record of comprehensive social programs which were put in place to make war
against poverty. Upon assuming office, the present Administration launched
the "Programs Nacional de Solidaridad" to fight against extreme poverty in
the country. The program covers more than 1200 "municipios" in the poorest
states, including Chiapas, Guerrero, Oaxaca, Guanajuato, Puebla, Tlaxcala,
Quer6taro, San Luis Potosl, and Zacatecas'. Urban poor in the metropolitan
areas of Mexico City, Monterrey, Guadalajara and Zacatecas are addressed
through special targeted programs.
14. These programs against poverty aim to provide immediate relief In
order to alleviate the short term impact of the adjustment. The various
Government  agencies are developing long term programs in the different
subsectors with a view to improve their targeting and delivery mechanisms.



- 82 -                    ANNEX VII
JLI  =                                                             Page 4 of 4
SEETARA
DE
15. As a result from the measures outlined in this letter, which as a
whole provide a sound, healthy and consistent macroeconomic environment,
investment will gradually resume and economic growth will be restored to 6S
per annum by 1993. It is clear, however, that fiscal expenditures cannot
be the engine for growth, as a permanent reduction in inflation will
require sustainded fiscal discipline, and the vulnerability of the balance
of payments will impose the need for cautious public finance policies and
targets over the medium term.
16. Private Sector, both domestic and foreign, will have to undertake a
very active participation in productive Investment. Economic growth can not
be compromised as it constitutes the only means to create the millions of
badly needed job opportunities.
17. In order to achieve our growth targets, net transfers to Mexico's
external creditors will have to be held below 2% of GDP peryear.   The
Government has reached agreement with the IMP and has initiated discussions
with the creditor nation governments, the bilateral agencies and the
commercial banks in order to work out arrangements for a multi-year
financial program, in line with Nexico's economic objetives and which will
recognize Nexicoes economic adjustments and accomplishments.
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT



im.  of S1
IPID _ piaameial Adleet  U m tLa
lill                         AetnAct    tke.kn Wfore                  Actiia to be taken              Othr t r-
ihrd Presentation                      Before Scondl Tranch-
(Aso  November 80. 1199)
A. Aroma ef Phoroscomlc Management nnd Publ Ic Sector PltannIn
1.   cro;econne Ceniatency
- In order to eneure           - A macroecorceic environment    - A  atifactory 1989 Budget         - Satisfactory segesamant of the      - Periodic coneultatione with
table macro_ecomic             for 1969-90 with low              bee been  pprovd by                 dtiua-tera  acro_eoeic               the Bank on the eacro.conmic
wlronoeet In 1989, the         infleteon and mini_m              Comirem, envieaging: (a) an        framwork including proge              frmwork and on procoro
projected operational          uncertainty about the omin        Increae in tax revenue. af        toword  wore floxible price            toward more flexible price
deficit should be              thruet of the economic            0.95 otf (P; and (b) an            adjuatasett.                          adjuetment.
conet-tent *ith *xpected       polatcy oCWerUtionl deficit of 2.6f
inftation,  MP growth  nd                                        of MP and a primary eurplue
po_eble forein                                                   of 7.85 of MP. This Is
borrowing.                                                       conesitent with the macro-
econmic targeta for 1969.
2. Pubitc Sector Plannina and Budgetin
- Iprovewente in               - V;ithin the overal I bjectve                                                                               (a) i Septeber 1, 1989
investment efficiency          of recovering economtc                                                                                     preent term  of reference
twrd, a better planning        growth via revivd                                                                                          to the Bank for * etudy of
and budgtiing s systems.       IVeetmnt, the Ovenme"nt                                                                                    Invetmant evaluation and
need to achieve grater                                                                                    programing, ;conomic.
effiiency in planning,                                                                                    financial nd technical
preporing and Implementing                                                                                critaria for investment
publi c inveetmanta.                                                                                      evaluation, etbl tehant
of * centra IIed unIt for
inveetaent monitorin and
lemuing meanual; (b) by
October 15. 199 ce_nc



Zm-                               C     xsi                      .M1m.mu            Aet lBx           c tto b- eakeeI r 
Efera Ibnrd Ppetotlm                  Oaf.. SaadTan,
(As of #bvether  80.  9Sla)
such stdy; (e) by April 165
1990 provide to. and discues
with Bank an acceptable Plan
of Action for measure in
respct @4 (a) above; xnd
(d) enitor ispleentation
of new budgeting and payment
procedure. for *xternally
fundd inveetment projects.
and  xtchang  i  s.. by
AugSt 81. 1989, with the
Ownik an Isplewntation of
additional *as-ur*e, if
necessary.
Public Sector Revenues
- Erosion In tax be           - Increas_ in tex revenwe         - to Inerees  too rvnue in
ctereama tea                  throuh tx rform and               a sutainablo m_ner. a
adsinistltion.                Iproved tax administration.      Technical Asei
ceagonen ha. boen Included
in th project to help
lagleat  _aere  to
taprove tax administration.
- Corporat tel chxxe_S that
hNve ben implemented In the
IS budget sad action taken
to improve tax administra-
tion *re *xpetd to res
eroston of corporat
texas.



A_ t t  irait stake n               XE_ to be takew nh*inL
ior  ta..d Preentation                Sl ep et  Tragahe
(As of Nvetbeo 30. 1q9)
4. Stat. iiL    P.w
- PFat l I the etate             t   Om    s la MO s                                                The 1900 Oidge to b* proonted
geverwes. cnw ta               re.aiwg efforit.                                                   to the coweideresl  of
revenues.                                                                                         Csskree ail IIIclude onactlow
oatg r     e grodul IyIV reduce
oos-mtchiwg gaeit. to the
att.  According to the Plow.
_edturee of lin. Winietri_e
In te etote 0;.... m's-
eutehiw grmew..) additionel
over 1SO lwevel. wll be spent
lo an            *Uteei ag e  thew
de"elageewt roresr)e, whitc
re"I roe stte  to mt  he
- Very eeries                   Reduce buet tirwefto                                                Action _r ems, for itwreeees
deterioreticn In seer          the Fe"ral Dietrict.                                                i the Ped eI Districcts -elf-
derge wed prosprt*                                                                                guserated rewues by Ds lemb
towe in the Federal                                       lagt ift rel ter l If ts 1990
WDitrict, rewiring                                                                                l_d" to be toreet _   t   th*
aWowing trawef'ort to                                                                             censedwerelas of Cageen w;ith
cove? eare"ce.                                                                                    reepect tbo the ecte lowS
1. Foreed Lt-le. bt P"dii  Sector
- Private Sector ha             Crmele   bwke eheutd   t    -  aes t"rem  have
eatree.ly  IIntend ac*ce_     be Gomel led to lewd to the       eliminated forced l;ading to
to beshokng  ect  funds.      goverueewt ow to ay aetor.        th  O ro_nr t nWd other
becee bewkb e vere fored      Their lewding sould               favored   _ctoa of the
to lewd a large pert of        re  ,_de to market foro_. ece.
their futda to the
Governeants ead other
favored  _ecte  of the
scoym.



p_   4 of t
2. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~( o_;f Iqvebr 8.  8
- PJr_e bta  ooepeitl         - To festr gratr                 - Ineet ae on See
_a  dapoet mab)istoee.        cetiiboen bet-me  beaks           deposits ha, bee
thereby r;taiel   efficieot.     libteraud; Treador of
nd to ebi1tas se                 client's bea      btwee,  l
degospit..                       beaks ad brokerlae hoeus.
ha. be  Io twed;  t
mrerm hv" pu tM"
l.t"Itetion Om an equal
fo"ing.
11. fl.,.tent _San. and Credit Sd.id.
- Rle of Developeent  ake    - To improve adlnierativ.         -   eloose 1  r                   - Ation Pgram. fop the 
an Trust Fw.  nclear.         efficiency ad eawre that   8       smelomat ek  sAd Trus           redefinition of the rote of                                                           a,
bsidisle. re wlI tar1gted        Fu"d    I ali eo carry any       each Treat Fed and 0"9opmt
Nd cnntrol led.                  Iatereet aebidle., acept          _eek. laclediag in partlctnar
for tho  to lo. Income      *       r"iew of the operate, Nd
perodces in aricettere           fieaaca of tWDt. IWCOM
(F). Therefore, averag           Nd  WIOAS. ad  rebtructurint
eubsidy levol will decline       of Senflral aed Al;Az eo that
as eciatiet sub-los..            their efficienc  of Operations
mture. S o  *dio.  ill1 be       *111 lrovsn  ad fi*ca
aeaered Ic -ri eon to            traafara through baftural sd
the averge cost of fund          AMIMSA ueid be e _lbettisily
(CPP). Sabeidie. to FSO          reduc. In the aatim. the
*ill nt1 euceed. as a            fiecl tranefere throom  the
petreentag  of OP, the level     Sudoet to BSnrural and AWSA
of I.                            will rot ertceed the bedgeted
level approved by Caegr_e for
1*9  (0.27t ; of  )P); accept
debt eeht,on  tht are part
of the sereed upn fnanil
rsetrectering agreeonts.



S_Lu~iIn                     Action. lbdorcetaken Werfes
Board Preemnation                                    TrM I  hS
(As of l6womr S0, 1909)
Transfers are defined to
Include transfe  throgh the
budget and asesuption of
pofolio  loemm. In addition,
the Goernent WI11 take the
necessary actleos so c to
fully *llainate In 1990 the
Imp  cit tran.f.r, arising
fro, the capital lation of IR
NWK We8 loans through FWT.
as *a  prIosd and appod by
Cgr   in th  199  udga.
4. B       e      m
-  Need to strenghn               - To safeard the eolv encof   - Tenn of Rafarece of *                 Action Pregr   for the
uerviteon of Comearcil          the benking Croteo  an            study of Prudential               strengthenn  of prudential
Boks. and  brokerage            brokers,                          reglation  and  upervieion        euprvislon. This Action
houam oeCub tial                                                  to be aubaitted for bank          Progrn is expected to addres.
regultion),                                                       reiew by biw 1B.                    an  others, the fog loing
area. cm) lateify books'
en portfol ios accordin to
defult risk; (b) gre
Stringent provisioning for loa
lI_mm. end Interest ccruals
(c) disclo th srtate, of sad,
bek's finaetat  _ta  In
detel I tothe puic; nd (d)
rovw  snd NW    orem  the
euperviaion of brokrs.
Conditio  alra1   at



vwag S of S
_l11 1ti  tuen 1,Oien                                                                                            e t
5sfat* Sard pro                        Owio  fesf er. S d Trmando
(As of Net r So, tWo)
- Declining pbic expenditures   -   rove delivery mo,n.omm,    - The Prormm  aceionl do              - Satifactr  leapl  tion of
thv  rdc   outlays f*r            of eaistl program targeted       SoldaritdadI l aunche  In         the Progm.
ocitl P    _og . Servie          to the truly need.               Dacet  lOSS. rdaqutaly
levels in tho diffeetn                                             address" the ie         of
regions are uneven.                                                Satreo  poverty nod helps
of llviate the set ter
limeat of adjustuan udce
ao ation pla affacting
120D *mioitpioe. Tme I
budget allocatim on pprod
by Congress a 1345
tnIlion eqivalent, the
*Euctive t ranh w1 IU
Dp_o to Cone "
lncreas. for I9WO.
t.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     _  _               . EIi
- Mtaeo   adjutet prog-re         - Ei-ure adut finacing                                             - Continued -ube tetial prorem         lv
and recovery of Growth nes        conesitent with adjumtwant                                        in ebtaining adequate financing       eubstantia  progreme heo
*st1arna  financigr4 in an        and growth teort.                                                  for Neico's requirements for         been so" in obtaining
amunt nceuners to cover the                                                                          IW  and lWOWA  the _edil             adequate finacing for
curren account deficit Nd                                                                            term in the contest of the          oNai coo requ i rente for
meinasin r_eer. at                                                                                   adju rtmant progrea  a  growth t060 aWd ie40 in the
reaconabls levels.                                                                                   arewte se forth In 'Nazlico's         ontest of the adjuetmant
Enomic Strat   issued  by            progrue and Growth
SHCP.                                targets se forth in
"Oasico's Economic
Straegty ieeued by Ba'.
Apr;l n?, 1M



UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CAtIFOMNI
Mtr  E;,  XC7re I Cop 
BAJA      '                                                                                            PnnI CS Sx  O O A e O I I A  ti or town
-sISdUtd mom roads
'      wz ~~~$Ut                                                                                             Rai Aa  O_R
Roifroos
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4PrksipaI oi9ortS
Ste bosndu r.o s
Gulf   of   Mexico
P   A   C I /F I/C  O   C ErA N/   
OAXACA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YCrP
i ;
HONDURAS
- t. - w : ^ .                                  e J-,^   $t o -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                         9
UtJ



