Page  1
                                                July 28, 1989
Lic.  Humberto Soto
Director General
Direccion General
Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior, S.N.C.
Camino Santa Teresa No. 1679
01900 Mexico, D.F.
Mexico
            Re:   Loan 3085-ME (Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
                  Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Mr. Soto:
      Please refer to the Loan Agreement for the above-referenced
Project entered into between Banco Nacional de Comercio Exterior,
S.N.C. (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (the Bank) on June 16, 1989, and the Guarantee
Agreement entered into between the United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) and the Bank, of even date.
      The Bank is pleased to inform you that it accepts the proposal
of the Guarantor to amend the Loan Agreement to provide for an
increase of the equivalent of fifty million dollars in retroactive
financing and a special account with an authorized allocation of the
equivalent of one hundred million dollars.  Therefore, the Bank
proposes the following amendments to the Loan Agreement:
      I. Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement.
            a)    The "and" at the end of paragraph (k) is deleted;
            b)    the period at the end of paragraph (1) is deleted
                  and a semicolon substituted therefor;
            c)    new paragraphs (m) and (n) are added as follows:
                  (m) "Special Account"  means  the  account
                  referred  to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
                  Agreement."
                  (n)   "Disbursement Documentation System" means
                  the system of providing back-up documentation for
                  expenditures for imported goods financed under
                  loans from the Bank, set forth in the Aide
                  Memoire signed by representatives of the
                  Guarantor and the Bank, among others, on March 4,
                  1988."
      II. Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement
            a)    The paragraph designated as "Section 2.02" is
                  redesignated as "Section 2.02 (a)";
            b)    new paragraphs (b) and (c) are added to Section
                  2.02 as follows:
                  "(b) The Borrower shall, for purposes of the
                  Project, open and maintain in dollars a special
                  account in a bank on terms and conditions
                  satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and
Page  2
                  payments out of, the Special Account shall be
                  made in accordance with the provisions of
                  Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                  (c)   The Borrower shall, by release of the
                  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to paragraph 4 of
                  Schedule 1 to this Agreement, substantially
                  increase the dollar-equivalent volume of
                  documentation provided to the Bank for
                  expenditures financed under the Loan using the
                  Disbursement Documentation System, over and above
                  the volume of documentation provided to the Bank
                  using such System in November, 1988."
      III.  Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.
             a)   Paragraph 3(b) is amended by deleting the number
                  "$100,000,000" and substituting the number
                  "$150,000,000 in respect of Category 1" therefor;
             b)   Paragraph 4 is amended by:
                  deleting the "and" at the end of subparagraph
                  (d);
                  deleting the period at the end of subparagraph
                  (e) and substituting 1; and" therefor;
                  adding a new paragraph (f) as follows:
                  "(f) that the Borrower has submitted documents
                  and other evidence showing that payments out of
                  the Special Account were made exclusively for
                  Eligible Expenditures, in accordance with
                  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, for
                  al amounts withdrawn rom t e Loan Account And
                  deposited into the Special Account in accordance
                  with paragraph 3 of said Schedule."
       IV. Part C of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
            a)    Paragraph 1 is amended by adding the following
                  sentence at the end of the paragraph:
                  "When payments for such contract are to be made
                  out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
                  be modified to ensure that the two conformed
                  copies of the contract required to be furnished
                  to the Bank, together with other documentation
                  referred to above, shall be furnished to the Bank
                  prior to making the first payment out of the
                  Special Account in respect of such contract."
            b)    Paragraph 2 is amended by.adding the following
                  sentence at the end of the paragraph:
                  "When payments for such contract are to be made
                  out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
                  be modified to ensure that two conformed copies
                  of the contract, together with such other
                  documentation and information referred to above,
                  shall be,furnished to the Bank prior to making
                  the first payment out of the Special Account in
                  respect of such contract."
      V.    Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement
                  The following new Schedule 5 is added after
                  Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement:
                            "SCHEDULE 5
Page  3
                          Special Account
1.     For the purposes,of this Schedule:
      (a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories I and 2
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $100,000,000 (one hundred million dollars) to be withdrawn from
the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.  The Borrower shall make withdrawals from the Special
Account for payments of Eligible Expenditures on the basis of the
evidence that the Bank shall have reasonably determined and shall
debit the Special Account with the amount in dollars so withdrawn or
with the dollar equivalent of the currency other than dollares in
which the payment was made, determined on the basis of the rate of
exchange between the dollar and such currency in affect: (i) on the
date each payment shall have been made, if the payment has taken
place within 90,days of the date on which the withdrawal from the
Special Account was made; or (ii) on the date each withdrawal shall
have been made from the Special Account.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall  furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which  do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
      (b) (i)     For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested.  On
                  the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                  as shall have been shown by said documents and
                  other evidence to have been made out of the
                  Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.  All
                  such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
                  the Loan Account under the respective Eligible
                  Categories, and in the respective equivalent
                  amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                  documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, ,furnish to the Bank such documents and other
Page  4
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a) if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the Eligible Categories less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into.by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General @Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice;to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.   Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount
      (c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d) Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.'
      If you agree with the foregoing proposed amendment, please
confirm your acceptance of the amendment by signing and dating the
enclosed copy of this letter and returning the same to the Bank.
The amendment will take effect when the confirmation copy is
received by the Bank.  Also, because of their interest
in,the,matter, a copy of this letter is being sent to Licenciado
Josd Angel Gurria Trevino at Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito
Publico of the Guarantor.
                            Sincerely,
                      /s/ Rainer B. Steckhan
                             Director
                       Country Department II
Page  5
                  Latin America and the Caribbean
                          Regional Office
CONFIRMED:
/s/ Authorized Representative
BANCO NACIONAL DE COMERCIO EXTERIOR, S.N.C.
August 9, 1989
DATE
cc:   Lic.  Jose Angel Gurria Trevino,
      Subsecretario de Asuntos Financieros Internacionales
      Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
      Palacio Nacional, Primer Patio Mariano
      4to. piso, oficina 4037
      Centro 06066 Mexico, D.F.
      Mexico
