Dormkut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rit No. 12523
PROJECT C0MPLETION RE1PORT
NIGERIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2480-UNI)
NOVEMBEPR 19. 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12523
Type: PCR
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a "estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wthout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = naira (N)
Period Average Exchange Rates
198 19849286   1987   199 122   19Q    1491    1992
Naira per $   0.76    0.89    1.75    4.02    4.55    7.35    8.06    9.90  17.50
$ per Naira   1.31    1.12    0.57    0.25    0.22    0.14    0.12    0.101    0.057
AISBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A.F          Accountant General of the Federation
CBN          Central Bank of Nigeria
C&E          Customs and Excise Departnent
EDI          Economic Development Institute
FBIR         Federal Board of Inland Revenue
FMF          Federal Ministry of Finance
FMFED        Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
FMNP         Federal Ministry of National Planning
FOS          Federal Office of Statistics
IMF          International Monetary Fund
NCEMA        National Center for Economic Management and Administration
NDB          National Data Bank
NPC          National Planning Commission
PC           Personal Computer
PCR          Project Completion Report
PRS          Planning, Research and Statistics Departnent
SAP          Structural Adjustment Program
TRB          Tariff Review Board
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for Intemational Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SAW
W.hkotg1  D.C 2W09
U,SA
Off.. of Drector4enud
Opoatl  EVeItusn
November 19, IM
NEMAR^pll TO THE E=EU71VE DIREaTO  AND MR PRESIIE
SUBJ :  Project Completion Report on Nigi -
T chnical Asdstanoe Projoe a1| SSUN
Attached is the Project Compledon Repor on Nigeria - Technical Assistance Project (Lan
2480UNI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. lhe Government did nOt comment on Part I and
MH of the PCR and has not prepared Part H.
'Me project was the first free-tanding tecdical assac  opeion of the Bank in Nigeria. it
ws approved after years of discussion given the goveramens reluctne to u  foreigln   ical
aistce to stengthen its economic management. The objecdives of the prject wer to improvethe
quality of stadstics, enhance planning and budgeting capability, train planners, and establish effective
monitorig of exten  debt.
The project resuted in improvement in statistics and helped to establish a nadonal trafinin
cer for public adminitrton; but there was little or no progress on the other componen. Some
cOmponents were made Irrelevant by policy changes within six months of project approval. Despite an
extended disbursement period and a shift in project emphasis toward the fAmding of computing
equipment, one-third of the US$13 million loan amount was cancelled at closure. Overal the project
is ratd as unsatisfactoy, with uncertain susinabity and negligible institutional Impact.
The PCR is adequate. It identifies lack of ownership as a major factor in the usatisatory
p    mance, and suggests  a greater flexibility to amend project design would bave been desirable
when progress in implementation proved inadequate.
An audit is planned.
Attachment
ndo                         -i w*tb                                      ,%s
cotbuWm adis be .Wtn vit    o   u  utb



FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
PROJECT C(MNPLE`ION REPORT
NIGERIA - TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 248MUN
CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .................................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..                ..................................  fii
PARTI:  PROJECTREVILEWFROM BANK'SPERSPECTIVE ..............                         I
1. ProJect Iden,t  ...................................  I
2. Background ....           ... ........... 1
3. ProjectObjectv,Dignad Org zaion .....rganiz       n..    ................ 2
4. Projet Supervision and mplementaldon .............        ........ 3
S. ProjeatResultsandSustainability      ................... 6
6. Bank and Borrower Performance .......  6
7. Consulting Services ........          ......................... 8
8. Lessons Leaned        ...................................    8
PART U: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTVE ......... 9
PARTIM: STATISTICALINFORMATION  ......                  .................... 10
T*able 1. Related Bank Loans ....... ............... ....... 10
Table 2. Project Timetable ...        .......................... 11
Table 3. Loan Disbursements  .......        ....................  11
Table 4. Studies  Compleod .        ............................  12
Table 5. Stats of Covenants .............            ............... 12
Table 6.  M power Costs (StaffWeks) ....... ..            ............ 12
Table 7. Mission Data          ................................  13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIGERIA
TECHNICAL ASSITANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2480-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is te Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical Assistance Project in the
Federal Republic of Nigeria, for which Loan No. 2480-UNI in an amount equivalent to US$13.0
million was approved on December 20,1984. The Closing Date of the Loan was December 31,
1992, two and a half years later than planned. Tle final disbursement was made on June 30,
1993. Total disbursements amounted to $8.6 million, and the undisbursed balance of $4.4
million was canceled on that date.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division (AF4CO) of the Africa
Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and  o). On March 5, 1993, the Bai,k
sent the Borrower Pars I and m with the request to prepare Part II but no comments have been
received.
Preparation of the PCR started during the Bank's last supervision mission in May/June
1992, and is based, Inter alla, on the President's Rteport, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements,
supervision repons, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda and files, and discussions with Government officials associated with the
implementation of the project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLEnON REPORT
NIGERIA - TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2480-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
liackmnrund and Objectives
1.    The Federal Government of Nigeria requested technical assistance from the Bank in 1981
to help improve its policy analysis capacity. This request culminated in the Technical Assistance
Project. The objective of the project was to strengthen the basis of the Borrower's economic
decision-making by improving the quality of its statistics on the Nigerian economy, strengthe'-g
the planning and budgeting mechanisms, establishing facilities for training planners, and crasdig
an effective capacity for monitoring external debt. The project was to provide consultant
services, data processing equipment and staff training to: (i) improve the efficiency of operations
in the Federal Office of Statistics (FOS); (ii) establish a system for monitoring external debt in
the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF); (iii) help the Federal Ministry of National Planning
(FMNP) monitor the execution of the national development plans; (iv) aid in the preparation of
the Fifth National Development Plan; (v) improve the quality of training for planners; and
(vi) help the Budget Department establish a mechanism in the annual budget cycle for allocating
fiscal resources in accordance with established priorities. Implementation of the project began
in May 1984, and wa.. expected to continue until the closing date in June 1990. The closing date
of the Loan was December 31, 1992, two and a half years later than planned. The final
disbursement was made on June 30, 1993. Total disbursements amounted to $8.6 million, and
the undisbursed balance of $4.4 million was canceled on that date.
2.    Tle project design approved by the Board became outdated in some components within
six months of its approval when the Borrower abandoned Five Year Plans in favor of a system
of three-year rolling plans and budgets, supplemented with annual assessments of the economy
and ultimately by a perspective plan. The project made little contribution to the Borrower's
planning and budgeting system, apart from the work done by consultants on the 1988 tariff
review as envisioned in the structural adjustment program (SAP).
3.    Failure to agree on design changes in a timely manner, poor administration, and excessive
delays in implementation prevented the project from achieving the benefits anticipated at the time
it was approved. The work of the external debt-monitoring unit in FMF was not initiated until
five years after loan approval. Even then, the unit could not get data from other divisions of
FMF and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and therefore could not produce stadstics in time
for them to be of use in debt management. The work in support of the Budget Department's
(FMF) achievements were minor; some staff members were trained and consultants were engaged
to assist in the tariff review of 1988, but very few of the other initiatives proposed in the
component were adopted.
4.    When the project was first designed, computer systems were seen as an important but
subsidiary component-in part because it was difficult to anticipate the revolutionary impact of
PC-based computing. Subsequently, the computerization of various functions in FMF, FOS and
the National Center for Economic Management and Administration (NCEMA) became one of the



_iv -
largest features of the project. While the Borrowwr has used some of the opportities the
computer equipment provided, it still has opportuni-Jes afforded by to improve Its economic
database and the use of Its data in effective decision-making.
5.    In terms of the original description of the project, the most significant achievements were
in FOS. Although the project could have achieved more, FOS's data processing capability has
made improvements, its survey teams are better equipped, and the quality of its statistics-
especially in terms of extemal trade, consumer prices and national accounts-has improved. In
addition, the project supported the creation of NCEMA, which has obtained firther support from
the Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI).
bIrmentaflon
6.    The project was plagued by delays in implementation. In addition to the invalidation of
the original project objectives for the planning and budgeting components, administration of the
project was excessively centralized, which made decision-making cumbersome and slow; the
Borrower's natural reluctance to employ funds borrowed from the Bank when more concessional
funds became available; and inadequate preparation of the training-for-planners component.
Furthermore, Bank staff perceived some reluctance in the implementing agencies when making
sensitive economic decisions, to admit outside advisers.
7.    The Bank invested much more time and energy in this project than in similar projects in
Western Africa, and showed both detemination and flexibility in supportig impl(smentation.
However, even after the Borrower appointed senior officials as project coordinaors the
appointees were too busy to devote adequate attention to the project, and the Bank's suggesions
for strengthening project management by putting full-time staff in charge or by creating a task
force were not adopted. Also, the Borrower repeatedly failed to expedite the necsay
paperwork for the payment of project consultants and contractors for periods of several monts,
which led to yet more delays in implementation and higher costs. Bank staff concluded that the
Borrower's representatives gave the project low pliority.
Lesons Ln2ed
8.    In fiure technical assistance projects, both the Bank and the Borrower need to agree and
commit themselves to:
(a)   ensure ownership of the project and responsibility for implementation
arrangement;
(b)   agree on the philosophy of the project and be willing to make modifications and
amend design specifications as warranted by changes in project objectives
resulting from administrative needs;
(c)    decentralize agencies so as to expedite procurement processes, and overall
information flow;
(d)   conduct formal thematic reviews that respond to each component of the project's
particular objectives, rather than general supervision; and
(e)   ensure mechanisms whereby unused fimds can be reallocated or canceled, if
progress in implementation proves to be inadequate.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2480-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM TBE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.     roetd lfdtit
Name:        Technical Assistance Project
Loan No.:   2480-UNI
Regional Unit: Africa Region - Western Africa Department
Country:     Nigeria
Sector:      Public Sector
2.    8eS ouind
1.    In the late seventies and early eighties acute fiscal and balance-of-payments difficulties
following the global oil price decline demonstrated to the Federal Government of Nigeria that its
efforts to cope with the current economic developments were impaired by its weakness in policy
analysis. Partly, the Borrower did not have enough resources to analyze data and partly it did
not have enough data for analysis. By 1981, when it officially requested technical assistance
from the Bank, the Borrower urgently needed to upgrade its whole statistical system-with respect
to both the standard information on production, consumption, prices and trade and to indicators
that would permit the Borrower to monitor the implementation of its plans, budget performance
and foreign exchange requirements.
2.    Despite the urgency of the problems, many members of the Government were reluctant
to use project staff in making economic decisions in the fields of planning, budgeting and
expenditure control. Others expressed concern about the wisdom of borrowing Bank funds to
finance technical assistance when funding was available on grant tems from other multilateral
and bilateral instdions such as the International Monetary Fund l;MM), United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), and the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID). Nevertheless, the Bank and Borrower identified problems and proposed technical
assistance to: (i) strengthen the planning system; (ii) establish a planning institute; (iii) create a
stronger monitoring and evaluation system for the Borrower's investment program; (iv) strengthen
its debt monitoring system; (v) improve the revenue mobilization systems of the Federal Board
of Inland Revemne (FBIR), Customs and Excise Department (C&E) and other tax agencies; (vi)
support the Federal Office of Statistics (FOS); and (vii) automate data systems.
3.    The project eventually approved by the Bank's Board in late 1984 did not include all of
the objectives discussed during the preparatory stages. According to the President's Report:
"The project comprises a five-year program of technical assistance to the Federal
Ministry of Finance (FMF), the Federal Ministry of National Planning (FMNP)
and the Federal Office of Statistics (FOS). Consultant services and data
processing equipment would be furnished to strengthen the management
information system upon which economic decision-making is based. The
monitoring of external debt and of the national plan and the budget would be
improved and programs for the training of planners would be developed.
Insomuch as the ministries benefitting from the project are severely understaffed,
there is a risk that insufficient counterpart support may be provided. In order to



-2 -
mindmize this risk, new administrative structures would be set up on a permanent
basis, where apropriate, to handle new functions."
The report acknowledged that the proposed measures would not meet all the Borrower's needs,
but indicated that others could bt handled more appropriately by the IMF or other agencies. In
retrospect, It is noteworthy that ihe project agreement did not require the Borrower to make any
commitment to set up the 'new administrative structures."
3.    Prolect Obhectives, Design and Organization
4.    The objective of the project was to: (i) strengthen the basis of economic decision-making
by helping the Borrower to improve the quality of its statistics on the Nigerian economy; (ii)
enhance the planning and budgeting functions; (iii) establish fcilities for training planners; and
(iv) create an effective capacity for monitoring external debt. In general, the project was to
identify areas in the administration where analytic and monitoring capabilities fell short of the
needs perceived. No attempt was made to prescribe specific improvements to the structure, since
it was thought that the technical assistance to be funished would itself encourage the prescription
of appropriate improvements. This approach, which the Bank and the Borrower shared, was
based on the premise that effective systems for the monitoring of external debt-or of exchange
control or plan implementation-could be devised and implemerAed only from within the
administrative structure co,acerned. Consequently, the Bank and the Borrower left the specific
accompisments they expected undefined.
S.    FOS made efforts to build upon its ongoing twinning arrangement with the U.S. Bureau
of Census. Simiy, FMF retained an in-house advisor on external debt monitoring in the
External Finance Department, who was to be the catalyst for strengthening that function. The
Federal Ministry of National Planning (FMNP), with the support of consultants, was to establish
a plan-monitoring unit and strengthen its planning capacity.  A needs assessment and
organiztional review, under the leadership of someone who was to be specifically selected for
the purpose, was to provide the framework for designing ard implementing the training-for-
planners component. The Budget component was to include the services of consultants in
analyzing projects, formulating capital budgets and designing means for linking the budget more
closely with the national development plan. The project had six components:
(a)    Assistance to strengthen the operations of FOS through the provision of
consultancy services, data processing equipment and staff training.
(b)    Estats hmeti of a system for monitoring external deb' in FMF through the
provision of consulting services, equipment and staff training.
(c)    Assistance to FMNP for monitoring the execution of the national development
plan, including the provision of consultancy services, equipment and staff
training.
(d)    Assistance for the preparation of the Fifth National Development Plan.
(e)    Assistance to the FMNP to improve the training of planners through the
provision of consultancy services and staff training.
()    Assistance to the Budget Department, through consultancy services and staff
training, to help establish a system within the annual budget cycle for allocating
fiscal resources in accordance with established priorities.



-3 -
Furthermore, the Bank's experience Indicated that needs and the perception of needs evolve
during the implementation of projects of this kind and that it Is preferable to have a significant
unallocated provision set aside for small activities. Therefore, the project Included a substantial
component, amounting to nearly 27% of the loan amount, for activities that were yet to be
identified. Project completion was originally expected by June 30, 1990.
6.    The original design of the project, therefore, seemed flexible enough to accommodate the
changing institutional structure of the public sector in Nigeria. However, this design flexibility
contributed to substantial delays and administrative complexities during project implementation.
Later, the failure to define the sub-components of the project in specific detail created difficulties
in reaching consensus on the use oi the earmarked resources.
7.    The beneficiary agencies-FMF, FMNP and FOS-were responsible for Implementing the
project. The Borrower designated a Project Coordinator In FMF to liaise with the Bank and
coordinate with the several agencies and ministries involved. Both FMNP and FOS also
designated project liaison officers to coordinate with the Project Coordinator at FMF.
Unfortunately, coordination between the Project Coordinator and the liaison officers in the other
beneficiary agencies was weak and led to delays in all phases of project implementation. There
were also frequent changes in personnel in the beneficiary agencies. When design changes
became necessary, as they soon did, it proved difficult and time-consuming to get agreement on
them. During project implementation beneficiary agencies repeatedly complained about the fact
that they had to obtain approval from FMF before proceeding with sub-con.ponents. This highly
centralized structure created in itself substantial delays.
4.        ect Supervison and Implemenhtion
B.    Planning for the project began in 1981, but it was not approved by the Board until late
1984. The Bank and the Borrower signed the agreements two months later, and the project
became effective in May 1985. During the long interval between the conception of the project
and its implementation, the economic situation and requirements had changed. There were
significant variations between the planned and actual project design and objectives. The 1985
supervision missions found that the Borrower was interested in expanding the external debt-
monitoring component to encompass debt management and accounting. The Bank itself made
new recommendations about both the planning and budget functions on the basis of recent
economic work by its staff. In its letters to the Borrower after the mission, the Bank indicated
that "our review of the organization and current planning and budgeting procedures...suggested
a re-definition of the scope of the project components." In brief, it recommended that Nigeria
change from the fixed Five Year Plan system that it had used for 25 years to a more flexible
system of three-year rolling plans, add greater emphasis to sectoral planning and include an
annual update of the macro-framework. The planning and budgeting components were soon in
left alone without any direction. Thus substantial changes were proposed for three of the six
components of the project within six months after the agreements were signed.
9.    At that time, PC-based computing was creating revolutionary possibilities in data
processing. Although computerization in the FMF, except in respect of the External Debt
component, was not specified as a component in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement, it became
a key focus of the first supervision mission. The mission concluded that FMF: (i) should
appoint a computerization coordinator; (ii) make a qick assessment of the computing needs and
costs involved; (iii) prepare an overall plan for computerization; (iv) create a forum within FMF
to discuss implementation issues and the overall plan; and (v) create a single computer center
within the ministry.



-4-
10.   The Bank suggested modifications to the planning and budget components, which were
implemented without much support through the ptoject. At various times over the duration of
the project the Bank also suggested new components for the Tariff Review Board (TRB), the
Import Duty Monitoring Committee DWMC), the FBIR, the Accountant General of the
Federation's Office (AMF), the C&E Department and the Women's Commission. However,
delays In project implementation continued to concern the Bank. While the FOS bad engaged
consultants for the Bureau of the Census during 1984-86 and (although the FMF required
excessive time to request approvals) some progress bad been made on training planners, yet
overall progress had been slow and the results were disappointing. Ihe administrative procedures
for finalizing terms of reference, short lists of consultants and contracts worked against speed and
efficiency; one consulting firm was in the 22nd month of its contract before Its contrect was
signed. At the FMNP, work on the external debt component was delayed by difficulties in
staffing, ill-defined reporting relationships and obstacles in the flow of Information, both within
the FMF divisions amd between the FMF and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Five years
passed before the FMF comissioned the necessary studies to design its computer system, and
another year before the equipment was installed and the staff trained.
11.   In the letter addressed to FMF in May 1986, the Bank's Country Director commented
on the slow progress made on many components, but emphasized that the Bank's concern was
to ensure that the project assisted the Borrower as best possible in overcoming its financial and
economic difficulties. To facilitate movement on the planning and budgeting components, the
Bank recommended that FMF set up a three-year rolling budget (as opposed to a fixed five-year
plan), linked to a multi-year public investmnent program. On project administration, the Country
Director commented:
"It is unfortunate that ... the coordinator has been so tied up in recent months ....
Because of this, we suggest you hire a coordinator, at least temporarily, from
outside the Goverment .... If this project is to be successful, overall project
coordination and the momentum of decision-making must pick up.'
The Bank suggested that the consultant project coordinator might be funded by UNDP rather than
the Bank loan, but the Borrower did not adopt the idea. The Bank also considered the use of
consultants to assist the Borrower with devising a plan-monitoring system and methods of training
planners. By the end of November 1986, Bank staff were so concerned about the project that
they suggested that it might be better to scale the project back to a size at which it could be
implemented expeditiously.
12.   The Borrower made almost no written response to correspondence from the Bank that
addressed the slow progress of the project. None of the letters written by the Bank after a
supervision mission received a written response. There was, however, some correspondence with
the Bank at the working level. The Borrower's performance in project management was
generally unsatisfactory as indicated by its poor compliance with audits and other financial
reporting.
13.   The supervision mission of February 1987 managed to be more optimistic, partly because
a decision was made to fund a variety of short-term consultants who were not part of the original
project concept. They assisted in the 1987 review of the import tariff to support the
implementation of the Borrower's structural adjustment program. Five individual consultants and
a Nigerian firm contbuted to the analytical basis for the seven-year tariff introduced in Jamnary
1988.
14. The May 1987 supervision mission noted that project implementation had slowed down
further. Minor conas were taking up to four months to finalize; the decision on whether to



create a Special Account was bogged dowr; and members of the project implementation team
were preoccupied with other matters. Despite much discussion, the FMNP had still not made
use of the loan; and though FMF had appointed its computer adviser, the debt-monitoring
consultants were not yet selected. Thp Bank again raised the possibility of reducing the size of
the loan, both orally and in a letter to the Permanent Secretary of FMF, and the ministry
responded that futher attempts would be made to improv- the speed of project implementation.
The missioa also worried about the creation of the Nadonal Data Bank (NDB) with the support
of UNDP. Tle division of labor between FOS and NDB might, the Bank feared, divide the
scarce statistical experdse available between the two institutions.
15.   There were also delays in procurement. Based on experience from similar projects
elsewhere, the Bank felt that time spent on specifying thoroughly the design of computerization
programs Is always well spent, and that carefully specified systems ultimately cost less. Thus the
Bank was unle to accept some bidding documents or support certain procurement actions. The
Borrower thereupon complained that the Bank took excessive time to approve procurement
requests.
16.   On several occasions, the Bank and Borrower made joint efforts to resolve the problems.
The Borrower appointed a new Project Coordinator, although he was still encumbered with other
duties as well. Bank representatives and the new Coordinator reviewed the project in August
1988. They discussed: (i) delays in payment to contractors and consultants, (ii) the fact that no
consultants had yet been hired to work on the debt-monitoring component, and (iii) an initiative
taken by the FMF's computerization consultant to design an in-house debt monitoring system.
Project implementation continued to lag.
17.   In the hope that Bank support to the day-to-day activities of the Borrower's various
agencies would faciIitate implementation action, the Bank decided in early 1988 to transfer the
administraiton of the project to the Resident Mission. Thereafter, an attempt was made to
establish a system of monthly meetings to review progress of the project, although other business
soon interfered with this schedule. After the Resident Mission took charge, however, the Bank's
review of procurement documents was considerably faster.
18.   In the last three years of the project, the Borrower made a number of changes in
administration. In June 1989, the Borrower appointed a new Project Coordinator, the Director
of Finance and Supply of the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (FMFED)
thus raising the status of the project within the ministry. However, in January 1990, he was
dispatched from the ministry on a special as.ignment. In mid-1990, the Director of Planning,
Research and Statistics (PRS) of FMFED was in turn appointed Project Coordinator.
19.   After 1989 most of the project activity was concerned with computerization, and the FBIR
and C&E were included among the original beneficiaries. In order to permit the implementatioi
of the various proposals for computerization that followed, the Bank postponed closing the loan
from June 30, 1990, to December 31, 1991. It also reallocated the proceeds of the loan.
Schedule 1 of the Agreement had many disbursement categories, which proved to be a limitation
when it came to re-allocating funds from components which were being implemented. In
January/February 1992, the Bank and the Borrower reached an agreement to reduce the loan
amount by $5.5 million and to postpone the closing date to June 30, 1992. Although both the
Borrower and the Bank had worked on the assumption that the reallocation of fimds had also been
approved in July 1990 at the time of postponement of the closing date, the Bank did not send to
the Borrower a formal amendment until a new allocation of the proceeds was approved on March
31, 1992. The closing date of the loan was extended again, from June 30, 1992, to December
31, 1992, to permit the disbursement of commitments the Borrower had entered into before June
30, 1992.



-6 -
20.   In the end, the Bank invested more than 260 staffweeks in this project. In the first two
and a half years supervision missions visited Nigeria at Intervals of five months. By the end of
1992 the Bank had devoted at least 93 staffweeks to the supervision of the project-an average
of 19 staffweeks per year of implementation (in five comparable studies conducted in other
Western Africa countries, the average was 14.7).
S.    PMlojct Result and Sustainability
21.   The project had the greatest impact (compared with the original concept) in FOS, which
upgraded its hardware and software and held training for its personnel. The FOS also (i)
developed a better system of compiling and disseminating exteral trade data abstracted from
customs information; (ii) reformed the system of consumer prices indices and (with some time
lag) national account statistics; (ii) completed a census of industry and business that will provide
a fimework for other related investigations; C7v) redesigned agricutural sample surveys; and (v)
equipped a survey team with modern tools and all-terrain vehicles.
22.   The creation of the National Center for Economic Management and Administration
(NCEMA) was also a modest success. Although more of its financial support came from UNDP
than from the project, the project's connection with NCEMA encouraged the Bank's Economic
Development Institute (EDI) to give NCEMA further support.
23.   FMF's external debt-monitoring unit faiied to achieve project objectives. Problems with
the flow of data from the other divisions of the ministry and from the CBN impeded the collation
of debt statistics for effective debt management. In addition, the unit had too few members with
the accounting training necessary for its work.
24.   The plan preparation and monitoring component of the project was overtaken by the
Borrower's 1987 decision to change its budget method. Right at the end of the project's life, the
Ministry, by then the National Planning Commission (NPC), revived an old proposal for a public
expenditure-monitoring system, but by then it was too late.
25.   FMIF officials had always opposed using borrowed funds for technIcal support services,
especially when Nigeria had access to other fimding on better terms. Some of the deparmnent
staff got some training, and the consultants engaged to assist in the 1988 tariff review made a
solid contribution to an important component of the structural adjustment program. Bank
personnel suggested several other forms of support over the duration of the project, but none
were adopted.
26.   At the time the project was designed, computerization was considered an important but
subsidiary component. Nevertheless, by the end of the project's life, major computerization
programs were under way in FMF, FBIR, AGF, FOS and C&E, where they were not funded by
the project, but were encouraged by the prospect of such funding. In addition, computers had
been supplied to the macro-economic department of NPC and to NCEMA. The Borrower still
has opportunities to exploit the full capacities of computerization in support of its economic
decision making.
6.    Bank and Borrower Performance
27.   The Bank representatives debated the design of the project for a long time, both with
Borrower officials and agencies and among themselves. Nevertheless, three of the original
components were abandoned within six months of project approval by the Board. Additionally,
no one assessed the needs of the planners' training compo.nent before project approval. Ihese



-7-
events and non-events invite questions about the Bank's expectation that specific improvements
would occur during project implementation. Furthermore, while a technical assistance project
does tend to require staff time, the exceptionally flexible design made this one particularly
demanding.
28.   One of the observations made during the project was that the standard questions and
procedures of Bank review missions, which were developed during civil works projects, may fail
to extract pertinent details about a technical assistance project.
29.   With the exception of FOS, which had a number of quite speciftc objectives to be attained
under the project, and which made use of the statistical expertise that Bank staff and the project
could assemble, it would appear in retrospect that the Borrower did not assign high priority to
the project as indicated by the lack of enthusiasm to overcome the various implementation
problems encountered.
30.   The Borrower's performance in project management was generally unsatisfactory as
indicated by its poor compliance with audit and other financial reporting. The Borrower's
tardiness in making payments to consultants and contractors placed several of them in great
difficulty. These delays accelerated costs and reduced competition for bids. The Borrower
complained about the time the Bank took to approve procurement requests. Borrower-Bank
relationships were not wholly satisfactory as the Borrower's failure to respond to correspondence
from the Bank indicates. Also, frequent changes in project personnel and in the civil service
made it d.fficult to develop lasting relationships between Bank staff and the beneficiary agencies.
The project was successful in strengthening FOS and initiating computerization in the beneficiary
agencies but was incapable of providing the institutional strengthening that was needed to support
meaningl economic reforms undertaken by the Borrower.
31.   The Loan Agreement was generally adequate. Similarly, the President's Report provided
a general and adequate framework of project components. Nevertheless, the flexibility inherent
in the design of the project required the need for extensive and protracted consultation between
the Bank and the Borrower at most stages of project implementation.
32.   The data needs of the project were not large. The correspondence files in the Bank
provide an adequate record of implementation. The disbursement account from Bank services
is adequate and provides a complete picture of the pattern of project implementation. The project
account maintained by the Borrower, on the other hand, was incomplete because of misplaced
documentation resulting from frequent changes in the Goverment officers concerned with the
implementation of the project.



-8-
7.    c2ONsulin Servce
33.   Both individual consultants and firms (domestic and foreign) were engaged during the
course of the project Among the individual consultants, those engaged for the tariff review made
a substantive and effective contribution, as did the two national accounts specialists. One
consultant engaged to provide a SAP monitoring system delayed the system documentation,
resulting in the unsatisfactory operation of the system. The computer adviser in FMF did some
valuable work in terms of needs assessment, but was often diverted to other activities and delayed
the implementation of the debt monitoring component by attempting to design and implement a
specialized system. In addition, the twinning arrangement by FOS and the US Bureau of tho
Census contributed to the strengthening of FOS, through their hands-on approach and through
the professional exchange with FOS staff.
34.   An issue of contention which plagued the use of local consultants was the appropriateness
of consultancy fees in the face of the rapidly changing value of the local currency. Furthermore,
concern was raised about the significant differential in fees between the local consultants and their
expatriate counterparts. These issues affected the timely hiring of local consultants, and delays
in paying them cannot have increased their efficiency.
S.    Lesons leamed
35.   In future technical assistance projects, both the Bank and the Borrower need to agree and
commit themselves to:
(a)   ensure ownership of the project and responsibility for implementation
arrangements;
(b)    agree on the philosophy of the project and be willing to make modifications and
amend design specifications as warranted by changes in project objectives
resulting from administrative needs;
(c)    decentralize agencies so as to expedite procurement processes, and overall
information flow;
(d)    conduct formal thematic reviews that respond to each component of the project's
particular objectives, rather than general supervision; and
(e)    ensure mechanisms whereby unused funds can be reallocated or canceled, if
progress in implementation proves to be inadequate.



-9-
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Bank has requested the Nigerian authorities to submit their own evaluation
of the TAP, but this document has not been received.



- 10-
PART m
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. R&lated Bank Loans
LOAN TiTLE:                            TRADE POLICY AND EXPORT
DEVELOPMENT LOAN
LOAN NUMBER:                           2758-UNI
YEAR OF APPROVAL:                      NOVEMBER 1986
Ibis quick disbursing loan had a $2 million Technical Assistance component, whose
purpose was to meet needs which it was felt could not be met under the on-going
Technical Assistance project (Loan No. 248-UNI). The most important items funded
under the project were (a) a sub-sector study of the Nigerian steel industry, which
provided quantified options for the future of the state-owned steel plants; (b) needs
assessment and feasibility report on the computerization of the management information
system of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation; and (c) staff training for the
Central Bank of Nigeria, the Nigerian Export Promotion Council and the Nigeria Deposit
Insurance Corporation, as well as other officials.
CREDff TITLE:                          ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NUMBER:                         2431-UNI
YEAR OF APPROVAL:                      NOVEMBER 1992
The Project is directly supportive of the Government's structural adjustment program. It
is to provide support to the key agencies involved and assist in creating an environment to
fcilitate more sound management of the economy. The project aims to improve the
Government's ability to cary out its public finance functions, including better revenue
collections and expenditure control. It also aims to provide support for the Government's
efforts at initiating reforms in the financial sector and in going ahead with privatization
and commercialization of its parastatal operations to make them more viable and
financially sound enteprises. The Project builds and improves upon preparatory work
done under Loan 2480-UNI, particularly decentralization of participating agencies.



-i II -
2.    Tctimetabh
Item                     Date Planned     Date Revised    Date Actud
Identificaton                                                  12/15/81
Preparation
Preppraisal                                                    05/15/82
Appraisal Mission                                             02/15/83
Loan Negotiations             03/20/84                         04/15/84
Board Approval                11/27/84                         12/20/84
Loan Signature                                                 03/8/85
Loan Effectiveness            06/06/85                         05/23/85
Loan Closing                  06/30/90         12/31/91        12/31/92
Loan Completion               12/31/89         12/31/92        06/30/93
3. Loan Disbur_ments
(Amounts In US $ Milions)
Bank    Origina         Actual       Cumulative    Actual % of
FY                                                  Original
FY95       -               .09             .09          -
FY86      .78             .69              .78         100
FY87      4.58            1.14            1.92         35.9
FY88      4.70             .82            2.74         29.5
FY89      2.80             .71            3.45         28.6
FY90      .92             .90             4.35         33.5
FY91       -               .22            4.57         35.1
FY92       -               .62            5.19         39.9
FY93       -              3.41            8.60         26.2
N=: Total disbursements amounted to $8.6 million,
and the undisbursed balance of $4.4 million was
canceled on June 30, 1993.



- 12 -
4. Soldig Cmpk_eted
Tariff study: a maJor technical contribution to the 1987188 tariff review, addressing
the cost structure and competitiveness of Nigerian producers, and the framework
for protection.
Computedraon Master Plan for the Federal Ministry of Fmance.
5. Stats of Covenants
LA3.01(b)  Designate a project coordinator.      Complied with
LA3.01(c)  Designate project liaison officers.   Complied with
LA3.01(d)  Establish a debt monitoring division.  Complied with
LA3.01(e)  Establish a plan monitoring unit in FMNP.  Complied with
LA3.01(t)  Designate in FMNP a training manager.  Complied with
LA4.02(c)  Submit audits within six months of the close  Not complied
of the year.                         with
6. Manpower Costs (Staff Weeks)
Central    1TF
Fiscal Year    Region      Operations
Staff            Total
FY82           23.5           11.8       -      35.3
FY83            9.2           3.8        -      13.0
FY84           31.9           1.8        -      33.7
FY8S           26.2           6.9        -      33.1
FY86           24.6           14.9       -      39.5
FY87           10.0           6.0        -      16.0
FY88           14.0            -         -      14.0
FY89           16.4           2.9        -      19.3
FY90            4.3           3.7       5.0    13.0
FY91            4.7           0.4       5.0    10.1
FY92           16.1           5.3       5.6    27.0
PY93           10.9           0.2       0.3    11.4
TOTAL          191.8          57.7      15.9   265.4



- 13 -
7. miSion DM
No.
Mission               Date   Persons      Specialization
i)    Identification         11181   2          Division Chief
Economist
i)   Preappraisal            6/82    5          Loan Officer
Statisticians (2)
Economist
Management Specialist
iii)   Preappralsal          3/83    2          Loan Officer
Management Speciallist
iv)   Appraisal              12/83  5           Loan Officer
Economists (3)
Project Analyst
v)    Supervision            5/85    6          Loan Officer
Debt Specialist
Statistician
Computing Specialist
Planner
Economist
vi)   Supervision            10/85  2           Statistician
vii)  Supervision            3/86    5          Loan Officer
Planners (2)
Statistician
Debt Specialist
viii)  Supervision           2187   5           Loan Officer
Planner
Statistician
Debt Specialist
Operatons Assistant
ix)   Supervision            5187   3           Loan Officer
Operations Assistant
Computing Specialist
x)    Supervision            11/87  4           Economist
Computing Specialist
Statistician
Operadons Assistant
xi)   Training               11/87  2           EDI Deputy Director
EDI Training staff
xii)   FOS Supevision        2/89    1          Statstcian
xiii)  Computing Review      9/89    1          Computing specialist
xiv)  FOS Supervision        6/90    1          Statistician
xv)   Computing review       i1/90   1          Computing Specialist
xvi)  FOS Supervision        11/91   1          Statistcian
xvii)  Computing review      1192    1          Computing Speialist
xviii) Supervision           2/92    2          Operations Adviser
Operations Officer



