Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Reort No. P-3648-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
?RESIDENT OF THE
1TETERhNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAiN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$13 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
November 29, 1984
Lhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in tde performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983   October 1984
Currency Unit     =      Naira            N
US$1              =     NO.72           N0,75
Ail                      US$1.38        US$1.34
ABBREVIATIONS
CBN  -  Central Bank of Nigeria
ECAs -  Export Credit Agencies
EFF  -  Extended Fund Facility
FMF  -  Federal Ministry of Finance
FMG  -  Federal Military Government
FMNP -  Federal Ministry of National Planning
FOS  -  Federal Office of Statistics
LNG  -  Liquefied Natural Gas
mbd  -  million barrels per day
OPE  -  Office of Project Execution (UNDP)
SAL  -  Structural Adjustment Loan
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -   December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:          US$13 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:           Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace
at the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:    The project comprises a five year program of
technical assistance to the Federal Ministry of
Finance, the Federal ;nistry of National
Planning and the Federal Office of Statistics.
Consultant services and data processing equipment
would be furnished toi strengthen the management
information system upon which economic decision-
making is based. The monitoring of external debt
and of national plan implementation would be
strengthened. The linkage between the national
development plan and the budget would be improved
and programs for .he training of planners would
be developed. Insomuch as the ministrLes
benefiting from the project are severely
understaffed, there is a risk that insufficient
counterpart support may br provided. In order to
minimize this risk, new acatinistrative structures
would be set up on a permanent basis, where
appropriate, to handle new functions.
I This document has a resicted distrbution and nay be used 'y recipients only in the Performarce of
ther official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diset ed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Local      Foreign      Total
-U   US$ mnlion
Consultancy Services                        2.03         4.17        6.20
Data Processing Equipment and Software      0.17         1.18         1.35
Training and Fellowships                    0.32         1.08        1.40
Counterpart Support                         1.55          -          1.55
Unidentified Activities                      1.17        1.73        2.90
Total Base Costs                          5.24         8.16       13.40
Physical Contingencies                      0.03         0.04        0.07
Price Contingencies                         2.70         0.80        3.50
Total Project Costs                       7.97         9.00       16.97
Front-end Fee                                -           0.03        0.03
Total Financing Required                  7.97         9.03       17.00
Financing Plan:
rBRD                                        3.97         9.03       13.00
Federal Military Government                 4.00          -          4.00
Total                                     7.97         9.03       17.00
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year             1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
-  -US$ million
Annual                     .40    3.50    4.60    2.40    1.20    0.90
Cumulative                 .40    3.90    8.50   10.90   12.10   13.00
Rate of Return:             Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    No separate report



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$13 million to help
finance a teebnical assistance project. Interest on the loan would be at the
standard variable rate. The loan would be amortized over 20 years including 5
years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The civilian government of Nigeria was replaced by a military
government on December 31, 1983. The assessment of the Nigerian economic
situation in this report is based largely on the work of an economic updating
mission of February/March 1984 supplemented by further analysi3 undertaken by
Bank staff on the basis of the 1984 budget and subsequent developments. The
findings of a 1982 economic mission were more fully reflected in a Country
Economic Report (No.4506-UNI) which was distributed to the Executive Directors
on August 15, 1983. Annex I presents selected social and economic indicators
for Nigeria.
Background
3.       Nigeria, with a population of about 94 million in 1984, is the most
populous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Rank members, in 1980 Nigeria
accounted for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60 percent of
regional investment. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about US$760 in 1983,
which is twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa. While Nigeria, as a major
oil exporter since the early seventies, enjoyed a substantially improved
resource base from increased oil revenues, it still remains at a very early
stage of development in terms of socio-economic indicators, in which it
compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
4.       Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new federal
constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government came into power
in 1979. This government was reelected in 1983. The Nigerian military took
over the government '.n December of the same year. The Federal Military
Government (FMG) is led by Major-General Nohammadu Buhari.
Macro-economic Developments
5.       Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74, which dramatically altered the
country's resource position. Between then and the late seventies, Nigeria's
development strategy was based on sustaining a hi-gh rate of growth and



-2-
diversifying the economy through the resources generated by the oil sector.
The principal objective of the policies pursued by the Nigerian decision-
makers was to translate the large oil revenues accrued - about US$100 billion
in current prices during the 1973-81 period - into investments in economic,
social, and physical infrastructure. While there have been some -non-
economic investments and waste, significant development gains were made in
both economic and social infrastructure. Transport infrastructure,
particularly roads and ports, expanded considerably. Power generating
capacity tripled, and refining capacity more than quadrupled since 1973.
Manufacturing grew at an average annual rate of 10 percent during the 1973-82
period although there was a highly distorted investment structure due to large
variations in the rates of effective protection provided to various industrial
sub-sectors. There also has been a rapid spread of education at all levels;
in particular, the primary enrollment ratio which was about 35 percent in the
early seventies has more than doubled.
6.       Developments were not as positive in some other areas.  In
agriculture, overall output remained virtually stagnant during the 1973-83
period, with the production of grains increasing probably at the same rate as
the population growth rate, but the production of root and export crops
declining substantially.  Within a decade, Nigeria became a major food
importer (US$2.7 billion of imports in 1982) as domestic terms of trade moved
against agriculture. Inflation, coupled with an appreciating domestic
currency, pushed up domestic costs of production, thus putting the commodity-
producing sectors at a disadvantage vis-a-vis imports and non-traded goods.
This encouraged diversion of resources from commodity production to services
(including trade and construction). Both agriculture and industry became
'high-cost' activities. Trade and exchange rate policies, which were
formulated in response to frequent swings in oil export earnings, were largely
used to dampen inflationary pressures or ration imports rather than to provide
appropriate incentives to domestic production. This was partly due to the
fact that, as a result of the fluctuations in the world oil markets and their
impact on the balance of payments and government revenues, Nigerian policy-
makers were preoccupied with short-term crisis management. This diverted
attention from the formulation of longer-term policies to reduce the country's
dependence on oil and to strengthen the domestic productive sectors.
7.       The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when the
world oil markets presented a favorable outlook, Nigeria's oil exports for the
year amounted to US$25 billion and foreign exchange reserves exceeded $10
billion. The plan, accordingly, _oflected an ambitious investment program.
It envisaged a total investment program of N80 billion (US$107 billion) over
the period 1981-85, half of which was to be invested directly by the Federal
Government and a quarter directly by the states - with the remaining quarter
to be invested by the private sector. Emphasis was placed on the development
of agriculture (through statewide agricultural support programs and massive
irrigatior schemes) and on heavy industry based on cheap energy (steel,
petrochemical, etc.) both supported by substantial investments in
infrastructure. Nigeria's development plans, however, were overtaken by the
sharp decline in oil export revenues since 1981. It's economic problems
during 1981-83 -were exacerbated by the inability of Nigerian decision-makers
to cut back sufficiently the public investment program partly because of a
continuing belief that oil markets (and Nigerian oil revenues) would recover.



8.       Nigeria's oil production fell by one-third from its 1980 level of
2.06 mbd to 1.44 mbd in 1981, and subsequently declined further to 1.23 mbd in
1983. Coupled with a decline in the oil price from a peak of US$39 per barrel
in 1981 to US$29.9 per barrel in 1983, oil export revenues declined from US$25
billion in 1980 to US$17.4 billion in 1981 and to only US$10.3 billion in
1983. Imports of goods continued to rise to a peak of US$18 billion in 1981,
resulting in a current account deficit of US$6 billion, which was financed
largely through the drawing down of foreign exchange reserves and external
borrowing.
9.       Confronted by a worsening balance of payments situation, the
Government reacted in April 1982 by introducing a number of austerity measures
aimed at stabilizing the domestic and external financial situation. These
measures failed to achieve the stabilization objective; imports of goods for
the year 1982 declined marginally to US$17 billion while resulting in a wider
current account deficit of US$7.3 billion. Reserves declined further to only
US$1.4 billion by the end of 1982, whilst trade payment arrears of US$4
billion were accumulated.
10.      By 1983, however, previous measures in the form of quantitative
restrictions together with a growing reluctance of the trading partners to
extend further trade credits to Nigeria led to a reduced import level of
US$12.2 billion.  This was largely finunced by further accumulation of trade
payment arrears (US$3.8 billion), a process which had already begun during
1982. Discussions with major overseas creditor banks resulted in the
rescheduling of the arrears owed to these institutions (for confirmation of
letters of credit) of about US$2.1 billion accumulated prior to August 31,
1983, with repayments to be made over a period of 31 months starting January
1984. In April 1984, the C-overnment completed negotiations to reschedule
US$4-5 billion of the remaining arrears incurred through "open-account" inter-
company import financing. This agreement includes only those arrears not
covered by export credit insurance and reschedules the payments over a period
of six years including a grace period of two and half years at an interest
rate of 1 percent over LIBOR. Outstanding arrears at this point are US$2
billion insured by export credit agencies (ECAs). The terms under negotiation
ror these remaining arrears are similar although formal agreement to
reschedule has been made conditional by the ECAs on Nigeria reaching an
agreement with the IMF. The new military government (FMG) has so far been
regular in making repayments due on earlier medium- and long-term debt.
11.      The deterioration in the external financial situation had a severe
impact on the fiscal position of the Federal and State Government as well as
on growth. Federally collected revenues fell from N15.2 billion in 1980 to
N12.0 billion in 1983, because oil revenues accov'nt for an average of about 60
percent of total revenues. Until 1984, the Federal Government did not reduce
expenditures in line with the reduced revenues, thus large budget deficits
appeared over the period 1981-83, with the deficit/GDP ratio in excess of 8
percent. In order to finance these deficits, the Government borrowed from the
Central Bank. This coupled with the physical shortages of many imported
commodities led to an acceleration in the inflation rate which rose to about
23 percent in 1983. As a result of a decline in imports of about 30 percent
in real terms, domestic output contracted in 1983. In addition to the decline
in manufacturing, the construction sector suffered from an almost one-third



-4-
decline in gross fixed invest-.ent.  In 1983, the decline in non-oil GDP is
estimated at five percent, while the GDP declined at an average rate of five
percent per annum over the 1981-83 period.
12.      The performance of the Nigerian economyr has deteriorated further in
1984. With oil export revenues estimated at US$11.2 billion (i.e., estimated
oil exports of 1.04 mbd at USS29 per barrel), imports have had to be reduced
further from 1983 levels to accommodate higher debt service payments of about
US$4.2 billion in 1984. So far, the FMG has tightened import controls, and
adopted stringent fiscal and monetary policies. In the 1984 budget the
Government made reductions in public expenditures in line with Bank
recommendations and, to help rationalize future investments, instituted a
Project Review Committee which has reviewed projects funded under the capital
budget. The Committee has proposed that all projects be categorized as "core'
or 'non-core" with the former to receive full funding and the latter being
shelved pending availability of funds or abandoned. The recommendations of
the Review Committee are currently being reviewed by the Government. Nigeria
had been accorded a temporary increase in oil production quota of 100,000 bpd
for August and 150,000 bpd for September, although it seems that the softening
of the oil market has prevented that quota from being realized. If Nigeria
could actuallv sell an additional 0.1 mbd, this would generate US$1.0 billion
annually in additional export revenues and improve the economic outlook. In
the medium term, real economic improvement will depend upon the adoption by
the Government of policies towards economic stabilization and the longer term
goals of structural adjustment and diversification of the economy.
Adjustment Policy Issues
13.      At present, the Nigerian economy faces two cr.t'cal issues:  first,
the management of the short-run financial crisis and stabilization of the
economy; and second, the longer-term structural adjlLstment of the economy by
stimulating productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and developing a
wider resource base. With regard to the short tern, the measures that the FNG
has taken since January 1984 to reschedule trade arrears, control imports and
restrain domestic expenditures (which were confirmed in the budget released in
June 1984), may help to arrest a further deterioration of the external and
internal financial situation. However, the remaining external arrears need to
be rescheduled, particularly in view of the need for substantial external
borrowing in the near future.
14.      While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to overcome the
current crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the
economy. More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the measures taken to
restore financial stability, will be needed to bring about structural
change. The chief requirements comprise: (i) further incentives for
efficient export promotion and import substitution, inc'uding appropriate
exchange rate, tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to
strengthen the balance of payments through judicious management of foreign
borrowing and external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate demand
through prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv) improvements in
the composition and implementation of public investment to increase its
efficiency; and (v) steps, such as raising interest rates and improving tax
collection, to increase private and public savings and investment.



- 5
Prospects and Financing of Development
15.      Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to be
significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk. of its
foreign exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon sectors
during the next twenty years. In addition to oil exports, this could include
exports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) -- although the market prospects for
LNG during the 1990s are more uncertain than before -- and some exports of
petrochemicals. To maintain economic growth, major structural changes are
needed in order to adapt the economy to lower levels of oil export earnings.
In the short-run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports is likely to be
determined by the uncertain conditions of the world oil markets rather than by
the deliberate extraction policies of the Government. It is projected that
oil production would rise gradually to 1.6 mhd in 1987, from its estimated
level of 1.3 mbd in 1984.
16.      The prospects for the Nigerian economy over the medium term are
closely related to the kind of economic policies the Government pursues over
the next few years. One option open to the Government is to pursue a 'high
growth/economic reform" 3trategy comprising policy measures which have been
discussed in the context of a possible Extended Fund Facility (EFF) with the
IMF and a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the Bank. Such a strategy
would also give Nigeria renewed access to international borrowing from
commercial banks, although the amounts that would be available are difficult
to quantify. On the estimation that about US$2-3 billion per year of
international lending would be available from all sources, this would permit a
moderately high growth rate of about 4 percent per annum over the period 1984-
1992. It would prevent a further deterioration in the average standard of
living and allow employment to expand broadly at the same pace as population
growth. In addition, it would, over time, stimulate non-oil exports, which,
in the longer run will need to replace oil as the engine of import growth. In
the "low" case, on the other hand, no agreement is reached on the EFF/SAL
package, and the only "reform" that takes place is maintaining enough macro-
economic discipline to avoid the reemergence of trade arrears as a major
problem. In this "low"" case, the possibility of foreign borrowing would be
very limited and balance of payments constraints would necessitate che
continuation of restrictive policies. The result would be lower growth rates
for the rest of the decade leading to a further deterioration of the average
standard of living, low capacity utilization rates in many sectors and
increasingly severe unemployment problems.
17.      At present the Government is pursuing an intermediate strategy.  In
addition to the adjustments in the investment program mentioned above (para.
12), the Goverrment has recently introduced new schedules of customs and
excise duties that move in the direction of equalizing effective protection
across industries. Measures to streamline public sector employment have
resulted in a reduction of some 55,000 employees; and a freeze on public
sector salaries and wages hc.s also been introduced. Together these measures
are expected to result in a reduction of the Federal budget deficit from about
15 percent of GDP in 1983 to about 11 percent in 1984. The new Government has
also enforced much greater financial discipline on State Governments which has
resulted in greater revenue raising efforts by the states together with
improved focus on development priorities. Tighter monetary policies including



-6-
increases of 1.5 to 2 percent in interert rates have also been introduced.
With this good progress on fiscal retorm, but little progress on incentive
reform, growth would be higher than in the low case, b:c would result at best
in a stagnation of per capita incomes.
18.      The thrce policy scenarios differ more from each other in their
impact on growth than in their impa( on Nigeria's ability to service external
debt. This is because in the low ana intermediate cases, lack of confidence
on the part of commercial lenders would mean severely limited access to
international borrowing. Of course, if the moderate fiscal discipline assumed
even in the low case is not maintained, there would be pressure on imports and
an eventual risk of a build-up of trade arrears with a resultant further
decline in access to external credits. At the present time, though, this does
not appear a likely possibility, given the Government's firm commitment to
austerity. In all the cases there will be severe liquidity problems over the
next few years with the debt service ratio likely to range from 32 to 39
percent between 1985 and 1987. In all the cases also, the debt service ratio
begins to decline after 1987. The decline is somewhat slower--although still
marked--in the high case, because with better growth policies, access to
international borrowing is higher. In the high case, the debt service ratio
in 1992 would be 22 percent, while in the intermediate and low cases it would
be about 10 percent. The volume and composition of Bank lending would be
determined by the policies pursued by the Government -- ranging from an
expanded lending program including a Structural Adjustment Loan in the high
case to a limited program focussing primarily on social and physical
infrastructure in the low case.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
19.      Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of September 30, 1984, amounted to
US$2,514.4 million (net of cancellations).  The amount of loans and credits
disbursed as of September 30, 1984 was US$1,338.5 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,175.9 million. Agriculture accounts for about
50 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply together
for about 34 percent; and education, industry, urban, and the post-war reha-
bilitation loan for the remaining 16 per-ent. There have been only two IDA
credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 millifon; both are fully disbursed. IFC has
made six loans to borrowers totalling USS24.7 million, and six equity
investments totalling US$4.6 million. Of these amounts, US$7.5 million have
been repaid, terminated, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
20.      As a restult of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public reve-
nues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run into
serious counterpart funding probloms. The Bank, the Federal Government, and
the relevant state governments are making concerted efforts to alleviate the
situation. The Bank, under the Special Action Program, has agreed to the
reallocation of loan proceeds and the upward revision of disbursement
percentages to speed up disbursements. Working within the resource
constraints (which are likely to continue in che near future), the Federal
Government is Lupplementing the funding fcr selected projects for 1984 and has



- 7 -
agreed to ensure that adequate funding will be provided for projects for 1985
on the basis of updated estimates of funding requirements. The State
governments are instilling a greater degree of discipline in their budgeting
processes and cutting back on new capital expenditures in order to fund
existing obligations. As a result, the prospects for counterpart funding for
Bank-assisted projects are expected to improve.
21.      Provided appropriate policy changes are undertaken, the Bank's
lending program would aim primarily at the urgenit diversification of Nigeria's
economy to reduce its excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of
foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the same time, the Bank would con-
tinue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups
and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. As in
recent years, the Bank would continue to provide support for agriculture and
rural development with emphasis on institution-building and transfer of
technology. These objectives are in line with the Federal Government's
priorities and with the emphasis it is placing on the need to use the proceeds
of the country's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of the
economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor. The Bank would similarly support efforts to
stimulate a well-balanced and integrated development of Nigeria's industrial
sector.  This approach would entail a combination of intensive sector work and
policy dialogue with the Government, as well as Bank assistance for industrial
projects in crucial subsectors.
22.      Projects in the agriculture, water supply and urban sectors together
should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming two to three
years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors will also
require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure. There are
good opportunities for the Bank to make a significant contributiGn in energy
and highway maintenance.  Similarly, there is a strong case for continued
lending for education. In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher
training would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the
federal and state governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the
social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid
urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number of urban
development projects focussed on the needs of the urban poor. The Bank is
also assisting the Government in overcoming the country's health problems with
a project aimed at both federal and state (Sokoto) levels, and is continuing a
dialogue with the Government on population issues, perhaps leading to lending
in this area.
23.      Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY1978 to nearly US$272 million in FY1984, Nigeria's disbursement performance
has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. The undisbursed
balance now stands at 47 percent of the US$2.5 billion in loans and credits
approved. One of the reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of
the Bank's loan portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that a number of
large loans, with relatively large, planned disbursements during the early
years, were extended during this period, mainly for agricultural projects. In
many cases, however, disbursements have been slowed by long delays in loan
effectiveness and institutional and management problems. Recently, the
inadequate counterpart funding of projects by federal and state governments,



-8-
resulting from lower oil revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The FMG,
with the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully
monitoring loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems early and
taking corrective action. Also, the Bank has recently agreed to a series of
measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new
projects (para. 20). These efforts are beginning to show results.
PART III - ECONOMIC PLANNING AND FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION IN NIGERIA
The Institutional Framework
24.      The FMG suspended the 1979 constitution introduced four and a half
years earlier by the previous military government of General Obasanjo.
However, the emphasis has been continued on a separation of powers between the
various branches of government, as well as a balanced distribution of
responsibilities between federal and state authorities. In matters of
economic management, the previous federal government reestablished many of its
traditional functions including exclusive control over monetary affairs as
well as trade and payments.   These controls have, if anything, become more
centralized under the FMG. Of particular importance in this respect is the
federal authorities' responsibility for policies that govern the production
and export of oil and gas.
25.      The administ-3tive organization of the Government has undergone a
number of changes in the past 11 months. The number of ministries at both the
federal and state levels has been reduced, and the National Planning Ministry
reinstated. The functions of budget formulation and implementation have
reverted back to the Federal Ministry of Finance, previously being a special
Budget Office attached to the presidency.
26.      While the FME has strived to reestablish simpler and more familiar
administrative structures, some of the earlier constitutional developments
appear irreversible. This applies particularly to the shift in the balance of
power back to the federal authorities from the states.
27.      The 1979 constitution significantly changed the relationship between
state and federal authorities because the state governments became more be-
holden to local constituencies. Under the revenue sharing formula prevailing
since the civilian administration, 35 percent of total fiscal revenues
accruing to the Federation Account (excluding independent revenues of the
Federal Government) are passed on to the state governments which have complete
discretion in the management of those funds. A further 10 percent of all
federal revenues are passed on to local government authorities.
28.      While the 19 state governments have been zealous in the preservation
of their fiscal independence, mechanisms have been in place for policy
coordination. One of the first acts of the FMG was co establish a National
Council of State that includes all 19 military state governors. Furthermore,
the effective economic independence of the states is tempered by the fact that
their revenues generally fall short of what is needed to finance the services



- 9 -
for which they are constitutionally responsible (including primary and
secondary education, health, water supply, housing, urban development and
agriculture). In the recent past, most states sought to borrow to finance
their ambitious development plans. To the extent that they borrow from
domestic sources they must do so with Federal Government approval and within
the framework of monetary and credit policies determined by the Central
Bank. To the extent that they borrow externally, they need a Federal
Government guarantee. States have been further constrained by the 1984
federal budget that restricted their access to foreign borrowings.
29.      These constraints upon the state governments illustrate the prominent
role of the federal government, mainly by being custodian of rhe substantial
fiscal revenues derived from petroleum exports. As a measure of that
prominence it may be noted that the combined direct current and capital
expenditures of the Federal Government have amounted to between 25 and 30
percent of GDP in recent years. Total fiscal revenues of the Federal
Government increased almost sixfold in real terms from N2.6 billion in 1973 to
N12.0 billion in 1983. The management of so large a fiscal program has placed
an increasing burden upon the limited manpower and administrative resources of
the Federal Government. Furthermore, the difficulty of economic management in
Nigeria is not to be measured by the size of the fiscal program alone. A
complicating factor has been the sharp fluctuation of petroleum revenues over
the years which has placed additional demands upon the administration.
The Structure of Economic and Financial Management
30.      The basic configuration of the Nigerian public service has remained
substantially unchanged since independence. The staff of each ministry is
organized under a permanent secretary who, along with senior administrative
and professional officers, offers advice to the minister on policy matters and
manages the day-to-day business of the ministry. The minister is the
politically-appointed executive head of the ministry but has no authority over
such matters as the appointment, promotion and discipline of civil servants.
Appointments are the responsibility of the Federal Civil Service Commission,
members of which are themselves appointed by the Head of State, while assign-
ments, reassignments, promotion and discipline are matters for the Head of the
Civil Service and the relevant heads of departments. There is a grave
shortage of managerial, professional and technical staff in the government
service, a problem compounded by the rapid rotation of staff between
ministries, that can be detrimental to the continuity of the service.
Permanent secretaries, while drawn from the ranks of the civil service, are
appointed by the head of state and usually have a more stable tenure of
office, at least in the economic ministries.
31.      A schematic diagram of the organizational structure that manages the
external and internal finances of the Federal Government is presented in Annex
IV. The two ministries with primary responsibility for planning and financial
control are the Federal Ministry of National Planning (FMNP) and the Federal
Ministry of Finance (FMF). The functions of the FMF extend beyond purely
fiscal matters because it is responsible for the supervision Lf the Central
Bank of Nigeria, and a number of functions such as exchange control and
external debt monitoring are shared between the two entities. The FMF is also



- 10 -
responsible for the formulation and execution of the federal budget so that
the breadth of its responsibilities is very extensive.
32.      Coordination between the FMF and the FMNP is effected at the policy
level by the Federal Executive Council and at the management level by key
interministerial committees that advise the Government on issues of economic
policy.
33.      The effectiveness with which these committees can do their job,
however, is limited by weaknesses in policy analysis that stem in part from a
lack of sufficient professional staff to undertake the analysis and in part
from a lack of sufficient data on which to base the analysis. There is an
urgent need to upgrade the whole statistical system both with respect to the
standard time series of production, consumption, prices and trade as well as
indicators that would permit the Government to monitor plan implementation,
budget performance and foreign exchange requirements. The proposed project
would address these needs.
34.      The Federal Ministry of Finance is organized along functional lines
as indicated 3chematically in Annex V. By far the largest department - with
more than 3,000 employees, including a sizeable force of border police - is
Customs and Excise. The import duties collected by this department account
for some 40 percent of the federal government non-petroleum revenues, and
taxes on domestic production and consumption for a further 30 percent. A
noteworthy feature of the Customs and Excise Department is that it has a well-
run data processing unit which may be one of the most efficient in the public
sector.
35.      The second largest department within the FMF is Inland Revenue which
collects, in ascendIng order of importance from the point of view of revenue
generated, personal income tax on the salaries of public servants, stamp
duties, corporation income tax and the petroleum profits tax. Royalties and
dividends from pet:oleum are collected on behalf of the Government by the
Nigerian National Petroleum Company while the taxation of incomes of private
individuals is a state res2onsibility. In the course of preparing the
proposed project, the Bank was approached by the Inland Revenue Department
with a request for assistance in improving its systr- of data management and
its program of staff training. Because the request touched upon many broader
aspects of tax administration, Bank staff referred it to the IMF which has
more specialized expertise in this field. The IMF has reviewed the Inland
Revenue Department's existing data systems and staffing, and made
recommendations to the Government on now they might be improved. In light of
these recommendations the Government decided to appoint consultants to design
its equipment and related staff training needs. Once the equipment and
ancillary training requirements of the program have been defined, there may be
a role for the Bank in financing the acquisition of data processing equipment
from the proceeds of the proposed loan.
36.      The External Finance Department of FMF is well known to the Bank
because it is the Bank's administrative point of contact with the Federal
Government. The Multilateral Division of this Department devotes most of its
time to handling lcer- from the Bank because Nigeria's operational contacts



- 11 -
with other multilazeral donors are few. The Bilateral Division has a much
smaller overall program but the Capital Markets Division has been quite active
in arranging syndicated loans and in extend'ng the Government's guarantee,
where appropriate, to loans secured by state governments and other public
sector entities. For many years the External Finance Department has
experienced difficulties in reporting its debt position to the Bank and to the
policymakers in Nigeria promptly and fully. When the balance of payments
situation deteriorated after 1981, Government efforts to reschedule Nigeria's
commercial arrears and seek further fin-ncial support from the international
financial community were impaired to some extent by a lack of accurate
information regarding its overall external indebtedness. Consultants were
retained to advise and assist the Government in dealing with its external
creditors and, as part of their job, they put together a detailed picture of
the overall debt situation including short-term debt. This experience has
heightened Government awareness of the need for a system that will con-
tinuously monitor the external debt situation so that external borrowing
strategies may be appropriately adapted to changing circumstances. The
proposed loan would respond to that need.
37.      The Exchange Control Department of the FMF has a small senior staff
that numbers less than twenty. In addition to having the primary responsi-
bility for preparing a foreign exchange budget, this Department shares with
the Central Bank a part of the administrative responsibility for authorizing
foreign exchange remittances. Payments relating to merchandise trade in
general are authorized by the Central Bank with some delegation of authority
to the commercial banks for small items. Requests for foreign exchange that
emanate from public sector entities are reviewed by the Exchange Control
Department of the FMF as part of the overall financial control of the public
sector. In addition, that same Department authorizes the payment of dividends
to non-resideuts, the external remittances of consultancy firms and the
amortization of all external debt. By virtue of this last function it is an
important source of primary data on external debt - information that would
need to be integrated into a fully functional system for external debt
monitoring.
38.      In terms of the sheer volume of work, the Central Bank is the prin-
cipal processor of information on exchange control because it handles the bulk
of merchandise trade. In terms of policy significance, however, the Exchange
Control Department of the FMF has a prominent role to play because it is
formally responsible for the preparation and execution of an annual foreign
exchange budget for consideration by the Government as part of the overall
budget exercise. During preparation of the proposed project, the FMF asked
the Bank for assistance in strengthening the management of exchange control
data in order that foreign exch2age budgeting and control may rest on a firmer
foundation. However, since this is another field in which the IMF has an
esrablished expertise we proposed that the IMF take the lead in responding to
this request. During the 1984 Annual Meetings, it was agreed between the IMF
and the Federal Government that the Federal Government would reassess its
needs in this area before requesting assistance from the IMF.
39.      Other departments of the FMF are Rome Finance, which concerns itself
mainly with the establishment of banks and the fiscal interface between the



- 12 -
Federal Government and the states, and the Research and Revenue Department
which, inter alia, administers duty exemptions for approved imports. It has
requested the Bank for assistance in establishing a stronger research function
especially with respect to taxation and the projection of tax revenues.
However, before technical assistance in this field may be effectively
delivered, the Department would need to assemble and retain a core staff of
research personnel. At present less than 30 percent of authorized positions
of this Department are filled. If the staffing situation improves, it may be
possible to finance technical assistance from the proposed loan.
40.      The Budget Department was reintegrated back into the FMF after the
FMG assumed power on December 31, 19E_. There are currently operational
divisions concerned with revenue, capital expenditure and recurrent expendi-
ture, respectively (An.iex VI).
41.      Under the civilian administration plans were announced to introduce a
system of program performance budgeting at the federal level. Approaches were
made to the UNDP and to the Bank with a request for technical assistance in
support of the endeavor. The UNDP will soon field three experts to assist
primarily with the accounting aspects of budget management. The proposed
project will complement the UNDP program by assisting the Government to link
the budgetary process to the national development plan.
42.      The principal constraint facing the Budget Department in fulfilling
its mandate is undoubtedly a shortage of experienced professional staff.  The
total professional payroll of the Department amounts to less than 30
officers. This is clearly insufficient to handle a federal budget which
amounted to the equivalent of over US$10 billion even in 1983 -- a year of
reiatively low fiscal revenues. The recruitment and training of more staff is
a matter of high priority.
43.      The Federal Ministry of National Planning has organized its economic
planning function into four sectoral departments and a macro-economic depart-
ment; other functions of the FMNP are also indicated in the organization chart
in Annex VII. The responsibility for manpower planning rests with the
National Manpower Board which is a department of the FMNP as is the Federal
Office of Statistics. The Development Aid Department under the Ministry is
the channel through whi-h bilateral technical assistance is organized, while
the UNDP program of development assistance to Nigeria is handled by the
Economic Affairs Department.
44.      The principal instrument of planning in Nigeria is a five year
development plan that is prepared by the FMNP. The plan includes a project
list which defines the scope of the public sector investment program over a
five year period. If, in the course of plan implementation, any public entity
wishes to undertake a project that is not included in the plan, it must first
submit project details to the FMNP for consideration and recommendation to the
Government for approval.
45.      The FMNP is responsible for preparing annual reports on the progress
of plan implementation for the information of the Government. In practice,
however, these progress reports have been issued much less frequently because



- 13 -
it has proved difficult to obtain and assemble comprehensive and up-to-date
information from the many project implementing agencies of the public
sector. Annual progress reports on plan implementation would be a necessary
first step towards a more effective linkage between the plan and the federal
budget. At present that linkage is quite loose because the plan has a five
year horizon while the budget is an annual exercise. Plan monitoring has,
therefore, a key role to play in improving the implementation of the plan.
The proposed project would address this issue.
46.      The Federal Office of Statistics (FOS), although a department of the
FMNP, is much larger than the rest of the Ministry put together.  Annex VII
shows that, in addition to a headquarters staff that is organized into six
divisions, the FOS has offices in each of the 19 states of the federation and
representatives in all ministries of the Federal Government. In all, its
payroll numbers about 5,000.
47.      The FOS has become a focus of public attention in the last few years
as a result of increasing awareness that the statistical information available
both to the public at large and to the Government is inadequate for purposes
-o policy evaluation.  Delays in the publication of all statistical series
have been on the increase. In the case of trade statistics there is a backlog
of several years still to be processed. So great has been .Lle concern of the
Government to upgrade the quality and timeliness of statistical information
that the former President established a special task force to make recommenda-
tions for an urgent solution to the problem. At the invitation of the Govern-
ment, the Bank collaborated with the task force in proposing an interim
information system that could be used as a basis for economic decision-
making. However, this proposal for interim action did not address the more
fundamental problems of the FOS which are organizational and managerial in
character. Data processing is one of those fundamental problems. The
computer that was used in earlier years became non-functional with age and
inadequate servicing. Another computer was acquired in 1981 but is not yet
fully operational.  A new data proce- ing team needs to be reconstituted
before the new computer can be fully utilized. At the same time, other
aspacis of the FOS operations such as system analysis and survey design need
strengthening. The proposed project would address these needs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT -
48.      The ptssibility of a loan to finance technical assistance to the
FMF and the FMNP was first discussed in 1981. Project preparation proceeded
slowly because of Goverrment caution in accepting technical assistance for
ministries that lie so close to the heart of economic decision-making.
Project appraisal was completed in December 1983, and negotiations were held
in Washington in April 1984. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Bank Role
49.      The proposed project would strengthen the basis of economic decision-



- 14 -
making by helping the Government to improve the quality and reliability of its
manager*ent information system. To this end, the statistical system would be
upgraded and methods introduced to moc'tor the progress of public sector
activities, particularly in the fields of plan implementation and external
debt management. Training would be furnished to strengthen management and
technical skills in related areas.
50.      The Bank, by virtue of the close working relationship developed with
government over the past several years, is well placed to assist with a
technical assistance project of this nature. Traditionally Nigeria has been
reluctant to accept technical assistance because of a concern that it may
compromise its own independence of action. This applies, in particular, to
the FMF and FMNP which lie close to the center of economic decision-making.
That the Government is prepared to accept technical assistance in these
ministries is an indication of the confidence in the Bank that has built up
over the years.
Project Description
51.      The project would consist of six components as follows:
i)  Assistance to strengthen the operations of the FOS through the
provision of consultancy services, data processing equipment and
staff training.
(ii)  Establishment of a system for monitoring external debt in the FMF
through the provision of consulting services, equipment and staff
t raining.
(iii)  Assistance to the FMZP for monitoring the execution of the national
development plan including the provision of consultancy services,
equipment and staff training.
(iv)  Assistance for the preparation of the Fifth National Development
Plan.
(v)  Assistance to the FMNP to improve the training of planners through
the provision of consultancy services and staff training.
(vi)  Assistance to the Budget Department, through consultancy services and
staff training, to help establish a system within the annual budget
cycle for allocating fiscal resources in accordance with established
project priorities.
Each of these six components 's described below in greater detail.
Assistance to the Federal Office of Statistics
52.      Undoubtedly the most urgent task facing the FOS is to reestablish an
operational computer center. Under the proposed project, 72 man-months of
data processing consultancy would be provided to assist with this task.
Provision would also be made for the acquisition of additional data processing



- 15 -
and data entry equipment to complement the computer thatt was purchased by the
FOS in 1981. As it stands, that computer has insufficient input terminals and
lacks the minimal back-up capacity needed for an operationally effective
unit. The cost of procuring and installing additional equipment is estimated
at US$750,000. Due consideration would be given to designing a hardwiare
configuration that would reflect an appropriate balance between mainframe,
mini- and micro-computers, given the difficult servicing environment that
prevails in Lagos and the problems of keeping large and technologically
complex machines fully operational. The project would also provide for
improved housing for the computer and ancillary equipment.
53.      The reestablishment of a fully operational computer center would
expand the overall productive pctential of the FOS. To assist the FOS
management gear its operations to a higher level of activity, the project
would furnish 96 man-months of long-term consultancy services in statistical
methods, economic statistics and overall statistical management. A further 20
man-months of supplementary short-term consultancies are also included in the
project to cover specialized fields, including agricultural statistics,
national accounting, industrial statistics and indexes.
54.      The FOS has engaged the US Bureau of Census, an organization which
has furnished it with training and ad hoc consultancy services from time to
time over the past twenty years, to undertake this consulting work as a single
package at cost price. Terms of reference for these consultancy services,
which have been reviewed and agreed by the Bank, are given in Annex VIII,
pages 1-6.
External Debt F.onitoring
55.      Recently, the difficulties experienced by Nigeria in servicing its
short-term debt have become a focus of international attention. A major
impediment to the resolution of this problem has been the difficult task of
documenting precisely the nature and volume of the arrears. The Nigerian
authorities have engaged consultants to assist them with this task. In the
longer-run, however, there is clearly a need for establishing a system that
will monitor short-term debt on a continuing basis. The IMF has offered to
help the Goveranent establish such a system and Government is currently
considering whether or not to make a formal request for assistance.
56.      Thus far, Nigeria has serviced its medium- and long-term debt
promptly. Nevertheless, it is now clear that the Covernment also needs to
install a capability for monitoring such debt so as to provide a better basis
of information for economic management. At present there is no separate unit
within the External Finance Department which is explicitly charged with
monitoring the external debt situation. From time to time, ad hoc exercises
have been undertaken to determine the external debt profile -- frequently with
assistance from the Bank or from consultants. The proposed project would, for
the first time, set up a continuous debt monitoring function that would
encompass, in the first instance, public and publicly guaranteed medium- and
long-term debt and would be expanded subsequently to cover private debt.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that, as a condition of disbursement of
this component, the FMF would establish a separate debt monitoring division



- 16 -
within the External Finance Department and appoint a division head supported
by adequate staff (Section 3.01(d) and Schedule 1, para. 3(b) of the Loan
Agreement).
57.      In order that an external debt monitoring system may be established
and made operatiountl, 24 ma_-months of consultancy services would be provided
under the projecL. The bulk of this technical assistance would consist of an
in-house advisor to the External Finance Department who would assist the
proposed debt monitoring division of the FMF to design and implement the
system over a two-year period. Six man-months of supplementary consultancy on
data processing is included within the 24 man-month total. The proposed terms
of reference are provided in Annex VIII, pages 7-8. Although Bank-financed
support for medium- and long-term external debt monitoring would be centered
on the FMF, there would be close coordination with Central Bank monitoring on
Nigeria's short-term debt.
58.      A fully-fledged debt monitoring system would need to be based on
electronic data processing. Provision has been made under the proposed
project for the acquisition and installation of a mini-computer and ancillary
equipment at an estimated cost of US$100,000. Due consideration would be
given to the use of micro-computers as an alternative technology that may be
less vulnerable to problems of inadequate servicing and therefore more reli-
able. The project would also provide for the training of staff both locally
and overseas. In addilion, the Bank's External Debt Division would help train
staff who could benefit from in-house training in the Bank.
Plan Monitoring
59.      The I'MNP has no special unit or group of staff assigned to monitor
plan implementation. The task is handled by the staff of the macro and sector
departments in the following manner. Letters are issued to all federal
government ministries and to the planning ministries of each state requiring
them to solicit from the parastatals, project executing departments and other
line agencies within their jurisdiction, information on project progress
according to a specified format. The federal government ministries and state
planning ministries collate and process replies from all corresponding line
agencies before submitting them as a package to the FMNP. Subsequently, the
sector departments of the FMNP analyze the submissions and relate them to the
targets of the original plan document under the overall coordination of the
Macro Department of the FMNP.
60.      The annual monitoring of plan implementation in a timely and compre-
hensive manner would require the establishment of a small, permanent unit
within the FMNP devoted exclusively to that task. Accordingly, agreement was
reached at negotiations that the FMNP would establish a plan monitoring unit
and appoint a chief of the unit as a condition of disbursement of this
component (Section 3.01(e) and Schedule 1, para. 3(c) of the Loan
Agreement). It is also expected that an appropriate understanding would be
reached between the FMNP, the Budget Department and other federal entities
charged with monitoring responsibilities for the coordination of their
respective monitoring efforts. The project would provide for 24 man-months of
technical assistance to the unit in designing and implementing a system of



- 17 -
plan monitoring. The proposed terms of reference are provided in Annex VIII,
pages 9-10. The project would also provide for the acquisition of a mini-
computer and ancillary equipment in the event that existing micro-computers
within the FMNP are inadequate for the task. To assist with the installation
of data processing facilities and bringing them into operation, six man-months
of specialized consultant services would be provided. Provision would also be
made for staff training, both local and overseas.
Strengthening Planning Capacity for the Fifth Five Year Plan (1986-90)
61.      The FNNP has started the programming process for the next Five Year
Plan (1986-90), including collaboration with sectoral ministries and state
governments in the preparation cf investment programs for this period. Given
the complexities of the present Nigerian economic situation - both on the
macro-economic and sectoral fronts -- a great deal of detailed and specialized
work will be required. This will be undertaken largely in the FNNP and the
sectoral ministries themselves. The project proposes to strengthen the
capabilities of the FMNP by providing 30 man-months of specialized consultancy
services for both the macro-economic and sectoral work related to the
preparation of the next Five Year Plan. As in the case of other consultancy
services to be engaged for this project, suitably qualified Nigerian
consultants would be recruited wherever possible.
The Training of Planners
62.      The association of the Bank with proposals for the training of
planners goes back a number of years. In 1975, the EDI collaborated in
developing an initial project proposal for establishing a National Planning
Institute at the request of the FMNP. That first proposal envisaged drawing
upon the international experience of the EDI to establish a slmilar kind of
institution at the national level in Nigeria. Training was to be offered to
planners and managers in ministries, autonomous agencies in the public sector
and even private entities where there was a perceived need to enhance planning
and management skills.
63.      In the present context of severe fiscal and balance of payments
constraints, the need for strengthening planning and management skills appears
greater than ever. Under the proposed project, a qualified and experienced
person would be appointed by June 30, 1985, to plan, organize and coordinate
the training of planners (Section 3.01(f) of the Loan Agreement). In
addition, a working group would be set up within the FNNP to assess training
needs and to set up on a pilot basis, planning courses that would address
those needs that are not adequately served by existing training facilities.
To assist with this task, 8 man-months of consultancy services would be
provided under the project. The consultants would also make recommendations
regarding an appropriate institutional framework for strengthening the
training of planners and to that end would give due consideration to adapting
or expanding the facilities of such existing institutions as the
Administrative Staff College of Nigeria or Nigerian universities. Terms of
reference for this consultancy are provided in Annex VIII, page 11.
64.      The proposals for the establishment of new training facilities are
necessarily geared towards the longer term.  Gi-en the pressing and immediate



- 18 -
needs for training in macro-economic management and sectoral planning, funds
would be provided from the proceeds of the Bank loan to finance local and
overseas training in these areas and also for the training of trainers. This
training would be geared principally to the staff of the FMNP and the FMF, but
could also include some staff of the sectoral ministries. The local component
of the training would be undertaken jointly by local institutions and
consultants. The overseas training would take the form of short courses or
fellowships specifically gearad to macro-economic management and sectoral
planning.  Consultancy servi:es would be engaged to identify training needs
and Lecoumend appropriate training programs.
Information Systems for Budget Formulation and Executior.
65.      The ability of the Government to address the difficult financial
situation confronting it will depend in large measure upon the effectiveness
of its fiscal management. The Budget Department plays a central role in that
management function. However, the instruments of fiscal control at its
disposal need strengthening in order that it may fulfill its responsibilities
more effectively. If the recently launched UNDP technical assistance project
is successful in improving the timeliness and accuracy of financial accounting
that will help greatly. In itself, however, the UNDP program will not be
sufficient because the economic evaluation of program and project progress
goes beyond financial accounting to the monitoring of physical progress and an
assessment of the alternative uses of disposable resources.
66.      The proposed project component would provide for 30 man-months of
consultancy services to the Budget Department in matters of program and
project analysis with a view to linking the budgetary process more closely to
the national development plan. These consultants would liaise closely with a
working group that would be appointed within the Budget Department to oversee
the introduction of closer links with the development plan. There is clearly
an interface between this project component and the component that relates to
plan monitoring. Terms of reference for the consultants are provided in Annex
VIII, page 12 and they include arrangements for coordination.
67.      This component would also finance, retroactively, consultants who
have helped to evaluate all major ongoing projects at the federal level: it
has done this by helping the Government's Project Review Committee to evaluate
its 1984 capital budget and to establish investment priorities as a guideline
for structuring the 1985 budget.
68.      While the proposed technical assistance team would work with the
Planning Committee composed of the Permanent Secretaries of the FMF and the
FMNP, and the Governor of the Central Bank, it is proposed that this component
be attached to the Budget Department. Terms of reference for this continued
^onsultancy support are provided in Annex VIII, page 13.
ProJect Implementation
69.      The six dentified components of the proposed project would be
implemented by the FMF, the FMNP and the FOS, in accordance with the
implementation schedule shown in Annex IX. It is anticipated that, as the
project progresses, existing project components would be expanded, and new



- 19 -
zomponents may be identified and financed from the unallocated portion of the
loan. Allowing for these, the total implementation period is expected to
extend over five years.
70.      To provide a focal point for liaison with the Bank and for coor-
dination between the several agencies and ministries involved in the project,
agreement was reached at negotiations that a project coordinator with tenms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank would be designated within the FMF. Desig-
nation of the project coordinator would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement). In addition, the FMNP and the FOS would
each designate a project liaison officer no later than June 30, 1985, to
liaise with the project coordinator on the project (Section 3.01(c) of the
Loan Agi'eement). Understandings were also reached that the detailed terms of
reference 'or consultants would include explicit work schedules to facilitate
monitoring, and that all training and fellowship programs would be drawn up by
June 30, 1985.
71.      During negotiations, the desirability of utilizing the services of
the UNDP Office of Project Execution (OPE) was discussed for the following
tasks: arrangements for administering overseas training programs, the
procurement of equipment, recruitment of individually recruited consultants
and the servicing of their contracts. This would satisfy the conditions of
Seetion 3.02(d) of the Loan Agreement. The Nigerian delegation indicated that
they would seriously consider the use of OPE for this purpose.
Project Costs
72.      Total project costs including the front-end fee are estimated at
US$17.0 million, of which the foreign exchange component would amount to
US$9.0 million or 53 percent. A breakdown of costs by major categories is
given in the accompanying table. It is an inherent characteristic of
technical assistance that, as project implementation progresses, both the Bank
and the borrower perceive a role for additional technical assistance in areas
where the need has not been appreciated at first. Experience with this kind
of project has shown the value of having a pool of unallocated funds.
Accordingly, an amount of USS2.9 million has been included to finance
activities as yet uridentified. These funds will be used following agreement
between the Bank and the Government, either to amplify existing components of
the project or to introduce new components consistent with the overall
objectives of the project. These activities may include tasks such as
assistance to the FMNP for mid-plan review, follow-up work on an annual review
of capital expenditure budgets, studies for the establishment of a Federation
Stabilization Fund, adopting multi-year budgeting procedures and the like.
73.      An allowance has been made for physical contingencies equal to 5
percent of base costs for all items. Price contingencies for local costs are
estimated at 20 percent in 1985, 17 percent in 1986, 17 percent in 1987, 15
percent in 1988, and 15 percent in 1989. Price contingencies for foreign
costs are estimated at 8 percent in 1985, 9 percent in 1986, 9 percent in
1987, 9 percent in 1988, and 8 percent in 1989. On this basis, total
contingencies amount to 27 percent of base costs.



- 20 -
Project Cost
Local     Foreign      Total
----USS Million- -
Federal Office of Statistics
188 Man-months of Consultancy Services          1.22      2.54         3.76
Equipment and Software                          0.10      0.75         0.85
Training and Fellowships                        0.15      0.45         0.60
FMF (External Debt)
24 Man-months of Consultancy Services           0.16      0.32         0.48
Equipment and Software                           -        0.10         0.10
Training and Fellowships                        0.05      0.15         0.20
FMNP (Plan Monitoring)
30 Man-months of Consultancy Services           0.20      0.40         0.60
Equipment and Software                           -        0.10         0.10
Training and Fellowships                        0.05      0.15         0.20
FMNP (Plan Preparation)
30 Man-months of Consultancy Services           0.20      0.40        0.60
FMNP (Training of Planners)
8 Man-months of Consultancy Services            0.05      0.11         0.16
Training and Fellowshipe                        0.07      0.23         0.30
FMF (Budget Depart2-ent)
30 Man-months of Consultancy Services           0.20      0.40        0.60
Equipment and Software                          0.07      0.23         0.30
Training and Fellowships                         -        0.10         0.10
Counterpart Support
(Local Staff, Office Accommodation, etc.)       1.55       -           1.55
Subtotal:                                   4.07       6.43       10.50
Unidentified Activities                           1.17      1.73         2.90
Total Base Costs:                            5.24      8.16        13.40
Physical Contingencies                    0.03       0.04        0.07
Price Contingencies                       2.70       0.80        3.50
Front-end Fee                                      -        0.03         0-03
Total financing required:                    7.97      9.03        17.00



- 21 -
Project Financing
74.      The proposed loan of US$13 million would cover 76 percent of total
financing requirewents Including the capitalized front-end fee. This level of
cost sharing is not uncommon with projects of this kind. The remaining
project cost to be financed by the FMG would correspond to the cost of local
counterpart support and the local costs of consultant services other than
housing.
Procurement
75.      Data processing eqaipment and associated software would be procured
through limited international bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. to
ensure compatibility with exioting equipment and satisfactory after-sales
service. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into lots costing more
than US$50,000 equivalent (up to a cumulative total of US$1 million,
equivalent) may be awarded under local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Minor items costing US$10,000 equivalent or less
may be procured by local shopping (up to a cumulative total of US$300,000,
equivalent). The services of consultants valued at US$6.2 million would be
obtained in accordance with Bank guidelines and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursements
76.      The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows:  internationally
recruited consultants: 100 percent; external training and fellowships: 100
percent; and data processing equipment and its installation, software and
training equipment:  100 percent.  The loan would be disbursed over a period
of six years, as compared to a Bank-wide average of eight years for technical
assistance projects. The shorter disbursement period corresponds to the
specific activities to be carried out under the project. Retroactive
financing is proposed for expenditures up to a total of US$1 million incurred
after December 15, 1983 for project start-up activities.
Benefits
77.      The proposed project, by improving the Government's information
system, would strengthen the basis for economic decision-making in Nigeria.
The quality of the statistical data base would be improved, as would the
monitoring, and consequently, the management of external debt and plan
implementation. In addition, the FMNP's ability to prepare the next and
future plans would be strengthened with the help of consultants and training
for planners.
Risks
78.      The ministries and agencies benefiting from the proposed project lack
adequate qualified and experienced staff. This gives rise to the risk that
insufficient counterpart staff may be assigned to the project and this, in
turn, could undermine the effectiveness with which skills and technologies can
be transferred to the host agencies. In an effort to minimize this risk,



- 22 -
agreement was reached during negotiations that new administrative units would
be established on a permanent basis to handle specific functions such as
external debt monitoring and national plan monitoring. At the same time, the
program of technical assistance would be structured in such a way as to
organize ongoing programs more efficiently and make better use of existing
staff rather than to require major new recruitment efforts.
79.      The risk of insufficient counterpart funding which has impeded pro-
gress on so many other Bank-supported projects would be reduced by the rela-
tively high proportion of project cost financed from the Bank loan, including
the housing costs of specialists and consultants.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
81.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III to this Report. An additional condition of loan effectiveness is that a
project coordinator be designated within the FMF.
82.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 29, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-23 A_IE  I
Page 1 of 5
NIGIMtA                - S_AL                   S ICIOTO   OMA m Ss
NIGERtIA                            WEZFIK   00P5F (MLIKF AVI8AM) 7&
nsS                 0605? uEWr ESTINE lb   -
.961 970a!  i& :    AFIA S. OF SARA   M. AFRICA & MID EAST
AIML (!131WAM S1. Ur)
TOL                                923.8        92.A       9S
AGZCULURAL                         47LO        497.4       5t3.1
CW F          C CSU)                  2000        330t.0      860.0            112.9                  1149.6
cr mwui              calm
ICEIL0O OF or. EQaIVAEC)            20.0        35.0       143.0             529.0                  622.1
MAIuXl  ANO VML SUTSriCS
POPULATMItNIJfZ-,-AK CTRISANS)   515980       66182.0    90572.0
CR46 POPMUTION CZO S0OTAL)          13.L        16.4        21.4              29.7                   4.2
POPULATON PROJECnIOI
POPULATIO  IN  tAR 2000 CKILL)                           169.3
SVhTIAtT POPULATW  ('II)                                 617.7
POPMLATIO  MGEEID                                          LO0
POPULaTIn m  I
PER SQ.  i.-                      55.9        71.6        WL9.856                                  36.3
MN SQ. Ni. AGRL. UIS             109.6        133.0      170.7             111.5                  461.7
POPULAZION AGE SRUCrCRE C?)
0-14 TVs                         45.4         46.6       47.8              45.4                   43.4
15-64 IRS                         52.3        51.0        49.8              S1.7                   53.1
65 AND ADMY                        2.3         2.4         2.4.              2.9                    3.3
POPULATION GRWT RAZE CZ)
TOTCAL                             2.4         2.5         2.6               2.8                    2.8
UNLAS                              4.7         4.7         4.9               5.2                    4.5
CRUD RIXTR RATE CPER TOS)           55.0        50.7        49.5              47.0                   60.4
CDE SEA2R RAXE CPEL TDaS)            5.63       20.8        16.2              15.2                   1t.5
0-S REPRODUTION tATE                 3.4         3.4         3.4               3.2                    2.8
FARILT PLAMIM
ACraSs. AJMSAL t,TNOUS)             ..7.6
USIS CZ OF 0lU     W       *                    .6.0                         z. 23.2
Pv tQ als:l t-)
INDEX OF F0M PROD. MM CAPITA
C 1969-71-100)                     100.0        102.0       92.0              91.6                   97.3
PEU CAPMr SUPIPLY or
CALORES  C OF REQOTRMENTS)        83.0        84.0        91.0              98.2                  110.5
PROMEI CGRAS PUt OA)              45.0        45.0        *9.0              56.7                   70.
OF SNWUE A(PB AD PULSE          10.0         11.0       11.0 /2           17.0                   17.5
OifS.  (AG  1-4) UEA: RATE          50.0        3'.0        20.0              18.7                   14.6
ILUM
LIFE EXECT. AT 8112 ('TEAS)         38.7        43.7        49.6              51.7                   57.5
INFANT PNMOl  RATE (Pat THOUS)     190.0       154-.0      109.0             102.7                  101.5
ACCSS TO SAFE WAXER CEPOP)
TOTAL                                .                                      35.6                   39.7
DuAlS                               .....                                   54.1                   84.5
RURAL                               ..          ..36.0              ..      27.4
ACCSS TO EMCREA DLSPOSALL
CIt OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Fo196AT91-  PER PIsY)ICU         73710.0     Z4670.0    12550.0 /d         11948.3                 4345.1
POP. PU   (:ING PERSON            4040.0/.   5070.0       3010.0 /d         2248.9                 1831.1
?OP. PUI MOSPITAL NW
TOCiAL                          3020.0 If   222.0        11.0 Id           986.9                  632.9
DRtS                             430.0       490.0       370.0             368.7                  565.5
RURAL                          25630.0     18690.0      5490.0      134012.1                     2513.5
ADIISSIONS FMR HOSPITAL BED           ...*..26.2
AVERAG  SIZE OF HOUSENDL
TOTAL                               ..          ..
bR.A                                ..     .    .5114.7/
UAUL                                ..          ..          .
(U:K NO. OF PERSONS/b0GS
TOTAL                               ..          ..
UAS"                               3.02. /
RURAL                                ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF DWELLIMGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..          ..                ..                    6.
bOIAN                             81.3        42$. /b      ..                 -.3777.
RURAL                                                                                              1E .  .  .  16.1



AIWN I
- 24 -                                              Page 2 of 5
CERIIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATMRS DATA 
NIGERA                               REFEREC  GEOPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                (MST RECENr ESIMATE) lb
RECEr          IDDL r I EMIDDLE IsCQE
1960 .    1970,    EsT SixTEJb   AFRICA S_ OF SAHARA   S. muFRIC. 4 MID EAs
'.DJUSTED ENROll'El R.ATOS
TRMAZY:  TOTAL                     36.0         37.0        98-0 11            91.0                   88.3
MALE                    46.0         47.0          ._               90.5                   102.5
FE!lALE                 27.0         27.0           .               73-6                    73.6
SEC01DAIY: TOTAL                    4.0          4.0        16_0 Il            17-4                   43_0
MALE                     6.0          6_0          __               23.7                    52.3
FINALE                   1.0          3.0          ..               14.8                   33.0
VOCATONAL (I OrF SEODARY)             4.8          8.5         3.1 /i.j           5.3                   10.3
-PPL-TEAHE RAIO
PRLMARY                            30.0         34-0          ..               38.6                   30_3
SECDA                              19.0         21.0          ..               24 3                   Z3.1
ADULX LITERACY RATE CE)              15-4           ..        34.0               35.6                    43.5
PASSENGER CARS/TRWSAND POP            0_6          0.9         1.4 It            20.7                   17.8
RADIO RECEIVERSIDUSAND POP            Z_8         19.3        66L              100.8                  138-8
TV RECEIVERsITHO1sAN  POP              .5.3 1..5                                                        46.1
NENSPAER C-DA(LY GENERAL
L'r-EXESr-) CIURCATION
PEL THOUSAND POPULATION             5.5          4.8         6.9               17.2                   31.2
cINLIA AUAL ATTEDAEICAPTA              ..           ..         0.0 Id             0.3                    1.7
TOTAL LABOR FORCE NTHS)           21768.0      z5992.0    32478.0
FENALE (PERCENT)                   41.3         40.6        39.7               33.8                   10.8
AGRICULTURE CPERCENT)              71.0         62.0        54.0               57.1                    42.4
ZNDUSTRZr (PERCEr)                 10.0         14.0        19.0               17.4                   Z7.9
PARTICIPA1IOS RATE (PERCENiT)
TOLM                               42.2         39.3        35.9               36.3                    26-2
MALE                               50.3         47.3        43.7               47-6                   46.4
FEMKAE                             34.4         315        28.2               2S.1                     5.8
ECONOMIC DEPEnsDEC RATIO              1.1          1.2         1.6                1.4                    1.8
IHCE DisTaRiDuTi
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LSCM
RECEIVED 5r
lCIGEST =S OF HOUSEOLDS              ._           _
RIGMT FOE OF HOUSEHROLDS              ..
LOMEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..
LaJEST 40: OF HODUSEOLDS             ..           ..
PW        CT  -om
ESTMAED AISOUrIE POVERTY INCME
LEV.L tSS PER CAPITA)
u.As                                  .           .        696.0              525.3                  274.8
RAL                                   .                    341.0             269.0                   177.2
EST1LATED RELATrvE P0MER=T rNCOM
LEVEL (US$ PEr CAPITA)
URBA                                                       62i.0              477.4                  402.6
RURAL                                                      207.0              185.0                  Z84.9
ESTIMATED POP. RBON ABSOLXFE
POVE7Tr INCOFPE LEVM (I)
UaBAN                                ..           ..
RURALt                               ' 'L
NOT AVAILTABL
rOT APPLICABLE
N 0 t E S
Is  The group averages for each indicator ore populatico-weghted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countrLes aong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, Dats for 1960  refer to any year betweD 1959 and 1961. Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for Wmost Recent Estlmate- betwcen 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1977; /d 1979; /e 1962; If Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration; /g  976; rh 1972; /S 1979;
Cetrtai  fields of study previonsly classified under other second Level educatcon cf  cat'On   or technLcal
nature are now reported under general education-
JU2E. 1984



*-~~~~a  --u-X- 
5-555555  aid p -   -0 -          455  o-w" 55 Am          5-
-~ --% a 1 "a    - Mw    5- .5 - F3-
5W4- . -  P1-- ssa.  -551.                      1_5  .5.w=
- 1i53 . *_s_              -.    a  s  - sz- is   -
TM AnqS"s                 -     11         _   -  -gap.  _.3-
AR~L-~  5w s.wa 5WAis  a .5 W.-
_ A_-_Nftw - v-- b *at. - -P w
_. 5.55 5 W" Als  .           ..   -Iw5   ps 0 -         as;%  .
-f* -  _    -   55-    .ltS. on555- v555        5 A    5-    *
W-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot                                                             8-" 1w- -   a "1-3a_J X--bs Mod  - w__  --- 
V-~~Ic .ft p- -n"Itw                                              TI 5.5        -  3I           W5  .5 1   55   -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- qa. ,   s,,,_                                             .,s  -s)   ia                   15 -  55.  *'s555tO *
-.ft. A-.M (s           9 _        "-  (51R 5  _1)                                              p s* w-  - ..-_ w-aa *        -_ s d _ V 55 bas   .
te~~~~~~~5                             -   ILS*4I _555 555              'U 55w
au _             P _- aw-l     - (5W   _     _sft   5155155  _.s
_   - s.555                                            bs3.5-s _t5 IV 8s5  a. a- ta s. -sue- A                      t =
* _A.-- __. _    _t_ ..                  - *       .-5 3               _               Ex                          '_  _   .a M" q
.5551     .- t-l- a- -usa P- --  s s _                            . Ta-                                          s-
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ " _ a                -"-  ImIll _% -wnw 1*>l           tt -1u}s_s
_    5 _   ._,,,,,,,_,   '  .a  -,ass 55   .  was 1.S.55  51 .                                         mC53 *)5 ---  _555 -5-                =
P       t  3     i * - -w *M _-W     -, as               - --,                                     1W. _a _ _         3t  _ _n -sE
- 35115W5.55   5)  )) ~.    3.51   55h5~S           a5                5--"4555Debt5                 (5- SLI Itio-ow5 '3.5 -It P2      H-
_.          ~          5-3 55 5.555     1 Si       31555                   was -1)- 1-5__-- *_as      _   1  5-  _1- .   J,-    _ l.55i t-  v- s
s-.15.p 1--5_ -  ss_-_wa a.swi                      ^w a.55 5-Im1L  v3.-_ 4 W                            95-%   P V- .
5-  155- p -n SplIiS  5  -_ *-_ n- 5 5 -5-5- 3.5 P                               a.-s          1        5
_ _,-    3"a      -M      &-     __ M-I%L  ....................            .          ...... 'outW 5-  "                Adl-5 wA_   IV, I.*-
-ft *2- J. _n       -tt-_ P- ft-2-. -- 5.                                                      a         * - 5   5      1-.W _-    -     _
_    bd OS  i ~   -mg II 5~  *.555  02 15_ll *55 noaIn'in a__uv-                                                         -- 1"   P-
,___ *            "-5    _   _                          --- (P-s1-                      A _5 55555 a-  *55 5  _ 55a 4. *5   a 5P- Ni-
_g                                         p"            W~ -    -3   5   5- r  _.  115555 J. n  a
3As -on -_S_ __                    J                ff4<tl --                      W-      _-
*   3.5 i.5  DW   _- .55.5  t_5_    _           _iS    .- _  _5555               _W 5-1 5-5                               _ .5).55  1'_ 5-5
__,.-i --in    t _ *.1t*s  -   --  I    W  55-dO  5sk 5  18                                                               554   55U1 P- P-,
i  _ '35               .s     _-.?-  5            45-5l- p                                   1 -  _   t_ - *
-   '  - - s.s - .5  . -- 1)15555- -S-                  tS* 45 W   a. t            15 -     15-    J; -   .-W1
-    3ii,n- 9l--  -  5i   - - Al     .5  I- (        5555                                                                  --154-ft5155
411~~~ S_ ot    Sb  o         _
~m                                                                                                     pft^Ez o--                        I-_-_._
5555 3lwp  5-                 m       J. 51' *3.-151P       5.         ~     55w
a. bu..sisa_ ..s,1.s.ss. 8.s.l. *1- .5o.   . -F                       5s. .1s-' '&     -s - w   .5ssa  -'   -sS A     w-.t _   US-w
jkq. t -n                                                                  -P t_t   ~_  -21L        _ g j- .-  t  __*"g
5- bita  11)515  3.isa .5 ss..--5 -                                -wa       5=P-ft   " 51.n  *n t31- Ta  5.a n1as-
..              4        -- _ _ _    _  _ *_ a -_   -  -   -'                                           s        m      q   -s.- -  .=-s
~~ _l _ ~-5t ~-s _ss_ U  - _55  "05  ?13a55                                                 _J i5   465 -5tt_
_ t_X_-59_   .  W  _.  __S *a -SAI~                P-Pl  ''*l' z3
wan. 5 1    J.      55-d -"-                                          -%-  J.s a  _    w qT
5.5.1  fl55 *S5.     13t-WIA                - 5 1 .  .3 "P".0.                                       d  50.5         Ct55*l3             1
----- 55955. *D-s*   5. 1-la-                                                          - * s- ws1   a.-  50    4n55  q-4 _ h .,wa_
~~~~~~~-_ -_ T-                A       e       2-                 {_bm__                                            v  _.-  ' *4_ m_  'VW  -q_ t
-us-                                                           A.S tt-s 55-                  -     =-Ma.. js-
5555W  tU          _        53.53- p   -855d- _        855.5.5 ap    555) 5. - rn..-5d gt5m.
q     5-          - is   _ 5 _.       - _ ___w    s5; ;Z  1a5 _a                                              *        tlt a. _   .     _U 
_ 53 5-   _ 555 .5  *in _55w .55 ..15551. 5555_..ss5.    as 5- 13               - (a~    S  -'W                -
85.55_5_-l 55 *    555 55    55 * i  5  5-l5 5                             1-     -                           -3d-t _
_*       _V- La      -           5    asW                  _                     * ha's-    -                         1 -1,'
5s5_   U oss51as   5-_  -n.n_  P_ s                Is_   -.s                                                   -)15 Z55       _. St * 
_ao  *a__ *a.--s-s*-a_     -L--_   _*_ _W.s_                                                     -Mn J-v}                          A._  _   _ - -"
_-5S  W1555 A- -.5- A -5;-o tm .                                                               w        - _5
A.                  -*1--l-                     a                                            - w   a .sP55v  3i  -Ss  .t- *5  * -5   .sq .   -  855.  1-
_ie  a '_              _*_ '_  o q_       q_1.55W 3.51 - . - c_                                 %-I% _5 r 5- W.-_v  J5
1o-   5    5.555           -    i                                                      I-Ii' ~ ai  5a      ...n .s  - 5S. I- u T........ ~I.."ai '.5.
_V3 r _- w-rIs -2                                                                 AM    _@ UlAlt-_ P~ -ft  pg*~ n-
5-n -   i555 a   ~  15 - 13555... 5WSI .0   5155585- .35                                     "8.   Anl-   P 5-    .    -      5J.  -sq-~
55515~~5   sssa     -P  550          J  - s..0sS -    is. A-  4        as  a-1  55)5-55
'5_t *'_ 5   _ 55  t_35W  *5  .533.       _|as_-tt 5 C                                                        2.53 1   _   -M   *o- i   0551 * 15-
11   <5      35            - 5-S 311    5-.555iaUJ .554 t     a                       "--  -s  s.0 -t3_ -t (1_* AW * . -15    S-A U-
Q__ _A- i-I                                                                       'am-  X-I-"
4-433-~ _-   -1                   giwt.  s 1W _   _ _                                                               5._
.fl      555 5  80.55.1555 1    5 -...W   ..                  P.85-I j 5 .SI*5t- 55       Almts.    .-     S O  5*3-9i.    -
- (515- -   .5  55 5535W- fl55f                                                 As-Ig -      .Jft 55  35il  v t-p ss5   uUw*~
13   55.1.581             _       -~ _155.*5 331 - t_5 S__t 5~.0 5 P  - _ W          t- s    *- _
V.u...-   .       I,- .   W -     --P-" 5   1*535  -.P* J.-5A5.                                                                 04 3.05 
assl  55--ft           ga5=-  5        =        ' wait                    aSS      -          l
.w.%t                                                                                                                                    -am sub a8
-5 1 (-155S-555   .1    31a55a..5155- -SZt J -     5 _55    * AL        A.
-    . . ta.     ? a.        a,52 ap-d55555                            a ?a..y3..  55 5- A151155155W Al1            -5      S5.55  a-
5    5.55J55553 *  -   *mnd-         -     q-tm-ft-.55                  !       55- Z.  .5s3 .s.5-%ri Pj I    - 51 1-."
P- Iwa5  -4.  5..6.   -' I            - " P- -5555- -s -aw-                       "i5        55555155.. a  51Wa8g  5   a                       ,
05-55.  -lIla 55 555-    51555W .,1    As, 5W -                       l" 5 - .1-       S.l  1355W 53
55-.5584.55~.        551..              5*~--S-ft 555   W                                      5555   ~ 5-5 -5W1                -555 1-   5-.X,
l-A.~ a3.s .5WI    a5` t.5.5-d-  um51                  .1-  -                          85 3.. 555)55  -11 --P   55 J.   *fl3- 532   -
555OC5 p  ~55  - 5-55   315.5         335..   3."l    15               155l1a 555 .&     a.51. P.15 -lb5  ... MSf5Wa"Mf 
-P 4  -,a--I 0--   NPM         ~   %a      ~ A-   . gj  .51 A,-   a -  f.j Na- 55.5 S - .5*)ij   .055 55.0)4
i5ss3.01515  555  a -5   .5-5 a                          8)5W)r "    -ll    5553      v-5. 15555 -.W     55-3555 A-.    3
3twaa-3                - 55  waL-V ..r              g    M.              .5-, 55 Alp 0-81   wa.- (s  wa-Sv-        W j-             5Wn   
a-  ~  555 5-  5-   555  -                    1-w U    5wt     -VI4&1-                                       J-P-~-
lo    C    ZEL-aa   55015.J   5-5)5253PS  Sl "IS3.~ 
I     5)13.5 555505s55555                   zaI         5 0                             w a           5   s       55    )53i  55.53S.w4~



-26                                     AM= I
Page 4 of 5
ECOrIC INDICATORS
63053 NATIOAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                      AXNIAL RATE OF GcOUTNCS. Conta.t Prices)
US& MIR. IlI    S             1975-80                   1981 2t             1932 1/
CUP at market Prices             TO,106        100.0              3.1                   -7.6                 -.2
Cross Domestic Investment         16,615        2t.0              1.3                    7.6               -13.3
Cress National Saving             9.070         12.9              5.2                  -31.6               -28.0
Cvrrnt Account  alsnsee          -7,361        -10.5               -                      -                    -
Eports otr Coods,S               13,S90         19-4              2.0                  -31.0                -19.1
Isports or GoodsoNFS             19.989        2e.5              15.6                   -7.1               -31.9
OUTPUT, LAOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY iN 1982
value Added /1/               Labor Force /3t              W.A. M  Vorker
USSi 9n.        S                Kin.         S                 OS           s
Agriculture                      IS166         21.8             19 6         59-3              37           *0.6
Industry & Mining                27.709         39.0              6.2         ;u-.9              .320       199.5
Services                         27.Bu7         39.2              7.0         21.3             3.978        133.7
Total/Awerage                T1.020        100.0             32          100.0             2.16S       ltO0.
GoYE3sT FINANCE
General Goverment                                 Central Governmet
En MIn.]       s or GDP                           Cm EI.)       S of GOP
1132 /1/  1932 .1/  19T9-31 /4/                   1932 /Il  1982 /I/ 19791 /6/
Crrent Receipts                  12.620     26.4          29.5                      T7320      15.3         21.3
Curet Expenditure                 9.612     20.1          20.1                       t.317     10.2         10.5
Current Surplus                   3.003      6.3           9.6                       26*2       5.1          10.5
Capital Eprenditure               9,S5T     20.0          15.0                       6 270     13.1          12.1
Esternal Assistance(net)                                                              264       0.6          0.6
MOME. CREDIT AND PRICES                         1975      1977      1973      1979      1980      1931      1962
(Willion U Outstanding Ea4 Periot)
Honey and cuasi Ron"e                          55683     7.13     7.521     9.5g9  1S.390    15.239    16.696
Baok Credlt to Public SectorCnet)                5S1     2.309     3.163     3.313     3.539     6,299    10,328
anK CredLt to Private Sector                  2.382      3,459     6.t85     5.126     6,764     8,917    10,567
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Hosey & Quasi Money as S or GOP                 21.6      26.7      22.2      2S.3      30.9      32.3      3s.9
Genoral Price IndeztI97Ss100)                  123.9    143.0      166.7    186.3    206.9    2t7.5    266.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Goneral Price Indes                             21.7     15.6       16.6      11.3      10.0      20.5       7.7
Dank Credit to Publlc Sector                             319.1      36.1       5.4       6.3      T8.0      6t.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                   36.8      65.2      29.T      14.3      31.6      32.2      18.5
Note:  All coeverslons to dollars in this table art at the average exchange rate prcwaillng during period
covered.
/Il 7-vlsed estimates. /21 Official estimates. /4/ Prowlslonal.
13/ The data is dwrived rro  planilng documents and refors to the number of 'goainully employed'.
*ot AVailable.
April 18. 1985.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TUADE PATNEtS AD CAPITAL FLOWS
UIIAUCt Or P87ns                                                          NEICHANDIS  EXPORSS (C81 01 1981-1963) /1/
1961 /Il  1982 /2/  1983 f31                              US$ Nln.        S
(Willoe.  US J)
mprts of Goods f.o.b. e D.16    12,930    10,730                          Crude Oil              13,421       96.7
of wvich:Petroelun                17,162    12.T51    10,350            Cocoa Products            22S        1.6
morts of Goods f.o.b.               16,390    16,538    12,254            Palo Products              I5       0.6
Services a Ineme                    -4,803    -3,060    -3,205             Slr                       25        0.2
Not Transfers                         -567      -373      -260            Other Commedities         127        0.9
Current secount lalane*             _6,042    -7,381    -3,992                      Totel        13,U62      100.0
KITEDA^L DUS?, DECEN3E 31. 1963 /51
ftrect Foreign Investment              165       358       365             _-----    C--3-1---_ --          -
Not Official MLT  orrovwing            6tl       758       9e0                                             US3  Kln.
of which: Amortization              -583      -^77      1200
Public Debt, lal. Undisbured   18,501
ftier Capital(Shert-Ter)               to09      *96      -643            *on-Cuarmnteed Priwate Debt
Net Errors A oelssions               -1543      -689         0            Total Outatandlng 1 Disbursed    11.56
Overall Balance                      -6200     -618    -J290
fIauncing                             6200      6518      4290
-evwveNovemntaclar.-                 -         -_        --              OUt SMICE'RATIO For 1963 /6/
eserv  Uoeents(Icr.-)               e,200      2,367       516      
Arrears                                  0     *.051     3,770                                                 1
lDearve Levels                       8,261     1.429     1,092 
Seserve as Month of Imports           0.18      0.07      0.07            Public Debt, Iacl. Guarated         17.9
hon-Cuaranteed Privato Debt
IWorts                             18,390    16,838    12,253
et whiec: Food                       3,158     2.786     1.875           total Outatmnding & Disbursd         17.9
Consumer Goods            *.612     *.101      3.2S9
Intered-te Cooods         8. 682       .3%2    3.1t3
Capital Goods             5,982     5.569      3.953           IEND/IDA LEUDIDO (Feb, 29,1963) (Nillien. 1)
DATE or EXCHanGE
lZED    IDA /nI
1978: 31.00 a  S$1.57                                                                                      -          -
1979: 11.00 a US1.66                                                     Outstandlng & Disbursed            348.0      36.7
1960: 31.00 a US71.83                                                     lndisbursed                     1,091.8       -
1961: 31.00 * US$1.63                                                                                          -
1982: 11.00 : US;l.49                                                    Outatandlag  nel. Undisbursed  1t939.4        46.7
1983: *1.00 a USI .39
/11 ProvIsional. /21 Officiml esLimtes. /3/ Staff etma.tes.
4/8 Official estltes for 1981 and 1982.
/S/ Escluding *S.9 billion short-term arrears.
/6/ Ratio of MLT debt service to ezports of goods and non-factor services.
1T7 As of February 1984.
eot Avlilable
Arli 18. 1963



- 28                                         -
TM SrATUS o0 uBf caWn  oPUAnos
A. STEMENT OF 81or  w 30oPu om oAtIIS Is NIcEz    1/
(nA of September 39. 1954)
Lon  or                                                                  USS Mllion
Crdit                                                            Amount (less cancellation)
UNber    Year        Borrower   Purpose                         Bank       IA      Udsbursed
Twenty alz loans and two credits fully diSabred                682. 1     35.3 2/
1191      1976     NigerIs      E.C. State Ol Palo              19.0                  9.7
1454      1977     NMaori       Agric. Dev. Lafle               27.0                  0.5
1455      1577     Ngeria       Agric. Dev. Ayaunsa             35.0                  0.2
1591      1978     NIeria       Nuc. Eat. Sealloldor 011        30.0                  3.7
15V7     1976      N1B          Iadustrial Devlopomt           54.7                  14.8
1667      1979     N"ria        Agrc. Dew. JStl                23.0                   4.2
166S      1979     Neria        Agric. Dev. lorn               Z7.0                  10.6
1679     1979      NgerIa       Forestry                        31.0                  5.3
1711     1979      Nieria       Water Supply - Kadun           92.0                  70.7
1719      1979     Nigria       Agurl. G Rural Itmt. Uae.        9.0                  5.7
1766      1980     NEPA         Power Lsgos                    100.0                 65.9
1767      1980     NierIa       Urban Developmnt - Dauchi       17.8                 10.3
1838      1980     Nigeria      Agrc. Dev. - Olo-Worth          28.0                 21.9
1654      1980      NgrIS       Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko       32.5                 20.4
1883      1980     NigerIa      Roads                           78.0                 25.6
1981      1981      Niri        Agric. Dev. - Beuchi           132.0                 55.9
1982      1981      Nigeria     Agrlc. Dev. - Kano             142.0                 97.4
2029      1981      Nieria      Tech. Aseitaance-Agrlc.         47.0                 31.3
2036      1982      Nigria      Vater Supply- Anmbra            67.0                 54.4
2085      198Z     NHEA         Per - Distribution             100.0                 8Z.1
2185      1982      Nigeria     Agrc. Dev. - Sokoto            147.0                119.4
2299      1983      N11I        Industrial Development         120.0                113.2
2345      1984      NMeria      Fertilizer lnport              250.0                159.8
2376      1984      NMa         Small * Rldius Scale Industry  41.0                  40.9
=   2390      1984      NMUC        Tech. Aset. - Gee  ngiering  25.0                    25.0
=   2436      1984       "rigeS     Agric. Dev. - Kaduna           122.0                122.0
Total                                             2.479.1       35.3    1.175.9
Of whtch haa been repaid                             293.3       4.0
Total Outotandin                                  2.185.8      31.3
Amoent sold                        16.8
Of which  a be e  read             16.8                0.0
Total nem  held by Dank 4 IDA                      2H185.8      31.5
Total undisbured                                                        1,175.9
3. STATEMENT or 17c INvESTMENTS
(As ot September 30. 1984)
nlacal                                               Type of        Aruogt in USS Mlion
Year                                                Igaines,       Lsas    Equity    Total
1964. 1967.      Are. -ext1lee Ltd.                 Textile PUg.    1.0       0.6      1.6
1970
1964              Nigeria Industrial                Dev. Fin. Co.             1.4      1.4
Delopment DAnk Ltd.
1973             Funtue Cottonseed                  Vex. Oil         1.6               1.6
Cnahing Ltd.                      Crushing
1973             Nigerisn Alminuau                  AlVefLiun        1.0      0.3      1.3
Extrusaon Ltd.                    Proce sing
1974             Ufiaga Sugar                       Sugar                     0.1      0.1
1980               tt                               Textiles         6.2      0.7      6.9
1981             TheSe Hotel                        Touris          10.2      1.5     11.7
1985              Tifer lattery                     Dry-cell         4.7      -        4.7
Batteries
Total Gro- Commitments                            24.7      4.6     29.3
Less canc-llatlone. teruna-
tlone, repayments and s*le                     5.9      1.6      7.5
Total CoStment nov hbld by IFC                    18.8      3.0    21.8
Undiebursed                                        7.2      1.4      8.6
Not yet Signed.
1/ The  tatus of the projects lS-ted in Part A iS described in a separate report on all Dank/IDA
financed projects ln  eection. vbich io updated twice yearly  nd circulated to thb  Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/  Pnor to exchange rate adjustments.



- 29 -
Annex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  15 months
(b) Agency which preparet the project: Federal Ministry of Finance
Federal Ministry of National Planning
(c) First project discussions with the Government: April 1981
(d) First Bank mission to consider the project: November 1981
(e) Departure of the Appraisal Mission: February 1983
(f) Completion of negotiations: April 1984
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: May 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Condition of effectiveness:
(a) A project coordinator with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank would be designated in the FMF (para. 70).
Conditions of disbursement:
(a) Funds allocated for the PMF's External Finance Department would be
disbursed after the establishment of a debt monitoring division and
the appointment of a qualified and experienced person to head it
(para. 56).
(b) Funds allocated for the FMWP's plan monitoring unit would be
disbursed after the establishment of such a unit and the appointment
of a qualified and experienced person to head it (para. 60).



30 -              ~~~Amne  IV
- 30 -                      Page I of I
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
Organzation of Planning & Rnancial Admintraflon
90C1' ADVGOM
I~~~~~~~~    I   
MNSICWOFRNANCE  Cl             M OFNL PLAMNGi,      SECT01 INS17
I  ;FMF1     1         ~~~~~(R.*^P)        l      I      I 
CENTAL BAl             OFA CY STAMMS              PAEASTATAL EMIIIES
I  (CMN)    l  l         (MS)
"loft Bok-2633



FEDERAL MINISTRY OF FINANCE (FMF)
Organization Choat
EMNSR               l
_~__
ACCOTA             __
_ E ER     I.
CIONGE CO.Ma       fsEArocH               NAO  cml" NANO .CWToms & EXCSE           HOM IANAN          EXERWL F#itCI
EPAfrl            oDELOPWENT            DEPARn              DEPARTMEM            DPARMNE             DEPARTlMN
SECTOR                                                                                  MARI=
.  .       ___   _           .                ._--                  ....   _~~~~~~~V~a*-i3



Annex VI
- 32 -                                Page 1 of 1
THE BUDGET DEPARTMENT
Organization Chart
RECURr                   CAPITAL
REVENUIESEXEDJEEPIMS
DIVON                     DON                       DMSON
WVocd Banl- 26831



FEDERAL MINISTRY OF NATIONAL PtANNING (FMNP) AND
FEDERAL OFFICE OF STATISTICS (FOS)
Orgdnlzaflon Chad
I   IMWU   SEMWAW
S05t18ASUC1 ON _Tisc _CRCM ,V M                            MAR - -, .  _  u
&AKCCS                                            COMEE
NATKON^          SOCWA.        ECONCMC         &IrEH          COGANAIK)
ACCCtM  ~   STATsncs     . AUC sxnussrATSII cs               W hHON         RCES
maIw    ~SEcrIE CIFFMIUCWE CU SV!ISN
m~~1__FF
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yd 1 I  LI-I                        43|



_34 -Annex VIII
Page 1 of 13
Management Consultant to FOS
Duration: Three years
Duties:
1.       To work with the director of the FOS in strengthening management and
planning, and coordination among the FOS DivisiovD and within the
statistical units of other ministries, as well as overall development
of data processing and communications support and training
activities. Specifically, to advise and assist in:
(a) Developing and implementing a management program and information
system for the FOS;
(b) Scheduling and coordinating the major data collection and survey
operations of the statistical divisions and the support which
they require from the Data Processing D%vision and auxillary
units including printing and supply;
.c) Planning and implementing new activities currently entering the
FOS program, including the Local Government Information System,
the National Agrostatistics Data Bank, and the Cabinet Office
Management Information System; and
(d) Further development oi the FOS statistical training program, and
particularly in the organization of the proposed National
Statistical Institute.
2.       Supervising and coordinating the work of other advisory personnel
provided under the project.



- 35 -                          Annex VIII
Page 2 of 13
Consultant to FOS - Data Processing Site Development and Operations
Duration: One month, for assessment and recommendation.
Two months, for supervision of implementation.
Total: Three montho
Duties:
1.       To undertake a thorough assessment of the facilities of the FOS Data
Processing Center, including the building and environment, as well as
currently available data processing equipment and software. To
prepare detailed specifications for meeting requirements and to
recommend an action program for starting operations as soon as
possible.
2.       Once an agreed program has been approved, to assist in contract
negotiation for the necessary work, supervision of the installation,
testing and acceptance of new equipment, and development of operating
and maintenance procedures for the Center.
3.       Work with the Assistant Director in Charge in developing a detailed
prioritized work program for the first year of operations.
4.       Project the growth of data processing operations over a three-year
period, and prepare a Master Plan for meeting the expected increase
in demand. The Master Plan should address all aspects of the
operation of a statistical computer center: hardware expansion plan,
staff development, organization, service functions, etc.



- 36 -                          Annex VIII
Page 3 of 13
Senior Adviser to FOS - Data Processing Operations and Management
Duration: Three years
Duties:
1.       To work with the Assistant Director in charge, Data Processing
Division, to strengchen the management, operations and planning of
the Division. Specifically to advise and assist in:
(a) Developing and implementing procedures for work flow management
and scheduling of operations and systems maintenance;
(b) Establishing procedures for systems backup, security and
integrity;
(c) Organizing and implementing arrangements for requisition of
spare parts and supplies, and for tape and disk library
maintenance;
(d) Developing and implementing accounting, billing, budgetary,
inventory, and record maintenance systems; and
(e)  Planning the expansion of the data processing center to enable
it to meet the growing demand envisaged in the FOS program.
2.       To work with FOS senior programmer analysts in the design and
development of both operating systems and applications software,
particularly in th1 conversion and/or adaption of software packages
acquired by the ,oS and the design of specilized systems to meet
requirements for which generali-ed software is inadequate.
j.       To assist in establlshing a comprehensive training program for
systems staff, machine operators and data entry personnel, including
development of curricula and training materials for both formal and
on-the-job instruction, and actual participation in such train:'rg and
in the development of in-house training capability in the Data
Processing Division.



- 37                              A Annex VXII
Page 4 of 13
Adviser to FOS - Systems Analysis and Programming
Duration: Three years
Duties:
1.      To work with the progrimming officers of the Systems Section, Data
Processing Division, and FOS subject matter staff in the specifica-
tions, design, programming and debugging and implementation of
application programs, including conversion of existing programs where
ap: ropriate and 'customizing generalized software when required.
2.       To assist in the development of a training program for FOS
programming staff, including the preparation of training materials,
development of both formal and on-the-job instruction courses and
establishment of curricula, grading procedures, records, and related
administrative matters.
3.       To assist in the establishment and implementation of standards for
program development and documentation, including user documentation,
acceptance testing procedures and requirements for preparation,
approval and recording program specifications.



- 38 -                          Annex VIII
Page 5 of 13
Adviser to FOS - Surveys and Statistical Methods
Duration: Three years
Duties:
1.       To work with the Assistant Directors in Charge of the Survey
Organization and Methods Division and Agricultural and Household
Statistics Divisions, in strength:ning the survey operations of the
FOS. Specifically to advise and assist in:
(a) Organization and scheduling of the FOS survey program, including
the integration of household and establishment surveys;
(b) Design of the content and format of questionnaires for
individual program components, and specification of data
processing requirements at the program level; and
Cc) Reviewing and redesigning where necessary the entire range of
quality-control issues, including frame design and statistical
methods for blow-up and for correction of bias, non-response and
other sources of error.
2.       To ser-ve in a liaison capacity between the data processing staff and
advisers and the survey staff in the development of microcomputer
technology for survey processing and related analytical applications.
3.       To assist in establishing liaison with related survey operations in
the Nigerian public sector, including those of the National
Population Commission and those of APMEPU.



- 39 -                              Annex VIII
Page 6 of 13
Adviser to FOS - Economic Statistics
Duration: Two years
Duties:
1.       To work with the Assistant Directors, National Accounts Division and
General Economic Statistics Division, to strengthen the general economic
statistics and related basic data operations of the FOS. Specifically, to
advise and assist in:
(a)  Improving the quality, coverage and analysis of surveys of
industry, manufacturing, construction, transport and trade.
(b) Development of independent estimates for gross domestic
expenditure at current and constant prices, including c_iginal
(as opposed to residual) estimates of private consumption,
together with related deflators and estimates of the statistical
discrepancy in the national accounts.
Cc)  Conversion of the system of foreign trade statistics to U.N.
SITC Rev. 2 and ECOWAS specifications, and upgrading of the
trade processing system including improved edit procedures and
unit value index derivation and redesigns of forms and
procedures, and
(d) Strengthening the collection and processing of price statistics
and data from administrative sources, including state and local
governments.
2.       To assist in specifying the data required from other units of the FOS
for the General Economics Statistics Division, and in strengthening liaison
with those units.
3.       To assist in the preparation of work program documentation and in
staff training in the two Divisions of assigned responsbility.



- 40 -                  ~~~~Annex VIII
~ 40 -                      Page 7 of 13
Adviser to FMF - External Debt
Duration: iS months
Duties:
1.       To assist the debt monitoring division and the director of the
External Finance Department of the FMF in the development of-an
integrated debt system to support the Ministry's requirements for
monitoring and controlling external debt, financial management and
planning, as well as internal and international statistical
reporting. Specifically, to:
(a)  Analyze in detail the step-by-step process whereby information
is generated in the chain of transactions relating to external
borrowing operations, starting with loan negotiation and pro-
cessing through commitment (or analogous confirmation proce-
dures), deposit and disbursement of funds, exchange authoriza-
tion, (where required) for debt service, payments of interest
and amortization, and ex post accounting;
(b) Identify gaps in the flow of information generating and
recording processes for external borrowing, with particular
attention to (i) reporting requirements for private borrowers,
local governments and other actual or potential borrowers in the
country over which the Federal Government may have less author-
ity with respect to data collection, and (ii) establish channels
for the exchange of information between FM, the Central Bank,
and other ministries and agencies that incur external debt
obligations; and
(c) Formulate recommendations for strengthening existing procedures
for the collection of debt statistics where required.
2.       To analyze the internal and external requirements for debt statis-
tics, and to assist the FMF to design and implement a prototype
manual system for meeting these requirements based on the analysis of
existing data and recommendations for improving these data based on
the initial analysis of the reporting system. This phase of the
consultancy will include the design of input forms and records and
output formats, assistance in the establishment of reporting channels
and contacts and in the identification, organization and training of
the staff requirement for a new statistics unit, as well as
documentation of the system.
3.       To work with staff of the FMF and the proposed data processing
consultant to prepare the specifications required for converting a
prototype manual system to a computer-based system appropriate to the
requirements of the FMF and other users in the Federal Government and
cooperating agencies.
4.       To coordinate with the Central Bank and with other agencies assisting
the Central Bank establish a system for monitoring short-term debt.



- 41 -                             Annex VIII
Page 8 of 13
Consultant to FMF - Data Processing for External Debt
Duration: 6 months
Duties:
1.       To work with the debt monitoring division and the management of the
External Finance Department of the FMF and with the statistical
adviser to these units of the FMF to design, establish and put into
operation a computer-based data processing system for debt, capital
flow and exchange control statistics. Specifically to:
(a)  Convert the specifications prepared by the statistical adviser
into systems specifications for the proposed data processing
system;
Cb) Advise and assist the working group in the selection and
acquisition of appropriate hardware and software for
implementation of the system;
,c) To design, implement, test and debug the system as required so
as to turn it over to the FMF on an operational basis.
2.       To identify, organize and train staff of the FMF to maintain and
operate the data processing system in support of the newly
established statistics unit of the Ministry.
3.       To document the system thoroughly, including the preparation of
operational and training manuals for FMF staff.



-42 -                           Annex VIII
-    -                            Page 9 of 13
Adviser to FMNP: Plau Monitoriug
Duration: 18 months
Duties:
1.       To assist the plan monitoring unit within the FMNP to adapt and
develop the present system of plan monitoring to better serve the
needs of the Ministry. This would include the introduction of
computerised data processing to the extent that it appears justified
in expediting the monitoring process. Specifically to:
(a) Review step-by-step the process whereby information on project
progress is solicited by the monitoring agency, assembled by the
project executing agencies, transmitted back to the monitoring
agency, collated and analysed.
(b) Identify gaps in the flow of information and make
recommendations to accelerate the responsiveness of the
reporting system.
Cc) Recommend, as appropriate, the introduction of computerized data
processing, beginning with the task of data collation and
analysis by the monitoring agency.
{d) Assist the working group to implement recommended improvements
in the system.
(e) Train counterpart staff in the operation of an improved
monitoring system with the objective of leaving in place a self-
sustaining and improved monitoring system by the end of the
assignment.



43 -                         Annex VIII
Page 10 of 13
Consultant to FNNP: Data Processing for Plan Monitoring
Duration: 6 months
Duties:
1.       To work with the plan monitoring unit within FMNP and with the
adviser to design, establish and put into operation a computer-based
data processing system for monitoring the implementation of the
National Development Plan. Specifically to:
(a) Develop systems specifications for the data processing system
along lines proposed by the working group and by the adviser.
(b) Advise and assist the working group in the selection and
acquisition of appropriate hardware and software.
Cc) Design, test and implement the system so as to turn it over to
the FMNP on an operational basis.
2.       To train staff of the FMNP to maintain and operate the newly
established data processing system and to make recommendations for
external training as appropriate.
3.       To document thoroughly the newly established data processing system
and to prepare operational and training manuals.



- 44 -                           Annex VIII
Page 11 of 13
Consultant to FMNP: Training of flanners
Duration: 8 months
Duties:
1.       To assist the duly appointed working group within the FMNP to assess
nationwide training needs for planning and related disciplines and to
begin a core program of training designed to address those needs.
Specifically to:
(a) Update the assessment of training needs of Federal Ministries,
parastatals and state governments in matters of planning.
(b) Ascertain the extent to which existing local institutions such
as ASCON, NISER or Nigerian universities have developed a
capacity to train planners (or may possibly do so with some
modification or expansion of their present programs',
(c) Assist in establishing, on a pilot basis, courses in planning
that will address perceived training needs and which may
constitute a core program for the training of planners.
(d) Review the longer-temn curriculum needs, staffing and
accomodation requirements of a sustained program of training for
planners.



Annex VIII
Page 12 of 13
Adviser to the Budget Department: Investment Program Monitoring
Duration: 24 months
Duties:
1.       To advise and assist the duly appointed working group within the
Budget Department to introduce procedures for continuously reviewing
on a project by project basis the progress of the Federal
Government's investment program with a view to integrating such a
review into the annual process of budget formulation and budget
execution. Specifically to:
(a) Establish close liaison with the FMNP (which monitors
implementation of the entire national development plan) and to
make use, as appropriate, of that part of the FMNP monitoring
system which corresponds to the Federal Government investment
program.
(b) To review the procedures for assembling information on budget
performance in all federal agencies and for relating the
information on budget performance to project execution.
Cc) To make recommendations for strengthening the link between
budget formulation and budget execution.
(d) To assist the management of the Budget Department to adapt
prevailing procedures of budget formulation and budget execution
so that they may serve better as instruments for implementing
the national development plan.



- 46 -                         Annex VIII
Page 13 of 13
Consultants to the Budget Department
Duration: 6 months
Duties:
1.       To assist the Budget Department and the Planning Committee to prepare
the 1985 budget by evaluating Federal Government projects that would
cost more than N30 million to complete, ranking these projects in
order of priority according to their evaluation Rnd by introducing
procedures and techniques to integrate the review into the budgetary
process. Specifically, this assistance has been geared to:
(a) Analyzing the information requirements for the project
evaluation task;
Cb) Designing and/or revising the call circular to cake into account
such information needs;
(c) Revising the timetable for the budgetary process to accommodate
the review task;
(d) Developing a methodology and specific criteria for evaluation;
and
Ce) Implementing the review.



-,~~~~~~~~~~~~Cw
0~~~~~~~~~~
/1                                       I '"-'izKOTO'', \*;JiL;;."D 'SK  o  D
N.I  G   E  R                j        .Aog.u
/                                      /.,K AK '    do
12  |                                                                                       KANO (Kou 77 0K
(               ikamb.                                                                                     -   I. ;'
mAo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
k                 DonGulb 2  Fu<tu%   ,        ,    .~~~~~~~zna 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ G.1r_>6 ,                     Fz
/~~~~
i.
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E|   N                                                    A @
All     Pam
rJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
__   ~~~~~KM,Kocha
IJ<ssoO C;.  ad                         N           Gev d J1    {    u i       
B~~~~~ E(No I                                                    NAN
2                 '     pBEM"-clTYt           lS                                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Koocla
( A F R I C A  .                          9           K_oXeMj M  tN            >wM~~~~~INNA  afo
FEDERA             Wawugo
CAPITAL         
1                                                         -'      '        ! '' . {, . DegTERRITR  Kr
j                     _       _s._,.-                                                       MAKURD
1.'o  -.    lie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ab 
VLIO  Ogb-.,ho~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-                                                . 
I ADAN                                                    _k
ABEOKCUA                                                           Idol.                 PoI.d
0   ~~G  N          On~0do00Q  N                               -
AS-Io_, -''~~-                                 o'e  .t
A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AA
(AFRICA                                 -~~~~~~~~~(AtpuI   lk
- ---------~ 
A F R I Ca.  A--. -Bro
Wwri
-'NIGERIA      e..a..a.-



IBRD 12756W
r     1D                                  12* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!ji.'~~~~~~~~~i    ~~SEPTEMBER 197u
4:'Q-LH HAD
N  I G E R                                                                      \
9.                             *G4 zw <AD._ b.. 0                                        'uA  
\  {gAWudil                      Awore   i--                                 Da.a.o               fi sga       l 4 ,; 
'1  4'                                                                                                                          \ ~t _IDU R
A  D,.U  tV  A [                                           .-                                    .        '4                AME RQON
%         3               Y~~~~~~~ A .- /C  H  f                                 sWi
7 n \ o   -     -                                  G      , -        b         s            8   r-             _  $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ir
a       r o.ad     
KADUNA  ohan.o  -~~~~~CHA
Sf1   Mayow Bel"n
EDERAL                oo S-dr.
CAPITAL                         ob
mtKKl.ORY                 A                    A                           -     -
;~~~~~m RIDi                                                         5-                       
MAICURO   ) 
3 A,LD  E                                    1iE To.                       S        .11
,  A        I ,~~~~I.~       KIaIor-N                 
r            Gm.'ba)                         ~~~NIGERIA
Am   --                                                  <                             ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS
aF   a                     ./                                                                A 3   Existing Trunk Roads W                  6.
Aik,                                                                    -        Rivers
le    Natinali Capital
A4 dEOS                                                                                               0 IBADAN State CapitalS
--          RIVER   CAM EROON                                                                         StateBoBndories
'o                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nteMnatiOnaOl BoundorieS
*' ~~~~~~AtABA3                           j ~~~~~~~~0100                                200              300
KILOMETER
3  ,                      0           100 .1)                     200
It \2kg <                                                    J      '            MILES
U.                1-                  o             .                       tr                                                        J



