CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1420 ME
Garantee Agreement
(Baja California Tourism Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 5, 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1977, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to forty-two million dollars
($42,000,000), on the terms and'conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of Certain Parts of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out or cause to be
carried out Part B.1 and Part C.1 of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices and shall provide promptly, as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement
with the Borrower, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Guarantor shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision
of such arrangements.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that the Project
Areas ar- provided at all times with adequate telecommunication
and aviation services and an adequate supply of water and
electricity, and that the education and health facilities in the
Project Areas are adequately staffed and maintained.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall:
(a) take or cause to be taken all such action as shall
be necessary to ensure that scheduled passenger service will be
provided to Loreto and San Jos6 del Cabo by domestic airlines


﻿-5-
on domestic segments of international routes to and from major
tourism generating countries not later than the date on which the
Project hotels and the hotels referred to in Section 3.07 (a) (i)
of this Agreement start operating; and
(b) use its best efforts to include or retain, as the case
may be, Loreto and San Josd del Cabo in future bilateral
agreements on air transportation.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that, not
later than June 30, 1978: (a) land use and zoning regulations
acceptable to the Bank will be adopted for the Project Areas
and that, thereafter, such regulations will be enforced; and
(b) land use and zoning regulations appropriate to protect the.
Project will be adopted for the land immediately surrounding the
Project Areas with the approval of the State of Baja California Sur
and the municipalities concerned and that, thereafter, such
regulations will be enforced.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall cause its departments
or agencies responsible for carrying out the Parts of the Project
referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement to participate with
the Borrower, as trustee of FONATUR, in the preparation and review
of the critical path chart referred to in Section 3.08 of the Loan
Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken all such action*as
shall be necessary, including the provision of adequate financing,
to ensure:
(i) construction and operation of 150 hotel rooms in the
Loreto Tourism Area and 150 hotel rooms in the San Josd del Cabo
Area in addition to the hotel rooms included in the Project; the
operation of such rooms to start at the same time as that of the
Project hotels;
(ii) not later than three years after the Project hotels
start to operate, construction and operation of 600 hotel rooms in
the Loreto Tourism Area and 600 hotel rooms in the San Jos6 del
Cabo Area in addition to those referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of
this Section; and
(b) in order to make the Project economically viable, the
Guarantor shall make its best efforts to have in operation, not
later than seven years after the Project hotels start to operate,
about 900 hotel rooms in the Loreto Tourism Area and about 900
hotel rooms in the San Josf del Cabo Area in addition to those
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿-7-
Section 3.08. (a) The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank,
for its approval and promptly upon their preparation, the final
designs, plans, specifications and supporting documents for the
Parts of the Project to be carried out by the Guarantor, and any
material modification thereof or additions thereto, in such detail
as the Bank shall request.
(b) The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Parts of the Project carried out by the
Guarantor (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred
to the Guarantor by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in such Parts of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning such
Parts of the Project, the expenditure of such proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to the
Guarantor by the Borrower shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.


﻿-8-
Section 3.10. The Guarantor shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to assist the Borrower, as trustee of FONATUR,
in the acquisition of the land and rights in respect of land
referred to in Section 3.13 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.11. The Guarantor shall maintain and operate the
facilities included in the Parts of the Project to be carried out
by the Guarantor with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound engineering, administrative and financial
practices.
Section 3.12. The Guarantor shall take such action as shall
be necessary to satisfy adequately the staff requirements of the
hotels in the Project Areas.
Section 3.13. The Guarantor shall take such action as shall
be appropriate to ensure that:
(a) The investment cost of the water supply and sewerage
facilities included in the Project is recovered as part of the
price of land sold by the Borrower, as trustee of FONATUR, in the
Project Areas or by the charges specified in paragraph (b) of this
Section; and
(b) The users of such facilities pay such water and sewerage
charges as shall be required to cover: (i) the costs of operation
and maintenance of such facilities, including depreciation based
on a reasonable valuation of all headworks and equipment costs;
(ii) increases in working capital; and (iii) the financing of minor
extensions to such facilities.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any governmental
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect to
any lien created on assets of any of its political or administrative
subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at no cost to the
Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other governmeital assets
satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivisions,
or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency or
instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political subdivision
of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or organization
which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the
Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the
operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest of or
for account of the Guarantor or any political subdivision of the
Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall: (a) maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate accounts to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the financial
situation of the Parts of the Project to be carried out by the
Guarantor; (b) cause such accounts to be audited annually, applying
sound auditing principles; (c) promptly make available to the Bank
copies of such accounts, as so audited; and (d) furnish to the
Bank such other pertinent information concerning such accounts as
the Bank shall reasonably request from time to time.


﻿,- 11 -
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor
Section 5.01. Nacional Financiera S.A. is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The Guarantor hereby agrees that all notices
and requests given or made by the Bank to the Borrower shall be
deemed to have been given or made also to the Guarantor.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By: NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s/ D. Ibarra Mufoz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Director
Country Programs Lepartment
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office


