                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 30960

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (SCL-45630)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US $5.3 MILLION

                                   TO THE KINGDOM OF

                                       MOROCCO

                                         FOR A

                      LEGAL AND JUDICIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                    December 30, 2004




Social and Economic Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective October 5, 2004)

             Currency Unit = MAD
                    MAD 1 = US$ 0.112
                      US$ 1 = MAD 8.898

                    FISCAL YEAR
                 July 1 -     - June 30

       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADR           Alternative Dispute Resolution
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CCAC          Commercial Arbitration Center
CDF           Country Development Framework
CGEM          Moroccan Federation of Business Owners
EA            Environmental Assessment
EU            European Union
FMPM          Financial Management Procedures Manual
FMS           Financial Management System
FTA           Free Trade Agreement
GLIN          Global Legal Information Network
GOM           Government of Morocco
GPBM          Professional Bankers' Association of Morocco
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IBRD/Bank     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
INEJ          Institut National d'Etudes Judiciaires
ISM           Institut Supérieur de la Magistrature
LACI          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIL           Learning and Inovation Loan
MIS           Management Information System
MOJ           Ministry of Justice
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PFS           Project Financial Statement
PHRD          Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
PMR           Project Management Report
PMU           Project Management Unit
PRSL          Policy Reform Support Loan
PSA           Private Sector Assessment
SA            Special Account
SEGMA         Self-Managed Public Economic Service (Service Economique
                Gèré de Manière Autonome)
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development


           Vice President:         Christiaan J. Poortman
         Country Director:         Theodore Ahlers
          Sector Director:         Mustapha Kamel Nabli
        Task Team Leader:          Dominique Bichara

                                          MOROCCO
                        LEGAL AND JUDICIAL DEVELOPMENT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              31
Annex 9. Stakeholder Wordshop Results                                            37
Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                           40

Project ID: P063918                                                  Project Name: LEGAL AND JUDICIAL
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Dominique Bichara                                       TL Unit: LEGMS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: LEGAL AND JUDICIAL DEVELOPMENT                           L/C/TF Number: SCL-45630
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Law and justice (100%)
                  Theme: Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms (P); Legal
                            institutions for a market economy (P); Access to law and justice (P);
                            Legal services (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/14/1999                                     Effective: 09/30/2000                07/16/2001
     Appraisal: 04/07/2000                                         MTR: 03/01/2003                  07/07/2003
      Approval: 06/15/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Theodore Ahlers                                Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:                 Farrukh Iqbal                                  Pedro Alba
Team Leader at ICR:             Dominique Bichara                              Ferid Belhaj
ICR Primary Author:             Hernan Lévy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Until 1997, the Moroccan court system did not include separate commercial courts and
commercial litigation was dealt with within specialized divisions of the courts. Judicial reform was
one of the fundamental policy orientations of the recently installed Government. A key
government decision was to create commercial courts, assign them elite personnel, allocate
required funding and undertake appropriate legal revisions. Because of their positive impact on
the business community, the creation of the commercial courts supported the Government's
agenda to improve the investment climate. The new commercial courts were to become centers of
excellence which would set off a catalytic reaction for the improvement of the rest of the
judiciary.

The project was the first Bank operation in the judicial sector in Morocco, and was identified by a
joint team of legal and private sector development specialists. The project intended to support the
government's legal and judicial reform program, focusing specifically on commercial justice,
improving Morocco's capacity to resolve commercial disputes and to facilitate commercial
transactions. The priority given to commercial courts was in line with the Bank's assessment of
Morocco's development priorities and facilitating development of the private sector.

The project aimed therefore to develop the justice system as a factor of economic development
through the following specific actions:
    (i)     improving the operations and performance of the commercial courts and commercial
            registries;
    (ii)    updating the training programs for judges; and
    (iii)   institutional strengthening of the Ministry of Justice, as the key reform agent.

During project preparation, the Minister of Justice was keen on setting broader project objectives,
providing a wider support to the Ministry's reform program and covering other areas beyond
commercial justice such as civil, penal, administrative courts. This, however, would have made the
project significantly riskier because: (a) it would have required greater project management
capacity, as yet untested as this was the first Bank operation in Morocco's judicial sector, and (b)
very sensitive judicial areas would have been covered, making implementation more difficult. The
Bank's caution, however, did not deter the Ministry of Justice from considering far-ranging
reforms in other areas, such as the since successfully implemented revision of the family law and
the forthcoming creation of family divisions within the ordinary courts, or the improvement of
penitentiary facilities.

At the same time, commercial justice involves a large number of stakeholders, including lawyers
and other justice professionals, parties to commercial disputes and judicial staff that would benefit
from, and therefore support, the improvements envisaged under the project. Given its importance
of improved commercial justice for the business community, it was expected that the project'
intended improvements would receive strong support from the private sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A



                                                 - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
1. Improving the legislative and regulatory framework for commercial transactions and the
resolution of commercial disputes (cost: $0.11 million) by supporting efforts to draft: (a) relevant
amendments to existing legislation and regulations which will streamline processes and procedures
and otherwise permit the successful implementation of components 2 and 3 below; and (b) a
modern Commercial Arbitration Code.

2. Strengthening the judicial system's capacity to adjudicate business-related cases (cost: $1.15
million) efficiently, fairly, transparently and reliably through the introduction in all commercial
courts of modern techniques and automated tools for the management of all cases from the
beginning to the end of the litigation process.

3. Strengthening the capacity of the local Registries of Commerce housed in the Commercial
Courts (cost: $2.01 million) to register and record essential company information and provide
ready access to the public to this information by the introduction of appropriate automated
systems.

4. Providing better training to judges and court administrative staff (cost: $1.94 million) by: (a)
improving the training of INEJ (the National Institute of Judicial Studies) trainers, including the
up-grading of teaching methods; (b) upgrading and enlarging the INEJ curriculum; (c) introducing
up-to-date and more relevant course materials, as well as access to modern information and
research tools for INEJ teachers and students; and (d) reorganizing INEJ and introducing modern
management systems.

5. Strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Justice (cost: $0.75 million) to collect, manage
and disseminate legal, judicial and regulatory information and promote a wide-ranging
communication policy, including a public awareness program.

6. Ensuring adequate sustainable capacity within the MOJ to implement the Project (cost: $0.77
million)

3.4 Revised Components:
The loan documents defined the commercial courts to be supported by the project as the
commercial courts of appeals of Casablanca, Fes and Marrakech, and the commercial tribunals of
Rabat, Casablanca, Fes, Tangiers, Agadir and Marrakech. When the commercial courts of Meknes
and Oujda were created after project approval, a minor amendment was made to the loan
document, within project objectives, to make it possible for the project to provide support for
these two new courts.

After loan approval, the USAID launched an operation that complemented Bank efforts under the
project. At government's request, the USAID took over the provision of assistance to the
commercial courts and registries in Agadir and Marrakech and the Loan agreement was amended
accordingly.




                                                 - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rates quality at entry satisfactory. This project was not subject to QAG's assessment of
quality at entry. The project, by helping improve Morocco's civil service administration, was
consistent with the Bank country assistance strategy (CAS) for Morocco, one of whose priorities
at the time of project approval as well as presently, is public sector reform. The project also fitted
in with the Bank's overall strategy for private sector development, since the intended
strengthening of Morocco's commercial justice, registration and arbitration is essential to improve
the environment for private investment and operations.The project was prepared at the right time,
and the right place, since the MOJ at the time was led by a dynamic team that was keen on
modernizing the justice system.

The project was well prepared and was ready for implementation. Studies financed under a
$250,000 grant from Japan (PHRD), managed by the Bank, covered the commercial courts, the
commercial registries, the INEJ, and a review of communication and dissemination of information
by the MOJ and its agencies. These studies, launched in 1999 and finalized in February 2000,
provided the basis to finalize the design of the project and establish the focus and scope of its
components.

A key project condition was the establishment of a satisfactory Project Management Unit (PMU)
prior to declaring the project effective. This condition was met. The PMU was required to have
staff qualified with skills in legal and judicial reform, procurement and financial, information
technology and provided with the required logistics facilities and support. Because this project
was the first in the sector, a well organized and competent PMU was essential.

The project required the creation of a Steering Committee to supervise implementation. The
Committee, under the Chairmanship of the Minister of Justice, comprised representation from a
wide range of stakeholders, including the Secretary General of the Government, the president of
the Supreme Court, the Ministry of Finance, the Bar Association, the Moroccan Association of
Business Owners. This wide participation was intended to ensure cohesiveness of the different
agencies involved in project implementation and to broaden and strengthen ownership of the
project. At the same time, a Steering Committee representing a wide variety of stakeholders could
be a useful means to ensure continuity and attenuate the impact on project implementation should
changes occur in the Moroccan personnel directly involved in the management of the project.
Such changes did happen in the course of implementation, and the Steering Committee proved
extremely helpful.

It is debatable whether the expectation was realistic that a new Arbitration Code (AC) could be
drafted, approved by the executive power and enacted by Parliament during the short time of the
project period. The project period was indeed considerably shortened by nine months, as project
effectiveness was declared only in July 2001, or about one year after project approval. On the
other hand, the MOJ Minister at the time of project preparation and approval strongly supported
this activity and his highly efficient team suggested that the new Code, once drafted, could be
speedily processed and approved. Furthermore, the Arbitration Code was deemed to be a
non-controversial subject, whose approval was not expected to encounter serious obstacles. This


                                                 - 4 -

raised expectations that approval of the Arbitration Code could be accomplished.

The project included a covenant aimed to ensure that low income would not be a barrier to
accessing commercial justice. To this end, the MOJ was expected to enter into an agreement with
the Moroccan Bar Association for the provision of free legal services. This covenant, which did
not materially affect the project's quality at entry, was later considered irrelevant by MOJ as the
threshold for submitting cases to the commercial courts (over Dh 20,000 per case) meant that
anyone seeking the intervention of the commercial courts would likely have the necessary means
to pay for legal services. Small claims, for which legal services to the poor would be warranted,
would remain with the civil courts, for which a system of legal services appears to be in place,
although in practice, it seems that few civil litigants actually benefit from such services.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome is rated satisfactory.

·       Improvement in the operations and performance of the commercial courts and registries,
the project's paramount objective, was achieved and resulted in:
        o       The new systems have improved the quality of service to users notably in
                reducing delays, and facilitating direct access to case data (according to
                project-related surveys described below, on average over 90 percent of users of
                the commercial courts and registries are satisfied with their operations).
        o       Enforcement of judgments has significantly improved (the same survey shows a
                major increase in satisfaction with enforcement compared with a baseline prior to
                the project, with improvement of 66.4 percent noted by lawyers, and 23.6 percent
                noted by parties to a case).
        o       All parties to a case now have access to their cases at computers located in the
                commercial courts
        o       All the commercial court judges (some 150 out of 2200 judges overall) have
                gained individual computerized access to the cases filed in the eleven first- and
                second-instance courts (access to jurisprudence throughout the justice system is
                being developed but is still not operational)
        o       Companies now can be registered electronically, eliminating unnecessary
                paperwork and delays of the old system. The computerized commercial registry
                information is now easily accessible by other interested parties, such as banks
        o       The creation of commercial courts has contributed in reducing the backlog of
                cases in other courts of the justice system, and case management in commercial
                courts is better administered.

·      Training program for judges. 13 new training courses covering a wide range of topics
were developed, and several of them were delivered for the first time. While the actual impact of
this component will only be measurable over time, it was a necessary accompanying measure to
the court and registry automation program as well as a response to a strong need expressed by the
business community to have better trained judges. The business community has insisted many
times on the necessity to upgrade the INEJ's curricula and training methodology. Of a longer term



                                                   - 5 -

impact is also the restructuring of the INEJ into a new autonomous entity called Institut Supérieur
de la Magistrature (ISM), with an emphasis on the design of a modern curriculum for judges and
court staff and improvement of its facilities. The organizational aspects and responsibilities of the
ISM were discussed in a far-reaching report drafted by a consultant funded by the project. This
report led to the decision to reinforce the college by making it an entity autonomous of the
Ministry, whereas it had been until then a simple ministerial division.

·       Strengthening of the Ministry of Justice. The aim was to improve the MOJ's
communication capacity and the dissemination of legal and judicial information. The surveys
referred to below      also confirm the good results on this topic, achieved mainly through
dissemination campaigns and the opening of a website, as described in Section 4.2. However, the
change in the ministerial team has brought about the replacement of former, experienced members
of the PMU. The current team seems to lack project focus as it is spread over a number of
different activities.

Surveys carried out under the project, and a parallel survey carried out by the American Chamber
of Commerce in Morocco have confirmed the importance of the above results, as stakeholders
show a high degree of satisfaction with the improvements made to commercial justice (Section
4.6 and Annex 8).

A practical example of the significance of the improvements made to the management and
accessibility to commercial registries is the data exchange now possible in Casablanca between the
local commercial registry and the regional investment center as well as with the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry.

Further steps in the dissemination of legal information still have to be implemented, specially in
the direction of individual commercial court judges. For instance, the development of the
jurisprudence software and the creation of the relevant databases is still in the offing.

A broader result of this first project is inserting the judicial reform agenda in the dialogue
between the Bank and the Borrower, and giving it high visibility. This was in itself a major
achievement, made possible by a strong vision shared by both Moroccan and Bank teams, which
has been felt well beyond the life of the project and has withstood both time and personnel
changes. This project was indeed the first of its kind in Morocco and one of the first in the MENA
Region, at a time when it was not obvious that such a sensitive and sovereign topic could feature
in a dialogue between a country and an international organization. It was also part of the Bank's
first generation of legal and judicial reform projects across regions, at a time when Bank
experience in this area was only beginning to emerge, and when countries did not necessarily
know that the Bank could provide assistance in this area. This has had impact both domestically
as well as internationally in other countries in the region:

        (a) Domestically: On the basis of the experience with case management techniques in the
Commercial Courts, the MOJ has developed a similar system for civil cases in the
Casablanca-Anfa and Rabat trial courts as well as for the Appeals Court in Rabat. The project was
deliberately focused on a segment of the judicial system which, if successfully managed, had the



                                                  - 6 -

potential to lift the judicial system at large, and this is what occurred. Not only did the project
have a leverage on other areas of law, the project, backed by the World Bank and hence enjoying
a "stamp of credibility", also played a critical catalytic role to gather support from other donors in
the reform of the justice system as well as from the business community for which confidence in
the justice system needed to be restored.

        (b) Internationally: The project was presented at           the regional Conference on the
Modernization of the Judicial Sector in Arab Countries organized by the MOJ, the Bank and
UNDP in Marrakech in March 2002, where it received broad coverage and elicited interest from
other countries. The Moroccan experience with judicial reform has also been presented in other
fora, including a presentation by the Moroccan Minister of Justice in the Bank's global conference
on law and development held in Washington in June 2000. In addition, as the ISM receives
groups of trainee judges from many Arab countries for short and long term sessions, the
improvements brought to the Moroccan justice system are directly disseminated to the relevant
countries.

Another broad result is the overall increase in access to, and transparency of, the justice system,
which has resulted from the Ministry of Justice's new website, and from the greatly enhanced
access to commercial court cases and registries that were developed under the project. This has
been confirmed in numerous interviews with representatives of the business community.
Information is now readily available to users (on-line, through SMS mobile phones, etc), with
transactions costs and delays significantly reduced. The automation of the commercial courts and
registries, the operation of which can be supervised on-line by the respective presiding judges, has
also reduced the manipulation of documents, improving overall users' perception and limiting
opportunities for bribery. Yet, automation has not solved all the problems and it should not be
perceived as an end in itself. Court automation was meant as a tool to improve the administration
of commercial justice, but, according to users, despite the positive results generated by the
project, much remains to be done on more sensitive fronts, namely, the independence of the
judiciary, the quality of court decisions, the "professionalization" of judges and court staff, etc,
meaning that efforts in the commercial justice should be sustained.

The successful outcome is even more impressive when considering the short time span of the
project, three years from loan effectiveness to loan closing, and the relatively limited amount of
the loan (5.6 million Euros).

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Improving the legislative and regulatory framework [rated satisfactory]

 Project-financed technical assistance prepared: (a) relevant amendments to existing legislation
 and regulations aimed at streamlining processes and procedures for commercial courts and
 registries and (b) a draft for a modern Arbitration Code. At the time of drafting this ICR,
 preparation of draft legislation relating to the commercial registry had been completed, and
 preparation of draft amendments to the law governing the functioning of commercial courts was
 under way. Similarly, preparation of a draft commercial arbitration code had been completed by
 the consultant. In all three cases, the drafts still need to be approved by the Cabinet, and
 thereafter to be submitted for Parliament's approval. The MOJ found the draft legislation


                                                 - 7 -

 proposed for the functioning commercial courts to be inadequate, and has decided to redraft it
 in-house. These delays are attributable in part to the change in the project management team
 towards the end of the project, with the second team not providing sufficient follow up on
 actions initiated under the first team.

2. Strengthening Commercial Courts [rated highly satisfactory]

Originally, the project intended to support all commercial courts. However, as noted in Section
3.4, the project ended up supporting 6 of the 8 commercial courts. The remaining two courts
were supported by an USAID- financed operation, with which coordination was problem-free.
The project financed the installation of modern, computerized information systems. These
systems, which were designed "in-house" by MOJ and local experts and tailored to local needs,
are operational and have radically improved case management in Morocco's commercial courts,
significantly reducing delays and improving access to judicial information. In each court, the
computers have been networked. As a result, all parties to a case now have access to their cases
at computers located in the commercial courts.

The computerized case management covers all stages of the case cycle, including the initial case
filing, procedural process, recording of data delivered in court, judgment and enforcement,
including interlocutory decisions such as expert opinions and bankruptcy proceedings. At the
same time, the software edits all the documents called for by the development of the case. The
fragmentary statistics available point to a significant reduction in the processing time of
commercial court cases, down from several months or even years to a few weeks. However, it is
difficult to make credible measurements of the gains. While the full computerization generated
immediate and large time gains the transfer of caseloads to the newly created commercial courts
meant that these new institutions started off with a clean slate, hindering comparison with the
previous situation.

The automated process has opened a new scope for internal process monitoring of the commercial
courts' activity, and for increasing transparency. Presiding judges now have the instant capacity to
check on case flows, even down to the activity of an individual judge. Time will tell if court
managers will indeed exploit to the full this new tool. In the long run, however, it seems inevitable
that such improved management will become the norm, especially if it is relayed by the training
received at the I.S.M.

Approval of new laws and regulations for the commercial courts and registries, which was
delayed mainly because of the insufficient commitment of the project management unit in the later
stages of the project, remains necessary to ensure consistency between the legal framework and
the new systems in place. Indeed prolonged delays in adopting these texts could be the source of
practical difficulties, as expressed by lawyers and judges during the mid-term review of the
project, since they often have to deal with discrepancies between the law and the actual systems.

3. Strengthening Registries of Commerce [rated highly satisfactory]

The project financed modern information systems (computers, software, training of staff) that are



                                                 - 8 -

now operational and working properly in all the commercial registries supported by the project. It
is important to stress that the software was designed in-house by MOJ staff, rather than resorting
to off-the-shelf software or becoming dependent of an outside software designer. MOJ staff have
shown their technical capacity to improve the system over time and follow legislative evolutions,
and MOJ is the owner of the software. The project has therefore supported technological
independence. The software has been designed from the outset as being easily adaptable to other
courts in the judicial system. Finally, MOJ now has a technical product to support its position as a
role-model for its counterparts in other countries in the region.

The Moroccan experience stands out against a number of previous other experiences in other
countries, where an « automation package » was purely and simply sold over to the local
judiciary. Such an approach is risky as the newly automated system is not owned nor mastered by
the recipient of the assistance: at best, this creates serious sustainability risks; at worst, it leads to
technical dependency which can actually worsen the situation. Morocco therefore is now well
placed to present its software and know-how and even to export it to other countries in the
region.

The new system allows users, such as businesses, insurance companies or banks, to check legal
data on companies (shareholders, addresses, location, etc). This is a considerable improvement for
the security of transactions and the development of commercial trust. The system is also useful,
among other things, to verify information necessary for the enforcement of judicial decisions.

For the time being, users of the system need to access the information by using computers in the
respective registries, located in the commercial courts. This on-site consultation has been
repeately commended in meetings with the business community. Users can also access registry
information through mobile phones, which are more widely used in Morocco than internet. Access
to the information from any place via the internet is also being developed.

Registry staff were trained under the project in the use and maintenance of the new system. In
order to keep the registries working properly, continuous training of registry staff should be
envisaged and carried out, and the         MOJ should endeavor to retain experienced computer
technicians, who may be tempted by the higher salaries offered by the private sector. MOJ should
also ensure continuous maintenance of the equipment, especially in the more remote courts such
as Tangiers and Oujda.

4. Providing better training for judges [rated satisfactory]

This component included several actions. The broadest in scope was the restructuring of the INEJ
into an autonomous agency with its own budget. This was achieved through the passing of Decree
No. 2-03-40 of September 17, 2003 which transformed INEJ into the Institut Superieur de la
Magistrature (ISM) and granted it financial autonomy. A comprehensive diagnostic study of INEJ
was undertaken by a consultant with a view to reorganizing it and introducing modern
management techniques. While the study comprised a long list of options and recommendations,
INEJ's management did not have a clear understanding of what was expected from them and
found it difficult to decide speedily on a follow up. Eventually, an action plan was prepared. At



                                                  - 9 -

the time of drafting the ICR, ISM's new Board had yet to formally endorse the proposed action
plan.

ISM's new structure is built around three divisions which are in charge, respectively, of the initial
and on-going training of judges, the training of court staff, and research, studies and cooperation.
A secretary general's office and the school board complete the structure. This innovative
development is a fundamental shift in the role the judicial college has had in its 42 years of
existence. A change in mentality is also being perceived, with ISM progressively adhering to the
need to integrate new management techniques. The institution is severing ties that linked it too
closely to MOJ and is embarking on the path towards autonomous policy making for the judiciary.
This is probably the furthest reaching change initiated under the project.

As for other project components, the changes in PMU personnel (discussed in Section 5) delayed
implementation, in addition to the change of INEJ's director between project appraisal and
mid-term review.

Regarding trainee judges, 13 new training courses were developed with the assistance of a
consultant funded by the project. These courses cover the following topics considered as priority
areas for Morocco (economics, accounting, finance, corporate management, and laws covering
commerce, consumers, intellectual property, competition, international trade, communal, tourism,
ports and maritime legislation, and legal terminology).

The library of the INEJ was modernized through the provision of computers, software and new
furniture. The aim is to create an efficient legal media center which caters for the needs of the
judiciary. Improvements have been made in the collection and the setting up of computerized
access to online legal databases, but such improvements are still recent and need to be
consolidated.

5. Strengthening the communication capacity of the Ministry of Justice [rated satisfactory]

 The project assisted the MOJ to set up a website (www.justice.gov.ma). Justice is the only
 Ministry with a website accessible from the internet (other Ministries have intranet websites).
 MOJ's website is not limited to commercial courts and justice but also includes pages on
 judiciary organization (comprising all the Kingdom's tribunals and courts), judiciary structure
 (central agencies Ministry of Justice and the Superior Council of Judges), the judicial map
 (appeals courts, commercial courts and administrative tribunals), justice professionals (judges,
 lawyers, staff ) and INEJ. The website also includes fast links to topics assumed to be of special
 priority such as judicial procedures, key statistical data, reference texts (page under
 construction). The website also comprises detailed pages on the program of judicial reform.

 The MOJ set up an information unit under its Directorate of Studies. This unit includes an
 information and a dissemination team, that        manages the website and publishes brochures
 distributed nationally. The unit still needs to systematically disseminate case-law to individual
 judges.




                                               - 10 -

 The MOJ also arranged for the carrying out of the baseline and the final surveys described in
 Section 4.6.

6. Supporting the Project Management Unit [rated unsatisfactory]

While the project provided for technical assistance and equipment to strengthen the PMU's
capacity to implement the project, the PMU did not hire consultants (e.g. procurement,
disbursement, financial management specialists) to that effect and instead used internal staff from
MOJ. Consultants resources would have been particularly useful when the PMU replaced highly
qualified staff with less knowledgeable and experienced personnel. Some equipment was
purchased for the functioning of the PMU.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated substantial. As a small loan with          little physical
investment and with the goal of improving access to a more transparent and efficient justice
system for commercial transactions and the resolution of commercial disputes, the project's nature
was clearly institutional. The PAD noted four institutions that would undergo reform: (i) the
commercial courts, (ii) the commercial registries, (iii) the INEJ, and (iv) the Ministry of Justice.
Most of the institutional reforms anticipated in the PAD did take place, although there were some
areas where the reform did not go as far as expected.

The reform of the commercial courts and registry was significant. While the commercial courts
had been created by law a couple of years before project appraisal, some were not functioning and
those that were operated in the traditional way, using cumbersome procedures, with slow
resolution of disputes. A similar situation existed with the Commercial registries. Their services to
registrants was poor, since the registries used outdated registration and management tools and
experienced significant backlogs in the handling of requests. As noted in 4.2, the computers and
software provided under the project radically improved the operations and service of the
commercial courts and registries. The commercial courts have introduced computerized case
management that covers all stages of the case cycle, resulting in improved case-management,
reduced backlog of cases and improved access to courts and judicial information. Commercial
court staff were also trained in the use and maintenance of the automated systems.

Similar improvements were achieved in the operation of the commercial registries, that are now
computerized and provide a generally excellent service. Operations of the registries were further
strengthened through training of their personnel. The initial idea of using the commercial courts
and registries as window-case for the improvement of the entire judicial system has been
successful. Now that MOJ has shown it is capable of radically improving part of the justice sector,
it is orienting its efforts towards other courts. For instance, insurance cases dealt with by the
Casablanca-Anfa trial court are benefiting from the commercial courts experience and projects are



                                                 - 11 -

being drawn up for the future family divisions of the ordinary courts.

The transformation of the INEJ into the autonomous Institut Superieur de la Magistrature (ISM)
was a significant institutional achievement. The Board overseeing the ISM has been appointed and
has started its work. All preparatory studies pertaining to ISM's internal organization have been
completed, but it is yet to be approved by the Board. The INEJ/ISM curriculum has been revised
to incorporate new training modules and new courses have already been delivered. The new
training year starting in July 2004 will feature a number of new courses. ISM's library has been
rehabilitated and new multimedia facilities are being installed and will eventually be available to
library users.

The Ministry of Justice's communication capacity was strengthened with the creation of an
information unit in the Ministry, a well developed website and the carrying out of surveys to
assess public perceptions on the changes introduced to commercial justice.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
No major external factors affected project implementation. Towards the end of project
implementation, the terrorist attacks in Casablanca in May 2003 required the Ministry of Justice
to allocate more resources to security, and probably crowded the Minister's agenda. However, it
is unlikely that this should have had much influence in the execution of the project components
which (a) were mostly technical in nature and (b) had for a great part been implemented by the
first PMU team (identified here as PMU1).

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
On the positive side, the project enjoyed a strong ownership of the highest authorities - the King,
the Prime Minister, and the Ministers of Justice and Finance since early in the preparation of the
project. A direct result was that at start of the project the Minister of Justice appointed a strong
team to staff the Project Management Unit. The team was headed by the MOJ's Director of
Budget, who was a highly capable professional with experience in World Bank projects gained in
other Ministries.

On the negative side, a complete change in the PMU staff, occurred in July 2003, as a result of the
changeover of Minister of the MOJ in November 2002, even though the project was nearing
completion. Most critical was the replacement of the project director. The new team (PMU2),
which officially comprised a list of 17 staff from MOJ, had no experience in managing
Bank-financed projects. The team changes weakened the PMU's capacity in several areas, most
notably in procurement, financial management, project management and monitoring and
evaluation.

The outcome of the project, however, proved that the project achievements were actually
irreversible and resistant to changes, and that a dynamic in institutional change had been launched,
which was operating beyond the individuals involved, ultimately confirming the vision supported
at the time of project preparation by the then Minister of Justice.




                                                     - 12 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As noted above, the first PMU team (PMU1) was highly efficient, and practically all the major
achievements of the project were reached as a direct result of their efforts. From the beginning,
the PMU1 prepared detailed terms of reference for each of its members. It also prepared a precise
program of work and especially a detailed planning of the procurement process, that fully met
Bank requirements.

The decision by the PMU1, with government support, to require all foreign consultants to team
up with local consultants, proved very useful and helped the consultants to provide
recommendations grounded in Morocco's conditions.

The new team (PMU2) devoted little energy to following up on activities initiated under PMU1,
especially those relating to the preparation of laws and regulations which should have entered the
adoption circuit. While it is unlikely that the draft Arbitration Code could have been given final
parliamentary approval by project closure, a more proactive effort by MOJ could have enabled
approval of the Code by the Council of Government, and leave the Code ready for submission to
Parliament. Likewise, the submission for approval by the Council of Government of the
amendments relating to the commercial registries, a text unlikely to be controversial, suffered
substantial delays. The MOJ in July 2003 rejected the draft amendment law on the functioning of
commercial courts prepared by a local legal expert, and decided        to have it drafted in-house.
When this ICR was prepared, no such draft was available.

The PMU2 generated no monitoring data and did not prepare the required monitoring report. As
a result, the Bank's Project Status Reports (PSRs) rated implementation progress as
unsatisfactory for most of the period under PMU2.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project ended up costing $5.49 million, or 18 percent lower than the original estimate. The
main under-spending occurred in the support to the PMU, where only about one third of the
original amount was actually utilized. While using less resources than expected was probably
justified in the beginning given the strong PMU1 team, substantially more support would have
been needed when the PMU2 team took over. Strengthening of the INEJ also had a significant
cost under run (22 percent), mainly due to the delays in proceeding with the review and delivery
of INEJ curriculum. On the other hand, much more than expected was spent in improving the
legal and regulatory framework. The cost of strengthening the commercial courts and registries
was just about as expected.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated highly likely. The project helped create a new working environment for the
judiciary and its stakeholders which is more open, efficient, transparent and user friendly. At the
same time, the government is keen to continue making progress in its reform program for the
whole of the Judicial sector. The project's sharp and targeted focus on commercial justice was
designed with the long term view of playing a catalytic effect on the overall justice system, while


                                                    - 13 -

immediately addressing critical priority areas such as the need to improve the business
environment. The success of the project's targeted approach, its replicability and its sustainability
lie principally in the following factors: (1) clear and strong political support at the highest levels
of government; (2) a clear vision and a strategy for reform; (3) strong ownership demonstrated by
the "in-house" design of the project and the heavy involvement of local consultants which proved
essential to ensure that recommendations fit Morocco's legal and institutional framework; and (4)
involvement of stakeholders and users.

The operation of the commercial courts and registries has received high marks by users as
demonstrated by the surveys described in Annex 8, and therefore the business community will be
an important supporter of the improvements made under the project. The momentum gained in
performance and monitorability          should further contribute to transparency and to enduring
progress in anti-corruption efforts. The creation of an indigenous software and of local technical
skills ensures the durability of the effort, as is the fact the MOJ has established permanent
technical staff positions both within the courts themselves and within decentralized technical
support units nationwide. At the same time, the senior officials of the judiciary are highly aware
of the importance for Morocco to be able to showcase the judicial performance of the commercial
courts and registries for the benefit of other countries in the region.

The conversion of the INEJ into the autonomous ISM should help it to sustain the new training
programs it has developed, provided that its internal reorganization is, as expected, completed
within the next few months. The ISM has also recently provided a number of training services for
which it is paid, which reflects the gradual change in institutional mentality and ensures the
ISM'sustainability.

Therefore, relevant indications point to the activities put in place by the project to be sustainable.
However, the government should ensure, on an on-going basis, that adequate resources, financial
and human, are made available to the judicial sector to ensure (a) adequate maintenance of the
new systems in place and (b) the further development of training and capacity building activities in
the commercial justice area.

Lack of support from the second PMU team, which translated into little additional progress
achieved after the departure of the first team (especially with regard to the legal framework and
training components), should not impinge on the overall sustainability of the achievements, most
of them having been undertaken prior to the change in teams.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The new commercial courts and registries have been fully incorporated into Morocco's justice
system and are operating normally. Their staff and budget are adequate for their mission.

The question remains of the Bank's future involvement in the sector. It is faced both with an
indisputable measure of success, and, at the same time, with very serious concerns regarding the
technical ability of the current PMU staff to implement further progress. One can argue that there
is little capacity in the present MOJ organization, but, on the other hand, it would seem
regrettable not to build up on the momentum and success achieved up to now. It is certainly the
clear wish of the highest authorities in the country to replicate that success, for instance in the


                                                  - 14 -

development of the new family divisions. The Ministry of Finance is adamant that the reform
process must continue. The outcome is probably that the Bank should work towards bringing the
Ministry of Justice to fundamentally upgrade the staff assigned to any further project, whilst
giving the clear indication that this is the only major obstacle to its further implication in future
judicial reform programs. In this approach, the Bank will most probably find a considerable
measure of support from the business community.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory. The project objectives were sound and relevant.
PHRD-financed studies, organized and, at government's request, managed by the Bank team,
were essential to ensure good preparation. The project had its early foundation during discussions
with the government on a Bank report assessing the private sector. Good "listening" by the
Bank's multidisciplinary team eventually led to the identification of the project. While the project
fitted in the Bank's overall objective to support public sector reform, its focus on the judiciary
originated internal debate as to who should lead preparation and supervision. The result was an
unusual co-task managing arrangement, involving one attorney from the Bank's Legal
Department and one specialist in public sector management from the Middle East and North
Africa Region. This arrangement had inherent risks regarding division or overlapping
responsibilities between the two co-task managers. Given the legal and judicial reform focus on
the project, the need for a public sector specialist did not necessarily bring any added value. This
arrangement lasted until December 31,2002, when project implementation was well advanced.
The co-task managers were assigned new responsibilities and a new lawyer was entrusted with the
responsibility for supervision.

During preparation, the Bank was right in resisting government suggestions to design a project
with broader objectives. While the Bank' counterpart at the time, the MOJ Minister and his key
advisers, were keen in moving fast and in broad directions, the counterpart team was completely
changed mid-way during implementation, and the new team took time to understand and support
the project. Under these circumstances, broader objectives clearly could not have been achieved.

The PAD correctly identified delays in the approval of new laws and regulations for the
commercial courts and registries as a substantial project risk. The PAD counted on government
commitment to speed-up the approval process. Unfortunately, while commitment appears still to
be solid among many of the relevant stakeholders, changes in the PMU blocked for many months
any progress on this activity, and prevented its completion by project closing.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory. Supervision was intense, particularly
during the second phase of the project when it operated under PMU2. Such strong supervision
proved essential to keep the project moving during this phase when the project management unit
deteriorated. The supervision effort could be made with a reasonable expenditure of resources as
the team leaders for this project also had to travel frequently to the region on other business.
Supervision was more intense than reflected in the list of official supervision mission in Annex 4,
because several of the short missions undertaken concurrently with other Bank activities were not


                                                - 15 -

reported as a supervision mission.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. It designed a well conceived first project in a
difficult sector that clearly was consistent with Bank strategy and government objectives and
reform programs. The Bank team kept a close dialogue with all key officials throughout the
project cycle, and intensified this dialogue when the PMU's performance collapsed following
personnel changes. The lack of full project data at completion happened despite constant prodding
by the Bank team.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's justice reform program launched in parallel with preparation of the project was
instrumental to help target the project into a well defined government priority area. During
preparation, and early implementation, the project was strongly supported by the Justice Minister,
who appointed a highly competent team to staff the Project Management Unit within the MOJ.
The PMU team was led by a highly qualified civil engineer, who was at the same time the Director
of the Budget of the MOJ. This person escaped the traditional bureaucratic culture of the MOJ,
and was able to provide a dynamic leadership for project processing and implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The same excellent team existing during preparation took charge of the PMU during the first part
of project implementation. Unfortunately, this team later was completely changed and replaced by
less experienced staff, that failed to move the remaining project activities to their full completion.
The one-year delay between loan approval and effectiveness was due to government delays in
signing the loan agreement. Government did not wish to sign until bidding documents were ready
to launch the project, on the basis that the front-end fee is paid upon loan signature.

Some of the      implementation delays were apparently caused by the Contrôle Générale des
Engagement de Dépenses (CGED) which delayed approval of several contracts.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
As noted in sections 5.2 and 5.3, the implementing agency performed excellently during the first
part of the project, when the PMU1 team was in place. In fact, practically all project achievements
were the direct result of the PMU1 efforts. The performance of this team is rated highly
satisfactory.

The second team (PMU2) showed a weak performance overall. Periodic reporting on project
progress, required under the loan agreement, was close to nil. The report from the PMU2 team
prepared as an input for preparation of the ICR was extremely synthetic, and lacked key data such
as project cost, financing and procurement details.

Findings of the Borrower's audit for the period ending December 2002 identified several issues,
notably weakness of project management (restated in the 2003 audit report), absence of PMRs,
and several procurement-related issues. A Bank procurement review of this project was
undertaken in December 2003 in addition to the Bank's IAD procurement review undertaken in
August 2003, the conclusions of which converged with the findings of the audit report.


                                                 - 16 -

In consequence, the performance of the second team is rated highly unsatisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. This rating is based on excellent performance during
preparation, appraisal and the first part of project implementation during which indeed most
project activities were completed, and despite the performance of PMU2 in last stages of project
implementation.

In this respect, the Bank needs to have better indications of what the Government reform agenda
is for the judiciary from this point onwards. It has heard many times that commitment to reform is
sustained, but it stills lacks a clear delineation of what the next preferred steps should be.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1        Benefits of multidisciplinary assessments in the design of legal projects. The project
confirms the need for the Bank to expand the scope and depth of its multidisciplinary assessment
work, as it focuses upon legal and judicial obstacles to poverty reduction and to improvements in
the investment climate in North Africa, the Middle East and beyond. Existing Bank assessments
touching on judicial and legal aspects, whether they are prepared by financial, public sector or
other groups should be well utilized in the design of new legal projects. The Bank should engage
from an early stage with senior-most officials regarding the findings of the assessment work and
the prospects for furthering the reforms. The preliminary identification of project components
would be an ideal setting for such discussions. The Bank should also draw on the successes and
failures in legal and judicial reform activities elsewhere, and feed the analytical work into country
assistance and poverty reduction strategies.

8.2     Project design: targeting objectives and scope to maximize ownership and therefore
probability of success. As the first Bank project in the highly sensitive justice sector, careful
selection of objectives and scope was critical to ensure borrower ownership. A positive factor
was the government's own judicial reform program, launched just slightly ahead of the project.
The key design decision was to focus the project sharply in just one area, to improve Moroccan
capacity to resolve commercial disputes and to facilitate commercial transactions. Given the
highly sensitive nature of the judicial sector, focusing on commercial justice was likely to minimize
sensitivities. At the same time, commercial justice presented an opportunity to help improve the
environment for business and investments, therefore economic growth.

8.3     Champions may be short-lived, thus involve a wide range of stakeholders and do as much
as early as possible. During preparation and early implementation, the project was strongly
supported by the Minister of Justice and the Project Management Unit team. When these teams
were changed, a complete new environment developed and major decline in the competence of
the PMU ensued. One factor that helped maintain some stability was the Steering Committee,
where stakeholders such as the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary General of the government, the
Supreme Court and the Bar Association continued to support the project. At the same time,
thanks to good readiness for implementation and the quality of the PMU's first team, most of the
project results were achieved during the first part of the project, when the original team was in



                                                   - 17 -

place. The lesson is that champions and their teams rarely remain in place for the life of a project.
Thus, establishing entities such as a wide-ranging Steering Committee and starting the more
substantive activities upfront would reduce risks stemming from personnel changes. The
important role of the      Committee suggests that is should be party to any future program
supported by the Bank, and that it should be involved in the next stages of the dialogue.

8.4     Avoid overoptimistic legislative reform objectives and attempt to identify stages involved
in achieving the reforms. The difficulties experienced with the commercial code component
underline a lesson also learned elsewhere that one can be overly optimistic about legislative
reform. Better focus should be given to time-lines and to preliminary agreements with the topmost
authorities, in order to ensure that political changes - inevitable considering the length of time
usually necessary to draft a law, and to build a consensus amongst lawmakers - only marginally
affect the intended legislation.

8.5     Advantages of partnering with local consultants. The requirement           that international
consultants teamed up with local consultants proved to be important to ensure that analysis and
especially recommendations were anchored on reality on the ground. A result was increased
credibility of recommendations resulting in a higher level of ownership by the key stakeholders
and decision-makers; a parallel result was leaving institutional memory in-country and
transferring knowledge to local consultants.

8.6     Training of judges. The lesson to be drawn from this component is two-fold: (a) the need
to have a strong management in place in the institution concerned (i.e. with managerial skills, not
necessarily emanating from the legal and judicial profession); and (b) it may take time for a
judicial training institution such as the INEJ (now the ISM) to learn how to handle its newly
granted autonomy after having operated approximately 40 years under MOJ. As indicated by the
Minister of Justice who launched the project, granting autonomy to INEJ was prompted by the
need to reform public administration at large and to "professionalize" training for the judicial
profession.

8.7     Identification of possible areas of focus for future projects. Feedback provided by
Moroccan partners and the conclusions drawn at the project-closing workshop, provide a good
basis to identify areas for future projects. The first is to support the extension of the gains made
in the area of commercial justice to the ordinary courts, and to develop partnerships with other
donors already committed to this approach, such as the EU. The second is to focus on
enforcement issues, probably in the area of commercial justice to begin with, but with the
extension to ordinary patrimonial disputes permanently in mind. A third area is to finalize the
commercial arbitration code. A fourth is to address the much needed reform of bankruptcy
procedures. Finally, a first series of measures targeting judicial corruption could be attempted,
despite the reluctance of certain sections of the judiciary.




                                                 - 18 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                                                                            Translated from French

Remarks of the Minister of Justice of the Kingdom of Morocco

In response to the World Bank Implementation Completion Report on the Legal and
Judicial Development project. (See also Annex 10)

The report characterized the cooperation program with the World Bank as positive, in that it
deemed the experience beneficial from the regional standpoint and successfully implemented.

Success notwithstanding, the report elicits more than a little amazement to the extent that it
contains defamatory and disparaging statements, which I should like to address below:

9.1.     The report took the liberty of adopting a political line vis-à-vis the change of government
and, by extension, officials at the Ministry of Justice, in its comparison of two phases of project
implementation. The political stance adopted led the report to pronounce a judgment of sorts on
the policy of change implemented by the Minister of Justice pursuant to the strategy under the
Government's program. In response, the Ministry of Justice, within the framework of its
cooperation with the Bank, respectable international institution that it is, has adopted a work
strategy focusing on exemplary financial management, transparency, judicious use of public funds,
as well as observance of the principle of [fair] competition between enterprises working within the
framework of this program.

In this connection, an audit revealed weaknesses in the management by the officials formerly in
charge of the project. Without seeking to determine the former team's good faith or lack thereof,
which shall remain an internal matter, the new team in charge of managing the project took full
cognizance of the importance of the project and has been acting responsibly to avoid the pitfalls
revealed earlier. However, some sections in the report downplay the efforts made by the new
team, despite its accomplishments.

9.2.    The report, after drawing a comparison between the two teams, each of which managed a
phase of the project, went on to state its preference, which, again, is for us an internal matter,
since it is not the custom for international reports to differentiate between two teams, to the point
where one is styled a "champion", a move which led the report to lobby in favor of certain
individuals who enjoyed the support of members of the World Bank's project management team.
Might I add that this "champion" spared no effort in hampering the work of the new team, which
found itself unable to obtain the project documents and report. Might I also mention the stark
contradiction proffered in the report which characterizes the management of the project by the
selfsame former official as unsatisfactory.

The contradiction is all the more stark because the Bank's communiqués underscored the high



                                                 - 19 -

quality of the management of the project (in a communiqué issued at the roundtable marking the
completion of the World Bank project, held in Rabat on July 15, 2004).

9.3.    The report focused on the fact that the Ministry of Justice used Ministry staff instead of
external consultants. This move by the Ministry of Justice is commendable for several reasons,
because it makes it possible to rationalize expenditure, which was conveyed as a negative
accomplishment. Might I point out that the former team tasked with the management of the
project undertook a series of studies at very great cost, the results of which could have been
delivered to us by Ministry of Justice management staff just as well.

9.4.    With regard to the failure to complete the legal texts, it bears noting that the draft laws
prepared by the experts and consulting firms required that the Ministry of Justice deploy
significant resources to recast and supplement them.

This said, Ministry senior staff could have completed that task more quickly and at a lower cost
and, more important, with impeccable quality as they had done for the criminal procedures code,
the law on prisons, and the laws organizing the legal and other professions. Even so, the Ministry
of Justice has introduced these drafts into legislative channels with the Government's General
Secretariat.

9.5.    As it stands, the report is fraught with obvious contradictions because it highlights the
achievements of the project while at the same time pointing a finger at the officials managing the
project, no doubt because of certain personal affinities.

Lastly, in light of the Bank's comments, and its apparent lack of neutrality, the Minister of Justice
deems itself entitled to reconsider the advisability of initiating discussions on a second phase of
cooperation with the regional officials currently representing the World Bank.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

  A. Outcome/Impact Indicators


   Objective                 Outcome/Impact Indicator             Result Comment
  1.a Commercial courts      Increased user satisfaction with:
  (CC)
                             -processes and timeliness of         Yes    Confirmed by survey
                             decisions
                             -accessibility of legal information  Yes    Confirmed by survey
                             Training of CC staff (30% each       Yes    But achievement delayed
                             year) as of 9/30/2001                       by about two years, in
                                                                         part due to delay in
                                                                         effectiveness
                             Modern case management by            Yes    But delayed as above
                             9/30/2001
                             Reduction of backlog of commercial   Yes    But delayed as above.
                             cases by 25%/year starting 10/1/02          Exact reduction not
                                                                         known
  1.b Commercial registries  Ready electronic access by public to Yes    But delayed as above.
  (CR)                       registry by 12/31/02                        The public can access via
                                                                         cell phone or computers
                                                                         at the commercial courts.
                                                                         Internet access not yet
                                                                         available.
  1.c Arbitration code      Increased user satisfaction with      No     Draft code still in process
                            arbitration regime                           of approval.
  2. Training                INEJ graduates given necessary       On-go  New training modules
                             tools to provide more efficient,     ing    have recently been started
                             reliable and transparent services
                             At least 10 new courses introduced   Yes    13 new courses have been
                             in subjects relevant for commercial         introduced
                             courts
                             At least 10 INEJ trainers trained in Yes    Training of trainers has
                             modern teaching methods                     been conducted
                             At least 50 commercial court judges  Yes    Training has been
                             and 50 court administrators trained         conducted
  3. Ministry of Justice     At least 10 communications           No
                             campaigns conducted, including
                             publications, radio and TV
                             broadcasts




                                                - 21 -

B. Project Implementation Performance Indicators (reference PAD, Annex 11)

 Area                      Outcome/Impact Indicator              Result  Comment
Improvement of legislative
and regulatory framework
                          Streamed rules and regulatory          No
                          procedures
                          Commercial arbitration code
                          -prepared                              Yes
                          -ready for enactment by Parliament     Yes
                          - Staff of CC and CR trained           Yes
                          Users of CC and CR receive better      Yes     According to survey
                          service
                          Arbitration Code fully enacted         No
                          CC and CR provided with necessary      Yes     According to survey
                          tools and equipment
                          The CC and CS are providing better
                          service to the user
Judicial Training
strengthened
                          Action Program for INEJ implemented Ongoing
                          INEJ teaching staff trained            Ongoing
                          INEJ reorganized                       Ongoing New statute implemented
                                                                         but no internal
                                                                         reorganization
                                autonomous                       Yes
                          New teaching materials prepared        Yes
                          INEJ's investment program on                   Budget allocations not yet
                          schedule                                       finalized
                          All subcomponents implemented          No      Action Plan not yet
                                                                         implemented
                          Quality of INEJ graduates improved     NO      Premature given delays in
                                                                         training program
                          Expanded evaluation of teaching staff, Yes     Process has started
                          students, administrators
                          INEJ multimedia in place               Yes     New multimedia facility
                                                                         in library is operational
Ministry of Justice
strengthened
                          Publication office operational         ?
                          Info-shops at MOJ                      ?
                          Info-shops at CC                       Yes     In some of the CC
                          MOJ information unit adequately        No
                          staffed




                                             - 22 -

                   Agreement with Moroccan Bar          NO   This proved irrelevant,
                   Association for free legal advice         given that minimum
                                                             threshold for disputes is
                                                             high enough that all
                                                             parties should be able to
                                                             finance lawyer
                   Stakeholder's perception that        No   Communication activities
                   communications policy is effective        including brochures only
                                                             recently launched
                   Public awareness campaigns           No
                   Surveys conducted re info-shops and  No
                   communications
PMU Strengthening  PMU providing appropriate assistance Yes  Up to MTR only
Component          to related agencies
                   PMU adequately dealing with          Yes  Up to MTR, weak
                   procurement                               thereafter
                   PMU maintaining project accounts     Yes
                   satisfactorily
                   PMU performing satisfactorily as     Yes
                   Secretariat for Steering Committee
                   PMU conducted surveys regarding      Yes  Except regarding MOJ
                   project success                           communications
                   PMU developed satisfactory capacity  No   Strengthening of PMU
                   to act as main MOJ unit for further       should be a prerequisite
                   reform work                               for involvement in further
                                                             reform work




                                      - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




                                      - 24 -

Project Cost US$ million
                                         Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
                                          (Overall Project)        (Overall Project)
Improving Legal and Regulatory                  0.10                     0.33                      330
Framework
Strengthening Commercial Courts                 1.06                     3.07                      105
Strengthening Registries of                     1.85                       0                        ...
Commerce at Commercial Courts
Strengthening INEJ                              1.79                     1.40                       78
Strengthening Ministry of Justice               0.69                     0.42                       61
Supporting Project Implementation               0.71                     0.27                       38
Unit
Total Baseline Cost                             6.20                     5.49                       89
Physical Contingencies                          0.31
Price Contingencies                             0.22
Total Project Cost                              6.73                     5.49                       82
Figures based on PMU's progress report through July 31, 2004. The PMU provided a single figure combining
actual for commercial courts and registries. The percentage of appraisal considers the two values together.


Financing US$ million (Appraisal)
            At appraisal            GOM         IBRD        Total




      Total Disbursements           1.43        5.30        6.73


Financing US$ million (Actual)
              Actual                GOM         IBRD        Total




      Total Disbursements           1.14        4.35        5.49
Average exchange rate 1 USS = 10.81DH



            Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) US$ Equivalent a/
           Expenditure Category            ICB           NCB          Other         N.B.F       Total Cost
  1 Works                                  0.00           0.08         0.00          0.00          0.08
                                          (0.00)         (0.07)      (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.07)
  2 Goods                                  2.03           0.58         0.17          0.00          2.78
                                          (1.53)         (0.55)      (0.13)         (0.00)        (2.21)
  3 Services                               0.00           0.00         3.11          0.36          3.47
                                          (0.00)         (0.00)      (3.03)         (0.00)        (3.03)
 4     Operating Cost                      0.00           0.00         0.00          0.40          0.40
                                          (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5     Front-end Fee                        0.00

      Total

a/ in parenthesis, amount financed by the World Bank



                                                       - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               June 1999                 4    L, L, PSS, 0A
               June 1999 (PHRD)          5    L. PSS, C, OA

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April 2000                5    IS, FMS, L, PSS, OA


 Supervision
               05/25/2001                 3   CO-TEAM LEADER (2);                   S               S
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                              (1)
               June 2001                  2   PSS, OA                               S               S
               11/15/2001                 3   CO-TTL (2); OPERATIONS                S               S
                                              ANALYST (1)
               February /2002             1   PSS
               05/24/ 2002                2   TTL (1); OPERATIONS                   S               S
                                              ANALYST (1)
               02/25/2003                 3   TTL (1); COUNTRY                      S               S
                                              MANAGER-MA (1);
                                              OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
               July 2003 MTR)             2   L, OA                                 S               U
               January 2004               1   L                                     S               U
               May 2004                   1   L                                     S               S
               ICR                                                                  S               S

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                    328
  Supervision                                                              297
  ICR                                                                       40
  Total                                                                    665




                                               - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents on the project are available:
·      Loan Agreement
·      Project Appraisal Document
·      Project Supervision Reports
·      Surveys (baseline and final) of Beneficiaries
·      Banque Mondiale ­ Communique de presse 2005/004/MENA
·      Audits of Project Accounts




                                               - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

SUMMARY OF FINDINGS

The main findings of the surveys are:

·       Regarding the commercial courts:
               o    All stakeholders of commercial courts show a high degree of satisfaction with
                    these new courts (93.5 percent for lawyers, 90.9 percent for professionals and
                    93.3 percent for parties to a case).
               o    The parties to a case show indicate a 100 percent degree of satisfaction with
                    some of the courts (Fes and Marrakech). Even the lower rated ones (Agadir
                    85.9 percent and Casablanca 88.5 percent) show a high degree of satisfaction.
               o    Lawyers and parties to a case perceive significant gains in the enforcement of
                    the judgments between the first and the second survey (66.4 percent perceived
                    improvement by lawyers, 23.6 percent by parties to a case)
               o    There is a significant improvement perceived the parties to a case in the
                    information they have before approaching a commercial court (18.3 percent
                    improvement noted between the first and the second survey)

·       Regarding the commercial registries:
               o    There is a high level of satisfaction with the quality of information obtained at
                    the registries (89.0 percent for lawyers, 82.4 percent for parties to a case, and
                    81.7 percent for professionals).
               o    The parties to a case show indicate a 100 percent degree of satisfaction with
                    some of the courts (Fes and Marrakech). Even the lower rated ones (Rabat
                    70.4 percent and Agadir 87.6 percent) show a high degree of satisfaction

I.      INTRODUCTION

The original project design included the carrying out of baseline and periodic surveys. Surveys
were carried out in 2003 and 2004.

In addition to the project-designed surveys, the American Chamber of Commerce in Morocco
(AMCHAM) carried out in 2003 a survey of executive perceptions about business and investing
in Morocco. The survey contains some questions relevant to the Bank project, and is briefly
described at the end of this Annex.

Survey objectives: The survey had three objectives:

·       Assess the perception of justiciables and professionals of the commercial courts and
registries regarding the statutes governing the commercial jurisdictions, their services, comparing
the situation prior to and after completion of the project
·       Evaluate the degree of satisfaction of users regarding the commercial jurisdictions and the
commercial registries: accessibility, processing speed, quality of services


                                                - 31 -

·       Measure the impact on justiciables and citizens of the Ministry of Justice efforts to
improve the MOJ's communications

Beneficiaries interviewed in the survey included justiciables, professionals operating in
commercial law, and citizens.

Organization and Execution: The survey was organized and carried out by IIHEM, and
privately-owned Moroccan consulting firm.

Survey periods: Surveys were carried out: (i) during early implementation of the project (2002),
to serve as baseline, and (ii) at project completion (2004).

II.     SAMPLE SIZE AND COVERAGE

The sample consisted of:

650 professionals (lawyers and professionals) [source: Rapport Phase 4, page 8]
2,850 justiciables (individuals or companies using CC or CR)

All cities with commercial courts were included in the survey. These cities are Rabat, Casablanca,
Fez, Tanger, Marrakech, Agadir, Meknes and Oujda.

The sample size by city and beneficiary was as follows:

            Justiciables
                     CC                CAC       Lawyers    Notaries  Accountants     Other
                                                                                  Professiona
                                                                                    lsTotal
Casablanca  800                      200        140        30        35            501255
Rabat       250                                 45         20        10            10335
Fez         300                      100        50         10        15            5470
Oujda       150                                 20         5         5             5185
Tanger     250                                  30         10        5             5300
Meknes      150                                 20         5         5             5185
Marrakech   300                      100        50         10        5             5470
Agadir      250                                 30         10        5             5300
Total      2450                      400       385        100        85           903500
CC=commercial courts, CAC=commercial appeals court




                                                 - 32 -

III.        SURVEY RESULTS

A. Commercial Courts

Question                                                                          Baseline (%) End of      Improvement
                                                                                               Project (%) EoP/B (%)
1. Degree of satisfaction with the organization and distribution of
administrative responsibilities
   Lawyers                                                                        77.4         77.8        0.54
   Professionals                                                                  74.5         82.4        10.6
2. Lawyers satisfied (%) with the material and human resources in                 73.7         86.5        17.2
commercial courts
3. Lawyers and professionals (%) that consider that commercial courts
resources are adequate for the needs
   Lawyers                                                                        36.1         65.5        81.4
   Professionals                                                                  36.6         41.0        12.0
4. Justiciables (%) well informed before approaching a commercial                 50.4         59.6        18.3
court
5. Justiciables (%) satisfied with information received                           73.7         79.6         8.0
6. Lawyers, professionals and justiciables (%) satisfied with the
processing
   Lawyers                                                                        96.1         90.0        (6.8)
   Professionals                                                                  86.6         86.7         0.0
   Justiciable                                                                    86.6         84.2        (2.9)
7.Lawyers, professionals and justiciables (%) satisfied with quality of
reception, attention and respect by courts' staff
   Lawyers                                                                        88.4         88.3         0.0
   Professionals                                                                  88.8         85.2        (4.2)
   Justiciables                                                                   87.2         86.6        (0.7)
8. Lawyers and professionals (%) satisfaction with quality of service
(information, organization, delays, communications)
   Lawyers                                                                        82.4         91.9        11.5
   Professionals                                                                  84.9         86.7         2.1
9. Justiciables satisfied with their lawyers (%)                                  93.6         91.9        (1.9)
10. Lawyers and justiciables (%) satisfied of the accuracy of the proces
verbaux, comprehension of judgments made and degree of acceptance
of decisions (relative to their expectations)
   Lawyers                                                                        95.9         95.1        (0.8)
   Justiciables                                                                   78.8         82.4         4.6
11. Lawyers and justiciables (%) satisfied with the enforcements of the
judgments
   Lawyers                                                                        37.2         61.9        66.4
   Justiciables                                                                   43.3         53.5        23.6
12. Distribution according to global index of satisfaction
   Lawyers                                                                        89.5         93.5         4.5
   Professionals                                                                  90.5         90.9         0.4
   Justiciable                                                                    92.8         93.3         0.5




                                                                        - 33 -

Degree of Satisfaction of Justiciables by Commercial Court

Commercial Court                                     Percent Satisfied
                                                     (%)


CC Agadir                                             85.9
CC Casablanca                                         88.5
CC Rabat                                              89.4
CC Meknes                                             92.3
CR Casablanca                                         93.9
CC Tanger                                             96.8
CR Fes                                                98.7
CC Oujda                                              99.4
CC Marrakech                                          99.6
CC Fes                                               100
CR Marrakech                                        100


B. Commercial Registries

Question                                       Baseline      End of     Improvement
                                               (%)           Project    EoP/B
                                                             (%)        (%)
1. Distribution according to level of
information before approaching a commercial
registry                                        60.4         64.4        6.6
   Justiciable                                  85.6         92.3        7.8
   Lawyer                                       87.5         90.6        3.5
   Expert
2.Distribution according level of satisfaction
with information obtained at the registries
   Justiciable                                  82.1         82.4         0.4
   Lawyer                                       83.4         89.0         6.7
   Expert                                       80.2         81.7         1.9
3. Distribution according satisfaction with
adequacy of offices and equipments and staff
qualification at the CR:
   Justiciable                                  80.3         82.5         2.7
   Lawyer                                       66.3         81.0        22.2
   Expert                                       72.0         79.0         9.7
4. Distribution according to satisfaction with
quality of service provided by CR staff
(reception, attention, respect)
   Justiciable                                  86.7         84.9        (2.2)
   Lawyer                                       84.1         89.6        6.5
   Expert                                       86.5         84.3        (2.6)



                                               - 34 -

5. Distribution according to satisfaction with
processing of documentation and delays at the
CR
   Justiciable                                 86.7        84.9    (2.1)
   Lawyer                                      84.1        89.6     6.5
   Expert                                      86.5        84.3    (2.6)
6. Distribution according to global level of
satisfaction with CR
   Justiciable                                 91.7        92.0     0.3
   Lawyer                                      92.4        99.0     7.1
   Expert                                      94.2        94.3     0.1

Degree of Satisfaction of Justiciables by Commercial Registry

Commercial Registry                                 Percent
                                                    Satisfied (%)
Rabat                                               70.4
Agadir                                              87.6
Casablanca                                          90.7
Tanger                                              94.4
Meknes                                              97.8
Oujda                                               100
Marrakech                                           100
Fes                                                 100




                                              - 35 -

IV.      SURVEY CARRIED OUT BY AMCHAM We are grateful to AMCHAM for providing us a
copy of their report and allowing us to quote from it.

              The AMCHAM survey, carried out in 2003, asked company executives their views
              about the general business environment, the fiscal and legal systems, and other topics
              relevant to business. 131 executives responded the survey.
              Findings relevant to the Bank project are summarized below:

(a)      The legal system is broadly considered as inefficient, subject to corruption, and unable to
ensure an equitable treatment of the cases....However, most of the interviewees believe that the
system of commercial courts has had a growing positive impact on enterprises, and that the courts
are increasing their efficacy.
(b)      Improvements are noted in practically all areas surveyed that are relevant to the Bank
project. The biggest gains are with regard to the commercial courts. Perceptions about corruption
is one area that gets worse marks in 2003 than in 2001.

                                                                      Agree   Agree
                                                                      2003    2001
                                                                      (%)     (%)
General business environment
I believe the environment in Morocco is conducive to the              81      69
development of my business
Laws, rules and regulations are applied equally to all                31      23
Corruption does not impact my business                                41      29
The legal system
The new commercial courts have had a positive impact on my            38      24
business
Commercial courts operate efficiently and are generally responsive to 33      20
the needs of business
Corruption is an issue within the legal system                        72      62




                                                      - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

                                     Résumé du rapport
                        sur la table ronde organisée à l'occasion
                               de la clôture du programme
                        de coopération avec la Banque Mondiale
                   concernant la réforme juridique et judiciaire :
                                    Bilan et perspectives

                                               Rabat

                                        Le 15 juillet 2004


  La partie organisatrice de la table ronde : Le ministère de la justice en collaboration avec la
      Banque Mondiale ;
  L'objet : Clôture du programme de coopération avec la Banque Mondiale : Evaluation du
      bilan et définition des perspectives ;
  Date et lieu : 15 juillet 2004 à l'hôtel Hilton à Rabat ;
  Les participants à cette rencontre : Les travaux de cette table ronde ont été inaugurées par
      Monsieur le Ministre de la justice. Cette rencontre a également connu la présence du
      Président du Bureau de la Banque Mondiale chargé du programme au Maroc ainsi que
      celle d'un nombre important d'organismes représentant les secteurs gouvernementaux,
      celui du monde des affaires et des finances, les chambres de commerce au Maroc, les
      groupements professionnels, la société civile et le Bureau de consultation, de la recherche
      et de la formation (IIHEM).
         Le Ministère de la justice était représenté lors de cette table ronde par Monsieur le
      Secrétaire Général en tant que Président des travaux et par le Directeur des affaires civiles,
      le Directeur des études, de la coopération et de la modernisation, le Directeur de l'Institut
      Supérieur de la Magistrature, le Conseiller de Monsieur le Ministre chargé des
      technologies de l'information, le chef de la division du suivi et de la modernisation, la
      Présidente du tribunal de commerce de Casablanca et le président du tribunal de
      commerce de Rabat en plus du rapporteur qui a rédigé le rapport susvisé ;

  Les principaux axes de cette rencontre : 1) L'intervention de Monsieur le Ministre de la
      Justice, du Président du Bureau de la Banque Mondiale, du Directeur de l'Institut
      Supérieur de la Magistrature et celle du Président du tribunal de commerce de Casablanca;
      2) Présentation par le Bureau de consultation, de la recherche et de la formation (IIHEM)
      des résultats du sondage effectué sur le projet; 3) Débat sur les répercussions du
      programme sur les juridictions commerciales ; 4) Présentation des conclusions et des
      recommandations.

   Résumé des principaux concepts et idées qui ont marqué cette rencontre : Ces idées se
  présentent comme suit :



                                               - 37 -

·       L'organisation de cette rencontre par le Ministère de la Justice, en collaboration avec la
Banque Mondiale, rentre dans le cadre de la volonté du Ministère de consacrer et de consolider
son ouverture sur les institutions et organisations mondiales, son environnement économique et
social, les composants de la société civile et les acteurs professionnels du monde des affaires et
des finances et ce dans le but de mettre en exergue les efforts fournis pour la réforme de la justice
afin que celle-ci puisse occuper la place qui lui incombe comme levier fondamental dans tout
développement continu et global;

·       Le programme de coopération avec la Banque Mondiale porte sur la réforme du système
juridique et judiciaire du Maroc. Le but qui en est escompté est de développer l'infrastructure
juridique du monde des affaires et créer un climat propice à l'investissement. L'enveloppe
budgétaire de ce programme s'élève à : 6,73 millions de dollars (70,6 millions de dirhams)
financées par un crédit accordé par la Banque Mondiale d'une valeur de 5,3 millions de dollars
(55,65 millions de dirhams) ; le gouvernement marocain contribue, pour sa part, au financement
du reste. Ce projet est le premier du genre dans la région du Maghreb arabe ;

·       Les tribunaux de commerce ont accompli leurs rôles avec une efficacité remarquable et un
très grand professionnalisme, c'est ce qui ressort des résultats du sondage effectué par un bureau
indépendant dans le cadre du programme précité (l'indice général de satisfaction sur la gestion des
affaires dans les tribunaux de commerce a atteint 93,50 % pour les avocats, 90,90 % pour les
experts, 93,93 % pour les justiciables. Quant aux prestations du registre de commerce, l'indice
susvisé a atteint 99 % pour les avocats, 94,30 % pour les experts, 92 % pour les justiciables);

·       Le projet a connu un tel succès qu'il est devenu un modèle au sein de la Banque Mondiale
pour les investisseurs étrangers intéressés par le marché marocain. En effet, 90% d'entre eux ont
exprimé leur satisfaction quant à la réussite de l'expérience réalisée dans les juridictions
commerciales, réussite qui a dépassé ainsi toutes les prévisions. Telles sont les conclusions qui
ressortent du sondage effectué sur les prestations de ces juridictions;

·       Le programme concernant la réforme de la formation au sein de l'Institut Supérieur de la
Magistrature se base sur : 1 - La révision de la formation des magistrats, l'amélioration de la
sélection d'accès à l'Institut et le développement des techniques d'enseignement; 2 - La révision
des objectifs et des structures de l'Institut en élargissant ses attributions pour garantir son
ouverture sur son environnement et sur le monde extérieur             et ce en privilégiant dans le
programme de formation les matières commerciales, économiques et financières et en insérant
d'autres telles que le droit de l'Union Européenne, le droit de tourisme, le droit commercial, le
droit de commerce international, le droit maritime, le droit de la propriété intellectuelle, la loi du
consommateur, la loi sur la concurrence, l'économie, la comptabilité, les finances, la gestion des
entreprises et les termes juridiques;

·       L'utilisation du système informatique dans les juridictions commerciales a permis de
garantir la célérité et la qualité dans la gestion des affaires, d'économiser sur le plan financier et
humain et de donner une autre image de la justice au sein de ces juridictions ; ce qui relevait ainsi
du rêve s'est transformé, grâce aux efforts consentis, en une réalité palpable;



                                                 - 38 -

·       Plusieurs concepts et projets existent pour habiliter et moderniser le Maroc en vue
d'améliorer l'environnement des affaires et augmenter l'investissement afin de développer son
économie; la réussite du programme de coopération entre le Ministère de la Justice et la Banque
Mondiale nécessite d'un côté de poursuivre l'évaluation et de consolider ce succès et d'un autre
côté d'assurer la pérennisation de cette réussite en élaborant une stratégie future dans d'autres
domaines qui ont également besoin d'appui et de financement;

·       Il est nécessaire pour optimiser la réussite de l'expérience effectuée dans les juridictions
commerciales et pour garantir la continuité des efforts déployés, que ce soit de la part du
Ministère de la Justice ou que ce soit grâce au programme de la coopération mondiale, de prendre
en considération les deux aspects suivants : En premier, remédier aux différents points de faiblesse
et aux dysfonctionnements qui continuent d'entraver la bonne marche de la justice et concilier
entre l'indépendance de la justice et le contrôle et le suivi des actes judiciaires; deuxièmement,
accorder un plus grand intérêt à la sensibilisation des justiciables et de l'opinion publique en
utilisant les moyens de communication écrite et audio-visuelle pour donner une image exacte de la
justice et pour réhabiliter ses fonctionnaires.

     Principales recommandations de la table ronde :

     La rencontre a abouti aux recommandations principales suivantes :

·       Puisque la coopération entre le Ministère de la Justice et la Banque Mondiale a été
couronnée de succès dans le domaine des juridictions commerciales, il incombe d'accorder un
intérêt similaire aux juridictions administratives et de droit commun pour montrer ainsi que cette
réussite n'a pas été réalisée au détriment du reste des tribunaux du Royaume ; cette réussite ouvre
également de nouvelles perspectives pour le maintien des relations de partenariat et de
coopération entre le Ministère de la Justice et la Banque Mondiale.

·       Malgré le progrès observé concernant l'exécution des jugements et des décisions
judiciaires qui est un des aspects fondamentaux de la réforme de la justice, il reste néanmoins des
obstacles qui continuent d'entraver l'exécution des jugements tout aussi bien dans les tribunaux de
droit commun que dans les tribunaux spécialisés.

·       Malgré les efforts déployés dans le domaine de la communication pour rapprocher le
Ministère de la Justice de son environnement extérieur, on remarque que les justiciables et
l'opinion publique ont toujours besoin d'être renseignés sur        leurs droits ; il est également
nécessaire d'informer sur les efforts fournis par le ministère dans la réforme de la justice sur tous
les niveaux et sur le succès réalisé grâce au programme de coopération avec la Banque Mondiale
eu égard à l'importance de l'expérience entreprise par cette Banque avec des organisations et des
agences gouvernementales et non gouvernementales sur le plan international.




                                                 - 39 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation Report

                                ROYAUME DU MAROC
                              MINISTERE DE LA JUSTICE


                          PROJET DE REFORME JURIDIQUE
                                   ET JUDICIAIRE

RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
Juillet 2004




                              Prêt BIRD N° 4563 MOR




                 POUR UN MONTANT DE 55,65 MILLIONS DE DH




                          POUR UN PROJET D'APPUI A




                     LA REFORME JURIDIQUE ET JUDICIAIRE




                                    16 Juillet 2004




                                         - 40 -

                                  TABLE DES MATIERES


                                                          Page n°


I - Genèse du projet                                            42
II - Objectifs du projet                                        42
III - Gestion du projet                                         43
IV ­ Coût du projet                                             44
V - Réalisations                                                44
VI - Facteurs affectant l'exécution du projet                   47
VII - Performance de la Banque                                  47
VIII ­ Coordination avec les autres bailleurs de fonds          48
IX - Leçons tirées                                              48
X - Pérennité du projet                                         48
Annexes                                                         49




                                              - 41 -

I ­ GENESE DU PROJET


Le projet de réforme juridique et judiciaire au Maroc qui constitue une priorité nationale a été
présenté par le gouvernement en 1998 et il a suscité un grand intérêt auprès de la Banque
Mondiale qui s'est mobilisée pour y apporter son appui. Et c'est dans le cadre d'un don japonais
en faveur du Ministère de la Justice qu'une étude préliminaire a été réalisée pour définir les
composantes du projet baptisé « Projet de réforme juridique et judiciaire » qui comprend les axes
d'intervention suivants : l'amélioration du cadre législatif et réglementaire pour les activités
commerciales et la résolution du contentieux; le renforcement des juridictions commerciales, la
restructuration de l'Institut National des Etudes Judiciaires et enrichissement de son cursus ainsi
que le renforcement de la capacité de communication du Ministère de la Justice.

Le projet a été mis au point en mars 2000, et les négociations du prêt ont commencé avec la
Banque Mondiale en avril 2000 pour la préparation de l'accord de prêt à la date de juin 2000
après plusieurs réunions avec les experts de la Banque Mondiale impliqués dans le secteur de la
Justice et de la bonne gouvernance.

En janvier 2001, la cellule d'exécution du projet a été mise en place et les membres du comité
d'orientation ont été désignés.

L'accord de prêt a été signé par le Ministre des finances le 30 avril 2001 et validé par le
Secrétariat Général du Gouvernement le 11juin 2001.

Bien que l'accord de prêt ait été donné par la banque Mondiale en juin 2000, le projet n'est entré
en vigueur que le 16 juillet 2001 pour des raisons de budgétisation. En effet, il a fallu attendre la
loi de finance de 2001 pour y intégrer le projet.


II ­ OBJECTIFS DU PROJET


Le programme de réforme juridique et judiciaire entamé par le Ministère de la Justice repose sur

les axes suivants :

1.      Amélioration du cadre législatif et réglementaire pour les activités commerciales et la
résolution du contentieux par la création d'un environnement organisationnel adéquat et des
moyens efficaces pour la résolution des litiges commerciaux en matière d'arbitrage commercial,
de tribunaux de commerce et de registres de commerce.
2.      Modernisation des juridictions de commerce à travers le renforcement des capacités de
gestion du système judiciaire et du registre de commerce. Modernisation incontournable pour un
développement économique et social durables
3.      Renforcement de la formation à l'Institut supérieur de la magistrature, en matière
d'organisation, de pédagogie et de moyens humains et financiers.



                                                - 42 -

4.      Renforcement des capacités de communication du Ministère de la Justice pour faciliter
l'accès du public aux informations légales :


III ­ GESTION DU PROJET


L'accord de prêt a prévu la mise en place de deux structures pour assurer le pilotage et la gestion
du projet, une Cellule de Gestion du Projet chargée de sa mise en oeuvre composée de 11 cadres
qualifiés du Ministère et d'un conseil d'orientation présidé par le Ministre de la Justice et
constitué des représentants de divers parties intéressées du secteur public et des organisations du
secteur privé.

Le conseil d'orientation s'est réuni à trois reprises, à l'issue de la dernière réunion, les membres
ont proposé un certain nombre d'actions dont la création d'un centre de documentation juridique
et judiciaire, droit de la famille et droit de travail qui pourraient bénéficier d'un appui de la
Banque Mondiale.

L'exécution du programme ainsi que son suivi technique, administratif et financier a été assurée
par la CGP qui s'est chargée de préparer les rapports d'activité, les rapports financiers et tous les
éléments financiers, techniques et administratifs nécessaires à l `exécution du programme tels que
la passation des marchés, et ceux présentés dans le cadre de l'audit annuel des comptes et des
missions d'évaluation du programme à mi-parcours et à l'issue des 3 années. Par ailleurs, la CGP
avait pour tâche la préparation de trois séminaires qui ont été organisés dans le cadre du projet
(démarrage, évaluation et achèvement du projet).

Par ailleurs, la mise en oeuvre du projet a bénéficié d'une assistance technique et de tout
l'équipement nécessaire à son renforcement (bureautique, matériel informatique, véhicules de
transport,).

Le projet a rencontré des difficultés suite à des changements qui ont été opérés au cours de la
dernière année d'exécution du projet et qui ont généré une période de flottement marquée par:
·       Une réduction des membres de la cellule à 7 cadres du Ministère ;
·       L'inexistence d'un manuel de procédures qui devait être préparé au démarrage du projet;
·       Un retard accumulé dans l'exécution des activités ;

Beaucoup d'efforts ont été entrepris par la nouvelle équipe, les responsables du projet au niveau
de la Banque Mondiale et ceux au Ministère des Finances et de la Privatisation pour faire avancer
les décaissements et toutes les activités qui n'ont pu être exécutées dans les délais initialement
prévus tels que le sondage, les nouveaux modules de formation pour l'Institut Supérieur de la
magistrature et celles liées à la composante communication.

Il faut signaler qu'à tout moment, le Ministère de la justice a eu une volonté forte d'accompagner
la mise en oeuvre du projet




                                                - 43 -

IV ­ COUT DU PROJET


Evalué à 6,73 millions de dollars en janvier 2000, le projet a bénéficié d'un prêt n°4563-MOR de
5,3 millions de $US. Au 31 juillet 2004, le total des décaissements est de 49 604 878,11 DH, soit
70,20 % du prêt original. Les détails sur les coûts et le financement du projet se trouvent en
annexe.
Les responsables du projet au Ministère des Finances et de la Privatisation et l'équipe du
Ministère de la Justice chargée du projet ont décidé de procéder à l'annulation d'un montant de 6
millions de dirhams faute d'engagement.


V ­ REALISATIONS


    1. Amélioration du cadre législatif et réglementaire pour les activités commerciales et la
    résolution du contentieux :

·       Rédaction du code de l'arbitrage : Il s'agit de faire une analyse du cadre juridique
existant, des études de droit comparé et d'élaborer des propositions pour produire un projet de loi
qui définit un nouveau cadre juridique pour le règlement alternatif des différends commerciaux au
Maroc, y compris l'arbitrage international.
·       Rédaction d'amendements aux textes existants sur les juridictions de commerce : Sur la
base des études déjà effectuées sur le fonctionnement des juridictions commerciales marocaines et
des évaluations faites par le Ministère de la Justice sur le sujet, proposer des amendements aux
textes existants dans le but de compléter, corriger ou clarifier les dispositions existantes et
d'améliorer les procédures en vigueur.
·       Préparation des textes législatifs et/ou réglementaires offrant un support légal à la nouvelle
organisation des registres de commerce, liée à l'introduction des nouvelles technologies dans la
gestion quotidienne et les services offerts aux usagers : nouveaux formulaires, services en ligne et
paiements électronique.

Concernant les textes législatifs et réglementaires, le projet de code d'arbitrage et celui des textes
relatifs aux registres de commerce sont dans le circuit d'adoption. Le rapport des textes relatifs
au fonctionnement des juridictions commerciales a été jugé insatisfaisant, la décision du
Ministère est pour une reprise en interne de ce projet.

En raison du retard enregistré dans le processus d'adoption des nouveaux textes par les autorités
concernées, l'impact des nouveaux textes n'a pas été traité lors du dernier sondage.


2.      Modernisation des juridictions de commerce

Le programme de modernisation des juridictions commerciales repose sur une série d'actions liées
à l'introduction de systèmes informatisés de gestion qui prennent en charge la gestion complète
des affaires portées en justice commerciale, et les services délivrés par les registres de commerce.,



                                                 - 44 -

à la formation des magistrats et des greffiers de toues les juridictions commerciales sur le nouveau
système, à l'acquisition d'outils informatiques, à la mise en réseau au sein de chaque tribunal de
commerce et à l'installation d'infopoints.

L'utilisation des nouvelles technologies a permis d'assurer des prestations et des services de
qualité: Amélioration des services rendus aux citoyens en terme de qualité et de sécurité (délais,
accueil,    renseignements, conseil, orientation, services en ligne (guides usagers, guides des
procédures, formulaires, services interactifs...). Deux des objectifs fixés initialement n'ont pu être
atteints, il s'agit de la mise en réseau des tribunaux de commerce et de la mise en place de
bases de données juridiques et judiciaires.

·       En ce qui concerne la gestion des dossiers, il s'agit de prendre en charge toutes les
informations liées aux affaires durant leur cycle de vie : enregistrement des requêtes, suivi des
audiences et prise en charge des données en audience, jugement, exécution en tenant compte des
procédures intermédiaires telles que l'expertise, les procédures collectives et en éditant toutes les
pièces nécessaires au déroulement de l'affaire. Cela implique un changement positif dans le mode
de travail des magistrats et des greffiers par conséquent, plus d'efficacité, de fiabilité du règlement
des litiges. S'inspirant du système de suivi des dossiers réalisé pour le compte des tribunaux de
commerce, les équipes du Ministère de la Justice ont d'ores et déjà finalisé l'application en matière
civile, qui a été implantée dans le tribunal de Casablanca-Anfa, du tribunal de première instance de
Rabat et de la cour d'appel de Rabat.
·       Prise en charge et suivi rigoureux de toutes les opérations sur le registre de commerce :
immatriculations, modifications, radiations, ventes, gérance libre, nantissements, main-levée,
contrat bail, saisies, jugements, dépôt de bilans et des états de synthèse, éditions de certificats et
attestations. Pour le registre de commerce, la couverture s'étend au niveau des tribunaux de
première instance qui tiennent des registres locaux de commerce. Enfin, échange de données avec
les centres régionaux d'investissement, notamment celui de Casablanca ainsi qu'avec l'OMPIC du
Ministère du Commerce et de l'Industrie. La disponibilité et l'exactitude des données sur le
registre de commerce sont d'une importance cruciale pour les investisseurs, les opérateurs
économiques, c'est pour cela que le Ministère de la Justice n'a pas ménagé d'efforts pour faciliter
l'accès aux données sur le registre de commerce et veiller à leur exactitude en assainissant et en
mettant à jour la base de données du registre de commerce.


3.      Renforcement de la formation à l'Institut supérieur de la magistrature

Dans le cadre du renforcement des capacités de formation et de gestion de l'Institut National des
Etudes Judiciaires, toutes les mesures ont été mises en oeuvre pour atteindre les objectifs fixés
initialement. Une réorganisation de l'Institut qui a changé son mode d'administration et de gestion
en devenant un établissement public autonome sous le nom de l'Institut Supérieur de la
Magistrature (L'ISM), afin qu'il soit capable de soutenir la modernisation de l'enseignement qu'il
dispense, mise en place d'un véritable centre de formation pour magistrats et greffiers,
introduction de nouvelles matières dans le cursus de l'ISM, 13 nouveaux modules de formation
(Economie, Comptabilité, Finance, Gestion d'entreprise, Droit commercial, Droit de la
consommation, Droit de la propriété intellectuelle, Droit de la concurrence, Droit du commerce
international, Droit communautaire, Droit du tourisme, Droit portuaire et maritime et la


                                                 - 45 -

Terminologie juridique), destinés à renforcer les connaissances et les capacités des attachés de
justice. Le matériel pédagogique pour chacun des modules, la formation des formateurs et la
spécialisation de certains magistrats ont pu être assurées. Le dernier axe de cette composante est
relatif à la modernisation et l'introduction des nouvelles technologies à travers l'équipement de
L'ISM en matériel (serveurs, postes de travail...), logiciel de gestion de la bibliothèque et
mobilier. La dotation de la bibliothèque d'un fonds documentaire et la préparation d'un
laboratoire de langues n'ont pas été réalisées.
Par ailleurs et pour rendre effective la réorganisation de l'ISM et le renforcement de la formation
qu'il Y dispense, plusieurs actions doivent être menées :
·       Approuver les projets de textes relatifs au règlement intérieur de l'ISM, au statut de l'ISM
et à l'organigramme de l'ISM, le projet de décret déterminant les conditions d'accès au concours
des attachés de justice, le programme des épreuves, leur notation ainsi que les modalités de
l'examen de fin de stage des dits attachés, les projets d'arrêtés du Ministre de la Justice relatifs au
régime, modalités et durée des cycles d'études et des travaux pratiques à l'ISM, ainsi que ceux
des stages dans les différents tribunaux et les établissements publics ou privés pour les attachés de
justice et les secrétaires greffiers, et le projet d'arrêté du Ministre de la Justice déterminant les
critères de présentation des candidats admis au concours des attachés de justice.
·       Désigner les directeurs et doter l'ISM de cadres spécialisés dans les domaines
d'administration, finances
·       Renforcer la publication de revues, brochures et dépliants
·       Aller vers la spécialisation en tenant compte des besoins des tribunaux
·       Offrir davantage de pratique pour les attachés de justice de manière à garantir plus de
professionnalisme
·       Informatiser la gestion de l'ISM et le suivi de la formation des attachés de justice
·       Instaurer un système d'évaluation de la gestion de l'ISM sur la base d'indicateurs
·       Encourager la coopération internationale
·       Etablir un plan de formation pour les greffiers en s'inspirant des modules préparés pour les
magistrats et en intégrant des modules liés aux procédures et l'administration du greffe en relation
avec les tribunaux pour les stages des greffiers.


4)      Renforcement des capacités de communication du Ministère de la Justice

La composante communication vise à renforcer la capacité du Ministère à gérer et diffuser
l'information juridique et judiciaire pour les mettre à la disposition des magistrats, greffiers qui
exercent dans les tribunaux et les citoyens et justiciables. La communication telle qu'elle a été
entreprise par le Ministère de la Justice s'articule autour de trois axes pour faciliter la transition
d'une administration cloisonnée et renfermée sur elle-même vers une administration transparente
et proche des citoyens et des entreprises. :
·       Diffusion de l'information : renforcement des capacités du Ministère à collecter, gérer et
diffuser l'information juridique, judiciaire et réglementaire via un système multicanal (SMS, fax,
Web...), infopoints installés dans toutes les juridictions commerciales, brochures, dépliants...
·       Vulgarisation : information du citoyen à travers le site du Ministère et les services en ligne
offerts qui sont basés sur Internet comme plateforme d'interactivité avec les citoyens.
·       Enquête sur « la perception des juridictions commerciales et du registre de commerce par



                                                  - 46 -

les opérateurs économiques ; et de la capacité de communication du Ministère par les citoyens et
les justiciables » lancée en deux temps, à mi parcourt et à la fin du projet pour donner lieu à une
synthèse générales suivi de recommandations liées aux résultats des deux enquêtes. Ces enquêtes
ont été réalisées par sondage auprès des échantillons représentatifs des justiciables, opérateurs
économiques et autres usagers et praticiens des juridictions commerciales et du registre de
commerce.
Les résultats des deux enquêtes sont très positifs, la perception des justiciables à l'égard des
juridictions commerciales est très largement positive (allant de 92,8% pour la gestion des affaires
et 92% pour le registre de commerce à mi-parcours à 93,30% pour la gestion des affaires et 92%
pour le registre de commerce lors de l'enquête finale). Celle des avocats suit la même tendance
(allant de 89,50% pour la gestion des affaires et 92,40% pour le registre de commerce à
mi-parcours à 93,50% pour la gestion des affaires et 99% pour le registre de commerce lors de
l'enquête finale). Quant aux experts, leur perception est positive et stable pour la gestion des
affaires (allant de 90,50% pour la gestion des affaires et 92,20% pour le registre de commerce à
90,90% pour la gestion des affaires à 94,30% pour le registre de commerce lors de l'enquête
finale).

Il faudrait maintenir sinon améliorer cette perception en renforçant le système d'information et de
communication des juridictions commerciales, améliorant la qualité de service rendu aux usagers
et consolidant l'organisation et le fonctionnement des juridictions commerciales.

Par ailleurs, le Ministère de la Justice compte entamer un programme de sensibilisation du grand
public pour accompagner la réforme qu'il entreprend à travers les différents moyens, la télévision,
la radio et la presse.


VI ­ FACTEURS AFFECTANT L'EXECUTION DU PROJET

·       L'entrée en vigueur du projet a été tardive pour des raisons de budgétisation (loi de
finance de 2001);
·       La lenteur des procédures conernant le traitement des passations de marchés, des
engagements et des paiements a donné lieu à des retards dans l'exécution ;
·       Le changement opérés dans la CGP ont généré un retard dans l'exécution de certaines
composantes, en particulier celles de l'ISM pour laquelle il y' a eu recours à un avenant afin
d'exécuter les tâches afférentes à cette composante, c'est le cas aussi pour le second sondage et la
composante communication ;
·       Le circuit d'adoption des textes ;


VII ­ PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE

Dans l'ensemble, la performance de la Banque Mondiale est considérée satisfaisante, en effet, la
qualité du dialogue avec ses représentants, le sérieux avec lequel le projet a été étudié depuis les
négociations, l'expertise et la diversification des compétences dont elle dispose ont permis à
l'équipe du Ministère d'assurer l'exécution du projet et de dépasser tous les problèmes qui ont été
rencontrés lors de sa mise en oeuvre.




                                               - 47 -

VIII- COORDINATION AVEC LES AUTRES BAILLEURS DE FONDS

Dans le cadre du projet, le Ministère de la Justice a tenu une réunion de coordination avec tous les
bailleurs de fonds, les représentants de l'Union européenne, la banque Mondiale, l'USAID et la
coopération Française pour faire le point sur les interventions respectives de chacun d'eux dans le
domaine de la justice et de poursuivre la coordination périodique des activités afin d'écarter tout
risque de chevauchement ou de redondance.


IX ­ LECONS TIREES DU PROJET

·       La mise en place d'une cellule de gestion de projet composée de cadres du Ministère de la
Justice reste un gage de réussite pour la mise en oeuvre du projet. Il est également important
d'associer plusieurs profils à la cellule pour assurer toutes les fonctions liées à la gestion du projet
telles que la gestion financière, la passation des marchés. Elle doit disposer d'un manuel de
procédures dès le démarrage du projet ;
·       Toutes les études relatives aux textes et à la réglementation seront faites en interne ;
·       Capitaliser l'expérience acquise dans l'informatisation des juridictions commerciales pour
la porter dans les tribunaux de droit commun (développement des compétences internes du
Ministère en charge du développement informatique et de l'administration des systèmes) afin
d'éviter d'avoir une justice à deux vitesses ;
·       Instaurer la notion de sondage et d'évaluation dans l'administration de la justice ;
·       Faire bénéficier les greffiers de programme de formation à l'ISM à l'instar de ce qui a été
fait pour les magistrats ;
·       Encourager la spécialisation à l'ISM afin de suivre les progrès des lois ;
·       Ouvrir l'ISM sur l'environnement socio-économique national et international ;
·       Enfin, ayant égard à l'expérience capitalisée par le Ministère de la Justice, il peut être
considéré comme une référence dans ce domaine pour d'autres pays arabes ;
·       Développer la communication et la diffusion de l'information juridique et judiciaire en
interne et en externe ;
·       Capitaliser l'expertise acquise lors de l'exécution du projet de réforme juridique et
judiciaire pour en faire bénéficier tous les projets de coopération du Ministère de la Justice ;


X - PERENNITE DU PROJET

La réforme de la justice est un processus continu qui ne prend pas fin à l'achèvement du projet,
pour être viable, il nécessite un engagement à long terme de la part du Ministère de la Justice. En
fait sa viabilité est fort probable grâce au programme triennal de modernisation de la Justice qui
est financé par l'Union Européenne pour un montant de 27,7 millions d'euros. Ce programme vise
l'amélioration du fonctionnement de la justice, modernisation de l'administration judiciaire et
renforcement des capacités organisationnelles du Ministère de la Justice.

Enfin, ce type de projet de modernisation ne va pas sans un soutien politique continu des
autorités, condition de la crédibilité du projet et de la motivation des personnels qui s'y engagent.




                                                  - 48 -

ANNEXE
Financement du projet par composante



Composante                                           Financement
                                                     BanqueGouvernementTotal

Amélioration du cadre législatif et réglementaire    2 398 962,69599 740,672 998 703,36

pour les activités commerciales et la résolution du

contentieux commercial

Renforcement de la capacité de gestion du système 26 551 842,886 637 960,7233 189 803,60

judiciaire et des registres de

commerce

Renforcement des capacités de formation et de8 162 021,962 720 673,9910 882 695,94

gestion de l'Institut National des Etudes Judiciaires

Renforcement de la capacité de communication et1 545 880,32386 470,081 932 350,40

d'inspection du Ministère de la Justice

Fournitures d'assistance technique et d'équipement1 129 171,98247 867,021 377 039,00

pour le renforcement de la cellule de gestion du

projet

TOTAL                                                39 787 879,8210 592 712,4850 380 592,30




                                                        - 49 -

- 50 -

