Report No. PID8712
Project Name                     Morocco-Legal and Judicial Development...
Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa
Project ID                       MAPE63918
Borrower                         The Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing Agency              The Ministry of Justice (MOJ) of the Kingdom
of Morocco
Environment Category             C
Date this PID revised            February 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         April 2000
Projected Board Date             June 2000
Background
There have been substantial efforts over the past few years to modernize
Morocco's legal and regulatory framework, aiming at establishing a more
business-friendly environment. Such efforts have been motivated in large
measure by the need to bring Morocco's legal framework up to par in light of
the 1997 Association Agreement with the European Union.
More recently, attention has turned to another key determinant of the
efficiency and effectiveness of the legal and regulatory framework-the
functioning of the judiciary. The judiciary has long been criticized by all
stakeholders in Morocco, particularly with regard to business-related
litigation. In the 1998 PSA update the Bank has identified a series of
deficiencies in the functioning of the Moroccan judicial system as well as
weaknesses in its legislative framework, in particular with regard to
providing for an adequate and supportive environment for private sector
development. Major shortcomings include a lack of: (i) efficiency and
timeliness in the judicial process, resulting in huge backlog of cases, even
at the Supreme Court level; (ii) transparency in judicial decision-making and
of predictability in judgments; (iii) capacity to enforce judgments; (iv)
competence in matters of commercial law, broadly defined; and (v)
dissemination of legal information.
The Moroccan policy-makers now fully recognize the pressing need to improve
the functioning of the judiciary, and significant reform efforts are already
underway. Following the current Government's assumption of office in early
1998-and, significantly, the non-partisan Justice Minister's
reappointment-the judicial reform agenda was put forward as a top priority in
the program presented by the Prime Minister in his first address to the newly
elected parliament in April of 1998.
Program and Project Objectives
The reform of the Justice sector will remain an essential component of the
forthcoming five-year economic development plan. This reform program will



focus on five major dimensions: (1) organization of the sector, including the
improvement of the network of jurisdictions (carte judiciaire); (2) human
resources, including training of magistrates, auxiliaries of justice and
management personnel; (3) a general framework for performance assessment of
the judiciary; (4) information and communication, and (5) moralization of the
sector and promotion of ethical standards.
Within the context of this broad reform program, aiming essentially at the
development of an independent, competent and professional judiciary, committed
to high standards of ethics and capable of efficient and transparent dispute
resolution, the Project objective is to improve the legal framework and the
performance of the judiciary in business related activities.
This objective will be pursued by: (a) strengthening the judicial system's
capacity to handle business related cases through the introduction of modern
court and case management tools and systems in specialized commercial
tribunals and registries of commerce; (b) strengthening, in terms of statutes,
management, and curriculum, the National Institute for Judicial Studies (INEJ)
so as to ensure that it becomes a well managed, autonomous institution,
capable of providing adequate training for magistrates and auxiliaries of
justice, particularly in matters relating to commercial and business law and
ethics standards; (c) increasing the Government's capacity to disseminate
legal and regulatory information (including judicial decisions, laws, and
regulations) useful to lawyers, judges and all other interested individuals,
whether or not within the business community, and to assess the impact of the
overall justice reform program through awareness actions and users surveys;
and (d) further modernizing the Moroccan legal and regulatory framework with
particular emphasis on a Commercial Arbitration Code consolidating into a
single legal instrument the numerous arbitration provisions currently
scattered in Moroccan laws and streamlining the commercial procedures.
Project Description
(A) Strengthening of the judicial system's capacity to handle business-related
cases and modernization of the Registries of Commerce.
(B) Strengthening the Ministry of Justice's capacity to manage and disseminate
legal, judicial and regulatory information, including a public awareness
program, through provision of technical assistance and equipment.
(C) Upgrading the training of judges through the reorganization of INEJ,
including (i) the introduction of modern systems of management, information
and research tools; and (ii) the reformation of INEJ's present curriculum,
staffing and course materials (including library resources and equipment) so
as to provide for adequate requisite training for magistrates, particularly in
matters relating to commercial and business law and ethics.
(D) Drafting of an Arbitration Code and amendment of existing codes of
commercial and civil procedures, so as to improve and streamline access to
justice.
Project Implementation
Implementing Agency: The Ministry of Justice will be the executing agency of
the Project. Within the Ministry, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be
- 2-



established and will be responsible for the day to day implementation of the
Project. The PIU will provide technical assistance and support to the other
agencies, such as INEJ, involved in project execution. The PIU will: (a) be
responsible for procurement, (b) maintain Project accounts and financial
management systems, (c) disseminate project related information and (d)
conduct the project's mid-term review. The PIU will be the Bank Project
team's counterpart during Project preparation, implementation, and evaluation.
The PIU will be supervised by a Stressing Committee, presided over by the
Minister of Justice and comprising: (i) members of the Bar Association; (ii)
professors of law from the major law schools of the country; (iii) members of
the private sector (banking sector, stock market, CGEM, labor unions); (iv)
members from the administration (finance, higher education, etc.); (v) a
representative from the Supreme Court, and (v) a representative from the
Secretariat General du Gouvernement (Government's legal counsel). This
committee will ensure a wide-ranging participatory approach to the project
involving all major stakeholders, and will be responsible for the coordination
of the different agencies involved in project implementation. The PIU will
report to the Steering Committee.
Program and Project Financing
According to preliminary estimates, the total program of reform of the Justice
system in Morocco is estimated to cost around 150 million dollars for the
duration of the five year Plan. The Project will cover a small portion of this
reform program, focusing on the reform for business related activities, and
will be of an amount of about 5 million dollars. Other donors, such as the
European Union, will also contribute to the overall reform program.
Lessons from Previous Bank Experience
The proposed project will be the first of its kind in Morocco and should be
considered as a pilot. However, it should benefit from the experience acquired
by the Moroccan Government in implementing the initial steps of the reform of
the Justice sector as well as Bank's experience of legal and judicial reform
projects in other countries such as Georgia, Venezuela, Bolivia, and Ecuador.
The lessons learned from both types of experience underscore the crucial
importance of ownership and commitment at the highest level of government as
well as stability of relevant government policies and leadership. Experience
shows that national stakeholders have to be involved from the outset, and all
along, in studying the problems, proposing the solutions, and implementing
those that are agreed upon. Experience also shows that strong and sustained
support for legal and judicial reform by the country's highest political
authorities is crucial. In the absence of strong and constant political
support, very little, if anything, can be achieved by the provision of
computers, training and other technical assistance to the judiciary. Finally,
there is little meaning in trying to transplant in Morocco a "turn key" reform
Project, as it will be deemed for failure because of lack of direct relation
with the reality of the country, its legal and judicial tradition and culture
as well as its particular political, economic and social situation. The
Project has at its core the taking into account of the Government's reform
priorities. In doing so, the Bank has identified, with the Moroccan
Government, a significant and well defined portion of the country's reform
project and has proposed to finance it.
Sustainability
-3-



The Government's reform strategy, supported by the project, includes features
that should give a firm foundation for sustainability provided they are
successfully implemented, and the political will to bring them into fruition
remains unharmed. The more important of these include, but are not limited to:
(i) the successful reform of the National Institute for Judicial Studies
(INEJ), including its capacity to educate and train magistrates and
auxiliaries of justice in a manner that will enable them to run adequately the
modernized Moroccan judiciary; (ii) the strengthening of commercial courts
capacity for speedy, high quality and transparent rendering of justice,
including streamlining of procedures; (iii) the establishment of an operating
and efficient management system for the registries of commerce, that will give
more security in commercial transactions and provide the business community
with a transparent and reliable tool for business creation and monitoring;
(iv) the establishment of an operating, efficient legal information management
system, allowing for the free flow of knowledge and information throughout the
country; (v) the enactment of a commercial arbitration code that will provide
the private sector, including foreign investors, with a new alternative for
the settlement of commercial disputes; the modernization of the codes of civil
and commercial procedures that will streamline court procedures and provide
users with a more satisfactory resolution of disputes.
Environmental Aspects
The Project does not have explicit environmental components or effects and has
therefore been classified as Category C.
Poverty Category
By improving the performance of the commercial judicial system, including for
the benefit of small and micro-enterprises, the Project will contribute to
greater access to justice for the poor.
Program Objectives Categories
The project, through improving the legal framework and the performance of the
judiciary,    will contribute to the development of better governance
institutions and to the strengthening the environment for business
activities.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Ferid Belhaj
Tel: (202) 458-5319
Fax: (202) 477-1334
Co-Task Manager
Amine Khene
- 4-



Tel: (202) 458-4746
Fax: (202) 477-0432
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 18, 2000.
- 5 -



