Page  1
June 29, 1999
H.E. Fathallah Oualalou
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco
Re:
PHRD Grant for a Legal and Judicial Reform Project
Grant No. TF-025851
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding two hundred fifty 
three thousand and five hundred United States Dollars (US$253,500) (the Grant) to the 
Kingdom of Morocco (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christian Delvoie
Director
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED:
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
By /s/ Omar Azziman
By /s/ Fathallah Oualalou
Minister of Justice
Ministre de l’Economie el des Finances
Date: 10-08-99
Date: 18 Aout 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities 
The purposes of the Grant are to assist in the preparation of the Legal and 
Judicial Reform Project, which has as main objective the modernization of Morocco’s 
Page  2
judicial sector management and legal framework, notably in matters related to private 
sector development. The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are 
to prepare the following components of the Project, through result oriented studies:
(a)
assessment of the present training system for judges and auxiliaries of 
justice, with particular emphasis on those who will be officiating in commercial 
courts, and proposing the reforms needed;
(b)
study of the current legal framework for international business 
transactions in Morocco, with particular emphasis on arbitration, and proposal of an 
outline for new legal instruments such as, but not exclusively, an arbitration code; 
(c)
study of the current case management and administration  systems in the 
Courts of Commerce and in the Ministry of Justice through assessment of the reforms 
already introduced in the management and administration of the Ministry of Justice and 
the current practice in the newly established Courts of Commerce, and proposal of 
modern management tools and schemes; and
(d)
study of the existing capabilities of the commercial registries and 
proposing ways and means for their strengthening and modernization.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by February 28, 2000. After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Kingdom of Morocco on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ 
personnel (other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Kingdom of 
Morocco, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been 
suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant 
funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, 
to withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request 
for the Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement. 
