Report No. PID10183
Project Name                     Brazil-Family Health Project
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Task Team Leader                 Gerard La Forgia
Sector                           Other Population, Health & Nutrition
Project ID Number                BRPE57665
Borrower                         Government of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Health - Secretaria de Saude
Ms. Patricia Leal
Task Team Leader
Project Coordinator
Ministry of Health
Bloco G, Ed. Sede, 8 andar Suit 823
Brasilia DF70058-900
Brazil
Phone: 55-61-315-2046 Fax: 202-522-0050
Email: Patricia.raupp@saude.gov.br
Environmental Category           C
Date this PID Prepared           November 8, 2001
Appraisal Date                   November 12-16, 2001
Project Board Date               January 31, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Main Sector Issues
Brazil's Poor Have Poor Health Outcomes. The most recent poverty assessment
for the country estimates that 23 percent (35 million) of the population
lives in extreme poverty and 45 percent lives in poverty. Approximately half
of the poor live in urban areas. The health status of the Brazilian poor is
significantly worse than that of the non-poor. Children of poor families have
three times higher risk of dying before the age of 5 than children from the
wealthiest segments of the population.
While poor urban children have better vaccination rates and are more likely
to be treated for diarrhea and ARI than their rural counterparts, the
prevalence of these childhood illnesses (diarrhea and ARI) among the urban
poor is higher. Although the urban poor have better access to health services
during childhood than the rural poor, the higher urban infant mortality raise
questions about the timeliness, continuity and quality of care received,
and/or the severity of the underlying illness.
Improving Performance Through Decentralization Depends on Improved Management
Capacity at the Municipal Level.    Brazil has taken an incremental approach
to decentralization and health system reform. Initiated with the
constitutional reforms of 1988 and supported by laws, decrees, and regulations
spanning the 1990s, decentralization has transformed SUS from a centralized



system to one in which municipalities, and to a lesser extent states, are the
main players in the organization and delivery of public health services.
Although there is no hard evidence demonstrating the effect of
decentralization on health status, service quality or system efficiency and
equity, the MS as well as outside observers have noted a number of
shortcomings in the decentralization process that may threaten future system
performance and PSF expansion: (i) mismatch between delegated responsibilities
and existing institutional capacity of many municipalities; (ii) unclear
division of responsibilities between states and municipalities particularly in
terms of planning, supervision and financial and information flows; (iii) weak
municipal capacity to organize and manage health service delivery, in part
due to a dearth of trained management professionals; (iv) absence of
systematic monitoring and evaluation; (v) tendency of municipal managers to
focus on inputs rather than results and outputs; and (vi) inability of many
states and municipalities to implement functional referral systems.
Reforms in Financing of Health Services are Advancing but Remain Incomplete.
Recent reforms in health financing gave a strong impulse to the
decentralization of basic care, strengthened the resource base available for
health and demonstrated the government's strategy of gradual improvement of
the health financing system. In 1998 the federal Government replaced
fee-for-service reimbursements for basic interventions by a system of
per-capita transfers for primary care (PAB -- Piso Assistencial Basico).
The amount capitated is augmented to municipalities that adopt priority
programs promoted by the government, such as the PSF. After years of
struggling with temporary measures, in 2000 Congress approved Constitutional
Amendment 29 (EC 29), mandating an increase in the funding levels for the
health sector by the federal government (linking growth in health sector
financing to GDP growth), and earmarking 12 percent of state revenues and
15 percent of municipal revenues to the health sector.
Despite vigorous federal action to increase financing for health care and
introduce alternative payment systems, with the intention of creating an
equitable and rationalized system, virtually all observers agree that the
reform agenda is far from complete. Currently, the Brazilian health
system continues to be characterized by: (a) insufficient linkage between
financial mechanisms and health priorities; (b) poor incentives for managers
of primary care units (mostly municipal) and hospitals (mostly private) to
use public resources efficiently; (c) management weaknesses at the municipal
level, particularly in managing the PAB and applying these resources to purchase
effective service delivery, in using information for monitoring and
evaluating performance, and for taking strategic corrective actions; and
(d) absence of rigorous analyses of resource use.
The Family Health Program Has Major Potential, but Faces Obstacles to Future
Expansion. PSF was launched in 1994 building on the strengths of its 1991
predecessor, the PAC (Programa de Atencao Comunitaria). PSF was conceived
as a lynchpin in the transformation of the mainly curative and
hospital-centered health care system toward one that is oriented toward
prevention, promotion and basic care. The program seeks to develop
high-quality primary care services that serve vulnerable populations in a
proactive manner; eventually these services are expected to serve as an entry
point to higher level services.    PSF organized community agents into teams,
which typically include a general practice or family health physician,
a nurse, one or two auxiliary nurses and more recently a part-time dentist
and/or dental technician. The PSF built upon the PAC by providing the teams
with equipment (medical, transport, and basic information technology),
-2 -



a standardized system of work and reporting requirements. Each team is
assigned the responsibility of providing care to a defined set of 600-1,000
families with use of standardized protocols.
Several evaluations and assessments of PSF have been conducted by the
government and other agencies. The main benefits found by these studies can
be summarized as follows: (a) Increased coverage of basic care in small size
municipalities with high infant mortality rates; (b) High acceptance of the
program by health professionals and users; (c) Successful vehicle for
channeling other government programs to the community and enhancing
multisectoral collaboration; and (d) Positive impact on performance and
outcome indicators, including: increased production of and access to basic
health services; reduced hospital admissions and hospital care; and reduced
infant mortality.
Despite these accomplishments, the government's PSF strategy faces significant
challenges, including:
Limited coverage in large urban areas
Inconsistent targeting and priority-setting:
Inadequate referral systems:
Uneven quality of PSF services:
Human resource supply bottlenecks in terms of quantity and quality:
Unstable contractual arrangements:
2.      Project Objectives:
a. Increase access to and utilization of basic health care services among
low-income populations in urban centers with populations of 100,000 or
greater, through expansion of the PSF, development of a referral and
counter-referral system, and improvement in the management and organization
of basic health services; and b.Improve the quality of family health service
provision through developing and strengthening in-service and pre-service
training of human resources in the PSF model;
c. Improve the performance and effectiveness of basic care services through
strengthening monitoring and evaluation, information management and
accreditation systems.
3.      Rationale for Bank's Involvement: Project Alternatives Considered and
Reasons for Rejection
No project alternative:    As a result of recent government financial forms,
the health sector will benefit from increased funding during the foreseeable
future. Bank financial participation in PSF expansion is important but not a
critical factor. GOB and Bank agreed, however, that the value added of the
loan and Bank involvement would be to assist the MS: (i) introduce outputs-
and performance-based approach toward PSF implementation and expansion;
(ii) transform primary care practices to a PSF model; (iii) insert PSF
implementation into recently approved decentralization reforms (NOAS 01/01);
- 3 -



and (iv) develop and implement strong monitoring and evaluation in support
of PSF implementation.
Standard investment operation: After considerable analysis, both the Borrower
and the Bank agreed on utilizing the Adaptable Program Lending to support the
proposed project given the following considerations: (I) the long term
horizon for meeting the program's developmental objectives; (ii) the existence
of a sound sector reform program developed by the government; and (iii) the
GOB's decision to stage the PSF expansion and decentralization reforms because
of the level of complexity of these activities and the need for piloting new
arrangements not fully evaluated yet in the sector. The APL will support the
GOB's incremental approach to PSF expansion and sector reform, while
"locking in" long-term institutional and political commitment to the program.
Focus on rural vs. urban areas: The project will focus on extending PSF to
urban areas. There is already substantial coverage in rural areas as
MS focused PSF expansion there during the first implementation stage
(1997-2001). Coverage extension in rural areas also was relatively easy due
to weak presence of municipal providers, population density and interest
from political leaders. One of the goals of the FHP is to reach the poor
and underserved. In this context, urban targeting is also justified because
38 percent of those in the poorest income quintile live in urban areas, and
health indicators among the urban poor are as bad or worse than indicators
among the rural poor.
4.      APL Program Description
The FHP supports the Government's efforts to expand its successful PSF to
large municipalities, with the expectation that it will increase access to,
utilization of, and health benefits from basic health services, organized
around the work of family health teams. The FHP provides technical and
financial resources for the creation and strengthening of family health teams
in most of the country's large metropolitan areas; development of sustainable
in-service, pre-service and specialty training programs for members of the
family health team; and large-scale, long-term improvements in monitoring
and evaluation of PSF performance across the country. The program will
finance a variety of inputs, including small-scale remodeling of primary care
units, medical and non-medical equipment, vehicles, training and consultancy
services. Approximately 40 percent of the financing will be allocated through
municipal subprojects; the remainder will be administered directly by the MS,
and will fund activities that yield national benefits.
The six-year APL has three two-year phases. The first, two-year phase will
support extension of the PSF to large urban municipalities, expansion of
training opportunities for PSF team members, and development of core systems
to enhance quality and performance of PSF provision. The second, two-year
phase will support continued roll-out of the PSF in urban municipalities,
strengthen the quality of institutions providing PSF-related training,
and implement systems to improve quality and performance of PSF provision.
The final phase will continue to support the roll-out of the PSF urban
municipalities, consolidate PSF expansion and conversion in urban
municipalities, produce PSF trainees on a systematic basis,
and institutionalize support systems for quality and performance.
5.      Project Description
-4-



Component 1. PSF Municipal Expansion and Institutional Modernization
(US$56.6 million)
This component will directly support the expansion of the population covered
under the PSF in approximately 50 municipalities with populations of over
100,000 inhabitants through the conversion of the organization and provision
of basic health services from a traditional model to the prevention,
outreach- and performance-oriented PSF model; and the strengthening of a
decentralization regime, following the NOAS/01/01 regulatory framework.
The specific objectives of the component are to: (a) expand access to and
utilization of basic health services by populations at risk in urban areas,
which currently are underserved, through the implementation of the PSF model
and upgrading of the service network; (b) establish functional referral
and counter-referral systems through establishment of integrated service
networks; (c) strengthen the system of PSF management and organization; and
(d) improve the performance of the municipal providers of basic health
services through development of performance-based organizational and
management models, and the introduction of new health care practices.
Municipalities seeking support under the project will submit a Conversion
Plan (Plano de Conversao), following selection criteria and guidelines
established by the MS, and included in the project's Operational Manual.
The guidelines will draw on PSF strategies, institutional requirements
stipulated in NOAS 01/01 regulations (regarding regionalization, formation
of networks and organization and management of health services) and analyses
of successful
experiences to transforming traditional primary care to the PSF model. It is
expected that Conversion Plans will take into account local conditions, such
as installed capacity, demand, facilitating and constraining factors, special
health priorities and others. Simulating the APL modality, interested
municipalities will be required to present a broad description of six-year
conversion program including end-of-program performance targets as well as
a detailed description of activities and performance indicators to be
achieved during the two-year project. The Conversion Plans will form the
basis for agreements (Convenios) between the participating municipalities and
the MS. The Conversion Plan, will be evaluated by a Technical Committee
organized by the MS.
Once approved by the MS, each Conversion Plan will be implemented as an
investment subproject by the selected municipalities, consisting of four
parts, which correspond to the four subcomponents described below:
(a)     Institutional modernization: Through financing of consultancy services
and training workshops, seminars and materials, activities will seek to
strengthen municipal capacity to regulate, organize, manage and provide
health services through developing and implementing performance-based
management agreements, policies and regulations for contracting human
resources and instruments for monitoring community participation.
The subcomponent will also support the preparation of municipal investment
plans, referral and counter-referral systems and family health practice
protocols.
(b) Upgrading of municipal health service provision: Activities under this
component are intended to improve the service delivery capacity of municipal
- 5-



primary care providers through supporting remodeling of health centers and
polyclinics, procurement of medical and non-medical equipment, furniture,
vehicles and operating costs.
(c) Strengthening of municipal information systems: This subcomponent will
support incorporation and use of information technologies for planning and
monitoring and evaluating health system organization and performance.
Financing will include consultancy services, computer equipment and software
and training workshops and materials.
(d) Training and supervision: Activities will include development
and implementation of training courses in strategic areas and work
processes in support of PSF expansion, the conversion process and
strengthening of supervisory systems. The subcomponent will finance
consultancy services and training, workshops, seminars, publications and
materials. Component 2. PSF Human Resource Development (US$60.9 million)
This component will support the implementation of a human resource policy
that contributes to the expansion of the PSF model; strengthens the
qualifications and performance of family health professionals and PSF teams;
and introduces new contents and methods in the preparation of health
professionals. This component will have a national focus and be managed through the
Project Management Unit (PMU).
The objectives of the component are to: (a) increase the number and quality
of PSF human resources; (b) expand and strengthen pre-service and in-service
training for PSF human resources; (c) expand and strengthen programs for
professional training, including residencies in family health, specialty
training for physicians, nurses and dental hygiene assistants; and
(d) introduce special programs (such as training center consortiums and
virtual networks to exchange information) and demonstration projects that
support and strengthen the human resource development activities.
Many of the activities financed under Component 2 will be implemented through
the P6los de Capacita6ao, training centers that offer courses and training
modules directed at professionals on
the Family Health Team. In addition, there are approximately 100 institutions
of higher learning-universities, faculties and medical and nursing
schools-which together with the State and Municipal Health Secretariats will
be able to participate in the Program. Activities for the para-professional
members of the team, particularly in the case of dental technicians, will be
implemented through Technical Health Schools (Escolas Tecnicas de Saude),
which are linked to the State and Municipal Health Secretariats. Existing
contracts with training institutions will be supported under this
subcomponent, as well new contracts, selected on a competitive basis.
Activities are grouped into three subcomponents:
(a)     In-service training of PSF professionals and para-professionals:
This subcomponent aims to strengthen PSF service organization and provision by
supporting in-service training for several types of service managers, health
professionals (doctors and nurses) and para-professionals (community health
agents). Through financing training (consultancy services and workshops) and
training materials and publications, training programs will be developed and
implemented in clinical practices, public health, health planning, and
clinical and non-clinical management.
- 6-



(b)     Pre-service and specialty training of PSF professionals: Through
financing consultancy services, scholarships, internships and training
workshops, conferences, materials and publications, this subcomponent will
provide pre-service training to professionals relevant to the organization
and provision of services under the PSF model. This subcomponent will
support the development and expansion of programs that prepare health
managers, family health physician and nurse specialists, dental hygiene
assistants and community health agents.
(c)     Demonstration activities to support training and education: This
subcomponent seeks to improve the quality and quantity of training
opportunities for current and future members of PSF teams. This will be
accomplished through the creation of regional networks of training centers,
creation and maintenance of web-based clearinghouse for training materials,
and piloting of curriculum development programs in medical and nursing
schools to develop new and improved educational methods and materials
relevant to the family health discipline. The subcomponent will finance
consultancy services, audio-visual equipment, training workshops, conferences,
materials and publications.
Project Component 3. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 14.0 million)
Under this component, rigorous and coordinated monitoring and evaluation
methodologies will be employed to assess the structure, processes, outputs
and impact of the PSF. This will entail an effort to build on, improve and
integrate several existing information systems in the health sector.
In addition, evaluation methodologies, instruments, strategies and plans
developed under other FHP components will be applied. The primary objectives
of the component are to: (a) create systems for permanent, cost-effective
monitoring and evaluation of the PSF and the training institutions'
performance; and (b) develop and implement systems of accreditation of basic
family health units and PSF training centers.
The project will provide a central source of financing for four subcomponents,
described below. Activities will be conducted on a national basis, and will
be managed through the Project Management Unit (PMU) within the MS.
As necessary, the MS may enter into subcontracts with universities and/or
technical institutions for management of research.
(a) Strengthening of monitoring systems: Activities will support the
consolidation and standardization of monitoring systems and instruments for
basic health care. It will strengthen PSF monitoring, incorporate performance
measures into monitoring systems, expand and strengthen regional technical
support centers (Centros Regionales de Capacitacion para o Monitoramento de
Atencao Basica) responsible for collecting and synthesizing health system
data and overseeing PSF performance, development of integrated data systems
and introduction of new information technologies. Financing will support
consultancy services, training, computer hardware and software, study tours
and training workshops, materials and publications.
(b)     Evaluation of PSF implementation: This subcomponent will support the
development of evaluation methodologies and instruments to measure the
acquisition and application of skills by individuals trained in Family Health
and the impact of training center networks, demonstration projects, curricular
and pedagogic innovations supported in Component 2. It will also support
impact evaluations of a sample of PSF teams and PSF training centers
implemented between 1997 and 2001. The project will finance consultancy
-7 -



services, publications, training workshops and materials, study tours and
seminars.
(c) Accreditation of the basic family health teams, facilities and training
institutions: Through financing consultancy services, publications, training,
workshops and seminars, this subcomponent will develop an accreditation
regulatory framework and corresponding systems for: (I) family health teams
and facilities; and (ii) PSF training centers (Polios de Capacitacao).
(d)     Research and Evaluation Fund:   This subcomponent will support
evaluations and operational research on topics related to the development
and performance of the PSF and the related training institutions, the
process of decentralization of the SUS, human resources in the health sector,
efficiency and effectiveness of the PSF, and other strategic topics identified
by the MS. Awards will be made on a competitive basis. The project will
finance consultancy services, publications, workshops and international
seminars.
Component 4: Project Management (US$4 million)
This component would support project management for all components, including
the design and implementation of a monitoring information system to monitor
and supervise project activities. This component would also support
issue-specific studies related to seeking solutions to implementation
problems, including qualitative as well as quantitative techniques. This
component would finance annual audits for the whole project in a declining basis
both Component. The component would finance consultant services, facilities
and equipment for the maintenance of the PMU and per diem for supervision in
the field.
6.      Project Financing: Estimated total Project Costs:
US$136 million
7.      Project Implementation
This is a two-year project, the first phase of a six-year APL. The planned
effectiveness date is March 1, 2002 with a closing date of February 28, 2004
8.      Project Sustainability
Ownership:   By design, the   PSF is intricately woven into a well-established
and extensive participatory process in the health sector. In addition to the
high priority bestowed by the MS, the PSF has been discussed and strongly
endorsed by stakeholders through consultative mechanisms, including state,
municipal and local health councils (to secure client inputs) and the
Intra-governmental Management Commissions (to secure inputs from federal,
state, municipal health authorities and staff). Basic health priorities and
corresponding indicators that buoy the PSF resulted from a series of
consultations with state, municipal and local health councils during 2000,
and published by the MS (Portaria no. 393/GM) in March, 2001. Also, one
criterion for Conversion Plan approval is evidence of consultation with
local stakeholders and of close correspondence between Plan objectives and
agreements made between municipal authorities and health councils.
9.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
- 8 -



The design reflects lessons related to (a) the impact of the PSF in Brazil;
(b) international experience with the implementation of primary care models;
and (c) previous Bank work in health operations and evaluations. The main
lessons and design responses are:
The PSF has great potential to improve the coverage and quality of basic care,
as well as health outcomes. Several assessments and formative evaluations
have been carried out by the government and other institutions (including an
assessment done by the World Bank) regarding the performance of the PSF
program. The main benefits found by these studies are: (i) increased coverage
of basic health care in small size municipalities with high infant mortality
rates; (ii) high satisfaction with the program by users; (iii) positive
impact on registered infant mortality rates, vaccination coverage, childhood
nutrition, and hospitalization rates; and (iv) increased production of
basic health services. The evaluation findings provide the rationale for
supporting expansion of the PSF. At the same time, they point to the fact
that the positive experiences of the PSF have occurred primarily in rural or
small urban areas where basic care supply was irregular at best. Expansion to
large urban areas may require a adaptation to a different set of supply
and demand conditions. These adaptations can only be made on the basis of a
thorough understanding of household and provider characteristics in the
municipalities, and continuous, rigorous, program-relevant monitoring and
evaluation. Design of activities under Component 3 of the project reflect
an understanding of the importance of M&E to ensure that the PSF potential
during the expansion period.
Successful implementation of new primary care models depends on major changes in
underlying incentives. Family health or similar (outreach) models of primary
care can be found in other countries including the UK, Canada, Honduras
(nutrition) and Cuba. Other countries in Latin America also are trying to
develop new models of primary care, such as Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras
(nutrition). Some of the implementation lessons obtained by these experiences
include the following: (i) The most difficult part of the reform is to
effectively change the culture of both the health providers and users.
(ii) While there are numerous experiences of development of new primary care
programs that have been successful in expanding access to the poor, the
team found fewer examples of successfully linking these programs to higher
levels of care; (iii) New programs tend to be developed in years of economic
growth and fiscal expansion based on additional money. When the expansion of
these programs is not accompanied by a simultaneous reform of the traditional
programs, the new programs tend to be short-lived - when there is a fiscal
contraction, the new programs are the first to be cut as the traditional
programs tend to have stronger legal and political means to defend
themselves. As a response to these lessons, the project strongly reinforced
with financing and institutional reforms already under implementation.
(iv) Developing a robust monitoring and evaluation system that provides
continuous feedback on performance is a key element contributing to program
success.
Given the dynamic nature of the Brazilian health system, allow for flexibility
- but within an agreed upon framework that emphasizes results. Implementation
experiences of other World Bank projects, including the Second North East
Basic Health Services (98), AIDS and STD Control (98), Amazon Basin Malaria
Control (97), and Endemic Disease Control (97); MTR of the ongoing REFORSUS
project (99), as well as broader health sector and country portfolio reviews,
-9-



indicate that project success can depend on flexibility in the face of changing
economic and political conditions, and ability to reorient when new knowledge
becomes available. The instrument selected for the project - an APL - provides the
benefits of a two-year planning horizon, permitting mid-course corrections.
At the same time, its focus on showing results during each two-year interval,
and maintaining an overall development framework, keeps "big picture"
issues at the forefront.
10.   Program of Targeted Interventions:     Yes     X    No     -
10.      Environmental Aspects:   (Rating:(C)
The FHP foresees no large civil works activities, but has potential for
generating both positive and negative environmental impacts. In the first
stage of implementation of the FHP, there will be increased demand for
specialized outpatient services, because the program will represent a new
channel of access to medical services for that segment of the population
that did not previously have access to such services. In this stage, the
negative impacts of the process are concentrated mostly in increased
generation of waste material at the health units, with the consequent need
for more effective controls. For the most part, these measures involve
implementation of a System of Waste Management that includes minimization of
generation plus segregation of waste. At the same time, however, the FHP
has great potential for producing positive impacts. Over the medium-term,
there will be a reduction in demand for urgent and emergency services, as
health services are improved, the number of hospitalizations due to avoidable
causes also is expected to decline. In this case, positive impacts will
result from a drop in the volume of waste generated, together with improved
health conditions for the population. At the same time, the waste generated
as a result of the current system of acquiring and utilizing medicine products
is also expected to decline; it is anticipated that there will be a smaller
volume of expired medicines and implementation of an effective System of
Waste Management.
12.     Contact Points
Gerard La Forgia:
Task Team Leader
The World Bank
Human and Social Development Group
Mail Stop I 7-700
Washington, D.C. 20433
Phone: 202-458-9730
Fax:   202-522-0050
13. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
- 10 -



Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending November 16,2001
- 11 -



