Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23353 BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 68 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF
FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION ADAPTABLE LENDING PROGRAM
February 14, 2002
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 8, 2002)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
RS 1.00 = US$0.41
US$1.00 = RS 2.46
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB                     - Basic Health Care Program
ACS                    - Community Health Care Agents
APL                    - Adaptable Program Lending Instrument
ARI                    - Acute Respiratory Infections
CAS                   - Country Assistance Strategy
CHA                    - Community Health Agents
CIT                    - Tripartite Inter - Managerial Committee
CMS                   -The Municipal Health Council
CNS                   - National Health Council
COMPRAS NET             Grants for Family Health Programs
CONASS                - National Council of State Health Secretaries
CONASEMS              - National Council of Municipal Health Secretaries
CPAR                  - Country Procurement Assessment Report
DAB                   - Department of Basic Health Care of Ministry of Health
DHS                   - Demographic Health Survey
EC                    - Constitutional Amendment
FHEP                  - Family Health Extension Project
FNRs                  - Financial Monitoring Reports
GDP                   - Gross Domestic Product
HNP                   - Health Nutrition and Poverty
ICB                     Intemational Competitive Bidding
IMCI                  - Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
IPS                   - "Polo" Institutions
IRR                   - Intemal Rate of Retum
M&E                   - Monitoring and Evaluation
MCH                   - Matemal and Child Health
MOH (MS)              - Ministry of Health (Ministerio da Satude)
MTR                    Mid-term Review
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
NOAS                  - Operational Health Regulation (Norma Operacional de Asistencia de Saude)
NOB                   - Basic Operational Norms
NPV                   - Net Present Value
OECD                  - Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OM                    - Operational Manual
PASCONV               - Federal Grant to Support Conversions of Basic Health Care Program to Family Health Model
PABFixed               Federal Grants for Basic Health Care Program
PABFAM                - Federal Grants for Family Health Program
PACS                  - Community Health Agent Program
PCCN                  - Program to Combat Nutritional Deficiencies
PCU                   - Project Coordination Unit
PRODOC                - Project Document
PSF                   - The family Health Program
QCBS                  - Quality and Cost - Based Selection
REFORSUS              - Health Sector Reform Project
SECA                  - Bank's Special Social Protection
SES                   - State Health Secretariat
SFC                   - Secretariat of Intemal Control
SIH                   - Hospital Info System
SOT                   - Statement of Transfers
SPS                   - Secrctariat of Health Policies of Ministry of Health
SUS                   - National Health System
UGP                   - Project Management Unit
UNDP                  - United Nations Development Program
VIGISUS               - Disease Surveillance Control Project
Vice President:   David De Ferranti
Country Director:    Vinod Thomas
Sector Director:   Ana Maria Arriagada
Team Leader:     Gerard La Forgia



BRAZIL
FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                              Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                             3
2. Project development objective                                                   7
3. Key performance indicators                                                      8
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project  9
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                      9
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices             16
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans              17
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                             20
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                  24
3. Benefits and target population                                                 25
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                  25
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                      26
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies     27
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                            27
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                               29
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                    29
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                       29
2. Financial                                                                      30
3. Technical                                                                      31
4. Institutional                                                                  31
5. Environmental                                                                  32
6. Social                                                                         33
7. Safeguard Policies                                                             35



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   35
2. Critical risks                                                                   36
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   36
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          37
2. Other                                                                            37
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        37
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  50
Annex 2a. Overview of Health Sector in Brazil                       69
Annex 2b. Social Assessment                                         91
Annex 2c. Environmental Assessment                                  96
Annex 2d. Institutional Arrangements and Project Management        102
Annex 2e. Monitoring and Evaluation                                109
Annex 2f.  Municipal Performance Indicators                        111
Annex 2g. Municipal Eligibility Criteria                           113
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       115
Annex 4: Economic Analysis Summary                                                    116
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            122
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    123
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  148
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                150
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               152
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          155
Annex 11: Policy Letter                                                                157
MAP(S)



BRAZIL
FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHH
Date: February 14, 2002                         Team Leader: Gerard Martin La Forgia
Country Manager/Director: Vinod Thomas          Sector Director: Ana-Maria Arriagada
Project ID: P057665                             Sector(s): HT - Targeted Health
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL            Indicative Financing Plan       Implementation Period         Borrower
..._____  _ .(Bank FY)
IBRD            Others      Total   Commitment    Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m      US$ m       Date        Date
APL 1       68.00    50.0   68.00      136.00    03/01/2002  02/28/2005 Ministry of Health
Loan/
Credit
APL 2      121.00    50.0  121.00      242.00    03/01/2005  02/28/2007
Loan/
Credit
APL 3       86.00    50.0   86.00      172.00    03/01/2007  02/28/2009
Loan/
Cred itl_        _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
Total      275.00          275.00      550.00
[X] Loan    [ l Credit  [I Grant      [ Guarantee      [ O Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 68.0 million
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: D] Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): S                       Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85%                         Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[X] Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one):
[ J, Linked to Disbursement



Financing Plan (US$m).   Source                           Local        Foreign        Totai
BORROWER                                                    33.20         34.80         68.00
IBRD                                                        33.20          34.80        68.00
Total:                                                      66.40          69.60       136.00
Borrower: FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Ministry of Health (MOH) - Ministerio de Sauide (MS)
Address: Brasilia, Brazil
Contact Person: Sra. Patricia Leal, Project Coordinator, Ministry of Health (MOH)
Tel: 55-61-315-2046          Fax:             Email: patricia.raupp@saude.gov.br
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003      2004      2005      2006
Annual    2.60       17.90     20.50      15.90     11.10
Cumulative    2.60      20.50     41.00      56.90     68.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 05/31/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OM3 AMI. PAD F.. P-Md- 2                         -
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The Brazil Family Health Extension Project (FHEP), an operation under an Adaptable Program Lending
Instrument (APL) in three phases of three, two and two years each, seeks to improve utilization and quality
of publicly-financed health services by:
(a) Expanding coverage of the government's Family Health Program (Programa de Sauide da Familia, or
PSF) in about 100 large municipalities, establishing well-articulated referral and counter-referral
systems, and introducing performance-based financing and management arrangements;
(b) Establishing family health as a core element of health professional and para-professional training; and
(c) Strengthening MOH capacity to monitor and evaluate PSF health services, policies and training
activities on a systematic basis.
During the last 15 years Brazil has implemented a series of health policy reforms that have transformed the
organization, financing and provision of health services. In the late 1980s, Brazil converted its federal
public health financing system to a single national health fund. In the mid-1990s, it instituted a per capita
payment for primary care services that was distributed directly to municipalities. This simple reform
caused a vast improvement in the equity of the system - poor municipalities suddenly had funds for
primary health services on a scale they had not seen before. More recently, this capitation system was
enhanced by the Family Health Program, through which the federal government (the Borrower) transferred
additional funds to municipalities that agreed to implement a proactive primary health care model. During
the 1990s, the Brazil Federal Government focused on assisting rural municipalities to implement these two
programs. In both cases, the programs provided additional funds to municipalities for earmarked purposes,
and as long as the money was spent for that purpose, the municipalities fulfilled their obligation.
Policy Reforms: With the support of the proposed APL, Brazil is ready to take the next step with these
policy reforms. This step involves: (a) expanding PSF coverage significantly by focusing on large urban
municipalities; (b) transforming basic care delivery to the outreach-oriented PSF approach; (c) changing
the character of the PSF through shifting from input- to performance-based financing, monitoring and
management through federal-municipal agreements; and (d) improving municipal capacity to organize and
manage health services while strengthening the overall fiduciary framework at the municipal level.
Family Health Program (PSF): Initiated by the Ministry of Health (MOH) in 1994 as a relatively small
initiative, the Family Health Program (PSF) has successfully and rapidly expanded coverage of primary
care in rural and peri-urban areas, reaching about one-fifth of the Brazilian population (38 million) by
2000. In that same year, there were 10,000 PSF teams working in over 3,000 municipalities in all of
Brazil's states. The PSF is now one of the largest federally-funded health programs, spending US$380
million. GOB estimates federal spending on the PSF will reach US$410 million in 2001 and $550 million
by 2004. The proposed program will partially finance the annual marginal increase in federal PSF
financing, estimated at 10 percent annually during the seven-year proposed program. PSF coverage will
increase from 10 to 60 percent of the population in large, urban municipalities upon Program completion.
PSF Conversion: This policy reform concerns the conversion of the current primary care delivery system to
one based on PSF. Government seeks to convert the current, passive-provider, facility-based delivery
system to an active-provider, outreach model in which family health care providers deliver quality basic
health care to households and communities. This model of service provision aims to be more efficient by
focusing on prevention and early treatment, and using PSF as the gateway to higher-level services.
- 3 -



PSF is not merely another federal health program. Rather, PSF represents the platform on which the
government seeks to restructure how publicly-financed primary health care is organized and provided.
MOH authorities envision PSF as an approach to basic health care provision that will anchor the future
primary health care system in Brazil, which accounts for approximately US$1.8 billion in combined federal
and municipal health spending in 2001. The proposed APL will support the PSF Conversion process in
about 100 of the largest urban municipalities where the traditional delivery model is still dominant.
Performance-based Financing: Conversion represents much more than a bridge between the traditional
and PSF delivery models. It also constitutes a bridge between input- and performance-based financing.
Through the introduction of a new transfer mechanism to finance implementation of the PSF Conversion
process, MOH will link financing to achievement of performance benchmarks. Municipalities selected to
participate in the proposed Program will agree to a "Conversion Plan" for reforming their health services
and achieving specific performance targets in implementing the Family Health Program. Compliance with
these benchmarks will "trigger" municipal participation in each phase of the APL, and continued receipt of
the transfer. If successful, the intention is ultimately to combine all major transfers into a single transfer
modeled on the performance-based Conversion approach. As PSF approaches full coverage (during the
next 5-7 years) the MOH envisions the merging of the heretofore separate federal grants transfers that
currently finance primary health care under the traditional health care model and the Family Health
Program under the new model. The merging of these separate transfers will also prevent the continuation of
parallel systems with separate funding mechanisms, and therefore ensure PSF's sustainability.
Decentralization: The fourth reform entails decentralization of management responsibilities to the
municipalities for the implementation of primary care services and activities. In accordance with recent
regulations, NOAS 01/01, MOH seeks to complete the transfer of full management responsibility to the
municipalities for the delivery of primary care. Decentralization of management responsibilities began in
the early 1990s. Certification for "full management of basic care" entails installing: (i) the necessary
capacity to technically plan, implement, supervise and monitor primary care services; and (ii) fiduciary
arrangements and support systems such as auditing, accounting and information management to ensure
proper use of funds. The proposed Program will support decentralization through strengthening municipal
management capacity, introducing performance-based management systems, and establishing solid
monitoring and evaluation capabilities.
Innovative Pooling and Fiduciarv Features: For Component 1 Bank financing will be pooled with federal
grant transfers for three MOH programs: Basic Health Care (AB), Family Health (PSF) and PSF
Conversion. Both AB and PSF are large, on-going government programs financed through separate federal
grants transferred to municipalities which are responsible for service delivery. Under existing Borrower
arrangements, transfers for the AB and PSF programs flow through a National Health Fund, maintained by
the MOH, to a common bank account at each municipality. These grants essentially finance a similar set of
activities and services but under different models. The grant for AB finances services delivery under the
existing, traditional model while the PSF grant supports services provision under a proactive, outreach
model. The Borrower will also create a new grant to finance the PSF Conversion Program, or specifically,
the transitional costs of AB-to-PSF conversion. The new grant will also be transferred through the National
Health Fund to the municipalities.
To enable Bank's financial support of the PSF through the existing federal-to-municipal grant system, the
Borrower requested that the proposed project incorporate a special pooling arrangement together with
innovative fiduciary features. Under Component 1, Family Health Municipal Conversion and Expansion,
federal grant transfers under the existing AB/PSF programs are the pool of funds, the Programmatic Pool,
from which the smaller Conversion Subproject Pool would be derived. Through this Subproject Pool the
- 4 -



proposed Project would co-finance implementation of Conversion Subprojects. Conversion Subprojects
would consist of a set of pre-identified activities necessary to extend Family Health service delivery and
convert the health care model of the Basic Care Program to the model of the Family Health Program. Loan
proceeds would finance 30 percent of the cost of goods, works and services required to implement
Conversion Subprojects in selected municipalities. Expenditures would incur against pre-defmed and jointly
agreed subproject implementation arrangements and procurement plans specified in federal-municipal
contracts. Bank financing would be attributed to pre-defined, eligible expenditures of the Subproject Pool
and thus distinguished from the larger, AB/PSF Programmatic Pool financed solely by the Borrower.
Within the Subproject Pool, loan proceeds will be distributed as advances for expenditures to be incurred at
a rate of 30 percent of the grants transferred by the Borrower to pre-qualified municipalities to cover the
cost of goods, works and services of implementing Conversion Subprojects. Transfers to the municipalities
will be made according to an agreed timeline in accordance with the procurement plans for the Conversion
Subprojects.  Details regarding both the total amount of the transfers as well as the 30 percent
reimbursement claimed will be recorded on a Statement of Transfer (SOT), specifying projected eligible
expenditures of the Bank's share of financing of the Conversion Subprojects.
Under the proposed program, the idea is for each municipality to enter into a two-year agreement with the
federal government to implement Conversion Subprojects to convert its primary health care system to the
Family Health model, backed up by a procurement plan that is updated annually. The overall disbursement
schedule for Component 1 will be based on Conversion Subproject procurement plans,.agreed with the
Bank. Through the procurement plan, the Bank will have a good idea of eligible expenditures prior to
making disbursements into the pool that will finance the plan. Although the grants that finance each
municipal subproject will consist of eligible and ineligible expenditures, at least 30 percent of pooled
expenditures will be for eligible items. Preliminary projections suggest that the Subproject Pool will contain
a higher percentage of eligible expenditures than the Bank's 30 percent share.
To satisfy the Borrower's request regarding Bank participation in the above-described municipal financing
system, the proposed project will apply three innovative fiduciary features:
(i) Extension of period (to one year) for which advances (disbursements) would continue to be made
before the eligibility of expenditures are reconciled through Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs);
(ii) Loan proceeds would finance 30 percent of the Subproject Pool instead of 30 percent of each
transaction, as is normal practice;
(iii) Application of national rules for the procurement of small packages of goods and works, with
compliance assessed on an ex post basis.
The borrower's existing financial management and procurement rules and systems have been assessed and
deemed sufficiently robust to govern the use of Bank funds included in the pool (see Annex 6).
Nevertheless, during the life of the proposed APL the Bank will also work with the federal government to
supervise and strengthen municipal fiduciary processes. This means that a number of fiduciary oversight
and control measures (such as reporting requirements, record keeping, audits and remedies) will be applied
to the much larger AB/PSF Programmatic Pool of federal grant resources transferred to the municipalities,
and thereby increase the Project's development impact. The following are brief descriptions of
arrangements agreed with the Borrower to mitigate the potential risks of pooling (see Annexes 6 and 2G for
details):
(i) Federal assessment and certification of financial management and procurement capacity of each
participating municipality as a condition for Bank financing; based on risk assessment results,
- 5 -



municipalities will agree to an action plan to improve fiduciary practices;
(ii) Outputs and budget (with corresponding procurement plans and disbursement schedule) agreed on
an annual basis for each municipality prior to funding; a uniquely assigned chart of account codes
would specify those activities and corresponding goods, works and services required for
implementation of Conversion Subprojects;
(iii) Quarterly submission of Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) by participating municipalities and
reviewed by Bank for monitoring purposes; full reconciliation would occur annually as part of
financial audit;
(iv) Participating municipalities would be required to meet fiduciary performance benchmarks
(together with health performance benchmarks); failure to reach performance targets would affect
their future eligibility for participation in the Program;
(v) Subproject Pool would finance ICB goods and QCBS consultants above defined thresholds
established according to results of the risk assessment; but procurement would follow Bank
guidelines and disbursements would follow traditional investment lending procedures;
(vi) Annual technical and fiduciary reviews carried out by the Borrower; and post-reviews carried out
by the Bank;
(vii) Specific remedies would be applied annually for misprocurement, financial mismanagement and
ineligible expenditures.
The pooling feature offers a number of advantages to both the Borrower and the Bank. For the Borrower,
the feature permits the Bank to mingle its funds with established grant transfers to facilitate the smooth
flow of funds to a large number of widely-dispersed and diverse municipalities. It also creates a single
reporting system for the grants rather than parallel and redundant systems for Borrower and Bank
purposes. Bank assistance is refocused to strengthen the fiduciary framework for the MOH programs
which will contribute to improved health services management. Finally, the feature reorients the partnership
between the Borrower and Bank, permitting the Bank to assist the MOH in realigning federal-municipal
relations to focus on performance and results.
For the Bank, pooling of funds affords the opportunity to: (i) form a long-term partnership with the
Borrower in the health sector since grant transfers are the only method used by the Borrower to finance
primary health care; (ii) participate in the most important reforms of the sector, and (iii) enhance
developmental impact by shifting Bank supervision from tracking transactions financed through loan
proceeds to oversight and improvement of the Borrower's fiduciary systems.
The APL Program: Table I presents Summary data on the APL phases while Table 2 shows the
dimensions of each Component by APL phase. Trigger indicators for APL Phase II are described in
Attachment 2 to Annex 1
Phase I. Initiating Conversion to PSF Model in Urban Municipalities, and Strengthening Training
Programs and Monitoring and Evaluation Systems. The first three-year phase will extend the PSF to
large urban municipalities, expand training opportunities for PSF team members, and develop core systems
to enhance quality and performance of PSF provision. Expected results include: (i) agreements approved
and under implementation in about 40 urban municipalities with greater than 100,000 residents to convert
primary care organization and delivery to the family health approach, increasing average PSF population
coverage from about 10 to 35 percent; (ii) establishment of a federal transfer mechanism linking financing
to performance in support of PSF conversion in participating municipalities; (iii) pre-service and in-service
training of about 14,000 family health professionals and para-professionals; (iv) development of regulatory
frameworks for the accreditation of PSF/Basic Health Units and PSF training institutions, and agreement
reached with the Borrower on the Phase II implementation plan; (v) PSF protocols for referrals and
- 6 -



counter-referrals and care practices developed and implemented for 50% of PSF teams in participating
municipalities; (vi) performance-based management system in support of PSF developed and tested in all
participating municipalities; (vii) monitoring and evaluation system for the PSF, Maternal and Child Care
(MCH) referral-counter - referral network approved, developed and tested, and agreement reached with
Borrower on implementation of Phase II.
Phase 11. Expanding PSF Coverage and Training and Impact Evaluation. The second two-year phase
will support the roll-out of the PSF in up to 60 additional urban municipalities, strengthening the quality of
institutions providing PSF-related training, and implementing systems to improve quality and performance
of PSF provision. Expected results include: (i) agreements approved and under implementation in up to 60
additional urban municipalities with greater than 100,000 residents to convert primary care organization
and delivery to the family health approach, increasing average population coverage from about 10 to 35
percent; (ii) continued implementation of the PSF program in the approximately 40 municipalities
supported under Phase I, increasing average population coverage within them to 50 percent; (iii)
application of the accreditation system to a representative sample of participating municipalities and to
about 50% of all PSF training centers; (iv) referral system operational for all PSF teams in participating
municipalities; (v) monitoring and evaluation system for PSF and MCH referral-counter-referral network
implemented in all participating municipalities; and (vi) performance-based management systems in
support of PSF developed and implemented in about 50% of participating municipalities.
Phase III. Reaching Municipal Coverage and Training Targets, and Transforming Evaluation into a
Permanent Process. The final two-year phase will support the consolidation of the PSF expansion and
conversion in urban municipalities, produce PSF trainees on a systematic basis, and institutionalize support
systems for quality and performance. Expected results include: (i) continued implementation of the
program in the approximately 100 urban municipalities supported under previous phases, increasing
average population coverage within them to 60 percent; (ii) monitoring and evaluation system expanded to
entire referral / counter-referral network (not just MCH) in all municipalities; (iii) impact evaluation of
PSF expansion and model conversion in municipalities supported in Phases I and II; and (iv)
performance-based management and monitoring and evaluation institutionalized.
Table 1:
Phasing of APL to Support Brazil Family Health Program
Phase 1           Phase 2           Phase 3
(US$ 136 million)  (US$ 242 million)  (US$ 172 million)
Implementation period      FY 2003 - 2006     FY 2006-2008      FY2008-2010
Periodic monitoring (IBRD)    Twice a year      Twice a year      Twice a year
Triggers' assessment          March, 2005      March, 2007
Appraisal next phase          June, 2005       August, 2007
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objectives during Phase I are:
(a) Increase coverage of health services among populations in urban centers with populations of
100,000 or greater, especially among those with limited access to and utilization of basic health
care, through expansion of and conversion to the PSF approach, development of a referral and
counter-referral system, and improvement in the management and organization of basic health
services;
-7 -



(b) Improve the quality of family health service provision through developing and strengthening
in-service and pre-service training of human resources in the PSF model; and
(c) Improve the performance and effectiveness of basic health care services through strengthening
monitoring and evaluation, information management and accreditation systems.
Coverage extension activities will focus on large urban areas, which are characterized by poorly integrated,
traditional service delivery systems and large numbers of families living in poverty and confronting severe
social risk. Of the 223 municipalities with populations of 100,000 or greater in the country, approximately
40 will participate in the Phase I project (and about 100 will participate by the end of the seven-year
program). The strategic aim is to raise PSF population coverage from about 10 to 35 percent within these
municipalities. Support for decentralization reforms and management improvements will also focus on
urban municipalities. Quality enhancement activities related to training, monitoring and evaluation,
information management and accreditation will yield nationwide benefits.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Progress toward achievement of development objectives will be measured through a monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system (see Annex 2e), which will build on established health information systems. The
M&E system will be developed under the activities of Component 3, and will collect and compare data
before (baseline), during and after project implementation. For some outcome measures, comparisons will
also be made between geographic areas that were affected by project interventions and those that were not,
adjusting for confounding factors. The evaluation system will provide the basis for determining whether
(and when) the triggers for subsequent phases of the APL have been met.
The project's key output/impact-related performance indicators include the following:
PSF Municipal Conversion and Expansion (Component 1)
Average population coverage in about 40 urban municipalities raised from 10 to 35 percent;
40 percent of matemity admissions from PSF catchment areas in the 50 participating municipalities are
referred by PSF teams;
30% reduction in number of hospital admissions for ARI for children under five from participating
PSF catchmient areas;
Performance-based management and supervision system developed and piloted in each municipality;
and
Performance-based, federal-municipal transfer mechanism approved and under implementation.
PSF Human Resource Development (Component 2)
In-service training provided to 10,000 PSF physicians, nurses and community health agents;
3,000 professionals trained in health services planning, management and organization; and
Family health residency programs established with at least 100 enrolled residents.
Monitoring and Evaluation (Component 3)
Development and approval of a regulatory framework for the accreditation of PSF/Basic Health Units
and PSF training institutions;
-8 -



* Evaluation completed of a sample of PSF teams and PSF training institutions, implemented between
1997 and 2001; and
Monitoring and evaluation system for PSF, including local feedback mechanism and performance
targets developed and tested.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2001-0057(IFC/R2001-0069)     Date of latest CAS discussion: May 24, 2001
The objective and design of the proposed project is fully consistent with the themes of the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy for Brazil, as well as the Bank's HlVP Sector Strategy.
The World Bank's Brazil Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of March 30, 2000 (Report No. 20160-BR),
reiterated in the Progress Report of May 24, 2001, highlights poverty reduction as the overarching
objective of the Bank's work in Brazil. As indicated in the CAS (p. 32), health services for those with
limited access to and utilization of basic health care are among the several targeted interventions for
poverty reduction that receive funding from both domestic and international sources. Basic health services,
such as those supported and strengthened under the proposed project, would directly benefit the urban poor,
increasing the effectiveness of public subsidies and the health conditions of those in poverty. The CAS
notes that to support targeted poverty reduction, the Bank is increasing its efforts in the health sector, and
specifically "...the Bank supports health system improvements in the areas of health financing, regulation
of the pharmaceutical sector, decentralization, access to health care, health surveillance and management of
public facilities" (pp. 33-34) - most (but not all) of which are addressed by the proposed project. The
2001 CAS Progress Report confirmed the importance of attention to the social sectors in the larger agenda
of poverty reduction, and described the Family Health Project as "strategically important" (p. 15). In
addition, the CAS indicates that the Bank is "supporting the institutional strengthening of municipalities
and management of urban problems" (p. 38), which is also an important focus of the proposed project.
The proposed project is also fully consistent with the HNP Sector Strategy. It is designed with a
recognition of: (a) the Bank's comparative advantage in the areas of system strengthening; (b) the
importance of supporting reforms that separate the functions of finance, purchase and provision of health
services; and (c) the overall mission of the World Bank to address the needs of poor and underserved
populations, with a particular emphasis on cost-effective basic health services that meet the needs of
women and children.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
This section outlines the key challenges facing the Brazilian health sector. See the Sector Profile in Annex
2b for a more comprehensive description of health conditions, structure and financing of the health system,
and characteristics of the PSF.
Inequities in Health Outcomes Remain a Challenge. The most recent poverty assessment for the country
estimates that 23 percent (35 million) of the population lives in extreme poverty and 45 percent lives in
poverty. Extreme poverty (the cost of a minimum food basket) is defined as an individual living in a
household with a per capita income less than or equal to the equivalent of R$65 per month at Sao Paulo
Metropolitan prices. A poverty line that incorporates non-food expenditures has been determined at
$R132. Income is measured by the national household survey undertaken in 1996 (PNAD 1996).
-9-



Approximately half of the poor live in urban areas. (The relative importance of the urban poor might be
higher than the figure presented. PNAD income data tends to overestimate rural poverty because PNAD
questionnaire is unlikely to adequately capture income other than regular employment). Data from the last
Demography Health Survey (1996) shows that the health status of the Brazilian poor is significantly worse
than that of the non-poor. Children of poor families have three times higher risk of dying before the age of
5 than children from the wealthiest segments of the population. Fertility rates of poor teenage girls are 6
times higher than those of better-off teenagers, and poor girls face much higher risks of matemal morbidity
and mortality. The impact of violence and chronic diseases is also higher among the poor.
The Demographic Health Survey data suggest that (at similar income levels) the urban poor have slightly
worse health outcomes than the rural poor. Approximately 40 percent of Brazilians in the poorest wealth
quintile and 75 percent in the second poorest quintile live in urban areas. Health indicators among the urban
dwellers in the poorest quintile are as bad or worse than among those in rural areas. Infant mortality was
87.8 per 1,000 live births among the poorest quintile living in urban areas and 80 among those in rural
areas (Gwatkin et.al.). Among the fourth quintile, the rates are 49.1 per 1,000 among urban infants,
compared to 38.0 per 1,000 among rural infants.
While poor urban children have better vaccination rates and are more likely to be treated for diarrhea and
ARI than their rural counterparts, the prevalence of these childhood illnesses (diarrhea and Acute
Respiratory Infections) among the urban poor is higher. Although the urban poor have better access to
health services during childhood than the rural poor, the higher urban infant mortality raises questions
about the timeliness, continuity and quality of care received, and/or the severity of the underlying illness. In
general terms, the poor have utilization rates 25 percent lower than the non-poor in rural and urban areas.
These inequities - also found in OECD countries - reflect higher transaction costs and behavioral
barriers and have led the Government to introduce proactive community and family health delivery systems
such as the PSF, and to provide financial incentives for their adoption by municipalities.
Improving Performance Through Decentralization Depends on Improved Manaeement and Fiduciary
Capacity at the Municipal Level.  Brazil has taken an incremental approach to decentralization and
health system reform. Initiated with the constitutional reforms of 1988 and supported by laws, decrees, and
regulations spanning the 1990s, decentralization has transformed the National Health System (the SUS)
from a centralized system to one in which municipalities, and to a lesser extent states, are the main players
in the organization and delivery of public health services. Responsibility for primary care has been
transferred to nearly all of the country's 5,500 municipalities. They receive monthly block grants from the
MOH to finance primary care that are partially matched by the municipalities themselves. Under current
rules, about 10 percent of municipalities have qualified for "full management" status in which they receive
block grants to manage primary, secondary and tertiary care, including paying private hospital providers.
Although there is no hard evidence demonstrating the effect of decentralization on health status, service
quality or system efficiency and equity, the MOH as well as outside observers have noted a number of
shortcomings in the decentralization process that may threaten future system performance and PSF
expansion: (i) mismatch between delegated responsibilities and existing institutional capacity of many
municipalities; (ii) unclear division of responsibilities between states and municipalities particularly in
terms of planning, supervision and financial and information flows; (iii) weak municipal capacity to
organize and manage health service delivery, in part due to a dearth of trained management professionals;
(iv) absence of systematic monitoring and evaluation; (v) tendency of municipal managers to focus on
inputs rather than results and outputs; and (vi) inability of many states and municipalities to implement
functional referral systems.
- 10-



Recognizing these and other deficiencies of the decentralization process, the MOH issued new regulations,
Norma Operacional de Asistencia de Saude - NOAS/SUS 01/01, in January 2001. The NOAS 01/01
represent a mid-flight correction of previous decentralization regulations (in 1993 and 1996). MOH
authorities also perceive the regulations as closely linked to the PSF strategy, especially in terms of
facilitating municipal capacity building, strengthening monitoring and evaluation functions and moving the
system from its current uncoordinated, non-hierarchical structure to one that has functional and
cost-effective referral and counter-referral systems in which PSF serves as the entry point. The major
elements of the NOAS 01/01 are described later in this section.
The MOH also recognizes that without effective financial and procurement management by municipalities,
accountability of health providers and effective delivery of health services will be elusive. Use of sound
management practices will provide essential information to managers on program implementation,
contribute to efficient use of resources and deter fraud and corruption. The proposed project aims to
enhance development impact by assisting municipal governments to improve financial management and
procurement practices as applied to all municipal spending on primary care - independent of source of
funding - while strengthening federal capacity to oversee and monitor these practices.
Reforms in Financing of Health Services are Advancing but Remain Incomplete. Recent reforms in
health financing gave a strong impulse to the decentralization of basic care, strengthened the resource base
available for health and demonstrated the governnent's strategy of gradual improvement of the health
fnancing system. In 1998 the federal government replaced fee-for-service reimbursements for basic
interventions by a system of per-capita transfers for primary care (PAB -- Piso Assistencial Bdsico). The
amount capitated is augmented for municipalities that adopt priority programs promoted by the
government, such as the PSF.
Transfers are also larger for municipalities that achieve a wider coverage of the population with PSF.
Hospitals are reimbursed on the basis of production based on diagnosis-related groups and a fee schedule
set by the MOH. Because the demand for services exceeds the amount the federal government is willing to
spend on health, there is a rationing system whereby each state is allocated an annual ceiling for SUS
funding. In recent years, MOH has introduced other cost-containrnent measures, including the application
of physical and financial ceilings for inpatient services and direct control over high-cost interventions.
Although there is evidence that the rate of increase of the cost of hospitalizations has slowed, the system
may be overburdened with so many financial ceilings, floors and incentives that effective management is
difficult.
After years of struggling with temporary measures, in 2000 Congress approved Constitutional Amendment
29 (EC 29), mandating an increase in the funding levels for the health sector by the federal government
(linking growth in health sector financing to GDP growth), and earmarking 12 percent of state revenues and
15 percent of municipal revenues to the health sector. In practice, SUS finances about half of the 7 percent
of GDP spent in health, covering around 75 percent of the population. Two-thirds of SUS spending is
financed by the federal government, 18 percent by the states and 15 percent by municipalities.
Despite vigorous federal action to increase financing for health care and introduce alternative payment
systems, with the intention of creating an equitable and rationalized system, virtually all observers agree
that the reform agenda is far from complete. Currently, the Brazilian health system continues to be
characterized by: (a) instability in funding flows, and large but decreasing differentials in per capita health
care resources across states and municipalities, reflecting in part the persistence of historical financing
patterns but also uneven levels of commitment to health; (b) persistent bias toward high-cost hospital
- 11 -



services and, correspondingly, slow improvements in the quantity and quality of basic care; (c) insufficient
linkage between financial mechanisms and health priorities; (d) poor incentives for managers of primary
care units (mostly municipal) and hospitals (mostly private) to use public resources efficiently; (e)
management weaknesses at the municipal level, particularly in managing the PAB and applying these
resources to purchase effective service delivery, in using information for monitoring and evaluating
performance, and for taking strategic corrective actions; and (f) absence of rigorous analyses of resource
use.
The Family Health Program Has Major Potential, but Faces Obstacles to Future Expansion. PSF
was launched in 1994 building on the strengths of its 1991 predecessor, the PAC (Programa de Aten9do
Comunitaria). PSF was conceived as a linchpin in the transformation of the mainly curative and
hospital-centered health care system toward one that is oriented toward prevention, promotion and basic
care. The program seeks to develop high-quality primary care services that serve vulnerable populations in
a proactive manner; eventually these services are expected to serve as an entry point to higher level
services. PAC introduced the use of paid health agents who reach out to the community in an organized
fashion - for example, by creating a roster of the full beneficiary population in a given zone; identifying
pregnant women, young children, tuberculosis patients and others in need of frequent attention and
follow-up; and providing home-based care or actively encouraging patients to come to health facilities for
necessary services. PSF organized community agents into teams, which typically include a general practice
or family health physician, a nurse, one or two auxiliary nurses and more recently a part-time dentist and/or
dental technician. The PSF built upon the PAC by providing the teams with equipment (medical, transport,
and basic information technology), a standardized system of work and reporting requirements. Each team
is assigned the responsibility of providing care to a defined set of 600-1,000 families with use of
standardized protocols.
Today, the PSF covers nearly 38 million people (about one-fourth of the Brazilian population) in 3,124
municipalities with 10,900 Family Health Teams. Some municipalities have not yet implemented PSF but
have PACS. In total there are almost 150,000 community agents, in 4,621 municipalities. Under current
government plans, the PSF will provide coverage to 50 percent of the Brazilian population, which means it
will have to double in size. Most of the expansion of PSF to date has taken place in rural and peri-urban
areas where municipal primary providers were in short supply. Its implementation in urban areas is only
patchy, in part because PSF faces the dual challenge of extending coverage and converting the traditional
and often ineffective municipal primary care delivery system to one based on the family health strategy. A
comparison of summary features of the traditional model of providing primary care, common in urban
centers, and the family health model is presented below:
Table 2
PHC Delivery Model: Traditional vs. Family Health Approach
Model Feature                           Traditional PHC       Family Health
Orientation                                 Individual           Family
Health intervention focus                Mainly curative   Comprehensive care
Health maintenance
Knowledge of community health problems and    Low                High
conditioning factors  ____
Enrollment of households within defined       No                  Yes
catchment areas
Main health care setting                  Facility-based   Community-based/outreach
Team approach among health professionals     Weak                Strong
Case management/continuity of care          Passive              Active
- 12 -



Several evaluations and assessments of PSF have been conducted by the government and other agencies.
The main benefits found by these studies can be summarized as follows: (a) Increased coverage of basic
care in small size municipalities with high infant mortality rates; (b) High acceptance of the program by
health professionals and users; (c) PSF is a successful vehicle for channeling other government programs to
the community and enhancing multisectoral collaboration; and (d) Positive impact on performance and
outcome indicators, including: increased production of and access to basic health services; reduced hospital
admissions and hospital care; and reduced infant mortality.
Despite these accomplishments, the government's PSF strategy faces significant challenges, including:
Limited coverage in large urban areas: Program expansion in large urban areas and metropolitan
regions has been slower than expected despite recent changes in financial incentives. Approximately 10
percent of urban populations are covered by the PSF in municipalities greater than 100,000 inhabitants,
compared to about 50 percent in rural areas. PSF coverage is about 7 percent in the largest municipalities
with populations of greater than 500,000 inhabitants.
Inconsistent targeting and vrioritv-setting: A survey carried out by the MOH in 2000 showed that more
than half of the state program managers did not have clear criteria for prioritizing the introduction of the
program. The study also revealed that municipal health authorities prioritize program interventions and
geographical areas by applying a mix of risk criteria (epidemiological or social) combined with community
and political demands. Targeting the program is not only a matter of selecting the geographical area to
implement PSF within a municipality, but also relates to determining what health priority should be
addressed first, and with what health intervention. A recent World Bank study suggests that PSF teams
may become overburdened with tasks as they respond to federal, state and municipal health campaigns,
programs and demands, and thus weakening their effectiveness. Explicit criteria based on sound community
health data will be required for municipal authorities to target and prioritize PSF within their jurisdictions.
Inadequate referral systems: The referral and counter-referral system in most of the SUS is vague and
functions badly. This is a critical problem for maternal and child health. For example, medical records on
antenatal care are not linked to treatment at the time of delivery or to postpartum care. This situation also
compromises the capacity of the system to diagnose and then rapidly treat obstetric emergencies. One
factor that contributes to the weakness of the referral system is the lack of a defined entry point for the
population and the absence of a provider who assumes responsibility for the total care of the individual and
family. In addition to serving as the gatekeeper to higher levels of care, the PSF addresses this issue by
making primary care teams representatives of their patients as they move through the health delivery
system. Experience has shown, however, that insertion of the PSF strategy into the traditional systems
(especially in urban areas) has been a slow process in part because of health worker resistance to adopting
new care practices, work habits and workloads. MOH authorities have concluded that the delivery system
and corresponding working environment evident in many urban municipalities is not conducive to meeting
system coverage and quality objectives, and therefore successful adoption of the PSF strategy will require
converting or replacing the traditional, facility-based model.
Uneven quality of PSF services:  The MOH surveys of PSF teams revealed that, still, a significant
proportion continue to lack adequate equipment and supplies. Family health teams report shortages of
certain vaccines and basic medicines. In addition, laboratory support services are inadequate for key
exams such as urinary analysis, cytopathology, and obstetric sonogram, among others. A 2001 survey of
523 teams revealed that 40 percent do not have half of the standard equipment and medical supplies
- 13-



stipulated by the MOH for PSF teams. Quality of care can be improved through investment in
infrastructure and supply/support systems, better treatment protocols/standards, quality control and
systematic supervisory mechanisms, and training. About 67 percent of state program coordinators reported
that they did not have clinical protocols. Protocols are defined by the MOH as instruments that guide
family health teams on best strategies and clinical practices that result in improved quality and
effectiveness of the program. Finally, health care providers and administrators lack adequate knowledge on
providing humane care and effectively promoting behavioral change in the community.
Human resource supply bottlenecks in terms of quantitv and auality: Municipalities report difficulties
in hiring family health professionals to expand coverage. In terms of qualifications, 37 percent of PSF
physicians have completed their medical residency in family health (compared to a national average of 75
percent for other disciplines) and only 40 percent of PSF physicians and 36 percent of nurses have
specialty training. A recent World Bank study found that the skills of PSF teams vary considerably.
Medical schools train few generalists, and students do not demand such training because labor markets do
not reward general medicine, and the specialization garners relatively low professional status. Family
medicine training programs at medical and nursing schools are scarce, and specialized curricula have yet to
be developed. Only seven university hospitals offer family health residency programs for physicians
desiring to specialize in family health, graduating about 25 specialists annually.
The MOH has taken the initiative to sponsor the development of 30 training centers, known as P6los de
Capacitaciio, in universities, technical schools and government agencies throughout the country. These
centers train new personnel for PSF teams as well as provide in-service training to upgrade the skills of
existing teams. Between 1997 and 2000 the MOH invested $22.8 million in these centers, and projects to
spend about $4 million annually between 2001 and 2004. A rapid assessment of 12 training centers in 2001
found that they were supplying an important service to PSF teams in their respective regions, providing
training courses and continuing education to PSF teams on a large variety of health-related themes and care
practices. However, impact was impossible to gauge since none systematically monitors or evaluates
knowledge acquisition and skill application, or assesses satisfaction with the program. These centers have
not been formally evaluated or accredited.
Unstable contractual arrangements: According to the government assessment, most PSF personnel are
hired under temporary contracts (49 percent of doctors, 44 percent of nurses), or are paid on a piecework
basis (27 percent of doctors, 24 percent of nurses). These arrangements are made either directly by the
municipalities or through NGOs, cooperatives, or other autonomous entities that then sub-contract the
health professionals. A 2001 survey found that between one-third and one-half of PSF workers do not have
formal or signed contracts with their employers. These arrangements have resulted in numerous legal and
political challenges which in turn may slow extension of the PSF. Although the contracting arrangements
for staff under the PSF promote flexibility in personnel management, decrease the size of civil servants
payroll and benefits, and may be an important driver of PSF success to date, they also result in high
rotation of personnel (compromising program continuity and doctor-patient relationship) and job
dissatisfaction. The federal government is interested in retaining the successful elements of these
contracting arrangements while also addressing some of the more serious problems that have arisen.
Government Strategv
The federal Government is taking specific actions to advance the reform agenda in general, and to improve
the quantity and quality of core health services that will benefit those with limited access to and utilization
of basic health care services, in particular. The actions are manifested in policy statements, budgetary
- 14 -



allocations, the introduction of financial and institutional incentives, and exhaustive consensus-building
with stakeholders in the health sector.
Basic health care is very high on Brazil's development agenda. The federal government's four-year
development plan (Avance Brasil - Plano PlurianualiPPA 2000/2003) states that expansion of the PSF is
the leading priority for the health sector. PSF is also a key component of the government's IDH-14
program. In 2000, the federal government started an initiative of targeting key existing social programs to
the 14 poorest states of the country (all 9 states of the NE region and 5 states of the N region). The
methodology for selecting the municipalities of the 14 poorest states is based on UNDP's Human
Development Index. The government prioritized the following programs in the health sector: reducing
infant mortality through improved water and sanitation services; expanding coverage of Family Health
programs; and combating maternal and neonatal mortality. PSF was one of the health programs protected
by the Bank's Special Social Protection SECAL (IBRD) during Brazil's 1999 economic crisis. A widely
publicized government target is to expand PSF to provide coverage to 50 percent of the Brazilian
population by the end of the year 2002. To advance this goal, as well as the reform agenda, the Borrower
has taken a number of initiatives that are supported by the proposed project:
(i)  Established clear priorities for the health sector: The primary health care interventions that are
most cost-effective and beneficial to the poor are being strongly promoted. In November 2000, the
XI Congreso Nacional de Saude- an event that takes place every four years and is the result of
consultations involving professional associations, local and regional governments and popular
organizations-produced a list of National Health Priorities (with measurable indicators) focused
on communicable and non-communicable illnesses that primarily affect the poor.
(ii) Secured financing for the sector and PSF: In addition to the passage of EC 29 that has increased
financing for the health sector, the Plan Pluriannual assigned 14 percent of the MOH budget to
PSF over this period, second only to the amount budgeted for hospital services. MOH spending on
PSF more than doubled between 1997 and 2000 (from US $140 to US $380 million).
(iii) Adjusted the decentralization process and corresponding financial mechanism: The MOH has
approved new regulations that seek to correct observed deficiencies in the decentralization process
while strengthening institutional arrangements to facilitate PSF expansion. Municipalities and
states that comply with the regulations will qualify for higher federal transfers. Broadly, with the
objective of organizing and rationalizing access to and use of higher level services; these
regulations (NOAS 01/01) require: (i) municipalities to emphasize PSF as a gateway to rationalize
the use of higher levels of service; and (ii) states and municipalities to form Health Regions
consisting of clusters of municipalities that would provide the minimum market size required for an
efficient operation of tertiary care facilities.  Sustainability also requires the reduction of
cross-subsidies to private insurers. After a decade of unregulated growth, the government has
recently passed legislation and created an agency to regulate the buoyant private health insurance
industry. One of the objectives of the regulators is to reduce SUS subsidies to private insurers. A
computerized clearing house could bring significant savings if regulatory policies are developed
appropriately. The regulations also strengthen management requirements for municipalities to
quality for "autonomous management" status and grant a stronger role to the states in overseeing
municipal resource management. States and municipalities are also required to develop health plans
and sign performance agreements that specify performance targets. Municipalities that comply
with new regulations will be "certified" by the MOH to receive an increased per capita payment
(PAB fixed). Importantly, the PAB fixed covers a broader range of services than current PAB
resources because it includes resources for specialty ambulatory centers heretofore paid
- 15-



retrospectively according to an established price list. The expanded per capita payment will
provide a strong incentive to municipalities to comply with NOAS 01/01 conditions.
(iv) Prepared a human resource policy: MOH has drafted a human resource policy (for approval in
early 2002) that supports the development of personnel skilled in health services management,
health planning and family health strategies and practices. The new policy also seeks to standardize
and regulate contractual arrangements affecting PSF teams.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project aims to support the Government's vision of a health sector that places the highest
priority on quality basic health care, and rationalized, integrated financing and delivery of higher-level
services. In broad terms, the project will address essential inputs for a better-functioning and more
responsive health system: first, municipal capacity for the expansion of PSF and for the organization and
management of basic and higher-level health care; second, the quantity and quality of human resources for
the delivery of basic health services; and third, policy- and program-relevant information and knowledge to
improve system performance. These have been identified by both Brazilian authorities and the Bank as
catalytic in nature-areas that are high-priority for the Government, and where targeted actions, supported
by strong policy and technical work, will have large payoffs in improved performance and sustainability of
PSF and broader reform efforts. The sector issues to be addressed by the project are highlighted below.
Expansion of basic care, development of referral networks and strengthening of municipal capacity
will be supported under Component 1. Much of the expansion of the PSF has been achieved through
the addition of new health teams to municipalities where basic care was in short supply. The introduction
of the PAB and corresponding PSF financial incentives and their rapid growth transferred significant
amounts of fresh money to these municipalities, and these resources were used to hire, train and equip the
new teams. Three types of challenges have been identified for the next stage of PSF extension: (a) In many
urban municipalities PSF has yet to become established. The next phase needs to deal not only with
expanding PSF coverage into areas with new epidemiological needs (e.g. violence, alcoholism), but also
with converting traditional primary care facilities into PSF units. In many cases, conversion will require
upgrading these units with inputs necessary to provide quality services. The ultimate goal, however, is to
replace traditional primary care systems with strengthened PSF-based ones; (b) Successful horizontal
(population) expansion will require vertical integration of PSF into the broader service system. This will
require the organization of service networks through clustering facilities across municipal lines (per NOAS
01/01) while setting clear protocols regarding referrals and the role of PSF teams in case management; (c)
Many municipalities lack experience and capacity to organize and manage services, administer resources
and oversee referral systems. Most focus on managing inputs with little notion of outputs or results. A
major challenge is to introduce performance-based management systems that make municipal managers
more effective purchasers of services by linking resources to performance. The project will address these
obstacles by providing incentives for municipalities to develop full-scale but practical plans for
transforming the model of care - Conversion Plans - and by investing in upgrading the service network,
and enhancing the information, management and supervisory support functions necessary for the full
functioning of the PSF and referral systems.
Supply bottlenecks of family health professionals will be addressed by Component 2. A large-scale
effort is required to bring the supply of health professionals into line with the demands being generated by
the transformation in the care model. As noted above, there currently is a severe shortage of health workers
of all types, and deficits in the quantity and quality of skills among the members of existing PSF teams.
The project will address this problem by supporting, expanding and improving the work of training
- 16-



institutions whose mandate is to provide in-service, pre-service and specialty training in family health. It
will also support the development of specialty and residency programs to produce family health nurses and
physicians. Moreover, the project will provide instruments to permit the MOH to assess the quality of
training, and make adjustments as required. Shortcomings in monitoring and evaluation - essential for
sustained high performance - will be addressed by Component 3. The ultimate vision of the health sector -
one that has functional referral and counter-referral networks, and induces continuous quality improvement
at all levels - depends on excellent monitoring and evaluation systems. Currently, the lack of an
"evaluation culture," as well as shortcomings in the methods and processes for monitoring and evaluation,
are major constraints to the development of a quality- and performance-oriented service delivery system.
Under the project, significant investment will be made in developing monitoring and evaluation systems
and, importantly, in establishing systems for accreditation of Family Health units and training institutions.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The FHEP supports the Government's efforts to expand its successful PSF to large municipalities, with the
expectation that it will increase access to, utilization of, and health benefits from basic health services,
organized around the work of family health teams. The FHEP provides technical and financial resources
for the creation and strengthening of family health teams in most of the country's large metropolitan areas;
development of sustainable in-service, pre-service and specialty training programs for members of the
family health team; and large-scale, long-term improvements in monitoring and evaluation of PSF
performance across the country. The program will finance a variety of inputs, including small-scale
remodeling of primary care units, medical and non-medical equipment, vehicles, training and consultancy
services. Approximately 35 percent of the financing will be allocated through conversion subprojects of
Component 1; the remainder will be administered directly by the MOH, and will fund activities that yield
national benefits.
The seven-year APL has three phases. Consisting of three years, the first will support extension of the PSF
to large urban municipalities, expansion of training opportunities for PSF team members, and development
of core systems to enhance quality and performance of PSF provision. The second two-year phase will
support continued roll-out of the PSF in urban municipalities, strengthen the quality of institutions
providing PSF-related training, and implement systems to improve quality and performance of PSF
provision. The final, third phase will continue to support the roll-out of the PSF urban municipalities,
consolidate PSF expansion and conversion in urban municipalities, produce PSF trainees on a systematic
basis and institutionalize support systems for quality and performance. Performance triggers for Phase II
are presented in Table 2 below. A complete description of expected results for each phase is presented in
Attachment 1 of Annex 1.
- 17-



Table 3
Trigger Indicators for Phase II of the APL
Policy Indicators                      Project Implementation Indicators
1 . Conversion Agreements approved and under  1. Baseline data (on social, health status, health
implementation in about 40 urban             seeking behaviors, spending, institutional and other
municipalities with greater than 100,000     aspects related to PSF, conversion plan and
residents to transform primary care organization  NOAS/0l implementation) collected by means of
and delivery to the family health approach.  household and provider surveys in 60 percent of
participating urban municipalities. Data is analyzed
2. An average of 35 percent of population in    and presented in report. Agreement reached with the
participating urban municipalities registered  Borrower on incorporating indicators into
with Family Health teams.                    monitoring and evaluation plan.
3. 30% of participating municipalities achieve  2. Comparative and quantitative evaluation of
certification for Full Management of Basic Care  effectiveness and efficiency of about 15 PSF training
per NOAS/0 1.                                Centers (Polos de Capacitacion) and a representative
sample of PSF teams established between 1997 and
4. Regulatory frameworks for accreditation of   2001 completed.
PSF/Basic Health Units and PSF training
institutions approved, and agreement reached  3. Pre-service and in-service training of about 14,000
with Borrower on Phase II implementation     family health professionals and para-professionals.
plan..
4. PSF protocols for referrals, counter-referrals and
5. Performance-based management systems and     care practices developed and implemented in 50%
instruments developed to strengthen municipal  of PSF teams in participating municipalities.
capacity to plan, manage and implement PSF,
conversion plans and decentralization policies.  5. Methodology and instruments for effective
monitoring and evaluation developed and tested for
6. Performance-based federal transfer to finance  (i) PSF; (ii) PPI (programacion pactuada e
PSF conversion under implementation.         integrada); (iii) Pacto de indicadores; and (iv)
referral /counter-referral systems, and agreement
reached with borrower for implementation in Phase
R.
- 18 -



Table 4.
Tigger Indicators for Phase III of the APL
Policy Indicators                         Project Implementation Indicators
1. Conversion Agreements approved and under      I. Baseline collected by means of household and
implementation for up to 60 additional "phase II"  provider surveys in about 60% of "phase II"
urban municipalities with greater than 100,000   participating municipalities. Data is analyzed and
residents to transform primary care organization and  presented in a report. Agreement reached with
delivery to the family health approach.          Borrower on incorporating indicators into monitoring
and evaluation plan.
2. An average of 35 % of population in participating
"phase II" municipalities and 50% of population of  2. Comparative and quantitative evaluation of
"phase I" municipalities registered with Family  effectiveness and efficiency of an additional 10 PSF
Health Teams.                                    Training Centers (Polos de Capacitaci6n) established
prior to 2002 completed.
3. 40% of participating municipalities achieve
certification for Full Management of Basic Care per  3. Monitoring and evaluation system implemented in
NOAS/01.                                         about 50% of PSF training centers to systematically
assess: (i) trainee achievement; (ii) trainee application
4. Application of accreditation system for PSF health  of skills; and (iii) efficiency of training program.
teams in a representative sample of participating
municipalities, and about 50% of all PSF training  4. Pre-service and in-service training of about 20,000
centers. Results are analyzed and presented in a  additional family health professionals and
report.                                          para-professionals.
5. Performance-based management systems in support  5. PSF protocols for referrals, counter-referrals and care
of PSF service delivery, PSF conversion and      practices developed and implemented in about 70% of
decentralization implemented in about 50% of     PSF teams in participating municipalities.
participating urban municipalities.
6. Monitoring and evaluation/integrated information
management systems implemented in about 40% of
participating municipalities to systematically assess
AB/PSF conversion agreements, including: (i) PSF
coverage and quality; (ii) referral and counter-referral
systems, including application of care protocols and
compliance with inter-municipal agreements on
referrals (PPI); (iii) supervisory systems; and (iv)
financing and costs of PSF services.
-19-



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component 1. PSF Municipal Conversion and Expansion (US$86.9 million)
This component will support the extension of basic care services through the expansion of the population
covered under the PSF model in about 40 municipalities with populations of over 100,000 inhabitants. This
will be achieved through the implementation of Basic and Family Health Care Conversion (Conversion
Subprojects) to convert the organization and provision of basic health services from a traditional model to
the prevention, outreach- and performance-oriented Family Health Model; strengthen the decentralization
regime, following the NOAS/01 regulatory framework; and introduce a performance-based transfer
mechanism.
In 2001, the Family Health Program (PSF) covers an estimated 10 percent of the population in the 223
municipalities with over 100,000 inhabitants (see Table 4 below). Of the 30 municipalities with over
500,000 residents, PSF coverage reaches only 7 percent in nearly half. Federal spending on AB and PSF
in these 223 municipalities reached $416 and $48 million, respectively, in 2000. Total primary care
spending, including municipal contributions was approximately $536 million in 2000.
The specific objectives of the component are to: (a) expand access to and utilization of basic health services
by populations at risk in urban areas, which currently are underserved, through the implementation of the
PSF model and upgrading of the service network; (b) establish functional referral and counter-referral
systems through establishment of integrated service networks; (c) strengthen the system of PSF
management and organization; and (d) improve the performance of the municipal providers of basic health
services through development of performance-based organizational and management models, and the
introduction of new health care practices.
Implementation and Financing Arrangements: Municipalities seeking support under the project will submit
a Conversion Plan (Plano de Conversao) as well as related Basic and Family Health Care activities that,
taken together, will constitute the Basic and Family Health Conversion (Conversion Subprojects). Criteria
for eligibility and selection of participating municipalities as well as guidelines for the preparation of the
Conversion Plans will be established by the Ministry of Health (MOH), and included in the project's
Operational Manual (OM). Annex 2G presents summary eligibility criteria, and outlines the selection
process. In addition to health-related criteria, eligible municipalities must meet financial management and
procurement requirements per risk classification methodology described in Annex 6. The Conversion Plan
guidelines will draw on PSF strategies, institutional requirements stipulated in recently approved
regulations (NOAS 01/01 -- regarding formation of networks and organization and management of health
services) and analyses of successful experiences in transforming traditional primary care to the PSF model.
The Conversion Subprojects will form the basis for Subproject Implementation Agreements signed between
the selected municipalities and the Ministry of Health, which will set forth the respective obligations
regarding subproject implementation, including: (i) broad description of a seven-year conversion program
including global end-of-program performance targets; (ii) detailed description of Conversion Subproject
- 20 -



activities to be implemented in the first three-year phase; (iii) technical and fiduciary performance targets
that will determine eligibility for participation in subsequent APL phases(Annex 2F presents the
performance indicators required for participation in Phase 2 of the APL); (iv) procurement plans and
corresponding disbursement schedule for subproject activities, specifying eligible expenditures; (v)
obligations regarding reporting, recording keeping, maintenance of accounts, and auditing; and (vi) terms
for cancellation of disbursements and/or the Agreements.
Bank financing will be pooled with federal transfers used by the Borrower to finance health program
implementation: Family Health (PABfam), Basic Health Care (PABfixed) and Conversion Plans
(PABconv). From a technical perspective, these three transfers essentially finance a similar set of activities
related to primary health care. PABfixed finances the Basic Health Care Program (AB) under the existing
model while PABfam finances basic care services under the Family Health Model through the Family
Health Program (PSF). PABconv will finance the transitional costs of converting primary care delivery
from the existing model to the family health-based approach. Based on the procurement plans of the
Conversion Subprojects, a virtual Subproject Pool will be dimensioned within the larger AB/PSF
Programmatic Pool of transfers. The Subproject Pool will exist only for selected (eligible) municipalities,
which will be responsible for implementing the Conversion Subprojects. The Subproject Pool would be
spent for activities constituting the Conversion Subprojects and related to Conversion Plan implementation,
PSF extension and Basic Care provision.
Given the solidity of the borrower's fiduciary framework and the agreed risk mitigation measures, as
described in Annex 6, the Bank has agreed to disburse into the Borrower's grant transfer system, advancing
funds against Statements of Transfers (SOTs). The Conversion Subproject procurement plans will be the
basis for establishing the subproject disbursement schedule for Bank disbursements into the grant transfer
system. Based on expenditure data supplied by participating municipalities, the MOH will submit quarterly
Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) to monitor and compare reported eligible expenditures with
SOT-based expenditures. Full reconciliation (based on PMRs) will occur annually, and if necessary, agreed
remedies will be applied for misprocurement, mismanagement and ineligible expenditures. Loan proceeds
will finance 30 percent of the Subproject Pool for eligible small works, equipment, goods, consultant
services, training and operating costs for non-ICB goods and QCBS consultants. The Subproject Pool will
finance 100 percent of ICB goods and QCBS consultants, but not as advances. Rather, disbursements will
follow traditional investment lending procedures in which documentation such as contracts and invoices
will be required to support withdrawal applications.
Component Content: Once approved by the MOH, Conversion Subprojects will be implemented by the
selected municipalities. The following groups of activities, grouped into two subcomponents, will be
financed through the subproject pool.
(a)  Family Health Extension and Basic Care Provision: This activity will support the expansion of PSF
population coverage and the delivery of basic care in participating urban municipalities through
financing incremental operational costs involved in the organization, supervision and provision of
family health and basic care services, as specified in the Operational Manual. Annex 2A describes
these activities and services.
(b) PSF Conversion: This subcomponent will consist of the following groups of activities:
*    Institutional modernization: Through financing of consultancy services and training
workshops, seminars and materials, activities will seek to strengthen municipal capacity to
regulate, organize, manage and provide health services through developing and implementing
- 21 -



performance-based management agreements, policies and regulations for contracting human
resources, and evaluations of user satisfaction and community participation. Activities will
also support the preparation of municipal investment plans, referral and counter-referral
systems and family health practice protocols.
*    Upgrading of municipal health service provision: Activities are intended to improve the service
delivery capacity of municipal primary care providers through supporting remodeling of health
centers and polyclinics, procurement of medical and non-medical equipment, furniture, vehicles
and operating costs.
*    Strengthening of municipal information systems: Activities will support incorporation and use
of information technologies for planning and monitoring and evaluating health system
organization and performance. Financing will include consultancy services, computer
equipment and software and training workshops and materials.
*    Training and supervision: Activities will include development and implementation of training
courses in strategic areas and work processes in support of PSF expansion, the conversion
process and strengthening of supervisory systems. The subcomponent will finance consultancy
services and training, workshops, seminars, publications and materials.
Component 2. PSF Human Resource Development (US$37.4 million)
This component will support the implementation of a human resource policy that contributes to the
expansion of the PSF model; strengthens the qualifications and performance of family health professionals
and PSF teams; and introduces new contents and methods in the preparation of health professionals. This
component will have a national focus and be managed through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
The objectives of the component are to: (a) increase the number and quality of PSF human resources; (b)
expand and strengthen pre-service and in-service training for PSF human resources; (c) expand and
strengthen programs for professional training, including residencies in family health, specialty training for
physicians, nurses and dental hygiene assistants; and (d) introduce special programs (such as training
center consortiums and virtual networks to exchange information) and demonstration projects that support
and strengthen the human resource development activities.
Many of the activities financed under Component 2 will be implemented through the Polos de
Capacitacao, training centers that offer courses and training modules directed at professionals on the
Family Health Team. In addition, there are approximately 100 institutions of higher learning-universities,
faculties and medical and nursing schools-which together with the State and Municipal Health
Secretariats will be able to participate in the Program. Activities for the para-professional members of the
team, particularly in the case of dental technicians, will be implemented through Health Technical
Schools (Escolas Tecnicas de Satide), which are linked to the State and Municipal Health Secretariats.
Existing contracts with training institutions will be supported under this subcomponent, as well new
contracts, selected on a competitive basis.
Activities are grouped into three subcomponents:
(a)  In-service training of PSF professionals and para-professionals:  This subcomponent aims to
strengthen PSF service organization and provision by supporting in-service training for several types
- 22 -



of service managers, health professionals (doctors and nurses) and para-professionals (community
health agents). Through financing training (consultancy services and workshops) and training
materials and publications, training programs will be developed and implemented in clinical
practices, public health, health planning, clinical and non-clinical management. The subcomponent
will also support development of national strategies, plans, guidelines and training modules for
medical waste management for primary care facilities.
(b)  Pre-service and specialty training of PSF professionals: Through financing consultancy services,
scholarships, intemships, training workshops, conferences, materials and publications, this
subcomponent will provide pre-service training to professionals relevant to the organization and
provision of services under the PSF model. This subcomponent will support the development and
expansion of programs that prepare health managers, family health physician and nurse specialists,
dental hygiene assistants and community health agents.
(c)  Demonstration activities to support training and education: This subcomponent seeks to improve the
quality and quantity of training opportunities for current and future members of PSF teams. This will
be accomplished through the creation of regional networks of training centers, creation and
maintenance of a web-based clearinghouse for training materials, and piloting of curriculum
development programs in medical and nursing schools to develop new and improved educational
methods and materials relevant to the family health discipline. The subcomponent will finance
consultancy services, audio-visual equipment, training workshops, conferences, materials and
publications.
Project Component 3. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 7.1 million)
Under this component, rigorous and coordinated monitoring and evaluation methodologies will be employed
to assess the structure, processes, outputs and impact of the PSF. This will entail an effort to build on,
improve and integrate several existing information systems in the health sector. In addition, evaluation
methodologies, instruments, strategies and plans developed under other FHEP components will be applied.
The primary objectives of the component are to: (a) create systems for permanent, cost-effective monitoring
and evaluation of the PSF and the training institutions' performance; and (b) develop and implement
systems of accreditation of basic family health units and PSF training centers.
The project will provide a central source of financing for four subcomponents, described below. Similar to
Component 2, activities will be conducted on a national basis, and will be managed through the PCU within
the MOH. As necessary, the MOH may enter into subcontracts with universities and/or technical
institutions for management of research.
(a)  Strengthening of monitoring systems: Activities will support the consolidation and standardization of
monitoring systems and instruments for basic health care. It will strengthen PSF monitoring,
incorporate performance measures into monitoring systems, expand and strengthen regional technical
support centers (Centros Regionales de Capacitacion para o Monitoramento de Atencao Bdsica)
responsible for collecting and synthesizing health system data and overseeing PSF performance,
development of integrated data systems and introduction of new information technologies. Financing
will support consultancy services, training, computer hardware and software, study tours and
training workshops, materials and publications.
(b) Evaluation of PSF implementation: This subcomponent will support the development of evaluation
methodologies and instruments to measure the acquisition and application of skills by individuals
- 23 -



trained in Family Health and the impact of training center networks, demonstration projects,
curricular and pedagogic innovations supported in Component 2. It will also support impact
evaluations of a sample of PSF teams and PSF training centers implemented between 1997 and 2001.
The project will finance consultancy services, publications, training workshops and materials, study
tours and seminars.
(c)  Accreditation of the basic family health teams, facilities and training institutions: Through financing
consultancy services, publications, training, workshops and seminars, this subcomponent will
develop an accreditation regulatory framework and corresponding systems for: (i) family health
teams and facilities; and (ii) PSF training centers (Polos de Capacitacdo).
(d)  Research and Evaluation Fund:  This subcomponent will support evaluations and operational
research on topics related to the development and performance of the PSF and the related training
institutions, the process of decentralization of the SUS, human resources in the health sector,
efficiency and effectiveness of the PSF, and other strategic topics identified by the MOH. Awards
will be made on a competitive basis. The project will finance consultancy services, publications,
workshops and international seminars.
Component 4: Project Management (US$3.8 million)
This component would support project management for all components, including the design and
implementation of a monitoring information system to monitor and supervise project activities. This
component would also support issue-specific studies related to seeking solutions to implementation
problems, including qualitative as well as quantitative techniques. The component would finance consultant
services, facilities and equipment for the maintenance of the PCU and per diem for supervision in the field.
lndicative            Bank-       % of
Component                  .Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)     Total     (US$M)   financing
I.  PSF Municipal Conversion and                       86.85      63.9     25.90      38.1
Expansion
II. PSF Human Resource                                 37.37      27.5     33.32      49.0
Development
III. Monitoring and Evaluation                          7.35       5.4      6.23       9.2
IV. Project Management                                  3.75       2.8      1.87       2.8
Total Project Costs                  135.32      99.5     67.32      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.68       0.5      0.68        1.0
Total Financing Required                   136.00      100.0     68.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The FHEP supports the major lines of policy and programmatic reforms currently underway in the
Brazilian health sector, including:
(a)  Transformation of a traditional, curative-oriented model of care to a preventive, outreach-oriented
model of care.
- 24 -



(b)  Decentralization of health system management responsibility to the municipal level.
(c)  Regionalization of health systems, to optimize hospital and other high-level resources over a defined
geographic area.
(d)  Introduction of performance-based financing mechanisms for primary care services.
(e)  Development of a culture of evaluation, quality and performance-based management.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main project benefits will include improved health outcomes for the population of large urban centers
who currently have limited access to and utilization of basic health care services; greater access to high
quality basic health care services; greater municipal, state and federal capacity for management of the
health care system, including development of information, monitoring and evaluation systems; more and
better-trained professionals and other health care workers prepared to deliver basic, outreach-oriented
health care.
It is important to note that the proposed project does not target low-income beneficiaries per se. The PSF is
not a program exclusively for the poor. It is a model for providing basic care for the entire Brazilian
population. Government social programs are universal and will remain universal, but the government
recognizes that the barriers to universal access are felt primarily by low-income populations. In addition to
devoting the extra resources, the Government aims to reduce access barriers by extending the PSF-based
outreach model. The proposed project will benefit low-income populations, since they are the main users of
SUS through self-targeting. The Living Standard Measurement Survey conducted in 1996 and 1997
showed that the poor rely heavily on public providers, particularly for basic health care. For example,
nearly all prenatal care received by poor women in urban areas is delivered by public providers. A 1998
survey found that 75 percent of Brazilians with an incomplete primary education -- a proxy for poverty --
and 62 percent with incomplete secondary education were frequent or exclusive users of public facilities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established in the MOH within the Secretariat of Health
Policies and will report to the Director of the Department of Basic Health Care (DAB) for the
implementation of the PSF. It will work closely with the existing organizational structure of management,
technical, human resources and evaluation in the DAB which is in charge of the implementation of the
FHEP at all levels. The main function of the PCU is to manage all aspects related to project
implementation, to guarantee that project components are executed according to terms and agreed
timetable. It will be staffed by individuals who have had experience in implementing the FHEP or other
Bank-funded projects. The results of an institutional analysis carried out by the Secretariat of Health
Policies (SPS) and the DAB showed the need for strengthening the Department with additional qualified
staff, and for providing training to existing staff to facilitate internal coordination and implementation of
project activities. The Family Health Project would finance these new staff, the functioning of the PCU and
additional support staff for the Unit. The functional structure of the PCU is outlined in more detail in
Annex 2D. An organization chart is presented in Attachment 2 of Annex 2D.
An Operational Manual (OM) will detail procedures for monitoring of compliance with performance
benchmarks, reporting, procurement, financial management, disbursement, and auditing procedures for
each of the components. The OM would also contain: Project Implementation Plan for Components 1, 2
and 3; eligibility criteria to select municipalities under Component 1, performance indicators, and a draft
of federal-municipal implementation agreements as well as regulations related to the approval of
Conversion Subprojects. It will also specify eligibility requirements and implementation processes for
Research Grants financed through Component 3. Regarding procurement, the OM will specify: (i) the
- 25 -



content of the procurement plans; (ii) the procedures to be used by the PCU and the Bank to classify the
risk level of the participating muncipalities; (iii) the methodology to be used by the PCU to assess the
capacity of the participating municipalities; (iv) the procedures to conduct and coordinate procurement
audits of Component 1 activities; (v) the procedures for monitoring aggregate amounts for non-ICB
procedures; and (vi) the application of standard bidding documents under Components 2 - 4. The issuance
of the final version of the OM will be a condition for effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
No project alternative: As a result of recent government financial forms, the health sector will benefit
from increased funding during the foreseeable future. Bank financial participation in PSF expansion is
important but not a critical factor. The Borrower and Bank agreed, however, that the value added of the
loan and Bank involvement would be to assist the MOH to: (i) introduce outputs- and performance-based
approaches toward PSF implementation and expansion; (ii) transform primary care practices to a PSF
model; (iii) insert PSF implementation into recently approved decentralization reforms (NOAS 01/01); and
(iv) develop and implement strong monitoring and evaluation in support of PSF implementation.
Standard investment operation: After considerable analysis, both the Borrower and the Bank agreed on
utilizing the APL to support the proposed project given the following considerations: (i) the long term
horizon for meeting the program's developmental objectives; (ii) the existence of a sound sector reform
program developed by the government; and (iii) the GOB's decision to stage the PSF expansion and
decentralization reforms because of the level of complexity of these activities and the need for piloting new
arrangements not fully evaluated yet in the sector. The APL will support the GOB's incremental approach
to PSF expansion and sector reform, while "locking in" long-term institutional and political commitment to
the program.
Focus on rural vs. urban areas: The project will focus on extending PSF to urban areas. There is already
substantial coverage among small municipalities with large rural areas as MOH focused PSF expansion
there during the first implementation stage (1997-2001). Coverage extension in rural and small urban areas
also was relatively easy due to weak presence of municipal providers, population density and interest from
political leaders. One of the goals of the FHEP is to reach populations with limited access to and
underutilization of basic health care services. In this context, the urban focus of the proposed Bank
operation is also justified because 38 percent of those in the poorest income quintile live in urban areas, and
health indicators among the urban poor are as bad or worse than indicators among the rural poor.
Standard vs. flexible disbursement scheme: To satisfy the request of the Borrower regarding Bank
participation in the grant-based municipal financing system, the proposed project will apply two fiduciary
innovations under Component 1 that, taken together, result in a more flexible disbursement scheme. First,
it would extend the period (to one year) for which advances (disbursements) would continue to be made
before the eligibility of expenditures are reconciled. Second, loan proceeds would finance a share of the
Subproject Pool instead of a share of each transaction, as is normal practice. Applying more standard
disbursement arrangements would compromise effective flow of funds and jeopardize Bank financial
participation in the PSF or any federally-funded health program. Given the special remedies and risk
mitigation arrangements agreed with the Borrower, and specified in Annex 6, the Bank team chose to craft
a more flexible disbursement scheme.
- 26 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                  (PSR) Ratings
_._______________________________ ___________________________  (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  ObjectIe (DO)
AIDS prevention and control       AIDS (Loan 3659-BR               HS            S
Health sector financing, improvement  Health Sector Reform         S             S
of infrastructure and management
AIDS prevention and control+      Second AIDS & STD Control        S             S
Project(Loan 4392)
Epidemiological Surveillance      Disease Surveillance             S             S
Control Project - VIGISUS
(Loan 4394)
Inter-American Development
Bank
Human Resources                   Professionalization of Nursing
Personnel                         S            S
(Loan BR-0305)
Health sector financing, improvement of Health Sector Reform        S             S
infrastructure and management     (REFORSUS)(Loan
95 /OC-BR
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design reflects lessons related to (a) the impact of the PSF in Brazil; (b) international experience with
the implementation of primary care models; and (c) previous Bank work in health operations and
evaluations. The main lessons and design responses are:
The PSF has great potential to improve the coverage and qualitv of basic care, as well as health
outcomes. Several assessments and formative evaluations have been carried out by the government and
other institutions (including an assessment done by the Bank) regarding the performance of the PSF
program. The main benefits found by these studies are: (i) increased coverage of basic health care in small
size municipalities with high infant mortality rates; (ii) high satisfaction with the program by users; (iii)
positive impact on registered infant mortality rates, vaccination coverage, childhood nutrition, and
hospitalization rates; and (iv) increased production of basic health services. The evaluation findings provide
the rationale for supporting expansion of the PSF. At the same time, they point to the fact that the positive
- 27 -



experiences of the PSF have occurred primarily in rural or small urban areas where basic care supply was
irregular at best. Expansion to large urban areas may require adaptation to a different set of supply and
demand conditions. These adaptations can only be made on the basis of a thorough understanding of
household and provider characteristics in the municipalities, and continuous, rigorous, program-relevant
monitoring and evaluation. Design of activities under Component 3 of the project reflects an understanding
of the importance of monitoring and evaluation to ensure that the PSF reaches its potential during the
expansion period.
Successful implementation of new primary care models depends on major changes in underlying
incentives. Family health or similar (outreach) models of primary care can be found in other countries
including the United Kingdom, Canada, Honduras (nutrition) and Cuba. Other countries in Latin America
also are trying to develop new models of primary care, such as Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras
(nutrition). Some of the implementation lessons obtained by these experiences include the following: (i) The
most difficult part of the reform is to effectively change the culture of both the health providers and users.
(ii) While there are numerous experiences of development of new primary health care programs that have
been successful in expanding access to the poor, the team found fewer examples of successfully linking
these programs to higher levels of care; (iii) New programs tend to be developed in years of economic
growth and fiscal expansion based on additional money. When the expansion of these programs is not
accompanied by a simultaneous reform of the traditional programs, the new programs tend to be
short-lived: thus, for example, when there is a fiscal contraction, the new programs are the first to be cut as
the traditional programs tend to have stronger legal and political means to defend themselves. As a response
to these lessons, the proposed is supported by and strongly reinforces the financing and institutional
reforms already under implementation. Developing a robust monitoring and evaluation system that provides
continuous feedback on performance is a key element contributing to program success.
Given the dynamic nature of the Brazilian health system. allow for flexibilitv - but within an agreed
upon framework that emphasizes results. Implementation experiences of other World Bank projects,
including the Second Northeast Basic Health Services (98), AIDS and STD Control (98), Amazon Basin
Malaria Control (97), and Endemic Disease Control (97); MTR of the ongoing REFORSUS project (99),
as well as broader health sector and country portfolio reviews, indicate that project success can depend on
flexibility in the face of changing economic and political conditions, and ability to reorient when new
knowledge becomes available. The instrument selected for the project - an APL - provides the benefits of
a three-year planning horizon, permitting mid-course corrections. At the same time, its focus on showing
results during each two-year interval, and maintaining an overall development framework, keeps "big
picture" issues at the forefront.
- 28 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
As explained in the text, the PSF has been a core element of the federal government's efforts since 1994 to
improve primary care and raise per capita health expenditures by municipal governments. There is a
long-term commitment to this program. Commitment by the federal Government is strong for PSF
expansion into urban areas, given that this highly visible operation fits squarely into its main policy and
programmatic priorities. As noted earlier, the four-year development plan (Avance Brasil - Plano
PlurianualiPPA 2000/2003) states that the PSF is the leading priority for the health sector. PSF is also a
key component of the government's IDH-14 program. In 2000, the federal government started an initiative
targeting key existing social programs to the 14 poorest states of the country (all 9 states of the
Northeastern region and 5 states of Northern region). The methodology for selecting the municipalities of
the 14 poorest states is based on UNDP's Human Development Index. The government prioritized the
following programs in the health sector: reducing infant mortality through improved water and sanitation
services; expanding coverage of the Community Agent and Family Health programs; and combating
maternal and neonatal mortality. The President and the Minister of Health have publicly announced the
targets for the expansion of PSF. The program has been well received in many municipalities, but has
encountered resistance in others. While the commitment of specific states and municipalities still needs to
be determined and would become a key factor for eligibility under the project (especially for Component I),
the project team received positive responses from leaders of opposition parties who run municipalities in
Sao Paulo and Bahia and have launched public efforts in support of PSF.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's value-added to the project includes: (a) experience with adjustment and performance-based
lending, which can now be applied to municipal reform programs; (b) global international experience and
expertise on project design and implementation, particularly in the areas of financial incentives and transfer
mechanisms, program targeting and program evaluation; and (c) broad strategic perspective on the sector
and capacity to bring into the health sector experiences from other key government agencies and ministries,
as well as with other developmental agencies and donors.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
NPV=US$2.1 billion; IRR=91% (see Annex 4)
A detailed analysis of the estimated economic costs and benefits of the FHEP projected that the APL will
yield a net present value of benefits, after investment and recurrent costs, of some US$2.1 billion (about
US$2,058 million), and produce an internal rate of return above 91 percent over a 10-year period. A
summary of the main features of the analysis is provided in Annex 4; the full analysis is available in project
files.
In terms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers two basic elements: (i) the external
investment costs of the Bank program; and (ii) the recurrent costs. The total cost of the program is of
US$3.314 billion. Of this amount, the Bank would finance US$550 million and the Borrower would
finance US$2.764 billion. The recurrent costs reach nearly US$700 million per year after the sixth year;
once the project is fully operational. This amount includes the recurrent and incremental costs of
- 29 -



investments in infrastructure, equipment and maintenance, as well as the cost of increase in coverage for
basic health services through the primary care network.
The expected benefits of the project have been estimated based on the evaluation of pilot projects in two
municipalities. The analysis distributes benefits into two major groups: direct and indirect benefits. The
direct benefits are the expected tangible benefits accruable to the project from the cost reduction due to a
decline in the number of hospitalizations by the improving management of morbidity at the primary care
level. These cost savings will be realized through two sources: First, the project will result in reduced
hospitalizations due to greater capacity to resolve medical needs at the local level, thus reducing referrals to
hospitals. Second, the project will reduce risk factors in the target population that increase the demand for
hospitalizations. Another probable source of savings, not explicitly quantified in this study, is the reduction
in hospitalization costs caused by the increased efficiency of health service networks due to improved
management practices. The project will shift healthcare provision from expensive hospitals to more
efficient and higher quality primary care centers.
Indirect benefits are related to the benefits obtained from the additional life-years for the population of the
targeted districts. The monetary value for this figure is calculated by projecting the present value of GDP
per capita over the total number of additional life-years obtained from the reduced mortality. The
cost-benefit analysis assumes that the strengthening and changes made to the health care system will be
targeted to 84.5 million people, and that a 10-year period is required to reflect the flow of costs and
benefits.
The analysis found that benefits outweigh investments by a ratio of more than two to one. Over a 10-year
horizon, the present value of the cost of the project is US$1,800 million, while the present value of the total
benefits is estimated at more than US$3,800 million, thus giving the project a net present value (NPV) of
approximately $2,058 million. The NPV of the project over a five-year time frame is estimated at US$321
million, thus demonstrating the robustness of the project. With the exception of the first three years, the
project is expected to generate annual savings to the system that outstrip the investment cost, thereby
paying for them. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the project is estimated at 91 percent, reflecting the
extremely high benefits relative to project costs. This ratio can be used to demonstrate the value of this
project relative to other projects in other sectors; any number lower than the discount rate (10 percent)
would imply that the project should not be carried out.
A sensitivity analysis was perforned, assuming delays of two and three years, as well as a reduction in
benefits of 20, 30 and 40 percent. The reduction in benefits may be derived from a lower than projected
impact on health indicators or from reaching fewer people than the a priori estimates. The analysis
demonstrated that the project would remain justifiable, even assuming a three-year delay in project benefits
or a 40 percent reduction in the benefits received. The analysis highlights the importance of focusing on
measurable results. A significant reduction in benefits of 50 percent would no longer justify the project,
assuning no additional benefits are generated other than those estinated conservatively in the economic
analysis.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Based on the current projections for health expenditures, once the project is fully implemented the
- 30 -



incremental cost is estimated to be equivalent to nearly 4 percent of the public expenditure, from year seven
onwards. (A summary of the main features of the fiscal impact analysis is provided in Annex 4; the full
analysis is available in project files.) More importantly, the sustainability of the project depends on the
availability of incremental spending in the sector that will sustain the recurrent costs attributable to the
project. If the sustainability of the project is analyzed in terms of the overall percentage of annual increases
in MOH spending absorbed by the project's recurrent costs, rather than the total public sector spending, the
percentage increases to 80 percent of the annual increases of MOH expenditures. Even with the increase in
resource expected from the implementation of EC 29, the full implementation of the project will imply a
continuous effort to target to family care the projected increases in health sector resources. Sustainability
should not be a problem, with incremental spending around 4 percent of public health spending. However,
the project's viability will be highly dependent on maintaining political support and a priority allocation of
incremental budget revenues.
3. Technical:
Project design is built upon the findings and recommendations of a series of technical studies and
evaluations of the current reform process. Presented in Annex 8, these include technical assessments of the
health system financing, decentralization, basic health care model (PSF), municipal capacity constraints,
characteristics and productivity of training institutions, and information systems at municipal, state and
federal levels. In addition, the World Bank's study of matemal and child health was used as the basis for
identifying key health problems, and recommended approaches to solve them. All information was used to
propose a design that would fit local conditions, needs, priorities and respond to sustainability issues.
4. Institutional:
The PCU staff at the federal level have had experience managing Bank-funded projects in Brazil. Project
management capacity exists at the DAB, but it is variable at the municipal level. A recent institutional
analysis of the DAB showed that to take on additional project implementation activities, the Department
will need to add a small number of additional staff members and provide training related to project
activities to the existing staff. In addition, a financial management and procurement assessment was
undertaken and recommendations have been incorporated into project design. The MOH agreed to take
additional steps to close some capacity gaps in financial management and procurement during
implementation, by providing extensive technical assistance principally to weak municipalities and
institutions to improve their procurement, financial management, program administration and institutional
capacity (see Annex 6 for proposed actions).
The Borrower is the federal Government of Brazil, and as per Risk Assessment Matrix in Annex 6, no
major risks were identified which would require special recommendations or actions, other than those
already in place and/or included in the action plan.
4.1 Executing agencies:
Ministry of Health
4.2 Project management:
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established within the Secretariat of Health Policies and will
respond to the Director of the Department of Basic Health Care (DAB) for the implementation of the PSF.
It will work closely with the existing organizational structure of management, technical, human resources
and evaluation in the DAB which is in charge of the implementation of the FHEP at all levels. The main
function of the PCU is to manage all aspects related to project implementation, to guarantee that project
- 31 -



components are executed according to terms and agreed timetable. It will be staffed by individuals who
have had experience in implementing the FHEP or other Bank-funded projects. The results of an
institutional analysis carried out by the Secretariat of Health Policies (SPS) and the DAB showed the need
for strengthening the Department with additional qualified staff, and for providing training to existing staff
to facilitate intemal coordination and implementation of project activities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Government of Brazil and the World Bank have recently completed the first stage of a study on
government procurement in Brazil and have concluded that the legal framework and implementation are
generally acceptable and guarantee adequate transparency. Other preliminary results of this review suggest
that the judicial protests or recurso continue to cause major delays in govemment procurement. Another
finding indicates that the use of COMPRASNET and of E-purchasing (pregdo eletronico) and other modem
procurement methods will make government procurement more efficient and transparent, and this Project is
likely to benefit from the use of such methods at the municipal level. The Bank has completed a capacity
assessment of the PCU and has developed an action plan for its improvement. There is no need to carry out
a capacity assessment of the Institucoes Polo (IP), as they will be subcontractors for the Ministry of Health
in carrying out training activities. Under the Conversion Subprojects, the Ministry of Health, through the
PCU, will be responsible for upstream, procurement-related activities, including assessing the implementing
capacity of the participants, preparing and reviewing procurement plans, developing and monitoring
improvement action plans, justifying risk classification, coordinating procurement reviews, and preparing
management reports on compliance and prior review activities. In order to discharge these responsibilities,
the PCU will organize a procurement team consisting of at least one senior procurement specialist and one
junior procurement specialist, both of whom should be already familiar with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. This team will assess the implementing capacity of the selected municipalities and determine the
level of risk involved in the case of each beneficiary municipality using a methodology acceptable to the
Bank. The team will prepare the procurement section of the Project's various directives and of its
operational manual.
4.4 Financial management issues:
On the basis of the assessment carried out by the team's Financial Management Specialist, it was
concluded that the project and the PCU satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements
and will have in place a financial management system that can provide with reasonable assurance, accurate
and timely information on the status of the project required by the Bank. The project is capable of
disbursing using SOEs (for Components 2-4) and statements of transfers (SOTs) for Component 1 and will
also be able to reconcile SOTs with eligible expenditures to produce the financial reports in FMR format
on a quarterly basis.
The financial system will have the capacity to generate PMRs automatically, and will be adapted to the
particularities of this project, as per action plan (see Annex 6). The action plan includes the agreements
with the PCU on the standards of the Financial Statements in PMR format, and defines the timeframe for
their submission duly certified by Public Auditors.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The FHEP foresees no large civil works activities, but has potential for generating both positive and
negative environmental impacts. LCSES has determined that FHEP is a Category "C" project. In the first
stage of implementation of the FHEP, there will be increased demand for specialized outpatient services,
because the program will represent a new channel of access to medical services for that segment of the
- 32 -



population that did not previously have access to such services. In this stage, the negative impacts of the
process are concentrated mostly in increased generation of waste material at the health units, with the
consequent need for more effective controls. For the most part, these measures involve implementation of a
System of Waste Management that includes minimization of generation plus segregation of waste. At the
same time, however, the FHEP has great potential for producing positive impacts. Over the medium-term,
there will be a reduction in demand for urgent and emergency services, as health services are improved, the
number of hospitalizations due to avoidable causes also is expected to decline. In this case, positive impacts
will result from a drop in the volume of waste generated, together with improved health conditions for the
population.
Specific actions to be taken include the following:
As outpatient health service units generate approximately 80 percent less waste material than large
hospitals, and the waste produced at such facilities is considerably less dangerous, there is a need for
simplified waste management procedures suited to the specific circumstances of basic health care units.
Annex 2C provides an example of such a system, and cost estimates, from a system in Belo Horizonte-MG
(See Annex 2G). Under Component 2 the borrower will develop a national strategy, implementation
guidelines and manual, and training modules to aid in the task of managing the waste generated within
basic health care units. The purpose of the manual will be to orient all activities targeted at minimizing the
impact of waste generation at these units. The training module will focus on the effective implementation of
waste management practices, utilizing the waste management manual for basic health care units. The
manual and training modules will be field tested with Family Health Teams in a sample of municipalities.
The program will be gradually expanded in a systematic fashion during future APL phases.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N.A.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
N.A.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N.A.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N.A.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Among several social development issues related to the FHEP, four deserve special attention: (i) inequality
in access to health services and, consequently, the inequality of health status among different groups and
areas; (ii) the growing problem of diseases, such as AIDS, that have large behavioral components, and that
strongly affect vulnerable subgroups of the population, such as women, and those who are socially and
economically under-privileged; (iii) poor reproductive health status, with high matemal mortality and
teenage pregnancy rates; and (iv) a traditional emphasis on "curative" medicine, centered on hospitals and
on fragmented interventions by specialized professionals.
- 33 -



The PSF, supported in strategic ways by the FHEP, was designed to improve coverage, particularly for
populations with limited access to and utilization of health care services; promote comprehensive
interventions; diminish the need for hospitalizations; and disseminate a concept of health as well being,
de-linking it from diseases and hospitals. Among the core family health interventions to be strengthened are
those that yield the greatest improvements in maternal and child health. Thus, the project directly addresses
each of the problems listed above. In addition, another Bank operation (VIGISUS) is designed to support
AIDS control efforts. As the project will only support the expansion of the PSF to municipalities with
more than 100,000 inhabitants, OD 4.20 is not trigged. The VIGISUS Project has a specific component for
indigenous health, which has been successfully implemented.
Social development outcomes include: (i) alleviation of inequities in health outcomes as a result of
improved access to health interventions of low-income populations; (ii) civil society strengthening by the
incorporation of civil society organizations, service providers, universities and research institutions, and
communities as partners in the institutional arrangements of the project; (iii) gender equity by the
enhancement of women's health status as a result of comprehensive interventions for families; (iv)
enhancement of social risk management by strengthening information of families and communities; (v)
improvement of the country's safety net by strengthening the health care system and risk management; and
(vi) training and job creation that will disproportionately benefit women who make up the vast majority of
health personnel contracted through the PSF.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The PSF is an ongoing program and its implementation has been accompanied by a variety of consultation
mechanisms with key social actors. For the preparation of the proposed project, specific participatory
evaluations were also carried out, including exploration of the reasons underlying both successful and
disappointing PSF experiences. The project's design benefited from extensive consultation through
workshops, group discussions, and qualitative and quantitative assessments with families, community
agents, nurses and physicians. A diagnosis of women's health status was also conducted, recognizing the
central role that women play in the health and well-being of their families.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The PSF is community-based, involving NGOs, universities and specialized research institutions for
training, monitoring and evaluation. A number of NGOs are involved in PSF personnel contracting and
management, and to a lesser extent, in service delivery.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project is participatory by design. Families and communities are the units to be targeted, and
community health agents are one of the key players of the program.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
To monitor performance with respect to social development outcomes, the M&E system will include
beneficiary assessments. Surveys on user satisfaction have often been used to evaluate the functioning and
impacts of the ongoing program. An analysis of "best practices" of some of the current experiences has
been initiated and, once finalized, will provide inputs into the design of the municipal Conversion Plans.
- 34 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes O No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  OYes*No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             OYes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Ateas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
N.A.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Ownership: By design, the PSF is intricately woven into a well-established and extensive participatory
process in the health sector. In addition to the high priority bestowed by the MOH, the PSF has been
discussed and strongly endorsed by stakeholders through consultative mechanisms, including state,
municipal and local health councils (to secure client inputs) and the Intra-govemmental Management
Commissions (to secure inputs from federal, state, municipal health authorities and staff). Basic health
priorities and corresponding indicators that buoy the PSF resulted from a series of consultations with state,
municipal and local health councils during 2000, and published by the MOH (Portaria no. 393/GM) in
March, 2001. Also, one criterion for Conversion Plan approval is evidence of consultation with local
stakeholders and of close correspondence between Plan objectives and agreements made between
municipal authorities and health councils.
Financial: Recent financial reforms have facilitated stability of funding for the health sector. Current
legislation will result in increases in federal spending on health by 7 percent by 2001 and 2004, according
to analyses prepared during project preparation. Also, MOH has demonstrated strong and increasing
budgetary commitment to PSF, as described earlier. MOH budgetary allocations to PSF are projected to
increase by 10 percent annually between 2001 and 2004. The government's top priority in the health sector
is to extend PSF coverage to urban municipalities. Bank financial participation represents a fraction of PSF
financing. Finally, as PSF coverage expands, the MOH envisions the merging of separate transfers that
currently finance Basic Care and Family Health. The joining of these transfers will ensure PSF
sustainability.
- 35-



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
There is insufficient capacity to          M         Technical assistance will be part of the package
implement the reforms.                               that municipalities would receive.
Incentives and disincentives associated     N        Municipalities will be prepared for the transition
with compliance and non-compliance with              through development and implementation of
results-based agreements are not applied.            results-based management and through
introduction of performance-based financing
mechanism that only affects new money.
Political and budgetary commitment to the   N        PSF program has received strong commitment
program not preserved over time.                     from municipal and state assemblies as well as
from key institutional and civil society
stakeholders
From Components to Outputs
An insufficient number of municipalities    M        Work closely with state/municipal coordination
are certified for full decentralized                 committees to ensure municipalities get
management in the next two years.                     adequate support to make the transition.
Political differences between              M         Work closely and continuously with
municipalities may interfere with the                 state/municipal coordination committees to
regionalization process.                             minimize the risk caused by affiliation to
different parties, and encourage municipal
coordination.
Ministry of Education does not prioritize   S         Hold workshops and seminars with existing
the modification of the medical and                  medical schools to obtain consensus and
nursing curricula.                                    ownership to move the program forward.
Insufficient municipal capacity to meet     M         Conduct capacity assessments and classify
fiduciary requirements regarding                     municipalities according to risk' develop actions
procurement and financial management.                 plan and oversight requirements according to
risk classification. Enhanced post-reviews,
audits, procurement reviews as well prior review
of all ICB and QCBS tenders.
Municipal misprocurement and financial      M         Agreement on remedies to cancel disbursements.
mismanagement of pooled funds                         Municipal non-achievement of fiduciary
performance benchmarks will result in
ineligibility for participation in second phase of
project.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
- 36 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. Operational Manual adopted by the MOH, including financial and administration manual.
2. Project financial management arrangements satisfactory to IBRD are in place and functional,
including approval of terms of reference for financial audits.
Disbursement Conditions for Component 1
1. Signed Subproject Implementation Agreements between MOH and participating municipalities.
Agreements include technical and fiduciary performance indicators conditioning participation in the
second phase APL.
2. Regulations approved by MOH to finance Conversion Plan implementation, including operational
procedures and fiduciary requirements.
3. Bank would be authorized to request refunds of any ineligible expenditures financed as SOTs and
to suspend further disbursements for SOTs in the event that the audited financial statements
submitted yearly show any ineligible expenditures claimed under such SOTs.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The municipalities will comply with the procurement requirements of local law for minor goods, works and
services financed by SOTs and seek approval of changes to procurement plans. Misprocurement will
consist of a failure to award a contract to the lowest evaluated bidder, lack of records or information
pertaining to the bidding and award, the disqualification of lowest price without a sound reason, deviations
from the approved procurement plan without prior approval, and impeding audits or ex post reviews.
Failure to comply with any of these specific requirements will enable the Bank to declare misprocurment in
the amount of 30 percent of the contract found misprocured.
H. Readiness for Implementation
E 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
E11 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
37 -



The project contains three innovative fiduciary features that deviate from normal practice, but comply with
Bank policies:
(i) Extension of period (to one year) for which advances (disbursements) would continue to be made
before the eligibility of expenditures are reconciled through Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs);
(ii) Loan proceeds would finance 30 percent of the Subproject Pool instead of 30 percent of each
transaction;
(iii) Application of national rules for the procurement of small packages of goods and works, with
compliance assessed on an ex post basis.
Gerard Martin La Forgia                                            Vinod Thomas
Team Leader                      Sector Director                   Country Manager/Director
- 38 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
Key Performance          Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators           _                              Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:     Sector Indicators:           Sector/ country reports:     (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce poverty through       Improvements in the following  Study at end of each phase of
increased utilization of basic  indicators by at least 10 percent  APL comparing indicators with  * Consistency and continuity of
services by the poor; improve  over baseline dunng a six-year  baseline that will be conducted  government's health policies and
performance and quality of   penod (between 2002 and 2008) by participating municipalities at complementary social policies
health services for women and  in targeted municipalities:  project initiation.        and programs
children; and reduce financial 1. Infant mortality                                     * Absence of other extemal
burden of illness on the poor,  2. Maternal mortality                                  changes (e.g., economic shocks)
by improving health system   3. Per capita contacts with                               that would affect health outcome
responsiveness.              pnmary health care providers.                             indicators independently of the
4. Out of pocket expenditures of                          health system.
poor.
- 39 -



Key Perforinance         Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators                                         Critical Assumptions
Program Purpose:             End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:             (from Purpose to Goal)
(2002-2009)                 (2009):                      SLAB                        the Sector-related CAS Goal)
1. Expand the government's   Health: (in oarticiatmna    CENSO/IBGE                   * Family Health Program is
Family Health Program to     municipalities)                                          sustainable because it is
urban populations, especially  1. Infant and neonatal mortality  SIH                  maintained as a government
those with limited access to and reduced by 10%.                                      priority and continued assistance
utilization of basic health care  2. Low birth weight <7% of all  Referral and counter-referral  is assured.
services.                    live births.                records                      * Family Health Model is
3. 85% of TB cases diagnosed by                          effective in addressing health
2. Achieve a sustainable,    PSF teams for the first time  SIA                        conditions leading to infant and
outreach and                 complete treatment.                                      maternal mortality, and is
performance-oriented family  4. 75% of pregnant women    Impact evaluafion studies    accepted by urban populations.
health delivery model at the  attended by FH teams have had 6                         * Government is willing to
municipal level, in which:   prenatal visits and all the basic  Project's MIS         adapt civil service and personnel
provider teams are fully    lab exams recommended by the                              rules to accommodate changes
trained and rewarded for     PNC protocol.                OPAS                        required by the Family Health
quality and efficiency; provider 5. 80% of hypertension cases                         Model.
teams serve as gatekeepers to  diagnosed by PSF teams are  Project's MIS              * Government commitment to
rationalize the use of higher  being managed.                                         the implementation of Family
level services; service      Conversion: (in participating  SPSIMOH                   Health Program monitonng and
organization and provision is  municRalities)             SAS/MOH                     evaluation.
effectively planned and      5. PSF population coverage                               * Changes in institutional
managed in a decentralized   increases on average to 60%.  DAB/SPS/MOH                culture leading to support for a
fashion; and services are    6. At least 60% of pnmary health                         health model that emphasizes
continuously monitored and   care personnel expenditures are  Municipal health system MIS  prevention and health promotion
evaluated.                   for PSF.                                                 and de-emphasizes the old
Efficiency: (in participating  SIM                        medical model.
3. Establish family health as a  municipalities)
core element of medical and  7. 90 % of matermity admissions, SINASC
nursing professional and    in PSF catchment areas referred
specialty training.          by PSF teams.
8. 90 % of users of ambulatory
secondary care in PSF catchment
areas referred by PSF teams.
Oualitv:
9. 30% of PSF teams and Basic
Units accredited.
10. 50% of PSF training
institutions accredited.
11. 90% of PSF teams are
fully-trained.
12. 200 PSF residency and
specialty programs established.
13. 80% of PSF teams with full
supply of basic medicine in
participating municipalities.
System Performance:
14. PSF and NOAS/01
implementation and impact
evaluated through ngorous
methodology in 60 % of
participating municipalities by
project completion.
15. 100% of PSF training centers
evaluated for performance,
effectiveness and efficiency
-40-



16. Effective M&E and
integrated information
management system implemented
in all participating municipalities
to systematically assess: (i) PPI
(inter-municipal agreements on
referrals), (ii) Pacto de
Indicadores
(federal-state-municipal
performance agreements), (iii)
referral, counter-referral systems;
17. Performance-based
management system for PSF
teams implemented in all
participating municipalities.
-41 -



}                   }    ~~~~~~~~Key Performance  Data Collection Strategy 
Hierarchy of Objectives             Indicators                                         Critical Assumptions
Project Development          Outcome / Impact            Project reports:             (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                   Indicators:
1. Increase coverage to health (Indicators for Objective I refer  SLAB                * Participating municipal
services among urban         to 40 participating municipalities CENSO/IBGE            governments are committed to
populations, especially those  except where noted)                                    transformation to Farnily Health
with limited access to and                               SIA                          Model.
utilization of basic health care, 1. PSF population coverage                          * Municipal commitment to
by expanding the Family      increased, on average, from 10 to SI-PNI                 investment in the regionalization
Health Program, reorganizing  35%.                                                    process (NOAS/01).
service delivery and improving  2. DPT vaccination coverage of  SINASC                * The transition to the Family
referral systems in          children under one increased to                          Health model is directly related
participating municipalities of  100% in PSF catchment areas.  SIS-Pre Natal          to the implementation of
100,000 residents or more.   3. 70% of pregnant women                                 integrated health service
attended by PSF teams had 6  SIS-Pre natal               networks.
prenatal visits and all basic lab                         * Commitment by the municipal
exams reconmmended by the PNC  SIH                       health system to the
protocol.                                                implementation of health service
4. 100% of pregnant women    Referral, counter-referral records networks and referral
attended by PSF teams received a                          appointment centers (centrais de
tetanus vaccine.             SIH                         regulacao).
5. 40% of maternity admissions
from PSF catchment areas are  DAB/SPS/MOH
referred by PSF teams.
6. 40% of users of ambulatory  Municipal health system MIS
secondary care from PSF
catchment areas are referred by  Project's MIS
PSF teams.
7. 30% reduction in number of  Evaluation studies
hospital admissions for ARI for
children <5 from PSF catchment
areas.
8. 40% reduction in number of
hospital admissions for
dehydration for children <5 from
PSF catchment areas.
9. Health teams make on average
9 household visits per family
annually.
10. 50% of PSF formed during
Phase I have developed action
plans and instruments to address
health issues in catchment area.
11. 50% of PSF teams formed
during Phase I are effectively
supervised by a Reference
Supervisory Group.
12. Performance-based
management system developed
and piloted in each
municipality to support PSF
implementation.
2. Improve the quality of basic  1. 3.000 professionals trained in  DAB/SPS/MOH        * Partnerships developed for
care services nation wide by  health services planning,                               linking institutions involved in
supporting the training and  management and organization.  Records from training centers  training human resources
preparation of health        2. In-service and continuing  and educational institutions  developed.
- 42 -



professional and workers in the education provided to 10.000                          * Strategies developed for
Family Health Model.         PSF physicians, nurses and  Human resource information   evaluating performance of
community health agents.    systems                      institutions involved in training
3. 500 PSF nurse and physician                           human resources, and for
specialists graduated.       Project's MIS               evaluating changes in the
4. 500 dental technicians                                practices of professionals who
graduated.                                               have graduated.
5. 100 Family Health Residents
have initiated a PSF residency
program.
6. Alternative curriculums and
teaching methodologies in
support of Family Health
established in 10 medical.   DAB/SPS/MOH
* Government / MOH
3. Improve the performance   1. Baseline data (household and  Information systems     prioritizes and commits to
and effectiveness of basic care  provider) collected and analyzed                    investments in evaluation
services through supporting the in all participating     Project's MIS                strategies.
development of monitoring and municipalities of Component I
evaluation, information      providing baseline indicators for Evaluation studies
management and accreditation  Project M&E, PSF performance
systems.                     measurement and Pacto
indicators.
2. Regulatory framework for
accreditation of PSF
teams/primary care facilities and
PSF training centers (Polos)
approved by MOH.
3. Evaluation of 50% of PSF
teams implemented between
1997 - 2001 completed, results
disseminated in 5 regional
workshops.
4. Evaluation of 15 PSF
training institutions (Polos)
established between 1997 and
2001 completed, and results
disseminated in 2 workshops.
5. Development of methods,
instruments and plans to evaluate
training and human resource
formation activities, and new
curriculums demonstration
projects in terms of acquisition
and application of skills.
-43-



h                    }   ~~~~~~~~Key Perforrnance   Data Coliection. Strategy 
Hierarchy of Objectives     [        Indicators                                           Critical Assumptions
Output from each              Output Indicators:           Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. PSF Municipal Conversion   (Indicators for Objective I refer Project progress reports.  * Government's spending in
and Expansion                to 40 participating                                        health increased over time
municipalities except where  Project's MIS                 * SUS financing policies
noted)                                                     defined in accordance with the
Supervision reports          Constitutional Amendment
1. PSF protocols for referrals,                           (EC-29)
counter-referrals and care    Project evaluation studies   * No labor strikes by health
practices developed and                                    personnel.
implemented in 50% of PSF     Quarterly and annual         * FHEP sustainability assured
teams .                      management reports;           by municipal counterpart
2. Information systems linked to                           commitment and improved
cartao SUS developed or       Semi-annual supervision reports; municipal management
upgraded to support           Mid-term reports; Project    capabilities.
performance-based management  completion reports.
and referral network in each
municipality.
3. About 40 Conversion Plans
approved and under
implementation.               DAB/SPS/MOH
4. Appointment centers for
consultations, admissions, and  Project M&E
diagnostic and therapeutic                                 * Health policies for human
assistance established in 50% of                           resources are defined and
municipalities.                                            implemented by MOH.
5. 2000 basic health units                                 * Government invests in the
upgraded.                                                  establishment of institutional
6. 15% of investment plans                                 partnerships for human resource
(costs for equipment and                                   development.
infrastructure repairs) disbursed
in 15% of municipalities.
7. Monitoring and evaluation
system for the MCH referral /
counter-referral network
approved, developed and tested
2. Human Resource            in a sample of municipalities.
Development in Support of the
PSF                           1. 5 new family health residency
programs established.
2. 30 family health physician and
nurse specialist programs
established
3. 10 demonstration projects for
the development of innovative
family health curriculum
established in medical and
nursing schools.
4. 15 new training centers
established (polos de
capacitacion).
3. Monitoring and Evaluation  1. Monitoring and evaluation  DAB/SPS/MOH                  * MOH commitment and
system for municipal AB/PSF,                               investment in evaluation
including local feedback      SLAB                         strategies and systems.
- 44 -



mechanism, approved and      SINPACTO                    * MOH commitment and
developed.                   Evaluation studies          investment in evaluation studies.
2. Integrated and streamlined  Evaluation reports
SIAB developed and tested, with  Project's MIS
effective access to national
databases.
3. 5 Regional Centers for
Monitoring of PSF established,  DAB/SPS/MOH              * implementation of a PCU and
with action plan to support  UGP                         project MIS.
municipalities under their   Project's MIS               * Guarantee from the National
responsibility.                                          Treasury of financial resources
4. 10 small and 3 large research                         that permit sustainability of the
grants awarded through the                               FHEP.
Research and Evaluation Fund,                            * Assurance of intersectoral
and workshops to disseminate                             collaboration with other
methodologies and results.                               government agencies involved in
social and health policies.
4. Project Management        1. Adequately staffed and
equipped project implementation
unit maintained.
2. Project budgeting and
disbursement system operational.
3. Project Procurement system
operational.
4. Project Management
Information System operational.
-45 -



Key Performance      -   Data Collection Strategy |
Hierarchy of Objectives '           Indicators      .    __     -_._._.___            Critical Assumptions
Project Components)         Inputs: (budget for each     Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:             component)                                               Outputs)
* Municipalities commit to and
1. PSF Municipal Conversion  (APL 1) in US$)             * Project MIS               prioritize primary care through
and Expansion                                            * Quarterly and semi-annual  the introduction of Family
I .I Family Health Extension and US$ 86.9 million        reports.                    Health.
Basic Care Provision                                     Project's MIS               MOH commitment to the
transference of resources for
1.2 PSF Conversion                                                                   primary care.
Institutional modernization
2. Human Resource           US$ 37.4 million             * Project progress reports  * Sufficient and timely budget
Development in Support of the                            * Project's MIS             allocation
PSF                                                      * Semi-annual supervision   * MOH enhanced technical and
reports; Mid-term reports; Project administrative capacity
2.1 In-service training and                              completion reports.         * MOH commitment to the
continuing education                                     * Project's MIS             allocation of resources in
compliance with human resource
2.2 Pre-service professional                                                         policy guidelines.
training
2.3 Support and follow-up for
training and educational
activities
3. Monitoring and Evaluation  US$ 7.4 million            Project's MIS               MOH commitment to the
allocation of resources for
3.1 Implementation of a                                                              evaluations that will assure the
monitoring and evaluation system                                                      quality of primary care.
for PSF, including SIAB
3.2 Evaluation and monitoring of
PSF teams and training
institutions
3.3 Accreditation of PSF/basic
units and training institutions
(Polos de capacitacion)
3.5 Research and Evaluation
Fund.
4. Project Management       US$ 3.8 million              Project's MIS               MOH commitment to
infrastructure and financial
4.1 PIU                                                                              resources for the
operationalization of the project.
Project Monitoring
-46 -



Attachment I
Annex 1
Brazil: Family Health Project
Phases 1, 11 and III of the Adaptable Lending Program
Phase l(the Project)                  Phase 2                         Phase 3
March 2002 - February 2005            March 2005 - February, 2007     March 2007 - February
2009
Obiectives: Extend the PSF to large urban  Obiectives: Support continued  Obiectives: Consolidate PSF
municipalities, expand training       roll-out of the PSF in up to 60  expansion and conversion in
opportunities for PSF team members and  additional urban municipalities,  urban municipalities, increase
develop core systems to enhance quality and  increase coverage in the  coverage in the approximately
performance of PSF provision.         approximately 40 original      100 participating
municipalities, strengthen the  municipalities, produce PSF
Expected Results: (i) agreements approved  quality of institutions providing  trainees on a systematic basis,
and under implementation in about 40 urban  PSF-related training, and implement and institutionalize support
municipalities with greater than 100,000  systems to improve quality and  systems for quality and
residents to convert primary care     performance of PSF provision   performance.
organization and delivery to the family
health approach, increasing average PSF  Expected Results: (i) agreements  ExDected Results: (i) continued
population coverage from 10 to 35 percent;  approved and under implementation implementation of the program
(ii) establishment of a federal transfer  in up to 60 additional urban  in the 70 urban municipalities
mechanism linking financing to performance  municipalities with greater than  supported under previous
in support of PSF conversion in participating  100,000 residents to convert  phases, increasing average
municipalities; (iii) pre-service and  primary care organization and  opulation coverage within
in-service training of about 14,000 family  delivery to the family health  them to 60 percent; (ii) referral
health professionals and para-professionals;  approach, increasing average  system operational among all
(iv) development of regulatory frameworks  population coverage from about 10  participating PSF teams; (iii)
for the accreditation of PSF/Basic Health  to 35 percent; (ii) continued  impact evaluation of PSF
Units and PSF training institutions, and  implementation of the PSF program  expansion and model
agreement reached with the borrower on  in the approximately 40      conversion in municipalities
Phase 11 implementation plan; (v) PSF  municipalities supported under  supported in phases I and II;
protocols for referrals, counter-referrals and  Phase 1, increasing average  and (iv) performance-based
care practices developed and implemented  population coverage within them to  management and monitoring
for 50% of PSF teams; (vi)            50 percent; (iii) application of PSF  and evaluation
performance-based management system in  accreditation system to a    institutionalized.
support of PSF developed and piloted in  representative sample of
each municipality; (vii) baseline data  participating municipalities with
[household and providers] collected and  PSF teams and to about 50% of all
analyzed in all participating urban   PSF training centers; (iv) referral
municipalities, and strategy agreed with the  system operational among 80% of
borrower on incorporating indicators into the  PSF teams; (v) performance-based
monitoring system and evaluation plan in  management systems in support of
Phase ll; (viii) evaluation completed of 50%  PSF developed and implemented in
of existing PSF teams and 30% of training  at least 50 urban municipalities.
centers, and agreement reached with the
borrower on how results will be applied in
Phase II; and (ix) monitoring and evaluation
system for municipal AB/PSF developed and
tested, and agreement reached with
borrower for implementation in Phase 11.
- 47 -



Attachment H Annex I
Trigger Indicators For the Phase II of the Adaptable Lending Program (APL)
Phase I will support: (i) the implementation of PSF in urban municipalities with populations greater than 100,000;
(ii) strengthening and establishing of training institutions, medical and nurse specialty programs, residency
programs and corresponding curriculums that foster the family health model as a core element of professional and
specialty training; (iii) development of a regulatory framework for the accreditation of PSF/Basic Health Units and
PSF training institutions; (iv) building institutional capacity to plan, manage, monitor and evaluate basic service
provision, decentralization, and human resource development. Trigger indicators for Phase II are designed to
measure PSF coverage expansion, development of core regulations and support systems required for the successful
implementation of MOH policies and strategies, design and testing of monitoring and evaluation systems to
improve quality and performance of PSF provision. These indicators will be assessed as part of the monitoring and
evaluation system.
Policy Indicators                      Project Implementation Indicators
1. Conversion Agreements approved and under   1. Baseline data (on social, health status, health
implementation in about 40 urban              seeking behaviors, spending, institutional and other
municipalities with greater than 100,000      aspects related to PSF, conversion plan and
residents to transform primary care           NOAS/01 implementation) collected by means of
organization and delivery to the family health  household and provider surveys in 60 percent of
approach.                                     participating urban municipalities. Data is analyzed
and presented in report. Agreement reached with
2. An average of 35 percent of population in    the Borrower on incorporating indicators into
participating urban municipalities registered  monitoring and evaluation plan.
with Family Health teams.
2. Comparative and quantitative evaluation of
3. 30% of participating municipalities achieve   effectiveness and efficiency of about 15 PSF
certification for Full Management of Basic Care  training Centers (Polos de Capacitacion) and a
per NOAS/0 1.                                 representative sample of PSF teams established
between 1997 and 2001 completed.
4. Regulatory frameworks for accreditation of
PSF/Basic Health Units and PSF training    3. Pre-service and in-service training of about 14,000
institutions approved, and agreement reached  family health professionals and para-professionals
with Borrower on Phase II implementation
plan..                                     4. PSF protocols for referrals, counter-referrals and
care practices developed and implemented in 50%
5. Performance-based management systems and     of PSF teams in participating municipalities.
instruments developed to strengthen municipal
capacity to plan, manage and implement PSF,  5. Methodology and instruments for effective
conversion plans and decentralization policies.  monitoring and evaluation developed and tested
for (i) PSF; (ii) PPI (programacion pactuada e
6. Performance-based federal transfer to finance  integrada) (iii) Pacto de indicadores and (iv)
PSF conversion under implementation.          referral /counter-referral systems, and agreement
reached with borrower for implementation in
Phase II.
-48 -



Trigger Indicators for Phase III of the APL
Policy Indicators                         Project Implementation Indicators
1. Conversion Agreements approved and under      1. Baseline collected by means of household and
implementation up to 60 additional "phase II" urban  provider surveys in about 60% of "phase II"
municipalities with greater than 100,000 residents to  participating municipalities. Data is analyzed and
transform primary care organization and delivery to  presented in a report. Agreement reached with
the family health approach.                      Borrower on incorporating indicators into monitoring
and evaluation plan.
2. An average of 35 percent of population in
participating "phase IT" municipalities and 50% of  2. Comparative and quantitative evaluation of
population of "phase I" municipalities registered  effectiveness and efficiency of an additional 10 PSF
with Family Health Teams.                        Training Centers (Polos de Capacitaci6n) established
prior to 2002 completed.
3. 40% of participating municipalities achieve
certification for Full Management of Basic Care per  3. Monitoring and evaluation system implemented in
NOAS/01.                                         about 50% of PSF training centers to systematically
assess: (i) trainee achievement; (ii) trainee application
4. Application of accreditation system for PSF health  of skills; and (iii) efficiency of training program.
teams in a representative sample of participating
municipalities, and about 50% of all PSF training  4. Pre-service and in-service training of about 20,000
centers. Results are analyzed and presented in a  additional family health professionals and
report.                                          para-professionals.
5. Performance-based management systems in support  5. PSF protocols for referrals, counter-referrals and care
of PSF service delivery, PSF conversion and      practices developed and implemented in about 70% of
decentralization implemented in about 50% of     PSF teams in participating municipalities.
participating urban municipalities.
6. Monitoring and evaluation/integrated information
management system implemented in about 40%
participating municipalities to systematically assess
AB/PSF conversion agreements, including: (i) PSF
coverage and quality; (ii) referral and counter-referral
systems, including application of care protocols and
compliance with inter-municipal agreements on
referrals (PPI); (iii) supervisory systems; and (iv)
financing and costs of PSF services.
-49 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
APL Program Description
The Brazil Family Health Extension Project (FHEP), an operation under an Adaptable Program Lending
Instrument (APL) in three phases of three, two and two years, seeks to improve utilization and quality of
publicly-financed health services by:
(a) Expanding coverage of the government's Family Health Program (Programa de Sazude da Familia, or
PSF in about 100 large municipalities, establishing well-articulated referral and counter-referral
systems, and introducing performance-based management practices;
(b) Establishing family health as a core element of health professional and para-professional training.
(c) Strengthening MOH capacity to monitor and evaluate PSF health services, policies and training
activities on a systematic basis.
Background: During the last 15 years Brazil has implemented a series of health policy reforms that have
transformed the organization, financing and provision of health services. In the late 1 980s, Brazil converted
its federal public health financing system to a single national health fund. In the mid-1990s, it instituted a
per capita payment for primary care services that was distributed directly to municipalities. This simple
reform caused a vast improvement in the equity of the system - poor municipalities suddenly had funds for
primary health services on a scale they had not seen before. More recently, this capitation system was
enhanced by the Family Health Program, through which the federal government transferred additional
funds to municipalities that agreed to implement a proactive primary health care model. During the 1990s,
the Brazil Federal Borrower focused on assisting rural municipalities to implement these two programs. In
both cases, the programs provided additional funds to municipalities for earmarked purposes, and as long
as the money was spent for that purpose, the municipalities fulfilled their obligation.
Consonant with recent decentralization and health finance reforms, the federal government contributes to
financing PSF and basic care through two federal grant transfers to municipalities (see Attachment 1 for
summary description of the grant transfers):
*   Fixed, per capita payments (PABfixed) transferred to the municipalities to support basic care delivery
through the Basic Health Program (AB). The PABfixed is paid in equal monthly installments. Funds
are used to pay personnel (excluding family health teams) and purchase goods and services related to
the delivery of basic care. It is not performance-based. Nor is there performance monitoring.
*   Variable transfers (PABfam) to support the implementation of the Family Health Program (PSF)
The amounts transferred depend on populations coverage and the number of family health teams
established. The PABfam is also paid in monthly installments. This transfer is mainly used to pay for
personnel (community health agents, nurses, dental technicians and doctors) constituting the family
health teams. The transfer is slightly performance-based in the sense that it varies with the number of
health teams, a proxy for population coverage.
- 50 -



Municipalities are responsible for the organization and delivery of all publicly-funded primary care, which
is partially financed through the PABfixed federal grant transfer. Municipalities can opt to participate in
the PSF. The MOH provides additional financing through the PABfam to municipalities who elect to do so.
SF and basic care also benefit from buy-ins by participating states and municipalities. Although data on
municipal contributions specific to PSF are unavailable, municipalities contributed an estimated US$577
million to primary care services in 2000, representing about 30 percent of total spending on primary
services. In practice, municipalities use PABfixed financing to fund PSF implementation. However,
PSFfam funds can only be used to finance family health teams and inputs required by the teams.
Polico Reforms: With the support of the proposed APL, Brazil is ready to take the next step with these
policy reforms. This step involves: (a) expanding PSF coverage significantly by focusing on large urban
municipalities; (b) transforming basic care delivery to the outreach-oriented PSF approach; (c) changing
the character of the PSF through shifting from input- to performance-based financing, monitoring and
management through federal-municipal agreements; and (d) improving municipal capacity to organize and
manage health services while strengthening the overall fiduciary framework at the municipal level.
The Family Health Program: Initiated by the Health Ministry (Ministerio da Satide, or MOH) in 1994 as
a relatively small initiative, the PSF has successfully and rapidly expanded coverage of primary care in
rural and peri-urban areas, reaching about one-fifth of the Brazilian population (38 million) by 2000. In
that same year, there were 10,000 PSF teams working in over 3,000 municipalities in all of Brazil's states.
The PSF is now one of the largest federally-funded health programs, spending US$380 million. GOB
estimates federal spending on the PSF will reach US$410 million in 2001 and US$550 million by 2004.
The MOH aims to launch a new stage of PSF implementation to cover urban populations and strengthen
municipal health systems, using primary health care as an efficiency- and equity enhancing gateway into
the rest of the health care system. The proposed APL will support MOH efforts to expand PSF population
coverage while strengthening human resource, organizational and management infrastructure to support
effective and continued implementation of the Program. The proposed program will partially finance the
annual marginal increase in federal PSF financing, estimated at 10 percent annually during the seven-year
proposed program.
PSF Conversion: This policy reform concerns the conversion of the current primary care delivery system to
one based on PSF. PSF represents the platform on which the government seeks to restructure how
publicly-financed primary health care is organized and provided. To achieve this, the Borrower envisions a
transformed system at three levels: service provision, service organization and human resource
development. At the delivery level, the Government seeks to convert the current, passive-provider,
facility-based delivery system to an active-provider, outreach model in which family health care providers
deliver quality basic health care to households and communities. This model of service provision aims to be
more efficient by focusing on prevention and early treatment, and using PSF as the gateway to higher-level
services. At the organizational level and in support of the PSF delivery model and decentralization policies,
the Government aims to introduce performance-based management practices, make monitoring and
evaluation a core system feature, and establish formal relationships among primary, secondary and tertiary
care providers that now operate in an uncoordinated and nonhierarchical fashion. Finally, the Government
strives to implement its vision of a network of high quality in-service and pre-service training programs that
reflect the concepts and state-of-the-art practices of the family health discipline, while producing the human
resources required to expand and improve PSF services. In addition to yielding the direct benefits through
the "downstream" expansion and improvement of health services of the PSF model, the proposed program
will facilitate the long-term sustainability of the PSF through strengthening "upstream" institutional
- 51 -



capacity to manage, monitor and evaluate performance, and developing human resource capabilities and
commitment for family health.
Performance-based Financing: Conversion represents much more than a bridge between the traditional
and PSF delivery models. It also constitutes a bridge between input- and performance-based financing.
Through the introduction of a new transfer mechanism to finance implementation of the conversion process,
PABconv, to support implementation of the Conversion process, MOH will apply regulations and
performance agreements that will link financing to achievement of performance benchmarks. Compliance
with benchmarks will "trigger" municipal participation in each phase of the APL, and continued receipt of
the PABconv transfer. As described in Annex 2F, performance indicators would aim to monitor progress in
the transformation of the primary health care system to the PSF model, including the establishment of
functional referral systems, introduction of performance-based management systems. Consonant with the
pooled-financing approach, performance indicators would also focus on setting of standards for acceptable
fiduciary practice at the municipal level. As PSF approaches full coverage (during the next 5-7 years) the
MOH envisions the merging of the heretofore separate federal grants transfers that currently finance the
Basic Health Care Program (PABfixed) under the traditional model and the Family Health Care Program
(PABfam) under the new model. Building upon the implementation experience of the PABconv that will be
introduced in the proposed project, performance-based instruments would be incorporated into rules
governing future federal transfers for primary care upon the merger of the heretofore transfers supporting
the Basic Health Care and Family Health Programs. This measure will prevent the continuation of parallel
systems with separate funding mechanisms, and therefore ensure PSF's sustainability.
Decentralization: The fourth reform entails decentralization of management responsibilities to the
municipalities for the implementation of primary care services and activities. In accordance with recent
regulations, NOAS 01/01, MOH seeks to complete the transfer of full management responsibility to the
municipalities for the delivery of primary care. Decentralization of management responsibilities began in
the early 1990s. Certification for "full management of basic care" entails installing: (i) the necessary
capacity to technically plan, implement, supervise and monitor primary care services; and (ii) fiduciary
arrangements and support systems such as auditing, accounting and information management to ensure
proper use of funds.  The program will support decentralization through strengthening municipal
management capacity, introducing performance-based management systems, and establishing solid
monitoring and evaluation capabilities.
Pooling Feature: For Component 1 Bank financing will be pooled with federal grant transfers for three
MOH programs: Basic Health Care (AB), Family Health (PSF) and PSF Conversion. Both AB and PSF
are large, on-going government programs financed through separate federal grants transferred to
municipalities which are responsible for service delivery. Under existing Borrower arrangements, transfers
for the AB and PSF programs flow through a National Health Fund, maintained by the MOH, to a common
bank account at each municipality. These grants essentially finance a similar set activities and services but
under different models. The grant for AB finances services delivery under the existing, traditional model
while the PSF grant supports services provision under a proactive, outreach model. The Borrower will also
create a new grant to finance the PSF Conversion Program, or specifically, the transitional costs of
AB-to-PSF conversion. The new grant will also be transferred through the National Health Fund to the
municipalities.
To enable Bank's financial support of the PSF through the existing federal-to-municipal grant system, the
Borrower requested that the proposed project incorporate a special pooling arrangement together with
innovative fiduciary features. Under Component 1, Family Health Municipal Conversion and Expansion,
federal grant transfers under the existing AB/PSF programs are the pool of funds, the Programmatic Pool,
- 52 -



from which the smaller Conversion Subproject Pool would be derived. Through this Subproject Pool the
proposed Project would co-finance implementation of Conversion Subprojects. Conversion Subprojects
would consist of a set of pre-identified activities necessary to extend Family Health service delivery and
convert the health care model of the Basic Care Program to the model of the Family Health Program. Loan
procees would finance 30 percent of the cost of goods, works and services required to implement
Conversion Subprojects in selected municipalities. Expenditures would incur against pre-defined and jointly
agreed subproject implementation arrangements and procurement plans specified in federal-municipal
contracts. Bank financing would be attributed to pre-defined, eligible expenditures of the Subproject Pool
and therefore distinguishing them from the larger, AB/PSF Programmatic Pool financed solely by the
Borrower.
Within the Subproject Pool, loan proceeds will be distributed as advances for expenditures to be incurred at
a rate of 30 percent of the grants transferred by the Borrower to pre-qualified municipalities to cover the
cost of goods, works and services of implementing Conversion Subprojects. Transfers to the municipalities
will be made according to an agreed timeline in accordance with the procurement plans for the Conversion
Subprojects.  Details regarding both the total amount of the transfers as well as the 30 percent
reimbursement claimed will be recorded on a Statement of Transfer (SOT), specifying projected eligible
expenditures of the Bank's share of financing of the Conversion Subprojects.
Under the proposed program, the idea is for each municipality to enter into a two-year agreement with the
federal government to implement Conversion Subprojects to convert its primary health care system to the
Family Health model, backed up by a procurement plan that is updated annually. The overall disbursement
schedule for Component 1 will be based on Conversion Subproject procurement plans, agreed with the
Bank. Through the procurement plan, the Bank will have a good idea of eligible expenditures prior to
making disbursements into the pool that will finance the plan. Although the grants that finance each
municipal subproject will consist of eligible and ineligible expenditures, at least 30 percent of pooled
expenditures will be for eligible items. Preliminary projections suggest that the Subproject Pool will contain
a higher percentage of eligible expenditures than the Bank's 30 percent share.
To satisfy the Borrower's request regarding Bank participation in the above-described municipal financing
system, the proposed project will apply three innovative fiduciary features:
(i) Extension of period (to one year) for which advances (disbursements) would continue to be made
before the eligibility of expenditures are reconciled through Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs);
(ii) Loan proceeds would finance 30 percent of the Subproject Pool instead of 30 percent of each
transaction, as is normal practice;
(iii) Application of national rules for the procurement of small packages of goods, works and services,
with compliance assessed on an ex post basis.
Although Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) will be submitted quarterly by the municipalities and
reviewed by the Bank for monitoring purposes, full reconciliation would occur annually. As part of the
annual financial audit, the auditor would be required to express an opinion on a reconciliation statement
summarizing all expenditures incurred by the municipalities in comparison with advances made during the
year, categorized by eligibility and including specification of the 30 percent attributed to the Bank. Given
the nature of the pooling arrangement, the annual audit would examine the much larger AB/PSF
Programmatic Pool as needed to fully assess the Subproject Pool financing Conversion Subprojects. The
ex-ante procurement plans and a uniquely assigned chart of account code would specify those activities and
corresponding goods, works and services required for implementation of the Conversion Subprojects, thus
facilitating the attribution process. If the reconciliation statement shows ineligible expenditures or that
- 53 -



eligible expenditures did not reach 30 percent of the amounts transferred during the year, the Bank would
request a refund or refrain from authorizing future disbursements against SOTs.
The Subproject Pool will mainly finance goods, works and services procured according to national
legislation It will also finance ICB goods and QCBS consultants, but following Bank Procurement
Guidelines, and not as advances. In this case, disbursement will follow traditional investment lending
procedures in which supporting documentation such as contracts and invoices will be required to support
withdrawal applications. Special procurement remedies would also apply to the Subproject Pool. Based on
the results of an annual procurement review, the Bank would be authorized to declare misprocurement and
seek refunds for 30 percent of any misprocured contract in the Subproject Pool, and financed through an
advance.
The borrower's existing financial management and procurement rules and systems have been assessed and
deemed sufficiently robust to govern the use of Bank funds included in the pool (see Annex 6).
Nevertheless, during the life of the proposed APL the Bank will also work with the federal government to
supervise and strengthen municipal fiduciary processes. This means that a number of fiduciary oversight
and control measures (such as reporting requirements, record keeping, audits and remedies) will be applied
to the much larger AB/PSF Programmatic Pool of federal grant resources transferred to the municipalities,
and thereby increasing the Project's development impact. The following are brief descriptions of
arrangements agreed with the Borrower to mitigate the potential risks of pooling include: (see Annexes 6
and 2G for details):
(i)  Federal assessment and certification of financial management and procurement capacity of each
participating municipality as a condition for Bank financing; based on risk assessment results,
municipalities will agree to an action plan to improve fiduciary practices;
(ii)  Outputs and budget (with corresponding procurement plans and disbursement schedule) agreed
on an annual basis for each municipality prior to funding; a uniquely assigned chart of account
codes would specify those activities and corresponding goods, works and services required for
implementation of Conversion Subprojects;
(iii) Quarterly submission of Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) by participating municipalities and
reviewed by Bank for monitoring purposes; full reconciliation would occur annually as part of
financial audit;
(iv) Participating municipalities would be required to meet fiduciary performance benchmarks
(together with health performance benchmarks); failure to reach performance targets would
affect their future eligibility for participation in the Program;
(v)  Subproject Pool would finance ICB goods and QCBS consultants above defined thresholds
established according to results of the risk assessment; but procurement would follow Bank
guidelines and disbursements would follow traditional investment lending procedures;
(vi) Annual technical and fiduciary reviews carried out by the Borrower; and post-reviews carried out
by the Bank; and
(vii) Specific remedies would be applied annually for misprocurement, financial mismanagement and
ineligible expenditures.
The pooling feature offers a number of advantages to both the Borrower and the Bank. For the Borrower,
the feature permits the Bank to mingle its funds with established grant transfers to facilitate the smooth
flow of funds to a large number of widely-dispersed, and diverse municipalities. It also creates a single
reporting system for the grants rather than parallel and redundant systems for Borrower and Bank
purposes. Bank assistance is refocused to strengthen the fiduciary framework for the MOH programs
- 54 -



which will contribute to improved health services management. Finally, the feature reorients the partnership
between the Borrower and Bank, permitting the Bank to assists the MOH in to realigning federal-municipal
relations to focus on performance and results.
For the Bank, pooling of funds affords the opportunity to: (i) form a long-term partnership with the
Borrower in the health sector since grant transfers are the only method used by the Borrower to finance
primary health care; (ii) participate in the most important reforms of the sector, and (iii) enhance
developmental impact by shifting Bank supervision from tracking transactions financed through loan
proceeds to oversight and improvement of the Borrower's fiduciary systems.
APL Phases: Table 1 presents summary data on the APL phases while Table 2 shows the dimensions of
each Component by APL phase. Trigger indicators for APL Phase II are described in Attachment 2 to
Annex 1.
Phase I. Initiating Conversion to PSF Model in Urban Municipalities, and Strengthening  Training
Programs and Monitoring and Evaluation Systems. The first, three-year phase will extend the PSF to
large urban municipalities, expand training opportunities for PSF team members, and develop core systems
to enhance quality and performance of PSF provision. Expected results include: (i) agreements approved
and under implementation in about 40 urban municipalities with greater than 100,000 residents to convert
primary care organization and delivery to the family health approach, increasing average PSF population
coverage from about 10 to 35 percent; (ii) establishment of a federal transfer mechanism linking financing
to performance in support of PSF conversion in participating municipalities; (iii) pre-service and in-service
training of about 14,000 family health professionals and para-professionals; (iv) development of regulatory
frameworks for the accreditation of PSF/Basic Health Units and PSF training institutions, and agreement
reached with the Borrower on the Phase II implementation plan; (v) PSF protocols for referrals and
counter-referrals and care practices developed and implemented for 50% for PSF teams in participating
municipalities; (vi) performance-based management system in support of PSF developed and tested in all
participating municipalities; (vii) monitoring and evaluation system for the Matemal-Child Health (MCH)
referral / counter-referral network approved, developed and tested in a sample of municipalities; (viii)
baseline data (household and providers) collected and analyzed for a representative sample of participating
urban municipalities, and strategy agreed with the Borrower on incorporating indicators into the monitoring
system and evaluation plan in Phase II; (ix) evaluation completed of about 50% of existing PSF teams and
15 training centers, and agreement reached with the Borrower on how results will be applied in Phase II;
and (x) monitoring and evaluation system for municipal AB/PSF approved and developed, and agreement
reached with Borrower for implementation in Phase II. Trigger indicators for Phase II are described in
Attachment 2 to Annex 1.
Phase II. Expanding PSF Coverage and Training and Impact Evaluation. The second, two-year phase will
support the roll-out of the PSF in up to 60 additional urban municipalities, strengthening the quality of
institutions providing PSF-related training, and implementing systems to improve quality and performance
of PSF provision. Expected results include: (i) agreements approved and under implementation in an
additional 30 urban municipalities with greater than 100,000 residents to convert primary care
organization and delivery to the family health approach, increasing average population coverage from
about 10 to 35 percent; (ii) continued implementation of the PSF program in the 40 municipalities
supported under Phase I, increasing average population coverage within them to 50 percent; (iii)
application of the PSF accreditation system to a representative sample of participating municipalities with
PSF teams and to half of all PSF training centers; (iv) referral system operational for all PSF teams in
participating municipalities; (v) monitoring and evaluation system for the MCH referral / counter-referral
- 55 -



network implemented in all participating municipalities; and (vi) performance-based management systems
in support of PSF developed and implemented in about 50% of participating municipalities.
Phase III. Reaching Municipal Coverage and Training Targets, and Transforming Evaluation into a
Permanent Process. The final two-year phase will support the consolidation of the PSF expansion and
conversion in urban municipalities, produce PSF trainees on a systematic basis, and institutionalize
support systems for quality and performance. Expected results include: (i) continued implementation of the
program in the approximately 100 urban municipalities supported under previous phases, increasing
average population coverage within them to 60 percent; (ii) monitoring and evaluation system expanded to
entire referral / counter-referral network (not just MCH) in all municipalities; (iii) impact evaluation of
PSF expansion and model conversion in municipalities supported in Phases I and II; and (iv)
performance-based management and monitoring and evaluation institutionalized.
Table 1:
Phasing of ALPL to Support Brazil Family Health Program
Phase 1           Phase 2           Phase 3
(IJS$ 136 million)  (US$ 242 million)  (IJS$ 172 million)
Implementation period       FY 2003 - 2006    FY 2006-2008      FY2008-2010
Periodic monitoring (IBRD)   Twice a year      Twice a year      Twice a year
Triggers' assessment         March, 2005       March, 2007
Appraisal next phase         June 5, 2005      August 2007
Table 2
Dimensions of Components, 2002-2009
(in US$ millions and percent)
Component                              Phase 1    Phases       Total    Percent
2002-2005   2 and 3      (US$)
2005 -2009  2002-2009
Component 1- PSFMunicipal                87         293        380        69
Conversion and Expansion
Component 2 - PSF Human Resource         37         103        141        26
Development
Component 3 - Monitoring and Evaluation   7         12          19        3
Component 4 - Project Management          4          7          10        2
Total Project Costs                      136        414        550        100
Project Description: APL Phase 1
The project's development objectives during Phase I are:
(a) Increase coverage of basic health service especially among population with limited access to all
utilization of health care services in urban centers with 200,000 or more inhabitants, through
expansion of the PSF, development of a referral and counter-referral system, and improvement in
the management and organization of basic health services; and
- 56 -



(b) Improve the quality of family health service provision through developing and strengthening
in-service and pre-service training of human resources in the PSF model;
(c) Improve the performance and effectiveness of basic health care services through strengthening
monitoring and evaluation, information management and accreditation systems.
Coverage extension activities will focus on large urban areas, which are characterized by poorly integrated,
traditional service delivery systems and large numbers of families living in poverty and confronting severe
social risk. Of the 222 municipalities with populations of 100,000 or greater in the country, approximately
40 will participate in the Phase I project (and about 100 will participate by the end of the seven-year
program). The strategic aim is to raise PSF population coverage from about 10 to 35 percent within these
municipalities. Support for decentralization reforms and management improvements will also focus on
urban municipalities. Quality enhancement activities related to training, monitoring and evaluation,
information management and accreditation will yield nationwide benefits. Table 3 presents estimated
project costs by component.
Table 3
Project (Phase I) Cost by Component
Components                           Indicative  %, of Total  IBRD   % of IBRD
Costs (USS M)  Project  Financing  Financing
Costs    (US$ M)
I. PSF Municipal Conversion and       86.9       63.9%      25.9     38.1%
Expansion
II. Human Resources Development in               27.5%     33.32     49.0%
Support of the PSF
37.37
III. Monitoring and Evaluation        7.35       5.4%       6.23      9.2%
IV. Project Management                3.75       2.8%       1.87      2.8%
Front-end Fee                     .68        0.5%      .68        1.0
Total Project Costs   136      100.0%      68.0      50%
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$86.90 million
Project Components (First Phase - 2002 -2005)
Obiective. This component will support the extension of basic care services through the expansion of the
population covered under the PSF model in about 40 municipalities with populations of over 100,000
inhabitants. This will be achieved through the implementation of Basic and Family Health Conversion
Subprojects, or Conversion Subprojects, to convert the organization and provision of basic health services
from a traditional model to the prevention, outreach- and performance-oriented Family Health Model;
strengthen the decentralization regime, following the NOAS/01 regulatory framework; and the introduce a
performance - based transfer mechanism.
In 2001, PSF covers an estimated 10 percent of the population in the 223 municipalities with over 100,000
inhabitants (See Tables 4 and below). Of the 30 municipalities with over 500,000 residents, PSF coverage
reaches only 7 percent in nearly half. Federal financing of AB (through PABfixed) and PSF (through
PABfam) in these 223 municipalities reached $416 and $48 million respectively in 2000. Total primary
care spending, including municipal contributions was approximately $536 million in 2000.
- 57 -



Table 4:
Population cowerage by PSF for municipalities with >100,000 inhabitants
Municipal Population
100-200,000    200-500,000     >500,000      All >100,000
# of municipalities      114            78             30             222
Total population      15,675,000    23,212,000      45,257,000     84,143,000
Pop. covered by PSF   2,318,000      3,193,000      3,051,000       8,562,000
% covered               14.8%         13.8%           6.7%           10.2%
Table 5
Minimal Number of Municipalities to Participate in Project, by Population Strata
Population                                        Munici alities
Universe                Sample for Project
From 100,000-200,000                    114                          40
From 200,000-500,000                    78                           30
More than 500,000                       30                           30
Total                                   222                         100
The specific objectives of the component are: (a) expand access to and utilization of basic health services
by populations at risk in urban areas, which currently are underserved, through the implementation of the
PSF model and upgrading of the service network; (b) establish functional referral and counter-referral
systems through establishment of integrated service networks; (c) strengthen the system of PSF
management and organization; and (d) improve the performance of the municipal providers of basic health
services through development of perfornance-based organizational and management models, and the
introduction of new health care practices.
Expected Results: It is expected that as a result of the activities under the first phase of the APL, the
following improvements will be achieved in participating municipalities (among others, as shown in the
Logical Framework, Annex 1):
*   Average PSF population coverage in participating municipalities increased from 10 to 35 percent 70%
of pregnant women attended by FH teams have had 6 prenatal visits and all the basic lab exams
recommended by the PNC protocol.
*   100 % of pregnant women attended by FH teams received a tetanus vaccine.
*   40 % of maternity admissions from PSF catchment areas are referred by PSF teams.
*   Performance-based management and supervision system  developed and piloted in 20%   of
municipalities to support PSF implementation.
*   Regulatory framework for performance-based transfer mechanism for financing municipal
*   About 40 Conversion Subprojects approved; transfers under implementation for participating
municipalities;
- 58 -



Implementation and Financing Arrangements: Municipalities seeking support under the project will
submit a Conversion Plan (Plano de Conversdo) as well as related Basic Care and Family Health activities
that, taken together, will constitute the Basic and Family Health Conversion Subprojects, or Conversion
Subprojects. Criteria for eligibility and selection of participating municipalities as well as guidelines for the
preparation of the Conversion Plans will be established by the Ministry of Health (MOH), and included in
the project's Operational Manual, (Annex 2G presents summary eligibility criteria, and outlines the
selection process). In addition to health-related criteria, eligible municipalities must meet financial
management and procurement requirements per risk classification methodology described in Annex 6. The
Conversion Plan guidelines will draw on PSF strategies, institutional requirements stipulated in recently
approved regulations (NOAS 01/01 -- regarding formation of networks and organization and management
of health services) and analyses of successful experiences to transforming traditional primary care to the
PSF model.
The Conversion Subprojects will form the basis for Subproject Implementation Agreements signed between
the selected municipalities and the Ministry of Health, which will set forth the respective obligations
regarding subproject implementation, including: (i) broad description of a seven-year conversion program
including global end-of-program performance targets; (ii) detailed description of Conversion Subproject
activities to be implemented in the first three-year phase; (iii) technical and fiduciary performance targets
that will determine eligibility for participation subsequent APL phases (Annex 2F presents the performance
indicators required for participation in Phase 2 of the APL); (iv) procurement plans and corresponding
disbursement schedule for subproject activities, specifying eligible expenditures; (v) obligations regarding
reporting, recording keeping, maintenance of accounts, and auditing; and (vi) terms for cancellation of
disbursements and/or the Agreement. The Conversion Subproject plans will be evaluated by a Technical
Committee organized by the MOH. In addition, the approval and commitment of relevant state and
municipal authorities is required.
Bank financing will be pooled with federal transfers used by the Federal Government to finance health
program implementation: Family Health(PABfam), Basic Care (PABfixed) and Conversion Plans
(PABconv). From a technical perspective, these three transfers essentially finance a similar set of activities
related to primary health care. PABfixed finances basic care under the existing model while PABfam
finances basic care under the family health model. PABconv will finance the transitional costs of converting
primary care delivery from the existing model to the family health-based approach.
Based on the procurement plans of the Conversion Subprojects, a virtual Subproject Pool will be
dimensioned within the larger AB/PSF Programmatic Pool of transfers. The Subproject Pool will exist only
for selected municipalities which will be responsible for implementing the Conversion Subprojects. The
Subproject Pool would be spent for activities constituting the Conversion Subprojects and related to
Conversion Plan implementation, PSF extension and Basic Care provision. Loan proceeds will fnance 30
percent of the subproject pool for eligible small works, equipment, goods, consultant services, training and
operating costs.
Given the solidity of the borrower's fiduciary framework and the agreed risk mitigation measures, as
described in Annex 6, the Bank has agreed to disburse into the Borrower's grant transfer system, advancing
funds against Statements of Transfers. The Conversion Subproject procurement plans will be the basis for
establishing the subproject disbursement schedule for Bank disbursements into the grant transfer system.
Based on expenditure data supplied by participating municipalities, the MOH will submit quarterly
financial management reports (PMRs) to tract and compare reported eligible expenditures with SOT-based
- 59-



expenditures. Full reconciliation (based on PMRs) will be occur annually, and if necessary, agreed
remedies will be applied for misprocurement, mismanagement and ineligible expenditures.
The Borrower will create a new transfer, PABconv, to finance the implementation of the Conversion Plans.
The main reason for creating this transfer is to introduce a performance-based financing mechanism and to
facilitate MOH technical and financial monitoring of conversion plan implementation by the participating
municipalities. Unlike other PAB transfers, PABconv will consist of the following characteristics that will
be specified in MOH regulations that will be approved prior to effectiveness:
* Temporary mechanism that will tenninate upon completion of conversion plans;
* Disbursements will be made according to timeline established by procurement plan included in the
conversion plan (rather than automatic monthly transfers as is the case for the other transfers);
* Compliance with agreed indicators of technical and fiduciary performance (see Annex 2F) will be
condition for continued participation;
Component Content: Once approved by the MOH, Conversion Subprojects will be implemented by the
selected municipalities according to the procurement plans and disbursement schedules there in. Activities
are grouped into two subcomponents. All activities will be financed through the subproject funding pool..
A. Family Health Extension and Basic Care Provision
Objective. This subcomponent aims to raise PSF population coverage from an average of 10 percent to 35
percent of the population in municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. It will support the
expansion of PSF population coverage and the delivery of basic care in participating urban municipalities
through financing consultant fees and incremental operating costs involved in the organization, supervision
and provision of family health and basic care services, as specified in the Operational Manual. Annex 2A
describes these activities and services.
B. PSF Conversion: This subcomponent consists of four groups of activities:
(i) Institutional Modernization
Objective. This activity seeks to strengthen planning, management, organization, and regulation of basic
health services at the municipal level, in support of PSF expansion. To obtain these results, the pooled
funds will finance the provision of consulting services, training, workshops and seminars, and training
materials.
Main Activities. Depending on the needs identified at the municipal level and expressed in the Conversion
Plan, activities under this subcomponent would include:
*   Development and implementation of: (a) performance-based management systems; (b) instruments,
policies and regulations for contracting and human resources management; and (c) evaluations of user
satisfaction and community participation. All of these will be developed and implemented within the
guidelines of the NOAS/0 1 and the PSF model.
* Preparation of municipal investment plans and projects, to be financed in part under Subcomponent B.
* Development and implementation of matemal and child referral / counter-referral systems, resulting in
participation by 50% of PSF teams in an integrated referral network.
- 60 -



*   Development, implementation and dissemination of new health care practices and protocols.
*   Special studies to support implementation of the PSF and NOAS/01.
(ii) Upgrading of Municipal Service Provision
Objective. This set of activities is intended to improve the ability of municipal health services to meet
beneficiaries' health needs through strategic improvements in primary care provision. It will support
physical improvements to increase the capacity of municipal primary care service networks. In some
municipalities, the networks will be organized and funded under the project; in others, in which networks
already exist, the project will finance inputs to reinforce and improve their functioning. The pooled funds
will finance medical equipment, civil works, non-medical and office equipment, furniture, vehicles and
operating costs.
Main Activities. Depending on the needs identified at the municipal level and expressed in the Conversion
Plan, activities will entail the upgrading and equipping of physical infrastructure for Family Health Team
to support their tasks. This can include minor civil works (remodeling) to health centers and polyclinics and
the procurement of medical and non-medical equipment (including basic communications equipment),
furniture and vehicles. Transportation vehicles will be financed both for traditional purposes, and to
support the implementation of a new model of integrated and outreach-oriented health care services. This
means, for example, that vehicles such as fully-equipped ambulances would be obtained to respond to
urgent health problems. In addition, appropriate vehicles would be acquired for the transport of biological
materials to diagnostic laboratories within micro regions; distribution of sterilized instruments and other
clinical equipment from a central location to basic health units; movement of health team members to
communities for house-to-house and group outreach activities; and scheduled transport of users (patients)
to health promotion events and activities. It is expected that among the vehicles purchased would include
fully equipped ambulances, "kombis," omnibuses, vans and others.
(iii) Strengthening of Information Systems
Objective. Activities are intended to support incorporation and use of information technologies for
planning, monitoring and evaluating of health system organization and performance. The pooled funds will
finance consultancy services, computer equipment, and software, training, workshops and training
materials.
Main Activities. Depending on the needs identified at the municipal level and expressed in the Conversion
Plan, activities would include:
*   Development and upgrading of information systems to manage data related to the Family Health
Team work process and results. Analysis of such data will support performance-based management,
and referral and counter-referral systems.
*   Development of an information system to support various levels of the health services network,
including (but not restricted to) the organization of clinical consultations, inpatient stays, and
laboratory exams.
- 61 -



It is expected that during the first phase of the APL, information systems for the management of referral
and counter-referral arrangements will be established or strengthened in about 30 percent of the
participating municipalities. In addition, information systems to support monitoring and evaluation of
Conversion Plans will be developed and tested in a sample of municipalities.
(iv) Training and Supervision
Objective. The aim of this set of activities is to facilitate the transformation of traditional provider teams
and the inmmediate incorporation of these teams into new Family Health teams by providing training in
strategic areas, along with direct, routine on-the-job technical assistance during the period of conversion of
the model of care. It will also support the creation of supervisory systems in support of PSF expansion. It
is important to note that the activities under this line of financing will be undertaken only in the
approximately 100 participating municipalities. Training activities financed under Component 2 are
expected to yield longer-term and more profound changes in the training of human resources as well as
nationwide benefits. The pooled funds will finance consultancy services, training, workshops, seminars and
training materials.
Main Activities. Depending on the needs identified at the municipal level, as expressed in the Conversion
Plan, activities under this line of financing could include:
*   Development and implementation of training courses for municipal health workers in strategic areas,
including the PSF work processes, priority programs for the Sistema Unico de Sauide (SUS), and
management and direction of PSF activities.
*   Formation of interdisciplinary groups for technical supervision - called Supervisory Reference
Groups (Grupos de Referencia). It is expected that there will be one Reference Supervisory Group
will be constituted for every six Family Health Teams.
Project Component 2 - US$37.40 million
PSF Human Resource Development (US$ 37.4 million)
Objective. This component will support the implementation of a human resource policy that contributes to
the expansion of the PSF model; strengthens the qualifications and performance of family health
professionals and PSF Teams; and introduces new contents and methods in the preparation of health
professionals.
The objectives of the component are: (a) increase the number and quality of PSF human resources; (b)
expand and strengthen pre-service and in-service training for PSF human resources; (c) expand and
strengthen programs for professional training, including residencies in family health, specialty training for
physicians, nurses and dental hygiene assistants; and (d) introduce special programs (such as training
center consortiums and virtual networks to exchange information) and demonstration projects that support
and strengthen the human resource development activities.
By the conclusion of the first phase of the APL, it is expected that the following improvements will be
achieved (among others, as shown in the Logical Framework, Annex 1):
*   3,000 professionals trained in health services planning, management and organization.
*   In-service and continuing education provided to 10,000 PSF physicians, nurses and community
health agents.
- 62 -



*   500 PSF nurse and physician specialists graduated.
*   500 dental technicians graduated.
*   100 Family Health physicians enrolled in residency programs.
*   Alternative curricula and teaching methodologies for Family Health established in 10 medical and
nursing schools.
*   15 new in-service training centers (Polos de Capacitacion) created.
Implementation. This component will have a national focus and be managed through the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU). Many of the activities financed under Component 2 will be implemented through
the P6los de Capacita,do, training centers that offer courses and training modules directed at professionals
on the Family Health Team.    In addition, there are approximately 100 institutions of higher
learning-universities, faculties and medical and nursing schools-which together with the State and
Municipal Health Secretariats will be able to participate in the Program.  Activities for the
para-professional members of the team, particularly in the case of dental technicians, will be implemented
through Health Technical Schools (Escolas Tecnicas de Satide), which are linked to the State and
Municipal Health Secretaries. Existing contracts with training institutions will be supported under this
subcomponent, as well as new contracts, selected on a competitive basis. Activities are grouped into three
subcomponents:
Subcomponent A. In-service Training of PSF Professionals and Para-Professionals
Objective and Expenditure Categories. This subcomponent has the objective to strengthen PSF service
organization and provision by providing in-service training for several types of health professionals in the
Family Health model, including service managers, health professionals (doctors and nurses) and
para-professionals (community health agents).  Various types of training-on-site, distance and
others-would be supported.. The project would support the development and testing of innovative
programs for continuing education of PSF teams, such as "virtual tutors." PSF teams participating in the
program will have on-line access to professionals who will provide rapid technical support and backup on
specific clinical and case management issues. Expenditure categories includes training (consultancy
services, training and workshops) and training materials and publications.
Main Activities.  This subcomponent will be executed on a national basis through training centers,
including P6los, which will enter into contracts with the MOH. The subcomponents will finance the
development and/or strengthening of training and continuing education programs for PSF professionals, in
the following thematic areas:
*   Planning, organization and management of basic health services.
*   Clinical practices (such as urgent and emergency care; care protocols; respectful care during delivery;
child, women's and adult health; dental health; integrated family health, and clinical management
(such as case management and continuity of care).
*   Public health (such as epidemiological surveillance; health education and promotion; care for
individuals facing violence).
*   Development of national strategies, plans, guidelines, manual and training modules for medical waste
management for primary care facilities. Testing of manual and training modules in a sample of
municipalities.
- 63 -



Subcomponent B. Pre-service and Specialty Trainina of PSF Professionals
Objective. This subcomponent has the objective of providing pre-service training to professionals in areas
relevant to the organization and provision of services under the PSF model. The expenditure categories to
be financed are: consultancy services, scholarships, internships, training, workshops, conferences,
seminars, materials and publications.
Main Activities. Training programs will be carried out by a different institutions - primarily universities
(medical and nursing schools), technical schools (for community health workers and dental hygiene
assistants), and Municipal Secretariats - that enter into agreements and/or contracts with the MOH. In the
case of Municipal Secretariats, they may also enter into third-party contracts. The development of didactic
materials and methods, curricula, norms and so forth will be completed through consultancies. This
subcomponent also will support the expansion of the PITS Program (Programa de Incentivo a
Interiorizacao do Trabalho em Saude), which seeks to increase the volume and quality of physicians and
nurses specialized in the family health discipline where there is a shortage of qualified personnel -- usually
in municipalities with fewer than 50,000 residents. Approximately 200 municipalities have been targeted
for PITS expansion. The main activities will include development and implementation of pre-service
training programs in following areas:
*   Management of the organization, processes, work and profession of interventions foreseen by the
model.
*   Specialized medical and nursing training in Family Health, including the PITS Program.
*   Residencies (multi-professional, post-graduate level) dedicated to Family Health.
* Development of skills required by community health agents and dental hygiene assistants.
Subcomponent C. Demonstration Activities To Support Training and Education
Objective and Expenditure Categories. This subcomponent has the objective of improving the quality and
quantity of training opportunities for current and future members of the Family Health Teams. This will be
accomplished through testing innovative programs that support the development of curricula, teaching
methods and learning experiences conducted by training centers, technical schools and medical and nursing
schools. The subcomponent will finance consultancy services, audio-visual equipment, training, workshops,
conferences and training materials.
Main Activities. The demonstration projects described below will be executed by schools of medicine and
nursing, under contracts or agreements (convenios) with the MOH. The design of pilot activities, curricula,
pedagogic methodologies and other activities will be completed under contracts with consulting firms
and/or individual consultants. The main activities include:
*   Creation and development of management capacity for a network of training institutions (P6los).
*   The network will include a main training institution in a geographic area, which will provide technical
assistance, training materials, training-of-trainers courses and other services to smaller training
institutions in the same geographic area network.
*   Creation of approximately 10 demonstration projects in medical and nursing schools to develop and
implement new or improved curricula in Family Health, and/or innovative pedagogic methodologies to
support Family Health teams.
- 64 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 7.40 million
Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 7.4 million)
Objective. Under this component, rigorous and coordinated monitoring and evaluation methodologies will
be employed to assess the structure, processes, outputs and impact of the Family Health Program. This
will entail an effort to build on, improve and integrate several existing information systems in the health
sector. In addition, evaluation methodologies, instruments, strategies and plans developed under other
FHEP components will be applied. The primary objectives of the component are: (a) create systems for
permanent, cost-effective monitoring and evaluation of the PSF and the training institutions' performance;
and (b) develop and implement systems of accreditation of basic Family Health units and PSF training
centers.
Implementation. The project will provide a central source of financing for four subcomponents. Activities
will be conducted on a national basis, and will be managed through the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
within the MOH. As necessary, the MOH may enter into subcontracts with universities and/or technical
institutions for management of research.
At the conclusion of the first phase of the APL, it is expected that the achievements under this component
will include (among others, as shown in the Logical Framework, Annex 1):
*  Baseline data (household and provider) collected and analyzed in all participating municipalities of
Component 1.
*  Regulatory framework for accreditation of PSF teams/primary care facilities and Polos approved by
MOH.
*  Evaluation of 50% of PSF teams implemented between 1997 and 2001 completed, and results
disseminated in 5 workshops.
*  Evaluation of 15 PSF training centers (P6los de Capacitacion) established between 1997 and 2001
completed, and results disseminated in 2 workshops.
* Development of methods, instruments and plans to evaluate training activities in terms of skill
acquisition and application.
*  Monitoring and evaluation system for the municipal AB/PSF, including local feedback mechanism,
approved and developed.
Subcomponent A. Stren2thenin2 of Monitorinu Systems
Objective.  The objective of this subcomponent is to consolidate and standardize the instruments and
systems for monitoring basic health care provision. Financing will support consultancy services, training,
computer equipment and software, fumiture , study tours, workshops and training materials.
Main Activities. The activities under this subcomponent will be executed and managed by the MOH's
PCU. They include:
* Strengthening of the monitoring systems for the PSF and for gauging compliance with
MOH-state-municipal agreements, known as the Pacto de Indicadores
* Incorporation of PSF team performance measures into municipal monitoring systems.
- 65 -



*  Creation, expansion and strengthening of approximately 5 Regional Collaborating Centers (Centros
Regionales de Colaboracdo para o Monitoramento da Atencdo Bdsica), which will provide technical
support for state and municipal authorities responsible for collecting and synthesizing health system
data, and for overseeing the performance of the PSF.
*  Incorporation of new information technologies in support of PSF monitoring.
*  Development of integrated data systems to support the performance, monitoring and evaluation of the
PSF, including the reformulation of the existing SLAB. This will rationalize and streamline the SLAB
so that it can serve 'as a coordinated and integrated system for monitoring and evaluating the
performance of the PSF. This will also ensure the compatibility of the SLAB with other existing data
systems, including.
Subcomponent B. Evaluation of PSF ImDlementation
Objective and Expenditure Categories. The objective of this subcomponent is to systematically evaluate
the PSF and training activities with respect to process, outcomes and impact. It would also develop
methodologies for evaluation of training institutions and activities, developed under Component 2(C). The
results of this work will yield operationally useful insights to guide the strategies of the MOH, as well as
State and Municipal Secretariats. Financing will support consultancy services, training, computer
equipment and software, furniture, study tours, workshops and materials.
Main Activities. The activities under this subcomponent will be executed and managed by the MOH's
PCU. They will include:
*  Evaluation of the process of implementing the Family Health Teams (described under Component 1)
and the related changes in the training institutions (described under Component 2) to identify "best
practices" as well as constraints within the work structure and processes.
*  Evaluation of samples of Family Health Teams and training centers (polos) established between 1997
and 2001 to assess their performance, cost-effectiveness, benefits and impact on the utilization of
services and health status of the beneficiary population.
*  Development and application of baseline household and provider surveys for all municipalities
participating in Component 1.
*  Development of evaluation methodologies, instruments and plans to measure: (a) the acquisition and
application of skills by individuals trained in Family Health; and (b) the impact of the development of
the networks of training institutions, demonstration projects, and curricular and pedagogic
innovations.
*  Impact evaluation of the pre-service and specialty training programs, residency programs and
curriculum development activities (already under implementation) to assess their performance,
efficiency and impact on trainees' level and application of skills.
Subcomponent C. Accreditation of the Family Health Teams. Facilities and Training Institutions
Objective. The objective of this subcomponent is to develop and implement accreditation systems for (a)
Family Health Program units, which deliver basic health services to a defined population under contract
with the government health authorities; and (b) training centers (polos de capacitacion), which deliver
in-service training and continuing education services for Family Health Team members, under contract with
government health authorities. The ultimate aims of the accreditation system are to guarantee that the
quality of basic health care meets an acceptable standard, and to introduce a culture of quality and high
- 66 -



performance in the delivery of health services and related training activities. The main expenditure
categories for this subcomponent are consultancy services, publications, training, workshops and
international seminars.
Main Activities. The activities under this subcomponent will be executed and managed by the MOH's
PCU, and will include:
* Development and testing of a regulatory framework and complete set of methods, instruments and
processes for accreditation of PSF units and training institutions.
*  Assessment and selection of institutions to conduct accreditation of PSF units and training institutions.
*  Gradual implementation of systems for the accreditation of PSF units and training institutions.
SubcomDonent D. Research and Evaluation Fund
Objective. This subcomponent has the objectives of: (a) stimulating analyses, evaluations and operational
research on topics related to the development and performance of the PSF and the related training
institutions, the process of decentralization of the SUS, human resources in the health sector, efficiency and
effectiveness of SUS, and other strategic topics identified by the MOH; and (b) developing the capacity of
professional researchers in the methodologies of research and evaluation, analysis of health systems, and
health economics and financing.
Main Activities.  The activities under this subcomponent would be implemented and managed by the
MOH's PCU through the establishment of a Research and Evaluation Fund (Fundo de Estudos e
Pesquisas). The Fund will have two accounts: the first to finance small studies (less than US$ 5,000)
conducted by individuals - both professionals as well as graduate and post-graduate students; the second to
finance major studies requiring a team of collaborators and staff (such as those requiring large household
or facility surveys and analysis of municipal and state data sets). Awards would be made on a competitive
basis. Activities under the first phase of the APL would include:
* Approximately 10 small research and evaluation activities within the relevant research areas.
*  Approximately 3 major research and evaluation activities within the relevant research areas.
*  Programming of regional symposia and workshops for presentation of methodologies, projects and
preliminary results.
- 67 -



Summary Characterstics of Federal Transfers to Munici alities in Sul port of Primary Health Care
Federal     Purpose         Beneficiaries    Year         Amounts       Transfer       Performance   Fiduciary      Remedies
Transfer                                     established/  transferred in  Formula     Criteria      Framework
Regulatory   2000
Framework
PAB          Finance all     Municipalities   1998        $972 million to  Fixed per                  Presentation of
fixed       operating costs  certified through            4909 of 5507    capita        None          annual
and investment  Habilitacao      NOB-SUS     municipalities  transfer paid               management
related to      process          01-96                       in monthly                  and             Payments
provision of                     NOAS                        installments                expenditure     suspended if
Basic Care.                      01/01                                                   reports;        municipalities
Periodic       fail to update
audits,        information
Maintenance of  systems (SIM,
financial       SINASC,
records.        SISVAN,
SINAN, SLAB
and SIA) for
two successive
months or for
improper use
of funds
identified
through audits.
PABfam       Finance PSF,    Municipalities                $372 million to  Variable                  Presentation of
mainly salaries,  certified through  1998     3109           transfer       Partial       annual
service         Qual4jicacao                  municipalities  depending on  (incentive to  management
contracts and   process          NOB-SUS                     number of      increase      and
inputs required                  01/96                       installed      number of     expenditure
by family health                                             family health  family health  reports,
teams                                                        teams. Paid   teams)         including
in monthly                  payment
installments.               ledgers and
health
activities
provided;
Periodic
audits;
Maintenance
of financial
records.
PABconv      Finance        Municipalities    To be        40 urban       Paid according  Performance-b As agreed     As agreed
Conversion     with over         established  municipalities  to           ased:          with Bank      with Bank
Plan           100,000           in early     will be        procurement    continued     (see Annex     (see annex 6)
Implementation  population that  2002         selected for   plan and       receipt of    6)
meet eligibility               2002- 2005     disbursement   funds will be
riteria.                                     schedule of    conditioned on
Conversion    meeting
Plans.        performance
targets as
specified in
Conversion
Plan
agreement.
- 68 -



Annex 2A
Brazil Family Health Project
Overview of Health Sector in Brazil
Introduction
This annex provides basic inforrnation about the dynamic and complex Brazilian health sector. Based on a
large number of published and unpublished sources, it seeks to provide sufficient background to permit an
understanding of the rationale for and structure of the proposed Family Health Project, rather than a
comprehensive or definitive perspective on the Brazilian health system. Main conclusions of the Sector
Profile are summarized in section B2 of the Family Health Project PAD, "Main Sector Issues and
Govemment Strategy."
The Sector Profile is organized as follows: In Section II, we present sentinel information about health
conditions and health services utilization in Brazil, with a focus on differentials by geographic region,
rural/urban residence, and household economic status. In Section III, we describe the structural features of
the system: who provides health services to whom, under what institutional and regulatory arrangements.
The issue of decentralization, which constitutes a core feature of the system's evolution, is taken up in
considerable detail. Sector financing and pattems of expenditure are covered in Section IV. In Section V,
the Family Health Program (Programa de Saude da Familia, or PSF) is described, with attention to its
objectives, evolution to date, special financing features, performance and future plans. In addition, the PSF
support functions of training and information systems are highlighted. We list the challenges facing the
PSF, which are addressed by the Family Health Project.
Basic Demographics, Health Conditions and Health Service Utilization
Basic Demographics
Brazil, a Federal Republic, has 26 states and a Federal District, and 5,507 municipalities within five
geographic regions (North, Northeast, Center-west, Southeast and South) that are distinguished by
demographic, economic and socio-cultural characteristics. Although there is large regional variation, on
average about 80 percent of the population lives in urban areas. While the vast majority (90 percent) of the
municipalities have populations of under 50,0000, most of the population resides in the larger cities: 10
percent of the largest municipalities account for 60 percent of the population.
The population growth rate was estimated at about 7.5 percent for the 1990s, dramatically lower than the
23 percent growth in the previous decade. Between 1960 and 1990, fertility declined by 50 percent. In
1997, the total fertility rate was estimated at 2.4 children per woman. Due to historically high fertility, the
population structure is still relatively young; however, the relative number of elderly is growing, and it has
recently been estimated that about 7.9 percent of the population is 60 years or older (IDB, 1998).
Brazil historically has been characterized by extreme income inequality and large numbers of households
living in poverty. According to the 1996 National Household Sample Survey (Pesquisa Nacional de
Amostra por Domicilios), the richest 20 percent of the population accounts for 65 percent of total income,
while the poorest 50 percent account for 12 percent (PNAD, 1996, UNDP, 1999). Poverty is highly
concentrated in the nine states of the Northeast region, home to 63 percent of the country's poor (see Table
1).
- 69 -



Table 1. Geographical Distribution of the Poor in Brazil, 1998
Source: World Bank CAS, 2000
Region                         Percentage of     Distribution of Poor in Brazil
Population Who are            (N)
Poor (%)
Northeast                      47.8                        62.7
Southeast                        8.8                        17.3
South                           12.4                        9.0
North                           30.7                        6.7
Center-West                     13.7                        4.3
Total                           22.0                       100.0
A World Bank report using 1996 PNAD household data defined extremely poor as people living in a
household with a per capita monthly income of less than $65 per month. It found that 22.6 percent of
Brazilians (34.5 million) are extremely poor and that a little over half of the extremely poor live in urban
areas (52.5 percent) (Table 2). Of the urban poor, 37 percent live in large urban or metropolitan areas.
Gwatkin et al (2000) used DHS data on household assets to define poverty and found that 38% of people in
the lowest quintile, and 56 (percent) in the lowest two quintiles live in urban areas.
Table 2. Distribution of extremely poor in Brazil by urban / rural area, 1996
Source: PNAD*, 1996
Share of total poverty
Metropolitan core                          5.8%
Metropolitan periphery                     5.4%
Large urban                                8.5%
Medium urban                               12.2%
Small urban                                20.5%
Rural                                      47.5%
Total                                      100%
* National household survey (Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra do Domicilios)
B.     Health Conditions
Health status and living standards in Brazil have improved significantly in the last three decades. Today
people live longer, are less likely to die in their first year of life, and have fewer children than in the past -
the consequence of improvements in income, educational attainment and access to water and sanitation
complemented by increases in access and utilization of health care services. Despite these achievements,
Brazil under-performs other countries at similar income levels, and continues to face long-standing
problems in public health - infant mortality, child malnutrition and maternal mortality among the poor are
still high: Brazil is one of WHO's target countries for TB reduction due to its high prevalence, especially
among the urban and rural poor; and malaria and other endemic diseases threaten the North and Northeast
Regions. There are also relatively new concerns, including AIDS and the sharp increase in injuries and
chronic and degenerative diseases such as cardiovascular diseases and cancer among all income groups.
Cardiovascular diseases (disease of the circulatory system), injuries and cancer are the leading causes of
deaths in Brazil, accounting for about 60 percent of all deaths (see Figure 1).
- 70 -



Figure 1. Proportional Death Rate by Groups of Causes, Brazil 1997
Source: MOH/FNS/CENEPI/SIM 2000
* Other
80% f0 External
60/ -~ | _ * _ _ _ _ _ * _ - _   * Perinatal
20% - _ * _ * _ | _ | _ * _ * _    O Respiratory
0%    -              _ _  T _ T _Circulatory
* Neoplasms
O Infectious and
Parasitic
Brazil's national infant mortality rate of 37.5 per 1,000 live births is higher than would be predicted at the
country's level of per capita GNP and literacy. The high infant mortality, which can be taken as a sentinel
of both socioeconomic and health conditions, holds true across all regions, as shown in Table 2.
Table 2. Infant Mortality Rates as a Function of Adult Illiteracy and GDP Per Capita, in
Brazil
Source: World Bank, 2000 (MCHESW)
Region                      IMR, 1997                    Predicted IMRl
Northeast                         59                          43
Southeast                         25                           17
South                             23                           18
North                             36                          27
Center-west                      25                           23
Values are IMRs that would be predicted based on the IMR-literacy-GDP relationships observed in other
countries.
As is found elsewhere, health conditions among the poor are far worse than among the better-off - and in
Brazil, the differences by income are profound. As shown in Table 3, infant mortality is estimated at more
than 80 per 1,000 live births among the poorest households, and less than 30 per 1,000 among the richest.
Similarly, approximately one-fifth of the poorest children have been found to be stunted, reflecting
long-standing nutritional deficits; stunting affects only about 2 percent of the highest-income children.
Poor teen age girls have 6 times higher fertility rates than the richest segment of the population and suffer
from most matemal deaths. The impact of violence and chronic diseases is also higher among the poor.
Comparing urban and rural populations, it is clear that economic status rather than place of residence is the
determinant of health status: the health conditions of the poor in urban areas have more in common with
those of the rural poor, than with those of higher-income urban residents. For some health conditions, data
also suggest that (at similar income levels) the urban poor have slightly worse health outcomes than the
rural poor.
- 71 -



Table 3. Maternal and Child Health Indicators by Urban-Rural Residence and Wealth Quintiles in
Brazil, 1996
Source: DHS 1996, reported in Gwatkin et al, 2000
Indicator               Urban Poorest     Urban Richest 20%       Rural Poorest 20%
20%
IMR   (per 1,000 live           87.0                    28.8                   80.8
births)
Under-5 Mortality rate          101.1                   33.6                   97.5
(per 1,000)
Children Stunted (%)            22.1                    2.3                    23.9
Children  Moderately             12.2                   3.0                     11.0
Underweight (%)
Low   Mother's Body             8.8                      5.4                    8.8
Mass Index (%)
C.      Health Service Utilization
Despite large recent investments to expand the supply of health services to populations with limited access
to basic health care services in rural and small urban areas, and despite the significant physical availability
of health services in urban areas, the inequalities in health outcomes partly reflect large differences in the
utilization of basic health services. In general terms, the poor have utilization rates 25 percent lower than
the non-poor in rural and urban areas (see Table 4). These low levels of utilization of services among the
poor -also found in OECD countries-reflect higher transaction costs and behavioral barriers facing the
poor.
Table 4
Brazil: Health Status and Service Indicators by Population Wealth Quintile, 1996
Source: The World Bank, November 2000. "Socio-economic Differences in Health, Nutrition and Population
Based on Brazil's 1996 DHS.
Indicator                                   Quintiles                   Population   Poor/Rich
_   Poorest   Second  Middle   Fourth   Richest    Average      Ratio
Service Indicators:
- Immunization coverage (%  56.6     74.0     84.9    83.1      73.8       72.5       0.767
12-23 mos.- all vaccines
- Treatnent of Diarrhea     27.5     26.7     38.9    32.8     (51.8)      32.0       0.531
(% seen medically)
- Antenatal Care Visits     67.5     87.7     93.4    96.9      98.1       85.6       0.688
(% to a medically trained
person)
- Delivery Attendance       71.6     88.7     95.7    97.7      98.6       87.7       0.726
(% by a medically trained
person)
- Use of Contraception      55.8     68.9     73.6    73.8      76.8       70.3       0.727
(% women 15-49 using
modem methods)
- 72 -



Structure of the System
Evolution of the SUS
In 1988, a new Brazilian Constitution established - among other major social landmarks - the "right to
health," in which health (and access health services) are deemed to be the right of the citizen and the
responsibility of the state. While this ran counter to the contemporaneous international trends toward a
contraction of public sector obligations in the social sectors, it was consistent with a series of expansionist
reforms in Brazil, and set the stage for the formulation of a large-scale health sector reform that focused on:
(a) strengthening the public sector; (b) increasing and diversifying the sources of financing; (c)
decentralizing ownership and management of health services, and other functions; (d) rationalizing service
supply and delivery; and (e) redefining the relationships between
public and private sectors.                                             Box 1. Principles and Guidelines of the SUS
In 1989, the Sistema lInico de Satide, or SUS, was created with the
objective of forming a regionalized system of service provision by the  Principles
public sector-complemented by the private sector-in which
comprehensive health services, accessible to the population on a         >   Universalit. Health care for all citizens is guaranteed.
universal, unrestricted basis, would fit into a rational and tiered     3>   Egy&: Actions and services are offered for those most
in need, reducing inequalities.
structure (see Box 1). Law 8080 (1990) established the organization      >   Interav. All preventive and curative measures are
and scope of government health services, defining institutional roles        covered.
at each level. This included a transfer of the National Social
Insurance Institute for Medical Care (INAMPS) to the Ministry of         Guidelines
Health. Law 8142 (1990) established the participation of the
community in management of the SUS, and defined the                      >   Decentralization: Redistribution of power, redefinition
intergovernmental transfers of financial resources.                          of roles and new relationships between the three levels
of government (federal, state, municipal), to guarantee
one direction at each level.
The system is now composed of three main sub-sectors: (1) the            >   Repionalization and Orpanizational Hierarchv:
public sector, including publicly-financed and -provided services at         Creation of a network of tiered services, to ensure access
the federal, state and municipal levelsi; (2) the private commercial         to all necessar, services.
and non-profit sector that is contracted by the public sector, and paid     levels of govements Popuoaru articipation at all
through reimbursement systems; and (3) the free-choice private               conferences; citizens participate in proposing guidelines
sector, financed through out-of-pocket payments and/or corporate             and priority programs, controlling the quality and form
health insurance. While all three sectors are large players in hospital      of actions, and controlling the allocation of public funds.
and specialty care - the legacy of a long tradition of over-valuation of
high-level services - the public sector is by far the largest provider of
basic health services (see Table 5).
Table 5. Proportional Distribution of Public and Private Health Care Services, Brazil, 1990
Source: IBGE/AMOH, 1990, quoted in Almeida et al, undated
Type of Service                   Public (%)           Private (/)             Total (o)
Primary Health Care Units             95.0                  5.0                     100
and Health Centers
Specialized Health Care                25.5                 74.5                    100
Emergency                              65.5                 34.5                     100
Hospital                              21.0                 79.0                    100
It is estimated that the SUS provides primary care for 85 percent of the population, secondary care for 70
percent, and highly complex care for 90 percent of the population, either directly or through contracts with
- 73 -



private providers. About 30 percent of the Brazilian population obtains secondary-level services from
group health institutions or traditional private providers (PAHO, 1998).
Decentralization
The SUS was created, in part, to transform a highly centralized, authoritarian and bureaucratic health
system that was characterized by a lack of social participation into one that was more efficient, and more
responsive to local conditions and needs. Thus, a major feature of the SUS reform has been the
decentralization of responsibility for the provision of health services.
Roles and Responsibilities. The reform redefined the roles of both executive and representative bodies at
Federal, state and municipal levels. The Federal level is responsible by law for formulating and
implementing national health policy, as well as for system planning, assessment and control. The allocation
of funds also falls within the purview of the federal government. The decision-making process involves:
(a) The National Health Council (CNS), comprised of representatives of government agencies, service
providers, health care professionals and users), and charged with strategic planning and monitoring
implementation of health policy; (b) The Tripartite Inter-managerial Committee (CIT), made up of
representatives from the Ministry of Health, the National Council of State Health Secretaries (CONASS),
and the National Council of Municipal Health Secretaries (CONASEMOH). This body approves rules for
the system's operation; and (c) The Ministry of Health itself, which manages the allocation of federal
funds, under the supervision of the CNS, and proposes operating rules to the CIT. (See Annex 2D for
additional information about institutional roles and responsibilities.)
State functions and responsibilities include service coordination, distribution of financial resources, and
certain decisions related to the provision of specialized (high technology) interventions. Reproducing the
Federal structure, the state-level decision-making bodies include the State Health Secretariat, Bipartite
Inter-managerial Committee and State Health Council.
Municipalities, which are the main subject of the decentralization efforts to date, have been given the
responsibility for delivering health-related goods and services to the population, including health promotion,
preventive health care, rehabilitation, and treatment. Thus, it is at the municipalities where the fundamental
actions are taken that determine the quality, quantity and type of health services for the population. The
Municipal Health Secretariat and Municipal Health Council are the key actors.
Norms Guiding Decentralization. Since the early 1990s, a series of administrative instruments and
financing reforms have been enacted to expand and deepen the decentralization process, mainly by (a)
establishing criteria for various levels of decentralization; and (b) providing incentives for municipalities
and states willing (and able) to take on increasing responsibilities, consistent with national health policy. In
particular, the Basic Operational Norms (called Normas Operacionais Bdsicas, or NOBs, in the earlier
years, and more recently Norma Operacional Assistencial a Saude or NOAs), have helped to shape the
evolution of decentralization.
In 1993, the first Basic Operational Norms (NOBs) defined two categories of management readiness -
intermediate and advanced - for states, and three categories - initial, intermediate and advanced - for
municipalities. A given state or municipality's responsibilities, requirements and financial incentives, set
by the NOB, depended on its stage of managerial capacity.
In 1996, another set of Operational Norrns sought to induce further development of managerial capacity.
The norms gave states a somewhat larger role in system coordination and monitoring than they had enjoyed
- 74 -



earlier. For municipalities, the norms established stages of decentralization, depending on the
municipality's ability to manage the system.  Under the norms, municipalities are classified into
management types through a process called habilitcdo, an assessment of municipalities' capacity to
provide services to the population, having installed the necessary control mechanisms such as auditing and
information systems. The habilitcdo criteria are described in the section below, along with information
about municipal entitlements under different levels of management.
The 1996 norms provided incentives for municipalities to place a higher priority on basic care - a
"package" of procedures to be defined locally (within a given framework). Through a subsequent (1998)
financing reform, the Federal Government replaced fee-for-service reimbursements for basic interventions
by a system of per-capita transfers, called the Basic Health Care Quota (Piso Assistencial Basico, or
PAB), which is distributed to municipalities according to population size, epidemiological risk and other
criteria. (Details about the PAB system can be found in Section IV.B). In the 1996-98 period, additional
financial incentives were introduced to strengthen and expand coverage of basic health services, and
reorient them to a prevention and outreach model, rather than a traditional curative one. Municipalities
obtain a higher capitated payment if they adopt a model of primary care promoted by the Federal
government - the "full PSF package" of the Community Health Agent Program (PACS), the Basic Medical
Program (PFB), the Program to Combat Nutritional Deficiencies (PCCN), and the Epidemiological
Surveillance (ANVISA). Municipalities achieving wider population coverage with PSF are also rewarded
with additional transfers, described in Section V.D.
In 2001, a new set of operational norms - NOAS/01 - were promulgated to correct some of the
shortcomings of the reform to date, including the persistent lack of integration and coordination among
levels of care, and the need for smaller municipalities to join with others to achieve the minimum size
required for the provision of secondary or tertiary services. The Operating Norms sought to establish a
regional planning level to improve the organization and distribution of health services - with a region being
a group of contiguous municipalities that could systematically share and exchange health care resources to
optimize investments. The NOAS/01 also sought to strengthen the municipal management of primary care,
and establish state plans for regionalization of ambulatory care and specialized hospital services.
Types of Municipal Management Arrangements under the Decentralized Regime.  Depending on a
municipality's installed capacity to manage the health system, it may qualify through the habilitq4o process
for Full Management of Basic Care (Gestdo Plena da Atencdo Baisica), Full Management of the Municipal
Health System (Gestdo Plena do Sistema Municipal), or Full Management of Expanded Basic Care
(Gestdo Plena da Atenqdo Bdsica Ampliada). The first entitles municipalities to receive block grants for
primary care, the second allows the transfer of grants for primary, secondary and tertiary care, and the
third entitles municipalities to somewhat larger grants for primary care. (The funding mechanisms are
described in Section IV.B.)
The process to qualify for a specific management arrangement - and the funding that accompanies it - is
shown below:
To qualify for Full Management of Basic Care:
a. The municipality applies to the state.
b. The municipal health council (CMOH) approves the application.
c. The CIB approves the application within 60 days and writes the terms under which the municipality
will be authorized to work; then it submits the necessary proving documents to the CIT.
d. If the municipality is located in a state already abiding by the criterios de habilitaciio, then the
- 75-



municipality is authorized by the state, and the Ato de Habilita,do (official authorization Act) is
published in the Diario Oficial da Unido of state with copy to the technical secretariat of CIT together
with terms of habilitaado to be ratified.
e. If the municipality is located in a state not abiding by the criterios de habilita,do, the terms of
habilitag,co are sent to the CIT to be approved.
f. CIT analyzes terms of habilita,do and informs the MOH.
g. A ministerial decree authorizes the municipality to operate within that management scheme, as long as
there are enough resources to make the transfers effective.
h. PABfixed transfers can then commence, subject to the municipality (or state in the cases that apply)
updating the following information systems: Sistema de Informa,co Sobre Mortalidade (SITM),
Sistema de Informa,cao Sobre Nacidos Vivos (SINASC), Sistema de Vigildncia Alimentar e
Nutricional (SISVAN), and Sistema de Informa,do Sobre Agravos de Notifica,do (SINAN).
In the case of type II management scheme, the CIB has no authority by itself to authorize the municipality
to operate under Gestdo Plena do Sistema Municipal, even if the state has already been habilita,do. It is
then up to the federal level to grant authorization to the municipality. All the other steps are identical to
previous case.
Human Resources
In recent years, Brazil has seen a real increase in the numbers of nurses and dentists, and a constant
number of physicians, relative to the total population (see Table 6). Distribution of health professionals is
uneven, with the heaviest concentration of doctors in the Southeast (18.13/10,000) and the lightest in the
North (6.02/10,000). As is seen elsewhere, health professionals are also highly concentrated in urban
areas-particularly state capitals.
Table 6. Human Resources in the Brazilian Health Sector. 1991-97
Source: PAHO, 1998
Resource           1991        1992       1993        1995        1996        1997
Total Physicians  194,271    210,666     203,823     208,033     205,828     216,706
Total Nurses       ND         56,321      59,832     63,628      66,857       ND
Total Dentists   102,218     107,066     118,003     126,389     137,638      ND
Physicians/10,00   13.23      13.90       13.26       13.35       13.10       13.57
Nurses/10,000      ND          3.72        3.89       4.08        4.26         ND
Dentists/10,000    6.96        7.06       7.68        8.11        8.76        ND
During the reforms of the 1990s, when ownership of most health care facilities was transferred from the
Federal to state and municipal management, employer-employee relationships also changed.  Most
professionals in the public system continue their Federal careers, which are being phased out, but are
administratively subordinate to the lower levels of government. In 1992 (the most recent year for which
data could be found), slightly less than half of all physicians were employed in the public sector (see Table
7). In contrast, the government employed the majority of nurses.
- 76 -



Table 7. Human Resources in the Brazilian Health Sector, by Type of Employment, 1992
Source: PAHO, 1998
Sector                    Physicians             Nurses          Other High-Level
Professionals
Public                  148,035 (48%)         27,081 (65%)         30,807 (51%)
Private                  159,917 (52%)        14,420(35%)          29,532 (49%)
Total                      307,952               41,501               60,341
Sector Financing and Expenditures
Public Financing Levels
Historically, Brazil's health sector has suffered from persistent problems of insufficient and inequitable
funding levels, regressive revenue collection, fluctuations in funding with economic cycles and
centralization. Despite some efforts to address these issues, including the introduction in the late-1990s of
an earmarked tax (codified in the Enmenda Constitucional, or EC-29). (The amendment will increase SUS
revenues starting in 2000 with an additional 5 percent over the level of the budget committed in 1999. For
the years 2001 and 2002, it increases the budget in the same amount that the nominal GDP. The
amendment also increases contributions from the states). These issues have continued to undermine the
health sector reform efforts. Of particular concem has been the significant fluctuations in the total Federal
resources allocated to the health sector.
Since the early 1990s, the financing of SUS services has been decentralized from the Federal to the state
and municipal levels. Federal contributions may be transferred from the National Health Fund (Fundo
Nacional de Saude, or FNS) directly to either a State Health Fund (Fundo Estadual de Saude, or FES) or
a Municipal Health Fund (Fundo Municipal de Satude, or FMOH). Similarly, a state can make transfers
from its FES to an FMOH. Each fund also receives contributions from its corresponding treasury.
Public Financing Flows
Total public spending is regulated through financing caps (Tetos Financeiros, or TF), which are reflected
in each year's budget. The budget and the sector targets for each calendar year are the result of a
negotiated, bottom-top, local-programming exercise (Programa,do Pactuada Integrada), involving all
levels of government.
There are three different ways in which funds from the federal government reach the states and
municipalities:
a.  Automatic transfers through the FNS to states, municipalities and the Distrito Federal according to a
series of norms and regulations like NOB 01/93 and 01/96. Money is transferred periodically from
the FNS to the FES and FMOH;
b.  Direct payments to health care providers, both public and private, who have been hired through
special contracts, convenios;
c.  Special contracts, convenios, with federal, state, or municipal entities, or NGOS, for specific projects.
- 77 -



In total, about 34 different programs use the fundo a fundo system of transfers. These fall under two
categories: the Piso de Aten,ao Basica Fixo (PABfixed), and the Piso de Aten,co Basica variave (PAB
var). PABfixed transfers a fLxed amount of money to municipalities or states (where appropriate) on a per
capita basis, for basic health care activities. It consists of a per capita transfer of R$ 10 to R$18 per year to
participating municipalities, or depending on eligibility conditions (habilitagao) to states, paid in equal
monthly installments. The variation in the amount of the per capita transfer is based on historical reasons:
before the PABfixed was created about 1,950 municipalities spent R$5,00 or less per person per year
(these municipalities now receive a R$10,00 grant per capita), while about 250 municipalities were
spending more than R$22,00 per capita (these municipalities now receive a R$ 18,00 grant per capita).
PABvar transfers are generally earmarked to a specific activities or program and funds can only be spent
on certain categories of spending. For example, the transfer for the Family Health Program can only be
applied to pay for family health teams and inputs they require. The amount transferred varies according to
the number of teams
Public Expenditures
Health expenditures nationally have grown quickly over the last two decades. Currently, total health
expenditures are estimated by the MOH at R$86.5 billion (US$47.7 million), or 9 percent of GDP. As
shown in Table 8, the public sector accounts for about 40 percent of all spending, with the rest nearly
evenly divided between privately-paid health insurance and out-of-pocket payments.
Table 8. Estimates of Brazilian Health Care Expenditure, 1999
Source: MOH, 2001
Sub-Sector       Total, R$ bln  Per capita   % Public     % Total     % GDP
R$
Public               34.6         116.9         100         40          3.6
Federal       20.3         68.2          59          23          2.1
State                 5.9          19.8          17          7          0.6
Municipal             8.4          28.2          24          10          0.9
Health Plans         24.2         81.2           0          28          2.5
Out-of-Pocket         27.7         93.0          0           32         2.9
Total                86.5         291.1         40         100          9.0
Looking only at public spending, in 1999 the Federal government was the source of approximately 59
percent of all spending, with states accounting for 17 percent, and municipalities for 24 percent. However,
the national average masks large regional variation: In the Southeast, municipal spending almost matches
the volume of Federal sending in the region; in the North, state spending outweighs both Federal and
municipal spending; and in the Northeast, South and Center-West, the Federal government accounts for far
more spending than either the states or the municipalities.
Over the past several years, Federal spending on health has increased in relative terms, from 6.8 percent of
total Federal spending in 1998 to 9.7 percent of Federal spending in 2000. There have been sirnilar
increases at state and municipal levels, across all regions. The implementation of EC-29, which is
projected to generate an increase of about 26 percent in health sector funding, will continue this trend into
the foreseeable future.
- 78 -



At all levels, health expenditures are concentrated in two categories: medical care, and administration.
M6dici (2001) estimates that medical care accounts for approximately 85-90 percent of all health spending
at the municipal level, and approximately 60-70 percent at the state and Federal levels. Administrative
spending accounts for about 20 percent of the total, also varying somewhat by level of government.
Financial sustainability of the health system depends on increasing the volume and reliability of sources of
financing - the goal underlying the passage of EC-29 - and containment of costs. In recent years, MOH
has successfully introduced several cost-containment measures, including the imposition of physical and
financial ceilings for inpatient services and the direct control over high-cost interventions instrumented
through the Fondo de Acoes Estrategicas e Compensacao (FAEC). As a result of these controls, the rate
of increase of the cost of hospitalizations and of high complexity interventions has slowed. Mid-complexity
interventions (which include a large number of outpatient services) have now grown to 54 percent of the
total costs of SUS and are now a priority area for cost-controls. The strategy to control these costs consists
of: (i) shifting some simple interventions from the mid-complexity category into primary care, and require
municipal governments to finance them as part of their responsibilities for receipt of a slightly enlarged
PAB capitation; (ii) shifting some high cost interventions from the mid-complexity category into FAEC and
subjecting them to direct control by MOH; and last but not least; (iii) developing the capacity of
municipalities to control mid-complexity costs by managing care based on PSF.
Private Expenditures
Little information is available about household expenditures on health. One study comparing household
spending over a decade, using data from the Family Budget Surveys of 1987 and 1996, demonstrated that:
(a) spending on health as a share of the total household budget at increased from 5.3 percent to 6.5 percent;
(b) the increase in relative spending was greatest for the lowest-income households; (c) medicines absorb
the largest share of household health spending; and (d) spending on health insurance appeared to have
increased over the time period (see Table 9).
Table 9. Indicators of Household Spending on Health, 1987 and 1996
Source: Medici, undated
Indicator                                     1987                      1996
Health spending as % of                        5.3                      6.5
household budget
Health spending as % of routine                 6.5                      8.0
expenditures
Health spending as % of all                     7.5                      9.1
consumer spending
Health spending as % of household               6.3                      9.6
budget for families with income lower
than two minimum wages
Annual per capita spending on                  245                      294
health (1998US$)
I.     Programa de Saude da Familia (PSF)
In this section, we first describe the main features of the PSF, as envisioned by the Federal
government. Then, we highlight the achievements and shortcomings observed in the PSF Program
to date.
- 79 -



A.     Objectives and Activities
A.     Objectives and Activities
The expansion of the PSF is a top priority of the
MOH. The PSF is the Brazilian MOH's front-       Box 2. Brazil's Health Priorities
line in achieving its constitutional responsibility
of health care for all, and SUS's principles of  1. Reduce maternal and infant mortality
universality, equity and integrality. The PSF is  2. Control priority diseases
also the MOH's key to addressing the first four  3. Improve management, access and
of Brazil's six recently consensually defined   quality of health actions and services
health priorities (see Box 3). Finally the PSF is  4. Reorient health care model towards
the vehicle that is driving health sector reform.  primary care
It strengthens the decentralization process at the  5. Development of health professionals
local (municipal) level and is the vehicle for  6. Enhance social control
changing the health care delivery model.
The PSF was conceived by the government with the objective of reforming the traditional model of
delivering health services, which was passive, fragmented, and mainly curative and hospital-centered. The
program aims at restructuring the health services delivery model through a more efficient and effective
primary care system focused on the family and community, instead of the individual. The PSF provides
continuous, integrated primary health care for an enrolled population in a fixed geographic area, selects the
family unit as the focus of primary care, identifies risk factors and the individuals who might be exposed to
them, and emphasizes active outreach, preventive care, inter-sectoral collaboration, and community-based
information and education regarding health. (See Table 10 for a comparison of traditional and PSF
approaches.)
In the PSF, Family Health Teams, consisting of at least one doctor (generalist or family health doctor), a
nurse, a nurse auxiliary, and four to six Community Health Agents (CHAs). Community Health Agents
(CHAs) carry out the following tasks: registering all families in their area and visiting them at least once
per month, weighing and measuring all children under two years of age, ensuring vaccination, identifying
children of school-going age not attending school, teaching families how to prevent diarrhea and use oral
rehydration, provide information about preventing acute respiratory infections, promoting breast-feeding,
identifying pregnant women and encouraging them to receive antenatal care and tetanus vaccinations,
encouraging the prevention and diagnosis of cervical and breast cancer, providing information about family
planning and sexually transmitted diseases (including AIDS), monitoring treatment of family members with
chronic diseases, assisting ill family members, reporting deaths, and encouraging solutions to
environmental problems such as garbage collection and sewage disposal. Community Health Agents
(CHAs) provide basic care to a defined set of 600-1,000 families (up to a maximum of 4,500 individuals).
The teams provide both primary health care, and lead efforts in prevention and behavioral change. The
health care professionals work full-time in their public duties and accordingly receive higher salaries than
most public sector doctors and nurses. The CHAs live in the communities in which they work and receive
salaries close to minimum wage. A comparison between the traditional model of providing primary care
and the new family health model is presented below:
- 80 -



Table 10. Defining a New Model of Basic Care: Traditional vs. Family Health Approach
Model Feature                         Traditional Basic Care    Family Health
Unit of intervention                  * Individual          * Family and community
Main health intervention focus         * Curative            * Promotion and
prevention
Package of health services provided    * Fragmented / multiple  * Integrated / one
providers             provider
Continuity of care with little duplication  * Low            * High
Knowledge of community health problems an  * Low or medium   * High
conditioning factors
Census of households within responsibility  * No             * Yes
area
Outreach activities and home visits    * Little              * Significant
Team work among health professionals   * Little              * Strong
Ties with the community and community  * Weak                * Strong
participation and control
Multi-sector collaboration            * Little              * Strong
Several other features of the PSF are important to emphasize:
*  Rather than being an additional primary care program of the MOH, the PSF is a new strategy of
providing basic care to the population and organizing the delivery of services based on basic care.
*  The PSF is not a program exclusively for the poor. It is a model for providing basic care for the
entire Brazilian population. The government recognizes the priority of those with limited access to
and utilization of basic heath care services in implementing the program.
*  The PSF is not a mandatory program. Rather, municipalities can opt to subscribe to the program
or not. To start implementation of the program, however, municipalities have to comply with
minimum requirements.
*  The PSF replaces the existing traditional primary health care model.
* The PSF is not exclusively a maternal and child health program. However, maternal and child
interventions are among the most important and significant services provided by the program.
*  Where and when it is fully realized, the PSF will in theory be the principal point of entry into the
SUS, functioning as a "gate-keeper."
- 81 -



The PSF minimum services cover all or a large part of 6 of the 10
"best buys" published by the World Bank (TB, reproductive           Box 3. Minimum PSF Services
health/safe motherhood, family planning, integrated management of
childhood illness (IMCI), immunization, tobacco control). Those not  I. Control of TB
well-covered include school health (though CHAs are expected to  2. Elimination of leprosy
monitor school attendance), HIV-AIDS (it will continue to be a  3. Control of hypertension
vertical program, though health promotion activities will include safe  4. Control of diabetes
sex), treatment of STDs (still a vertical program though treatment  5. Activities in oral health
isincreasingly given by PSF teams), and malaria                 6. Activities in child health (growth &
(will be a regional priority in areas it is preva-                development, nutrtion, imunization,
care of prevalent illnesses)
lent with treatment given by PSFs and CHAs                      7. Activities in women's health (pre-natal
(See Box 3.)                                                      care, prevention of cervical cancer,
family planning)
Of the most effective MCH interventions mentioned in the World  8. Actions in health promotion
Bank's Brazil Maternal and Child Health study these services cover 5
of the 7 interventions that are stated as being likely to prevent 2 or
more of under age 5 child deaths. These include: antenatal care, family planning, case-management, breast-
feeding and the Hib vaccine (recently implemented in Brazil). The other two are: improved delivery care
(not directly a function of primary care; however, the FHP will be responsible for assuring that women are
referred to hospitals for delivery and that transportation is available when necessary) and improved birth
weight (no effective interventions available).
The FHEP minimal services that are not mentioned in the World Bank's "best buys" report include:
elimination of leprosy (a feasible objective with incidence and prevalence in Brazil decreasing annually due
to better treatment), hypertension and diabetes (important causes of preventable mortality from heart
disease and strokes), oral health (important to well-being) and health promotion generally. Brazil has
undergone an epidemiological transition and the PSF is expected to play an important role in preventing
cardiovascular diseases, strokes, diabetes, and injuries, and addressing alcoholism and drug addiction,
through the promotion of healthy behaviors.
B.      Program Implementation
Government Responsibilities. Municipalities generally manage PSF teams and provide non-personnel
inputs such as facilities and medical equipment. Municipalities also are responsible for defining and
making arrangements for referral systems for the PSF. As described in the earlier section on financing, the
Federal government provides partial financing - essentially matching grants - for municipalities that
implement the program. State Health Secretariats supervise and train municipalities on the PSF program,
and provide additional inputs such as medical equipment, pharmaceuticals and training for municipal
Family Health Teams. (Also see Table 11.)
- 82 -



Table 11. Role of the Federal, State and Municipal Governments in Implementing PSF
Main Role         Federal             State              Municipality
Financing    Main financier    Some states contribute  Small contribution.
- initial   through:           directly to the program
capital      PAB               (less than 50% of
investment   PSF/PACS          states provide
- operational  Incentive       additional financing)
costs
Regulation   At the national   At the sate level
and norms    level
TA and        To the state level  To the municipal level  To the FHT
supervision
M&E           At the national   At the state level   At the municipal level
level
Provision of                                         Main provider through
services                                             contracting out to the
private sector. Only 16%
of FHTs are civil servants.
- Recruiting of                 21% of states involved  Main responsible. Only
personnel                                            12% of municipalities hire
doctors through public
concourse.
- Training of                   Highly involved      Highly involved together
personnel                      together with academic  with academic institutions
institutions and     and state authorities
municipalities
Limited involvement  Main responsible
Determining                    (less than 8% of states
salary and                    involved)
contracting
method of
personnel
Municipal Eligibility for PSF Fundina. It is the responsibility of the Health Policies Secretariat (SPS)
within its basic health department and the corresponding state health secretariat (SES) to determine if a
municipality is qualified to participate in PSF, and receive the corresponding additional funding. The
process by which a municipality is authorized to receive PSF is called Qualificacao. To qualify for PSF, a
number of steps have to be followed by the municipality:
a. Design an implementation plan for installing Family Health Teams, specifying geographical area to be
covered, estimated population, number of teams, description of equipment each team will have, actions
to be performed by the teams within the strategic areas defined in the NOAS 2001; describe the
recruitment policies to be followed for selecting professionals that will participate in the teams; and
describe the process to be followed to install the SLAB.The corresponding SES will participate in this
process.
- 83-



b. Submit the plan to the CIB to discuss the implementation plan. This commission is composed by
representatives of both municipalities and states.
c. The agreement is formalized through a legal instrument, the Declara,co de Incentivos, signed by the
municipality administrator and by the CIB coordinator, and is remitted to the MOH.
d. A decree by MOH authorizes the municipality to start receiving the PSF funding.
e. The number of family health teams and Community Health Care Agents (ACS) agreed upon is
published in Diario Oficial da Unido and in the Sistema de Captagdo de Dados para Pagamento de
Incentivos CAPSI, an information system that keeps track of the number of teams and health workers
in each team.
f. Input the number of acting teams in the SLAB;
g. Update monthly the SIAB to prevent the transfers from being interrupted.
The Declara,do de Incentivos does not specify a time period to implement the plan. Thus the agreement
between state and municipalities is only renewed when the planned number of teams has been installed, or
else, when the municipality decides to review its estimates concerning teams and ACS. The entire
application process may take a minimum of 90 days.
It should be noticed that the criterios de habilita,ao do not apply to determine eligibility of municipalities
to receive PSF funding. This is the only grant that can be provided to municipalities that do not satisfy any
criterios de habilitacdo, as long as they have been approved according to the criteria specified above. In
the event that a municipality is not approved for either type of management, but the state is, the PABfixed
is transferred to the state, to the FES, which will then take care of administering PABfixed in the
municipality. The same applies to PSF.
PSF Training and the Polos de Capacitacdo . The implementation of the PSF model requires both training
in specific technical areas and protocols and, more importantly, a reorientation in the entire perspective of
care delivery - from one that is passive to one that is active; from one that is fragmented to one that is
integrated; from one based on responding to health problems identified by patients, to one based on the
anticipation and prevention of health problems. This implies a wide set of training needs, not all of which
have yet been successfully addressed.
Currently, Family Health Teams receive an introductory training course as a group (except the CHAs).
CHAs receive one-week introductory courses and sporadic in-service training of shorter duration (one
half-day to two days), conducted either by the PSF nurse or a contracted trainer. The government
complements this training with in-service training through on-site specialization courses and long-distance
training. Finally, the government also offers post-graduate training and residency in collective health and
family health.
For the purpose, in 1997 the MOH invited existing medical and other training institutions to submit
proposals for new programs. Many ideas were presented, and the MOH selected 10 projects according to
established criteria. These became the first 10 P6oos de Capacita,cdo-training institutions or programs
designed specifically for the PSF; they were financed under the World Bank-MOH REFORSUS Project.
Most of the Polos are joint projects of institutions of higher learning (universities, faculties and schools of
medicine and nursing) and State and/or Municipal Health Secretariats. The programs take a range of
forms, variously concentrating on pre-service, in-service and specialty training in Family Health, and using
many different training methods, including on-site and distance leaming techniques.
- 84 -



In 1999, the MOH dedicated additional government resources for the development of 10 additional P6los,
based on the results of another competition, and in 2000 an additional 11 P6los were created. Currently,
there are 31 P6los, one in most states, and several in the states of Sao Paulo and Minas Gerais.
PSF Management Information. The Sistema de Informacdo de Atencdo Bdsica (SIAB) is the management
information system associated with the PSF, and has the objective of collecting and processing information
about the population covered by the Program, as well as monitoring and evaluating outcomes and impact of
PSF activities. The system includes eight separate data collection instruments, most of which are to be
completed by the Community Health Agents working with the Family Health Teams. These include, for
example, a family roster, and patient-specific forms to follow the progress and health service utilization of
pregnant women and children, as well as individuals with hypertension, diabetes and tuberculosis. The
system also includes instruments for the consolidation of data, including consolidated annual reports on
families (or households) covered by a given Family Health Unit (or Team); summary reports on health
conditions and treatment; and reports on the production of evaluation indicators. The consolidated reports
apply variously to the level of the microarea (400-750 residents, corresponding to one Community Health
Agent), catchment area (2,400-4,500 residents, corresponding to one Family Health Team), segment (group
of contiguous areas, corresponding to a sanitary district), and/or municipality. In concept, a fully operating
SIAB can provide continuous information about the size, distribution and characteristics of the covered
population; utilization of health services, including continuity of care; and health conditions and outcomes.
C.     Program Implementation Progress
First adopted in 1994, the PSF has expanded quickly recently during 1999 and 2000 (see Table 12). In
September 2000, there were 10,025 PSF teams working in 3,059 municipalities in each of Brazil's states.
Those teams, assuming a coverage rate of 3,450 people per team, provided care to 37.9 million people, or
about 23 percent of the Brazilian population. Under current government plans, the PSF will provide
coverage to 50 percent of the Brazilian population by the end of the year 2002, which means it will have to
double in size in about two years. As the PSF expands, the CHAs of the PACS (which was initiated in
1991) will be integrated into PSF teams.
- 85-



Table 12. Implementation Progress of the PSF and PACS Programs
Progress Indicators  1994  1995   1996   1997    1998    1999    2000     2001    2002
(until   Goal    Goal
Sept.)
Family Health
Program
Federal budget R$ M                              201.0   379.0   680.0    1,000.0  1,100.0
(programmed)
Number of teams   328     724     847     1,623  3,147   4,945    10,025  17,000   20,000
implemented
Number of                                                         3,059
municipalities
covered*
Number of total   1,132   2,498   2,922  5,599   10,857  17,060   37,950  51,750   69,000
population covered
('000)
% of total                                                                         50%
population covered
Community Health
Agent Program
Number of         879     1,088   1,470  2,203   3,541   4,052    4,588
municipalities
covered*
Number of CHA     29,098  34,546  44,532  54,934  88,961  111,659  143,718  130,000  150,000
implemented
Number of total   16,004  19,000  24,492  30,214  48,929  64,204  82,638  74,550   86,250
population covered
('000)
* There are a total of 5,507 municipalities in Brazil
D.     Program Financing Levels and Flows
As noted earlier, funding for the PSF is realized through the automatic, per capita "fund-to-fund" transfers.
Before November 1999, the incentive was based on the number of Family Health Teams implemented:
R$28,000 per FHT per year, excluding CHA. The incentive for CHA is R$2,200 per CHA per year.
After November 1999, Federal grants for the PSF range from R$28,000 to R$54,000 per PSF team per
year, depending on the coverage level reached (up to 70 percent). There is a basic incentivo determined by
a non-linear scheme that depends on the percentage of population covered by each ESF. Specifically:
C      Ex3450 x 100
p
is used to determine the percentage of population covered by PSF, where C is population covered in
percentage terms, E is the number of health teams, P is total number of inhabitants in the municipality, and
3,450 is the average number of people covered by a team. The higher C is, the higher the basic incentivo.
The subsidy is govemed by the following scheme, and paid in equal monthly installments (see Table 13).
In addition, the Federal government offers an initial grant of R$10,000 per Family Health Team for the
implementation of new teams. It is paid in two consecutive monthly installments of R$5,000 each after the
new team has been put in place.  Fewer than half of the states provide additional incentives to
- 86 -



municipalities for implementing the program.  State incentives include donation of equipment;
construction/restoration of physical infrastructure; donation of medicines; payment of health personnel; as
well as financial transfers.
Table 13. Financial Incentives for Family Health Program (effective since November 1999)
Level        Population Coverage        Amount per team per year ($R)
1            0 to 4.9 %                 R$ 28.008,00
2             5 to 9.9 %                R$ 30.684,00
3             10 to 19.9 %               R$ 33.360,00
4             20 to 29.9 %               R$ 38.520,00
5             30 to 39.9 %               R$ 41.220,00
6             40 to 49.9 %               R$ 44.100,00
7             50 to 59.9 %               R$ 47.160,00
8             60 to 69.9 %               R$ 50.472,00
9            70 % and more              R$ 54.000,00
In principle the money is transferred directly from the FNS to the FMOH (or FES where it applies), in
monthly equal installments both for the PABfixed and the incentivo basico of PSF. There is a special
account for each municipality for the fundo a fundo transfers, usually at the Banco do Brasil, and the
transfers specify the destination of funds (i.e. separate for PABfixed, PABfam for the PSF, etc).(See Figure
1 at end of Annex).
Since PABfixed is paid in per capita terms, the amounts paid change when the population base changes in a
municipality. The updating in each municipality is not a systematic procedure. As for PSF, the payment
depends on the number of ESF installed each month. The municipality must register the number of teams
in place in the previous month by no later than the fifth of the following month, in the SJAB, and submit
such information to the SES. This in turn transfers the information to the SPS, at the Ministry of Health.
There the information is crossed with the information contained in the CAPSI, an information system that
keeps a record of the original implementation agreement. The latter acts as an upper bound (i.e. if the
municipality has more teams in place than those accorded in the plan, the latter binds as a constraint for
payments).
Once the funds reach the FMOH, the money is administered either by the municipal health secretariat or by
the municipal finance secretariat. There is not systematic rule on this but it varies across municipalities
and states.
E.     Major Program Achievements
Several evaluations and assessments have been carried out by the government and other agencies regarding
the impact of the PSF program. The main benefits found by these studies can be summarized as follows: i)
The PSF has achieved increased coverage of basic care in small size municipalities with high infant
mortality rates. ii) There is a high level of acceptance of the program by health professionals and users.
iii) The PSF is a successful vehicle for channeling other government programs to the community and
enhancing multi-sectoral collaboration. iv) The PSF has had a significant positive impact on performance
and outcome indicators, including: increased production of and access to basic health services; reduced
hospital admissions and hospital care; and reduced infant mortality (see Table 14).
- 87 -



Table 14. Impact of PSF on Production of Services
Services                                             Population coverage (D/)
Before implementation of PSF  After implementation of PSF
Pre-natal care: visit to the doctor            44%                         94%
Child care: immunization                       57%                         93%
Blood hypertension: proactive search of        14%                         96%
cases
STD: treatment of cases                        29%                         94%
Tuberculosis: proactive search of cases        15%                          87%
Health surveillance: Compulsory                34%                          97%
notification
F.     Challenges
Despite the above accomplishments, the government's PSF strategy faces significant challenges. These
challenges will be addressed by the proposed World Bank Family Health Project, and include:
*  Low coverage of the PSF in large urban areas and metropolitan rezions despite recent changes in
financial incentive structure. Program expansion in large urban areas and metropolitan regions has
been slower than expected despite recent changes in financial incentives.  In contrast, small
municipalities have been very successful in expanding the program. In addition, many municipalities
report difficulties in financing the program and maintaining key personnel (especially doctors) despite
Federal subsidies.
* Insufficient targeting of the program to the most disadvantaLged population groups and competing
health priorities at the local level. An evaluation carried out by the MOH in 2000 showed that more
than half of the state program managers did not have clear criteria for prioritizing the introduction of
the program. The same evaluation also revealed that municipal health authorities had a clearer criteria
for prioritizing the program: 82 percent referred to a risk criteria (epidemiological or social); 50
percent referred to responsiveness to community demands; and 23 percent referred to responsiveness to
local political leadership demands. The lack of clear criteria for targeting the program is not only a
matter of selecting the geographical area to implement PSF within a municipality, but is also apparent
in terms of determining what health priority should be addressed first, and with what health
intervention. A recent World Bank study on maternal and child health in Brazil estimated that
prioritizing cost-effective interventions such as case management of childhood illness; family planning;
nutritional education; antenatal, delivery, post-partum, and neonatal care; breast-feeding promotion,
and hepatitis B vaccine, could jointly avert about 33 percent of under 5 deaths, and cut one-third of
infant deaths over a period of 5 years.
*   Low integration of the PSF with other levels of care, and inadeauate referral systems. The
referral and counter-referral system in most of the SUS is vague and functions badly. This is a critical
problem for maternal and child health and particularly for delivery care. Medical records on antenatal
care are not linked to treatment at the time of delivery and to post-partum care. This situation also
compromises the capacity of the system to diagnose and then rapidly treat obstetric emergencies.
Several factors contribute to the weakness of the referral system in Brazil. First, political rivalries,
bureaucratic divisions, and undefined roles in the decentralized system lead to a lack of coordination.
Second, the authority of public sector managers over SUS-affiliated philanthropic and private
- 88 -



hospitals, which is not well delineated. Third, the payment system rewards high volume work on the
part of public and private philanthropic providers with little time for follow-up. Finally, the staff
turnover and part-time, itinerant status of doctors in SUS facilities complicates communication.
*  Low quality of services of the PSF despite si2nificant gains compared to the traditional PHC
system. The MOH evaluation revealed that, still, a significant proportion of Family Health Teams and
units continue to lack adequate equipment and supplies. For example, only 20 percent of Family
Health Teams had a glucometer and 15 percent had ophthalmoscope. A significant proportion of
Family Health Teams report shortages of certain vaccines and basic medicines. In addition, support
laboratory is inadequate for key exams such as urinary analysis, cytopathology of cervix, and obstetric
sonogram, among others. As a result, only 15 percent of Family Health Teams met the MOH's
standard for quality pre-natal care for example.
*  Low quality of care is not only the result of inadequate infrastructure and supply/support
systems, but also a combination of lack of protocols/standards, quality control mechanisms, and
poorly qualified personnel. About 67 percent of state program coordinators reported that they did not
have clinical protocols Protocols are defined by the MOH as instruments that guide Family Health
Teams on best strategies and clinical practices that result in improved quality and effectiveness of the
program. for the program. Health care providers and administrators lack adequate knowledge of local
practices and cultures, which are critical to providing humane care and effectively promoting
behavioral change.
* SiRniricant human resources supply bottleneck in terms of auantitv and aualitv. Municipalities
report difficulties in hiring high qualified professionals (mainly doctors) willing to work in localities
distant from big urban centers. As an example, about 22 percent of municipalities had to recruit
doctors from outside their state to fill positions. In some cases, states have made special arrangements
with the government of Cuba to import physician generalists to Brazil. In terms of qualifications, only
37 percent of PSF physicians have completed their medical residency (compared to a national average
of 75 percent) and only 40 percent of physicians and 36 percent of nurses have specialty training.The
lack of qualified health personnel starts at the university level. Medical schools train few generalists,
and students do not demand such training because labor markets do not reward general medicine, and
the specialization garners relatively low professional status.
*  Unstable contractual arranL'ements between PSF Dersonnel and emplovers (municipalities).
According to the government evaluation of the program, most PSF personnel are hired under temporary
contracts (49 percent of doctors, 44 percent of nurses), or are paid on a piecework basis (27 percent of
doctors, 24 percent of nurses). These arrangements are made either directly by the municipalities or
through NGOs, cooperatives or other autonomous entities that then sub-contract the health
professionals. Only 16 percent of PSF doctors and nurses are hired as full public servants, and an
additional 11-12 percent are hired by municipalities but work under the private sector labor codes. On
average, doctors are paid R$3,267 per month (66 percent of physicians are paid in the range of
R$2,000-4,000). Although these arrangements promote flexibility in personnel management and
decreases the size of civil servants payroll and benefits, they also produce problems. They promote
high rotation of personnel (compromising program continuity and doctor-patient relationship) and
dissatisfaction among personnel. About two-thirds of PSF doctors and nurses say that the job is too
demanding and consuming. Team members' main complaints refer to the weak contractual relationship
the employer, the high work load, lack of resources, difficulties in accessing work places, low
remuneration, and ineffective referral systems.
- 89 -



Figure 1: FINANCALI FLOW-PABfixed and PABfam TRANSFERS
HABILITA(CA0 (FOR PABFIxED)  lo CIB OR CIT, DEPENDING ON STATE  _    MINISTRY OF
HEALTH PORTARUA
QUALJFICACIO (FOR PSF)  -4    CAPSI RECORDS DECL4CAO DE /NCENr7VOS_*
MINISTRY OF HEALTH PORTARU
REGISTER IN SISNOB     -*      THEN PUBLISHED IN DIARIO OFICIL
UPDATE IN
PAB FMO FOR MUNICIPALMES WITH NO  _
HBiULTAQI oAND STATES WITH HABILITACAO  1. SiM
TRANSFERS TO COMMENCE                                                           2. SINASC
_  3. SINAN
PSF FOR MUNICIPALITIES               4   SISVAN
WITHOUT QUALIFICACAO                 5. SLAB (for PSF)
TESOURO    _  FNS -*       FES     _   GESTORESTADUAL(HEAnTHOR                          AL
NACIONAL                               FINANCE SECRETARY)
FMOH-_     GESTORMUNICIPAL(HEALTH                          /
OR FINANCE SECRETARY)                        /     / SPS TO
VERIFY
[-4     PSF (MUNICIPALITIES WITH QUALIFICA.CO)  OTHER AUDITS
/   (NOT SYSTEMATIC)
PABFIXED (MUNICIPALITIES WITHHABIUrACIO)
- 90 -



Annex 2B
Brazil - Family Heath Project
Social Assessment
This annex highlights the social dimensions of the Family Health Project (FHEP), which supports the
Government of Brazil's current health sector strategies. It also describes the extent of social participation
during implementation of the Family Health Program, and the design of the proposed project.
Following the establishment of the National Health System (Sistema Unico de Satude, or SUS) in 1988, the
Family Health Program (Programa de Saude da Familia, or PSF) was created in 1994 in the Ministry of
Health. The SUS aimed to integrate all health care institutions, to universalizing coverage and promoting
equal access. The PSF originated from two challenges faced by the SUS: First, how to conduct the fiscal
decentralization as mandated by the 1988 Brazilian Constitution; second, how to reach the goals of
universalization and equality by addressing the lack of responsiveness to the health needs of the population.
The PSF constituted in an incremental adjustment in the larger transformation of the SUS - a reform within
a reform.
The PSF is a territorial program, in which coverage of families is geographically determined. Families
living within boundaries of a given area are reached by a Family Health Team. In implementing the PSF,
each team follows the following steps: (a) maintains a data base (cadastro) of all families in its area; (b)
organizes and maintains a small group of professionals (a family doctor (generalist, rather than specialized
skills), a nurse, an attendant and five to six Community Health Agents); (c) promotes comprehensive
assistance to all families in the area through prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation and, if
needed, refers the patient to specialized health services, including hospitals; (d) integrates health actions
and activities taking place in the municipality; and (e) promotes cross-sectoral preventive activities.
As currently designed, the following steps are undertaken by municipal governments to start the program:
(a) define priority areas and map the families in these areas; (b) undertake community diagnosis based on
their socio-economic characteristics and health profile; and (c) plan activities towards collectivities rather
than towards individuals. To obtain support and fiscal resources for the implementation of the PSF, the
municipal government is expected to: (a) seek approval of the Municipal Health Council; (b) establish
priority areas for the implementation of the program; (c) adequate the existing staff to the needs and
requirements of the PSF; (d) establish the referral system with area hospitals and higher complexity units;
and (e) define the modality through which new health professionals and agents will be hired.
Among several social development issues related to the Family Health Project, four deserve special
attention: (i) inequality in access to health services and, consequently, the inequality of health status among
different groups and areas; (ii) the growing problem of diseases, such as AIDS, that have a large behavioral
components, and that strongly affect vulnerable subgroups of the population, such as women, and those
who are socially and economically under-privileged; (iii) poor reproductive health status, with high
maternal mortality and teenage pregnancy rates; and (iv) a traditional emphasis on "curative" medicine,
centered on hospitals and on fragmented interventions by specialized professionals.
The PSF, supported in strategic ways by the Family Health project, was designed to improve access,
particularly for populations with limited access to and utilization of basic health care services; promote
comprehensive interventions; diminish the need for hospitalizations; and disseminate a concept of health as
well being, de-linking it from diseases and hospitals. Among the core Family Health interventions to be
- 91 -



strengthened are those that yield the greatest improvements in maternal and child health. Thus, the project
directly addresses each of the problems listed above.
According to the MOH, coverage of the PSF to date has shown: (a) the majority of municipalities (64
percent) with PSF have less than 44,000 inhabitants and about 50 percent have between 3,000 and 17,000
inhabitants. Coverage decreases as the size of municipalities increases: in small municipalities (population
less than 3,000) coverage is excessive, reaching 100 percent; in larger municipalities, coverage has faced
constraints reaching the target population, which lives in marginal areas.
Preliminary studies have shown that the PSF has modified the pattern for the consumption of health
services in the country through the selection of families as the main social actor, and at the same time
promoted changes the organization of the supply of these services through community-based teams. As a
result, in the municipalities where the program exists the number of hospitalizations decreased for children
and for adults for almost all different diseases.
Some good examples of the impact of PSF are Vit6ria da Conquista (Bahia) Sobral, (Ceara) and Sao Jorge
do Patrocinio (Parana), described below:
*   Vitoria da Conquista is particularly important for the project, given its size of 263,000 inhabitants. In
this municipality, the SUS became fully implemented in 1998, integrating a network of 112 health
service facilities, the majority of which (62 percent) are health centers and family units. The PSF began
to be implemented also in 1998, benefiting from strong support from the University of Bahia and the
State Southeast University. Forty percent of the population has been covered since then, and 100
percent of the rural population have been reached. With the SUS and the PSF, hospitalizations
decreased 29 percent between 1996 and 2000. Hospitalizations for dehydrated children also began to
fall quickly. The program, however, has faced two important challenges: (a) as the need for
hospitalizations decreased, the private sector became more vocal in its opposition to the program; and
(b) strikes in the private sector have affected the need for hospitalization through agreements (
convenios) with the SUS.
*  Sobral has 144,000 inhabitants, with 86 percent of the population living in urban areas. In 1991, it had
a .481 rate of human development as measured using the IPEA index, only roughly above the median
for the country. The PSF began to be implemented in 1997. In 2000, it covered about 87 percent of the
population, includes 31 teams and 183 Community Health Agents. According to the Municipal
Secretary of Health, "the PSF was conceptualized not as a program, but as a strategy for building a
new model, breaking the old logic of centering attention on the disease and on the hospital". Mothers
and pre-natal care was defined as a priority and in 1999, 100 percent of pregnancies were covered. At
least six visits to a health facility health are secured as part of the priority. As an incentive, clothes and
napkins for the baby are provided. Dissemination materials to pregnant women were prepared and
distributed, with basic information about reproductive health in its several aspects, including child care.
Two years later, the incidence of diarrheas has decreased as have episodes of violence within families
and neighborhoods. The decrease in hospitalization as consequence of malnutrition has also been
significant - from 418 in 1994 to 150 in 1999.
*  Sio Jorge do Patrocinio has 6,400 inhabitants, with 60 percent of them living in its rural areas. Since
the beginning of the implementation of the PSF, hospitalizations for children under one fell from 54 to
12. In 1998 there was no hospitalization due to infectious disease or malnutrition. Because of the rural
nature of the municipality, agro-toxins have been a major problem. The PSF, in partnership with the
- 92 -



state Secretary of Agriculture and Environment, developed a successful program of environmental
education, and with safe warehouses were built. As a result, the incidence of environmental diseases
has also decreased.
Institutional challenees. The rapid expansion of the program is a measure of its success. In about five
years, the PSF was implemented in 1,693 municipalities (of 5,506), with 4,405 teams, and covered about
17 million Brazilians.
Notwithstanding its achievements, the PSF has at least three main challenges: (a) it is a very labor intensive
program in a situation that is characterized by heavy fiscal constraints; (b) it requires a strong cohesion
between the Federal level, which orients the program, and the municipal level, which implements it; and (c)
it requires a clear mapping of families to health teams, an action that is difficult to achieve in populated
municipalities characterized by migration, spatial mobility and distance between place of residence and
place of working.
Social development outcomes. Social development outcomes of the PSF include: (a) alleviation of
inequities in health outcomes as a result of improved access to health interventions; (b) civil society
strengthening by the incorporation of civil society organizations, service providers, universities and
research institutions, and communities as partners in the institutional arrangements of the project; (c)
gender equity by the enhancement of women's health status as a result of comprehensive interventions
towards families understood as the unit for attention; (d) enhancement of social risk management by
strengthening information of families and communities; and (e) improvement of the country's safety net by
strengthening the health care system and risk management.
Participatory Approach
The PSF is an on-going program and its implementation has been accompanied by a variety of
consultation mechanisms with key social actors. For the preparation of the proposed project, specific
participatory evaluations also were conducted to identify reasons underlying successful and disappointing
PSF experiences. Project design has benefited from extensive consultation through workshops, group
discussions, and qualitative and quantitative instruments with families, Community Health Agents, nurses
and physicians. Given the family focus of the project, women have been given specific attention in the
qualitative work, and a diagnosis of the health status of women was undertaken. The project design also
benefited from several evaluations of the PSF, through staff, teams and its beneficiaries. For example,
Nuicleo de Estudos de Politicas Nblicas - Avaliacao Qualitativa de Programas Sociais Prioritarios;
UNICAMP (Campinas, 1999); Ana Luisa de Avila Viana, 0 Programa de Sauide da Familia no Brasil
(Ministerio da Saude, 2000); Niucleo de Estudos Sociais em Sauide/Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Avaliacao da
Implementacao do Programa de Sauide da Familia em Grandes Centros Urbanos - Vitoria da Conquista e
Goiania (Ministerio da Saiide, 2000). Some of the most important inputs from several consultations and
surveys that took place since the beginning of its implementation, and as part of the preparation of the
project follow:
On the positive side
* Access has been expanded. Although many of those consulted were not familiar with the program, and
some did not even know it exists, many respondents noticed a change in the approach of health services
provision. Community Health Agents have in fact expanded access through the provision of services
directly to families in their own houses (focus groups in Lauro de Freitas in the metropolitan region
of Salvador, Bahia, and Ilheus, Bahia).
- 93 -



* Specialized attention has been facilitated. When more specialized attention is needed, Community
Health Agents schedule appointments themselves. In this way, the system is not overloaded with
unnecessary demand, but patients requiring care have a much higher chance of receiving it (focus
groups in Lauro de Freitas in the metropolitan region of Salvador, Bahia, and Ilheus, Bahia).
* Time has been saved. In general, beneficiaries stress that before the PSF they did not have time to
look for health services, but now services reach out directly to them (focus groups in Lauro de Freitas
in the metropolitan region of Salvador, Bahia, and Ilheus, Bahia).
* Dignity and self esteem have improved. As one client mentioned, "There are some people who come
to our house, this is wonderful, no? One of them is a physician, a real physician who has come to my
house.. .this has never happened in our lives before. Where would we go before? In the city, we needed
to take buses." (focus groups in Lauro de Freitas in the metropolitan region of Salvador, Bahia, and
Ilheus, Bahia).
On the negative side
* Unfulfilled expectations have been created. In a highly medicalized culture, where health is
understood as lack of disease, medication and interventions are understood as a sign of attention.
Frustrations accompany the fact that the Community Health Agent is not a physician and may not
prescribe any medicine or follow-up medical interventions. Sometimes he will only talk about
reproductive care or nutrition. As one woman in Ilheus has mentioned, "Now there is no pediatrician in
the health facility"(there is generalist physician instead). Or, as another complained, "I do not even go
to this doctor, I take my son directly to the city."
* Increase in the demand for coverage has been difficult to control. Once families know they have a
team assigned to their houses, very often they begin to "import" family members and friends from other
areas, with the expectation that they would get the same attention. Community Health Agents mention
(and complain) that they face unexpectedly high demand for their services that they cannot refuse to
meet but that compromise the quality of their work. There are cases, as in Santa Catarina, where the
number of teams is insufficient and, each team is covering the twice the number of families assigned to
it.
* Dependence on political will and leadership capacity at the municipal level. Because of its design,
existence of the program is not automatically guaranteed once implementation begins. Indeed, it is
heavily dependent on the commitment of local leaders and officials with community based approaches
for public policies. In some cases, as in Vit6ria da Conquista (Bahia) and Volta Redonda (Rio de
Janeiro), the PSF has been very successful due to the stability of the political administration - the same
political party has won three consecutive elections - and the Municipal Health Secretary is a physician
who shares the same values of the program. In others, where there are too many changes in
govemment, progress has been slower.
* Requirement for a new kind of physician reveals barriers in medical school training. The medical
profession in Brazil is organized in specialized fields that do not respond to the generic needs of the
PSF. The switch from a specialist to a generalist faces cultural barriers from the side of families and
doctors, and requires costly training.
Gender. Because of their central role within families, women are disproportionately reached by the PSF
- 94 -



compared to men). Health indicators in Brazil show a recent improvement, but these improvements have
been particularly felt (and measured) by women and children whose fertility and mortality rates have
decreased. Moreover, teen pregnancies persists as a health problem and HIV/AIDs has increased more
among women than among men.
The MOH has several programs that address the needs of women, including HIV/ALDs interventions, the
Women's Health Program, the Breast-feeding Program, and the Program Against Breast and Cervical
Cancer. Notwithstanding these programs, the PSF has assumed a very central role for women, because of
its outreach capacity. In some municipalities - for example in Campina Grande (Paraiba) -- maternal
mortality in hospitals decreased to zero. In Sobral (Ceara), coverage for pregnant women is 100 percent,
and includes visits to families, at least six visits to physicians, nurseries and follow-up for babies and
children.
Barros, E. A Politica da Atencao a Sauide de Mulheres e Criancas no Brasil: algumas informacoes basicas.
(Ministerio da Saude, unpublished, prepared for the PSF program, 2001).In Sobral (CearA), coverage for
pregnant women is 100 percent, and includes visits to families, at least
Conclusions and recommendations. All the studies and consultations undertaken for the preparation of
the FHEP corroborate its importance and design. The following are specific recommendations from the
social assessment, the majority of which have already been proposed by the MOH and/or being used by
some municipalities (and should be expanded to others):
(a) Given the PSF's labor-intensive characteristics, to create economies of scale and avoid pressures on
municipal budgets, it is important to incorporate and provide training to NGOs and other civil
organizations for the hiring and monitoring of Community Health Agents and other team staff.
(b) In larger municipalities, where living and working spaces are far away and people leave their homes
very early in the morning and return late in the evening, the matching of teams and families should be
fine-tuned and implemented through participatory community diagnosis.
(c) Family Health Teams should be well trained on reproductive health issues, which should be dealt with
the delicacy it deserves, particularly when dealing with teens.
(d) For reasons of efficacy and costs, the several programs already dealing with women's health require
municipal coordination.
(e) Participatory evaluations, already used with frequency, should be discussed and understood by
policy-makers at all levels. Although significant resources have been spent on such evaluation, there
are indications that their dissemination has been fragmented.
(f) Although poor health indicators often are mentioned with regard to the black and "parda" families,
there are no specific remedies to address the issue. The program lacks studies and data to indicate
whether or not specific interventions are needed.
(g) The generalist skills required from doctors need to be better understood, accepted and valued by
themselves, by families, and eventually by medical schools.
- 95 -



Annex 2C
Brazil - Family Heath Project
Environmental Assessment
This annex reports on an analysis of potential adverse environmental impacts of the Brazil Family Health
Extension Project, and proposes actions to minimize them during project implementation. It also highlights
the expected positive environmental impacts of some features of the project. The analysis was conducted
by Pan American Health Organization (PAHO), in cooperation with the Brazilian Ministry of Health.
Appendix 1 presents a classification of waste materials, indicating for each type of residue whether the
various items are generated in the type of basic health care units to be supported under the project.
Appendix 2 presents the results of a case study on cost estimates for implementation of Health Services
Waste Management System. The full report is available in the project files.
IDENTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The FHEP has potential for generating both positive and negative environmental impacts. The negative
impacts could result from expansion of the system of basic health units. At the same time, however, the
project has enormous potential for producing positive impacts. This is evident in the very concept of the
project-moving health teams into local communities, and identifying and addressing environmental factors
that could threaten the health of the population. This effort will reduce the environmental degradation in
these communities.
ImDacts on Basic Health Care Units. The project aims to increase basic health care coverage of the
urban population through adjustments in the physical structure and administrative organization of services
(Component 1). Although there is no precise estimate of the dimensions of the alterations to the physical
network through incorporation of new properties and organizational adaptation existing facilities, it is clear
that growth must be significant to reach the targets of increasing coverage to 70 percent of the
municipalities with populations between 100,000 and 500,000, and 50 percent of those with populations of
more than 500,000. Expansion of the PSF also will demand important changes in the practices adopted at
the basic health service units.
In a 1999, the MOH evaluated the population's access to the health services provided by Family Health
Teams within the territory of a particular basic health unit. The results (shown in part below) provide an
idea of the large positive impact that could be generated through basic health units as a consequences of the
expansion of the Family Health Program
*  from 43.8 to 93.7 percent in prenatal care utilization;
*  from 53.1 to 98.3 percent in the utilization of the Child Healthcare Cards in monitoring child growth
and development;
* from 16.1 to 67.5 percent in collection of material by nurses for preventive neck of uterus cancer;
*  from 13.9 to 96 percent in registration of patients with high blood pressure, and from 34.8 to 98.5
percent in treatment;
*  from 12.7 to 93.9 percent in registration of diabetic patients, and from 32.5 to 97 percent in treatment;
*  from 14.8 to 87.3 percent in active searching for patients with tuberculosis.
In terms of potential impact, there are two distinct phases:
- 96 -



*  In the first stage of implementation of the FHEP, demand for specialized outpatient services will
increase because the program will represent a new channel of access to medical services for a
population that did not previously have such access. In this stage, the potential negative impacts are
most highly concentrated in increased generation of waste material at the health units, with the
consequent need for more effective controls. For the most part, these measures involve implementation
of a System of Waste Management that includes minimization of generation plus segregation of waste.
One should also be attentive to the risks that exist in terms of the safety of both patients and
employees. New systems are required to control infection and work accidents. Particular attention
should be given to the possibility of atmospheric pollution and waste generation resulting from the use
of various types of equipment, coupled with measures aimed at controlling the risk of fire and other
emergencies related to the systems of energy utilized. These items are discussed in the document
"Hospital Environment Security," issued by the MOH, to be used as a reference in the implementation
of these programs at health care units.
*  Over the medium-tern, demand for urgent and emergency services will be reduced as health services
are improved; in addition, the number of hospitalizations due to avoidable causes also is expected to
decline. These changes will bring about positive environmental impacts: a decrease in the volume of
waste generated, together with improved health conditions for the population. At the same time, the
waste generated as a result of the current system of acquiring and utilizing medicine products is also
expected to decline, with a lesser volume of expired medicines and implementation of an effective
System of Waste Management.
PROPOSALS ON ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEDURES AT BASIC HEALTHCARE UNITS
The proposed environmental procedures to be used in the framework of the FHEP aim to minimize negative
environmental impacts. These include:
Stratezv and Pilot Prop-ram: As outpatient health service units generate approximately 80 percent less
waste material than large hospitals, and the waste produced at such facilities is considerably less
dangerous, there is a need for simplified waste management procedures suited to the specific circumstances
of basic health care units. Under Component 2 the Borrower will develop a national strategy guidelines,
manual and training modules to aid in the task of managing the waste generated within basic health care
units. The purpose of the manual will be to orient all activities targeted at minimizing the impact of waste
generation at these units. The training module will focus on the effective implementation of waste
management practices, utilizing the waste management manual for basic health care units. The manual and
training modules will be field tested with Family Health Teams in a sample of municipalities. The program
will be gradually expanded in a systematic fashion during future APL phases.
Recommendations for elaboration of a waste management manual for basic health care units.
A manual is to be elaborated to aid in the task of managing the waste generated by basic health care units.
The purpose of this manual will be to orient all activities targeted at minimizing the impacts of waste
generation at these units. This manual should serve as the basis for the minimum procedures to be adopted,
including:
* Characterization of waste material - determination of the volume and quality of the waste generated in
each area of activity, utilizing the classification system issued in IBAMA Resolution 05/93. (The
strategic activities carried out at basic healthcare units, defined according to the terms of NOAS,
- 97 -



already indicate the characteristics of the waste material generated, making it necessary to quantify the
amount produced in each unit.);
*  Segregation - separation of the waste material at the level of the generating unit to avoid contamination
of common waste as a result of contact with infectious waste;
*  Minimization - the volume of waste is to be minimized as a result of more efficient utilization of
material and medicines, while avoiding generation of expired medicine products;
*  Packing - each specific type of waste is to be placed in plastic bags, receptacles or other types of
appropriate packing, according to the characteristics of the waste in question;
* Internal collection and transportation - appropriate movement from the site of generation to the place
of storage;
* Storage - the waste is to be stored under safe and sanitary conditions until external collection and final
disposal.
Recommendations for training in health service waste management. The World Bank (2000) has
developed a proposal for management of waste at small scale health care units, which was used as the basis
of this study. To elaborate and implement a Waste Management Plan, it is essential that those responsible
for the health care unit recognize the importance of good management techniques and designate a special
team to assume supervisory responsibility over the plan. This can be done either by naming a specific team
or taking advantage of an existing group charged with controlling hospital infection.  The waste
management group should at least include the manager of the health care unit and representatives of the
medical doctors, nursing staff, administrative sector and janitorial services. The Waste Management Plan is
to be elaborated by the entire team working within the framework of the ongoing daily activities of the unit.
Aside from providing specific training for the team, the entire staff should be familiarized with the terms of
the plan and aware of each person's role in executing the plan. Training for implementation must include:
*  Basic information on Health Service Waste and awareness of the risks consequent upon inadequate
management of this material;
*  Basic information on the Waste Management Plan;
*  Roles and responsibilities of each employee in the process of waste management;
*  Technical instructions on the measures described in the Plan.
Viewed under this prism, the Project should include a specific training model for waste management
targeted at effective implementation, utilizing the Manual cited above as the basic reference.
CONCLUSIONS
The PSF Project does not involve any large-scale engineering projects. However, it does call for expansion
of the infrastructure network utilizing leased properties. Consequently, the potential for generating negative
impacts as a result of increased generation of waste materials in the early stage of implementation is
considered low. Over the medium-term, control measures are designed to foster improvements in the
current conditions of the basic health care units by reducing demand for services and adequate management
of the generated waste.
To control the negative environmental impacts that would result from increased generation of waste
material, studies carried out by the Brazilian and international scientific community have clearly
demonstrated that the most efficacious solution is adoption of a Waste Management System. This process
depends on a number of factors: authorities must place a high priority on this undertaking; well-trained
- 98 -



teams must be formed and provided with the necessary managerial instruments. Therefore, if the proposed
environmental procedures are incorporated into the project with the dual aims of providing needed
information and enhancing the awareness required for correct formulation and implementation of Waste
Management Plans at all of the PSF facilities, negative impacts will be mitigated and the project will bring
about a sharp reduction in existing problems.
When one considers the emphasis that the FHEP has ascribed to the formation and training of teams and to
development and implementation of adequate managerial instruments, it is clear that the project will make it
possible not only to reduce possible negative impacts, but also to greatly enhance the expected positive
impacts.
Therefore, one can conclude that the environmental impacts of project implementation can be controlled
through adoption of relatively simple measures, and that the positive impact of the project on quality of life
and health for the Brazilian population fully justify implementation.
- 99 -



Appendix 1. Classification of the Waste Stream
The classification below is based on specific nature of the waste material generated. The National Council
of the Environment (CONAMA), presents of waste classification into four categories: Group A is waste
considered a potential risk to public health and the environment due to the presence of biological agents;
Group B is waste considered a potential risk due to chemical characteristics; Group C is waste such as
radioactive materials; and Group D is common waste material.
Classification of Waste Generated at Basic Health Care Units
Identification of Waste Type                                           Generated at
Basic Units
Group A
Waste considered a potential risk to public health and the environment due to the
presence of biological agents
Blood and blood derivatives                                            Yes
Animals used in experiments, as well as materials that have been in contact with No
such animals
Excretions, secretions and organic liquids                             Yes
Culture material                                                       No
Tissues, organs, fetuses and anatomical parts                                No
Aspirated gas filters from contaminated areas                          No
Waste originating in isolation areas                                   No
Food remains from isolation units                                      No
Laboratory waste materials                                             No
Waste from outpatient healthcare units                                 Yes
Sanitary waste from hospitalization and infirmary units                Yes
Perforating/cutting objects, such as razors, scalpels, needles, broken glass and Yes
others
Group B                                                                Yes
Waste considered a potential risk to public health and the environment due to its
chemical characteristics
Chemotherapic drugs and products contaminated by them                  Yes
Pharmaceutical waste (expired, interdicted, contaminated or unused medicines)  Yes
Other products considered dangerous, according to the NBR 10.004 classification  Yes
issued by ABNT (toxic, corrosive, inflammable and reactive)
Group C                                                                No
Radioactive waste such as radioactive materials or those contaminated with
radionuclides originating in clinical analyses laboratories, nuclear medicine and
radiotherapy services, according to CNEM Resolution 6.05
Group D                                                                Yes
Common waste materials are all those similar to household waste that have not
had contact with the waste materials classified in the previous groups.
- 100-



Appendix 2 - Estimated Costs for Implementation of Health Service Waste Management System - Case
Study for General Pediatrics Center Of Belo Horizonte - MG (Source: CUSSIOL, 2000 and Municipal
Secretariat of Urban Services of Belo Horizonte).
Basic description of the establishment
State public hospital
Provides services exclusively through SUS
Pediatrics (patients from 0 to 12 years of age)
Operates 24 hours per day
Urgent and emergency services
157 beds
Participating mother system
Reference in infectious-contagious and parasitic diseases
Buildings
Two hospital buildings
Storage building
Guardhouse
Maintenance building
Waste shelter
Staff
334 statutory employees and 358 contract workers
Average daily generation of waste per occupied bed
Occupation rate: 75.5 percent (118 beds per day)
Infectious waste: 1.28 kg/occupied bed/day
Common waste: 1.89 kg/occupied bed/day
Total waste: 3.17 kg/occupied bed/day (40 percent infectious, 60 percent common).
Costs
In intra-hospital management:
Acquisitions of material - approximately R$ 10,000.00 (140 trash collectors in dimensions of 25,
50 and 100 liters; 2 carts for collection and 10 containers for 240, 660 and 1000 liters for storage
in the external shelter)
Consulting - characterization of waste and planning of activities - and management training
approximately R$ 9,000.00 (300 hours at R$ 30.00 per hour)
Costs of collection and final disposal in municipal landfill: R$ 82.00 per ton of healthcare service
solid waste.
- 101 -



Annex 2D
Brazil: Family Health Project
Institutional Arrangements and Project Management
A.     Cooperation with other Agencies and Institutions
The project will be implemented by the Department of Basic Health (DAB), within the Secretariat of
Health Policies in the Ministry of Health, in partnership with State and Municipal Secretariats of Health.
See Attachment 1 of this Annex for a description of federal, state and municipal roles regarding the PSF.
The states and municipalities actively participate in defining health care policies, in implementing the
FHEP and in articulating political support and strategies to implement and consolidate a sustainable and
integrated health network. To strengthen and facilitate project implementation, there will be a need to
enhance partnerships and cooperation with other institutions to provide technical, scientific and operational
support. The following institutions will have an active role in the implementation of the FHEP and the
PSF activities:
* National Council of State Health Secretaries (CONASS): all states are represented in the Council, with
the objective to articulate and define health policies to be implemented at the state level.
* Council for Municipal Health Secretaries (CONASEMOH): in accordance with the constitutional
principle of decentralization, all municipalities are represented in the council to articulate and define
health policies and programs to be implemented at the municipal level;
*  Tri-Partite Health Management Commission (CIT):  representing federal. state and municipal
governments meet periodically to discuss and define the guiding principles, strategies and institutional
policies to be considered by the Ministry of Health;
* Bi-Partite Health Management Commissions (CIB) - meet periodically to discuss and guide general
and operational strategies related to health institutional policies for the State Secretariats of Health.
* Universities and Research Institutions will actively participate in the preparation of health professionals
(mainly physicians, nurses and related professionals, with specialty in family health) by providing
in-service training for existing health professionals, adapting their curricula to offer family health care
as a specialty in the medical schools, and in implementing the training, internship and scholarship
programs financed under the project. These institutions will also promote operational research,
evaluations and specific studies to generate new products to improve the implementation of the FHEP
and the PSF delivery systems, processes and activities.
*  Government and non-government institutions (NGOs) such as community and social organizations,
Ministries of Labor and Education will provide support, and facilitate the application of pertinent
legislations, protocols and agreements that are necessary for implementing the overall FHEP and PSF
specific activities.
The FHEP will also seek the cooperation of international agencies - UNICEF, PAHO/WHO, UNESCO
and others, to provide technical assistance, and to participate in relevant project activities.
- 102-



B.     Proiect Implementation Arrangements - Management Unit
Federal Level. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established within the Secretariat of Health
Policies and will respond to the Director of the Department of Basic Health Care (DAB) for the
implementation of the PSF. It will work closely with the existing organizational structure of management,
technical, human resources and evaluation in the DAB which is in charge of the implementation of the
FHEP at all levels. The main function of the PCU is to manage all aspects related to project
implementation, to guarantee that project components are executed according to terms and agreed
timetable. It will be staffed by individuals who have had experience in implementing the FHEP or other
Bank-funded projects. The results of an institutional analysis carried out by the Secretariat of Health
Policies (SPS) and the DAB showed the need for strengthening the Department with additional qualified
staff, and for providing training to existing staff to facilitate internal coordination and implementation of
project activities.
The Family Health Project would finance these new staff, the functioning of the PCU and additional
support staff for the Unit The PCU will have the following functional structure (see Attachment 2 for
Organizational Chart):
1.   PCU General Manager. Planning Specialist, assisted by one professional, will have the responsibility
for overseeing overall project implementation activities, will keep the authorities in the MOH and
municipalities informed on progress made in project implementation, assess project's constraints and
take measures to overcome the constraints.
2.   Technical Management Group. Coordinated by a Public Health Specialist, responsible for planning,
monitoring and implementing project components, and for providing technical assistance to
participating municipalities and agencies to implement project activities. The group will be assisted
by professionals specialized in planning, public health and related areas working in the PCU and
within the DAP structure.
3.   Administrative.  Procurement  and  Financial Management Group.  Coordinated  by  an
administrator/economist, responsible for carrying out procurement, financial management and
administration of project activities, including: agreements and contracts (convenios), procurement,
transfers of funds to implementing agencies, preparation of reports on financial performance and
disbursements. It will also be responsible for tracking project funds, contracting annual audits and to
provide technical assistance in financial management and procurement to participating municipalities
and agencies. The group will be staffed with experienced professionals to help the municipalities and
other executing agencies in implementing the PSF activities.
4.   Information Systems Mana,gement Group. Coordinated by a Systems Analyst, responsible for
developing, adapting or refining and implementing the information system required to monitor the
physical and financial performance of project implementation. The group. would have one additional
systems analyst and programmers to develop or adapt and implement the required project information
system at the municipal level.
5.   Projects Specialist . Coordinated by an administrator, and one additional professional, who would
liaise and follow-up special sub-projects in the SPS, related to project implementation with other
departments or Secretariats within the Ministry of Health, to ensure consistency in the
implementation of health policies and programs. The specialist would be answered directly to the
-103-                I



SPS Secretary, but would maintain close relationship with the PCU, and participate in monitoring the
activities carried out with project funds.
6.   Advisorv Group. The DAB/PCU will coordinate a group of experienced professionals or specialists
who would be hired with project funds on a short term basis, as required, to assist the DAB and
participating municipalities or agencies in implementing the Conversion Plan and other project
components (e.g. technical assistance for institutional modernization, procurement, financial
management, training and information systems).
C. Responsibilities of the PCU
The PCU will have the following main responsibilities:
(a) Promote the project at federal, state and municipal levels, particularly, in the participating
municipalities, institutions and agencies, to ensure a coherent and timely project implementation;
(b) Provide technical assistance to eligible municipalities for the preparation of the Municipal
Conversion Plans and review them prior to their approval by the DAP/ PSF managers;
(c) Approve jointly with DAB the Conversion Plans, and provide technical assistance to municipalities
for the preparation of procurement and financial management plans to implement the approved
Conversion Plan;
(d) Manage administrative and financial resources as reflected in the Loan Agreement; including
maintaining project records and preparing regular implementation reports;
(e) Ensure that municipalities and participating institutions comply with procurement guidelines and
financial management standards as defined in the Operational Manual (OM);
(f) Prepare terms of reference for the hiring of consultants who will assist in implementing project
activities, supervise the consultants' work, review and approve their products, according
procedures defined in the OM.
(g) Coordinate the processing (identification, preparation, appraisal, approval by the DAB/PCU and
supervision) of sub-projects, presented by participating municipalities or institutions, in
compliance with the OM procedures;
(h) Ensure the auditing of project accounts as agreed with the World Bank;
(i) Adapt and operate an information system to track and monitor project performance at all levels;
(j) Organize the monitoring of project's performance indicators and contract impact evaluations as
required under the PSF.
(k) Prepare periodic reports and participate in Bank supervision missions.
- 104-



D.     Operational Manual
An Operational Manual (OM) will detail procedures for monitoring of compliance with performance
benchmarks, reporting, procurement, financial management, disbursement, and auditing procedures for
each of the components. The OM would also contain: a Project Implementation Plan for Components 1, 2
and 3; eligibility criteria to select municipalities, performance indicators, and a draft (blue print) of the
Portaria related to the approval of the Planos de Conversao and Pacto de Adesao. The issuance of the final
version of the OM will be a condition for effectiveness.
E.     Proiect Implementation - Municipal Level
At the municipal level, a small Project Unit would be organized within the Municipal Secretariat of Health,
to ensure timely project implementation. The Unit would work closely with the PCU, and would have the
following functions: (a) coordinate the preparation of annual working and procurement plans among the
FHEP teams to be submitted to the DAB/PCU, as defined in the OM; (b) procure, or monitor the
procurement and delivery of goods and services procured with Project fund; (c) ensure the maintenance of
accounting records for these purchases and provide information to the PCU during audits and reviews; (d)
prepare progress reports as required by the OM; (e) monitors Project implementation. A more detailed
description of the implementation arrangements at the municipal level, as well as, indicators and targets for
each component will be specified in the Operational Manual (OM).
-105 -



Attachment 1 of Annex 2D
Family Health Program: Institutional Structure and Responsibilities
This annex provides a brief overview of the roles and responsibilities of the federal, state and municipal
health systems for the Family Health Program (PSF). The PSF is a relatively new program and the
institutional structure along with definitions of responsibilities of the three levels of government are still
evolving. The program was initiated at the federal level as an important vehicle for carrying out SUS
principles (universality, equity, integrality) and achieving four out of six national health priorities including
reorientation of the health care model towards primary care. The majority of funds for the PSF come from
the federal government and are transferred directly to participating municipalities. Consequently, the
functions of these two levels are more clearly delineated. Early in the development of PSF the states'
responsibilities were limited to coordination and some technical assistance. However, with the passage of
new decentralization regulations (NOAS 01/01) and financing laws (EC29), their role is growing. It is
likely to grow further as performance monitoring and accreditation evolve.
The Federal Health Ministry (MOH) is responsible for:
*  Policy-making to support the success of PSF strategies including the development of incentives,
regulations, and guidelines for PSF implementation; definition of strategic areas and priorities for PSF
training and service delivery; elaboration of norms and protocols for PSF health care practices, and
oversight of PSF training and education.
*  Regulating PSF operations through the passage of a series of MOH regulations (portarias).
*  Federal funding of municipal PSF through the tripartite mechanism including development of necessary
methods for implementation and maintenance of PSF units, definition of priorities for allocation of
federal funds, and negotiation with the tripartite commission of prerequisites for municipal funding and
implementation.
*  Providing technical assistance directly to municipal PSF as well as to states for the implementation
and management of the program. This role is relatively new and national program staff size has
increased, especially in the past year, to support it. The division of responsibility between the state and
national programs is still emerging.
*  Monitoring PSF activities and results, and their impact on health by utilizing data collected by the
information system (SLAB). The national PSF helps states and municipalities set up the necessary
information systems and assure PSF unit registration in SIA/SUS. It controls the compliance of states
and municipalities in fulfilling their obligatory monthly information requirements, consolidates and
analyzes data, and disseminates information.
*  Evaluating the various components of the PSF including health care practices and outcomes at the PSF
unit, municipal, and state levels, and PSF training and education. The evaluation role is evolving
rapidly. The first normative evaluation of all PSF units is currently underway. The national PSF is
also responsible for evaluating PSF training institutions, p6los de capacitacdo, and promoting
innovative curricula for universities for post-graduate PSF training.
*  Coordinating with other MOH programs that address PSF issues and practices, as well as other
sectors. It plays an important role in linking universities and providers for permanent and continuous
training, formation and education of PSF human resources. The national PSF contributes to the
creation of a national/ regional network for sharing experiences and gaining knowledge in family
health. It also develops partnerships with international aid organizations, government and
non-government organizations, and the private sector.
- 106 -



Municipalities implementing the PSF are responsible for:
* Providing funding for PSF in accordance with NOAS 01/01.
*  Municipal planning and decision-making for the prevention and resolution of prevalent health
problems. This includes prioritizing the areas that will benefit from PSF expansion.
*  Implementing PSF units including preparation and maintenance of infrastructure, assurance of
necessary supplies and resources (examining rooms, pharmacy, minor surgery), availability of
information systems and a functioning referral system for higher level care.
*  Managing day to day operations including responsibility for hiring and salaries, maintenance, and
supplies.
*  Responsibility for day to day management of particular units or catchment areas is sometimes
contracted out to NGOs, particularly in larger municipalities.
*  Monitoring and evaluating PSF team/unit activities, results and impact; providing information on a
monthly basis to the state and federal PSF through SLAB and other information systems (mandatory
requirement for inclusion in PSF).
*  Assuring continuing education for PSF personnel.
*  Promoting community participation and social control within the health care system through the
municipal health councils and the PSF. Municipal health plans are submitted for approved to the
municipal health councils.
In reality, the capacity of municipalities to fulfill these roles varies tremendously. The focus has been on
implementation of PSF units in order to increase coverage rapidly and become eligible for the associated
financial incentives.
Definition of state responsibilities regarding the PSF is still evolving. The operational norms of 1996 gave
states a large role in system coordination and monitoring. The passage of NOAS/01 in 2001 further
clarified state organizational and management roles, particularly their key responsibility for the
development and implementation of regional referral networks that involve more than one municipality. To
a certain extent, state responsibilities mimic those of the national PSF, except they pertain to the state level
(e.g. Policy-making, regulation, technical assistance). However, they seem to have little role in the
implementation of PSF units. Specific state responsibilities include:
*  A small part of PSF funding through the tripartite mechanism.
*  Technical assistance and certification of municipalities for "full management of primary care" (gestdo
plena da aten,do basica), a prerequisite for participation in the PSF.
*   Development, implementation and regulation of referral networks (regionalizag,o) for secondary and
tertiary care that involve more than one municipality. This includes the diagnostic / laboratory network.
*  Organization and monitoring of the epidemiologic surveillance system. The PSF unit is one of the basic
providers of information for this system.
*  Oversight of universities that are primarily state institutions. They will therefore have an important role
in the oversight and monitoring of training and education provided by training centers, known as p6los
de capacitaado.
*  Evolving policy, monitoring and regulatory functions in conjunction with the bipartite commission.
*  Coordination with the national PSF in establishing norms and guidelines for the PSF, linkage of
municipal information systems with those at the national level, and coordination with other government
and nongovernmental agencies.
-107 -



Attachment 2 of Annex 2D
Minisy ot Heatih
Swaetaiat of Health Policas
Depaitlent of Basic Health Cre - DAB
Prjet Management Unil PMMU
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE          PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Projct-
Mngt.
Unit
,p
31                                                    WE
~U
(01                        =o
TodrAcI Manageur,l                                                       |DDabten 
.,-
103 NS)      (03 NS)                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~(03 NS)
.Management                      1K
NS - Professional Staff
NM - Middle Level Staff
-108 -



Annex 2E
Brazil: Family Health Project
Monitoring and Evaluation
A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system will assess performance of the APL program and each of the
its three phases in meeting objectives and achieving the desired outcomes and outputs. It will collect and
analyze data for the indicators in the logical framework and other variables needed to monitor project
activities. The M&E system aims to answer the following questions: (i) Does the program achieve its
development objectives? (ii) Have outcome indicators improved in program areas, and are improvements
greater than in similar areas not covered by the program; (iii) Has the program contributed to improved
effectiveness of primary care providers and improved efficiency of the health care system; (iv) Has the
program built capacity and strengthened municipal management systems and PSF training institutions; (v)
Do program outcomes vary across groups of intended beneficiaries across regions? If so, what factors
contribute to this variation? (vi) what would have happened in the absence of the project (vii) Are there
unintended effects of the program, either positive or negative? (viii) Can program design be altered to
improve impact? and (ix) Did the program justify its cost?
Integrated project and national M&E systems
An important goal of the program is to contribute significantly to the strengthening of the Basic
Health/Family Health Program (Atenqdu Basica/Programa Saude da Familia) (AB/PSF) information and
M&E systems and thus improve municipal performance and the performance of individual family health
providers. Program (and project) M&E will depend on and be intimately related to the AB/PSF M&E
system. The borrower is highly motivated and committed to M&E, and considers improving national and
municipal M&E systems a priority.
Indicators used in the current AB/PSF information system have been elaborated by the national PSF
program to monitor municipal performance and progress in attaining desired health goals. There are 49
indicators and most assess the impact of AB/PSF programs on health outcomes. However, the national
system does not  include the output and process measures necessary for downstream municipal
decision-making to improve performance of programs that are not achieving desired goals. Municipalities
are responsible for AB/PSF implementation and management at the local level. However few, if any, have
developed an M&E system that measures performance of AB/PSF providers. The Phase 1 project will
support strengthening municipal abilities to monitor PSF performance by employing well-designed data
collection instruments to gather reliable information and utilize it for effective management.
Municipal data are transmitted to the national AB/PSF M&E system which in tum will be an important
source of information for monitoring and evaluating the project. Conversely, parts of the project M&E
would form the basis for AB/PSF M&E that currently do not exist, e.g. monitoring, evaluation and
accreditation of PSF training institutions; and monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of
referral/counter-referral systems. Consequently, the project M&E will be closely integrated with the
national AB/PSF M&E system. Many of the project indicators are identical to or related to AB/PSF
indicators, but unlike current indicators that are aggregated at the municipal and state levels, are more
oriented to the delivery level. Other aspects of the project M&E will eventually be incorporated into the
AB/PSF M&E and continue beyond the life of the program.
Monitoring: The project will support the design and implementation of a computerized management
information system (MIS) to track progress on activities, products and expenditures during implementation.
- 109-



Drawing on the logical framework the project MIS will collect data on key indicators including inputs,
outputs, processes and outcomes. It will track compliance with training and population targets set for the
extension of coverage by the PSF, and the quantity and quality of the training and the health care services
provided. In Phase I, the project MIS also includes monitoring progress on several key health outcome
indicators (including immunization, prenatal care, and hospitalization rates for ARI).
The project MIS will also permit project personnel to monitor targets that assess progress towards
implementing stronger PSF information and M&E systems at the municipal level. Two major systems will
be developed and tested in participating municipalities by the end of the (Phase I) project and implemented
in all participating municipalities by the end of the program: an M&E system that integrates assessments of
the 'pactos' (federal-state-municipal performance agreements), the implementation of the municipal health
plans and the referral/counter-referral system; and a performance based management system for primary
health care providers. During Phase I the project MIS will track the development and piloting of these
AB/PSF systems.
Project monitoring will draw on the project MIS as well as the information systems currently supporting
AB/PSF M&E including SIAB (Primary Care Info System), SIH (Hospital Info System), SIS-Prenatal
(Prenatal Care Info System), and Vital records. In addition, information for monitoring will be provided by
specific evaluation studies and project reports. In the second and third phases of the program, information
will also be provided by the newly developed municipal M&E and provider performance based
management systems.
Evaluation: Beyond aspects related to financial execution, program evaluation will be increasingly related
over time to the MOH's AB/PSF evaluation. By the end of the program in 2008, the project MIS will be
integrally linked to the AB/PSF M&E. The project both develops capacity at the municipal level to provide
good quality information for use in evaluation, and then uses that information for purposes of evaluating
the project. The goal is a sustainable system that provides the municipal, state and national managers with
the information they need to evaluate the impact of the AB/PSF program on health outcomes.
During Phase l, studies will be carried out evaluating 50% of the PSF teams and 15 PSF training
institutions implemented between 1997 and 2001. This information will provide information for the design
of M&E in Phase 1 as well as for the expansion of PSF training. These evaluation studies will also provide
critical information for Phase 2 which will focus greater attention on the quality and accreditation of both
training institutions and PSF providers. As noted above, Phase 1 will lay the groundwork for the
implementation of information systems that are necessary for the municipal health system to assess the
performance of its providers, and for the project and the national MOH to evaluate management by the
municipal health systems.
An evaluation of the impact of the program on health outcomes will be based on a comparison of baseline
health indicators with those at the end of the program. Baseline indicators will be collected and analyzed
during Phase 1 of the program, supported through Component 3. Baseline and end-of-program indicators
will be collected for participating PSF catchment areas as well as for control areas. This will permit a
before and after comparison of program areas as well as potentially allow comparison with similar areas
that do not have PSF programs. By the end of Phase I baseline data will be available not only for project
indicators, but also for the newly developed municipal performance management systems (process and
outcome), as well as for the national system of evaluating progress through the 'pactos' (primarily
outcome). Availability of key baseline indicators in project municipalities will be a trigger for Phase 2.
However, in order to address some of the questions raised at the beginning of this appendix, special
evaluation studies may be required at the end of the seven-year program.
- 110-



Annex 2F
Performance Indicators for Municipal Conversion Plans
for passing from Phase I to Phase II
Urban municipalities with populations greater than 100,000 are eligible to submit plans for transforming
their primary health care system to the PSF model. Municipalities selected to participate in the project will
sign letters of agreement with the Health Ministry. Municipal conversions will mirror the project in that
they will proceed in three phases. The initial agreement signed will include the following trigger indicators
for passing from Phase I to Phase II. These indicators aim to: (i) monitor progress in the transformation of
the primary health care system to the PSF model, and (ii) set standards for acceptable fiduciary practice.
Technical Indicators
Fixed Indicators:
1.     25% increase in PSF coverage for municipalities with current coverage less than 25%.
2.     25%  increase in the percent of total AP/PSF personnel budget spent on PSF personnel in
municipalities with an current PSF population coverage of less than 25%.
3.     40% of maternity admission in PSF catchment areas are referred by PSF teams.
4.     PSF protocols for referrals/counter-referral and care practices for PSF strategic areas (women's
health, child health, TB, leprosy, hypertension, diabetes, oral health and epidemiologic
surveillance) developed and implemented for 50% of PSF teams.
5.     Appointment centers for consultations, admissions, and diagnostic and therapeutic assistance
established.
6.     Health teams make an average 9 household visits per family annually.
7.     Baseline data (household and provider) collected and analyzed in order to provide baseline
indicators for PSF performance, pacto de indicadores and project monitoring and evaluation.
8.     Performnance-based management system developed and piloted in a sample of PSF teams.
9.     100% of PSF teams formed in Phase I have received in-service training in the PSF strategic areas.
10.    100% of municipal management personnel and team coordinators have received training in
planning, management, and organization.
Variable Indicators (negotiable with municipalities):
1.        % percent increase in PSF coverage in municipalities with current coverage of greater than
25%.
2.        % percent increase in percent of total AP/PSF personnel budget spent on PSF personnel in
municipalities with current coverage of greater than 25%.
- 111 -



3.     _% reduction in number of hospital admission for children <5 from PSF catchment area.
Fiduciary Indicators
The participant municipalities will be excluded from the APL 2 if they exceed the following parameters:
Procurement:
I. No more than 30% of contracting activities in which awarded contracts are subject to judicial challenge
regarding procurement in the first year; no more than 20% in the second year
2. No more than 3 injunctions (liminares) suspending procurement processes during the Project
implementation; and
3. No more than two declared misprocurement actions during the Project implementation. In the local
procedures misprocurement will include: failure to award to then lowest evaluated bidder; lack of
records and information pertaining the bidding and award; disqualification of lowest price without a
sound reason; and deviations from the approved procurement plan without prior PCU and Bank
approval.
4. No more than one downgrade on the procurement risk classification during project implementation.
Financial Management:
1. No more than one downgrade on the financial management risk classification during project
implementation.
2. Comply with submission of financial management reports to PCU in at least 70 percent of cases
according to established due dates.
3. Provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that appropriate actions have been taken to address auditors'
management letter recommendations during project implementation.
- 112-



Annex 2G
Brazil - Family Heath Project
Eligibility Criteria and Selection Process for Municipalities
Criteria:
The MOH will prepare verification indicators and apply a point system for approving the Conversion Plan
proposals received from interested municipalities. Final version of criteria and process will be included in
the Operational Manual. The MOH has formed a technical group to assist potential applicants.
1. Municipal population greater than 100,000*
2. Participation in decentralization process:*
*  agreement to seek certification as a Full Manager (Gestao Plena) in either Primary Care
or Municipal Health Systems, per MOH regulations (NOAS 01/01)
3. Presentation of municipal health plan that includes:*
* epidemiologic profile, service demands
* existing services, municipal and inter-municipal 'flows' between service levels
* infrastructure and operational capacity
* productivity data, availability of pacto' indicators
* positive and negative aspects of service organization, accessibility, management
* approval by the Municipal Health Council
4. Presentation of seven-year Conversion Plan in three phases that follows MOH guidelines (per manual)
and contemplates:
* coverage goals conform to MOH requirements (based on municipal size: 70% if pop. 100,000 -
500,000; 50% if >500,000); units, teams planned consistent with goals*
* primary health care infrastructure availability and needs
* local realities including capacity, demand, facilitating and limiting factors
* mechanisms to contract personnel for PSF*
*  coherent plans, based on evidence, for meeting needs in: secondary health care (specialists),
diagnostic capacity, therapeutic assistance (pharmaceuticals), transportation network*
* infrastructure and operational capacity of secondary referral centers (specialists), laboratories for
diagnostic assistance, and pharmaceutical capacity.
* organizational structure within municipal MOH for human resource development*
* adherence to performance agreement (pacto) on primary health indicators, Humanized Birth
Program, Cartdo SUS registration program*
* agreement to provide financial indicators required through SIOPS - the transparent Public Budget
Information System on Health*
* proposal for municipal counterpart funds and other types of municipal investments to assure
sustainability of infrastructure and services*
* investment priorities delineated
* demonstration of capacity in bidding processes, procurement and management
*  procurement plan and disbursement schedule.*
5. Agreement to carry-out baseline studies by means of household and provider surveys, collecting data
on social, health status, health seeking behaviors, spending, institutional and other aspects related to
PSF, conversion plan and NOAS/0l implementation.*
- 113 -



6. Agreement to implement fiduciary framework to strengthen financial and acquisitions management and
reporting according to risk assessment performed by PCU.*
Process:
MOH Technical Commission assesses documents in the following phases:
*  first round of eliminations based on eligibility criteria
* clarifications and refinement of remaining conversion plans
*  evaluation of conversion plans by the Bi-Partite Management Commission
*  final classification by the MOH based on point system
* municipalities that don't meet these requirements are automatically eliminated
-114-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
Annex 3
Brazil - Family Heath Project
Project Costs
Project Cost by Component
US $million -       . .*~   .   US $million -
Local     US $million Forei      Total
I. PSF Municipal Conversion and          40.2             40.2            80.5
Expansion
[I. Human Resources Development in        17.3            17.3            34.5
Support of the PSF
[II. Monitoring and Evaluation            2.0             4.6             6.5
[V. Project Management                    2.8              0.7            3.5
Total Baseline Cost                       62.2            62.8            125.0
Physical Contingencies                   3.6              3.2             6.8
Price Contingencies                      1.9              1.7             3.7
Total Project Cost    67.7             67.7           135.4
Front-End Fee 1%                        0.7             0.7
Total Financing Required     67.7            68.4            136.1
Proiect Cost By Categorv of Expenditure  US $million -US $million -
Local      US$ilo     oen        Total
1. Works                                  0.0             0.0             0.0
2. Goods                                  2.4              1.6             4.0
3. Consultants Services & Audits          11.5             8.3            19.8
4. Training                               9.4              9.4            18.8
5. Grant Transfers: BFHC subprojects      39.2            39.2            78.5
6. Incremental Operating Costs            0.6              0.2             0.8
Total Baseline Cost                       63.1            58.8            121.9
7. Front-End Fee (1%)                     0.0              0.7             0.7
8. Unallocated                            5.4              8.1            13.5
Total Project Costs     67.7            68.4            136.1
- 115-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
This annex presents the summary results of the cost-benefit analysis of the Brazil Family Health Extension
Project (FHEP), based upon the project's costs and the measurable economic benefits flowing from the
successful implementation of the proposed project. In addition to the project costs of US$550.0 million,
the analysis includes costs of the capital and recurrent expenditures related to the expansion and
improvement of health services. The expansion and improvement of health services is done through the
Family Health Model, which applies to all districts in the country. Initially, only 100 districts with a
population of 100,000 residents or more will be included. In summary, the project would yield a net
present value of benefits, after investment and recurrent costs, of more than US$1.8 billion, and produce an
internal rate of return (IRR) above 125 percent over a 10-year period.
The main results include:
Table 1. Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits of the FHP
5 years       10 years
NPV (USS millions)      204.1         11,879
IRR                                   1125%
Benefit:Cost Ratio                   12.8
Note: NPV Benefits is equal to the direct and indirect benefits, minus
total project costs (in USSmillions)
Benefit:Cost is equal to total benefits divided by total costs
IRR was calculated based on net benefits over 10 years
The FHEP will produce substantial savings over the medium to long-term, primarily through reductions in
hospital costs obtained by shifting demand from expensive hospital care to primary health care facilities.
These changes will reduce the number of hospitalizations as well the number of deaths, as the early
detection and improved treatment of illness reduces the burden of disease. This annex outlines the key
issues related to the economic analysis; the detailed analysis is contained in project files. Projected
recurrent expenditures generated by the project and the estimates of future healthcare spending show that
the project would be financially sustainable for Brazil. The ability to assume the recurrent costs depends to
a large extent on the government's ability to effectively implement EC no. 29 that effectively ensures that
health sector financing will grow in real terms at the same rate as GDP EC no. 29 modifies the formula for
calculating health sector budgets by establishing a floor for the 2000 budget, increasing health spending by
a minimum of nominal GDP growth from 2001 to 2004 and earmarks 12% of state revenues and 15% of
municipal revenues to financing health. .
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The cost-benefit analysis distributes the benefits over this time horizon into two major groups: direct and
indirect benefits. The direct benefits are the expected tangible benefits accruable to the project from the cost
reduction due to a decline on the number of hospitalizations by the established main causes of morbidity.
Indirect benefits are related to the benefits obtained from the additional life-years for the population of the
targeted districts. The monetary value for this figure is calculated by projecting the present value of GDP
per capita over the total number of additional life-years obtained from the reduced mortality.
- 116-



The cost-benefit analysis assumes that the strengthening and changes made to the health care system will be
targeted to 84.5 million people, and that a ten-year period is required to reflect the flow of costs and
benefits. The project has three components: i) Support to Municipal Conversion Plan [**], ii) Human
Resource Development and iii) Monitoring and Evaluation.
The project focuses on the urban areas of Brazil, which are characterized by weak public health care
systems, and large numbers of families in extreme poverty, confronting severe social risk. Of the 223
municipalities with populations of 100,000 or greater in the country, approximately 100 will participate in
phase one of the project. The strategic aim is to achieve coverage of 70 percent of the population in
municipalities with a population of 100,000 to 500,000 inhabitants; and 50 percent coverage of the
population in cities with a population greater than 500,000 residents. All other municipalities-as well as
the rural areas of the country-will benefit from the activities under the second and third phases of the
project.
In terms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers two basic elements: (i) the external
investment costs of the World Bank project; and (ii) the recurrent costs. The total cost of the project is of
US$1.9 billion. Of this amount, the World Bank would finance US$550 million and the GOB would
finance US$1.4 billion. The recurrent costs reach nearly US$480 million per year after the seventh year;
once the project is fully operational. This amount includes the recurrent and incremental costs of
investments in infrastructure, equipment and maintenance, as well as the cost of increase in coverage for
basic health services through the primary care network. Assuming a basic package of $8.
Savings in hospitalization are among the most important direct benefits of the project. These cost savings
will be realized through two sources: First, the project will result in reduced hospitalizations due to greater
capacity to resolve medical needs at the local level, thus reducing referrals to hospitals. Second, the project
will reduce risk factors in the target population that increase the demand for hospitalizations. Another
probable source of savings, not explicitly quantified in this study, is the reduction in hospitalization costs
caused by the increased efficiency of health networks due to improved management practices. The project
will shift healthcare provision from expensive hospitals to more efficient and higher quality primary care
centers. This shift will save over 1.3 million unnecessary hospitalizations throughout a 10-year period, and
produce a direct benefit of nearly US$50 million in nominal terms with a present value of US$27 million.
Indirect benefits are calculated based on the reduction of key causes of mortality present in the
municipalities selected. The reduction in mortality is taken as a base line assumption to calculate the
indirect benefits of the project. The mortality rates obtained at the national level will be used as the base
line rates for the municipalities selected. The target of reduced mortality rates will be calculated using the
average reduction rates obtained from the Contagem and Vitoria Da Conquista districts in the Dain et al
study (2001), as a benchmark. Targets of reduced mortality rates will also be based on the international
literature of cost-effectiveness, and according to expert opinion. To calculate the indirect benefits, the
additional life-years saved (attributable to mortality reductions) are then converted to monetary terms by
adding the present value of GDP per capita of the number of additional life-years obtained by each
individual. Table 2 summarizes the results of the analysis for each of the two scenarios.
- 117-



Table A.1 Base and Target Rates
Brazil: Base and Targets Rates
Base        Target    Decrease
Rates       Rates
Mortality Rates (xlOO,OOO pop.)
Diabetes mellitus                                          17.50        14.0       20.0%
Infectious and parasitoids                                 30.12       24.1        20.0%
Circulatory diseases                                      158.44       126.7       20.0%
Respiratory diseases                                       56.81       45.5        20.0%
Infant, per 1,000 alive births                             34.60       22.7        34.3%
Maternal (xlOO,000 alive births)                           63.13       50.5        20.0%
Malnutrition                                               4.18         3.3        20.0%
Hospitalizations Rates (xl,OOO pop.)
Intra-cranial Hemorrhages, cerebral infarction, CVA not specified  0.64  0.60      5.4%
Hypertension                                               0.98        0.63        35.5%
Respiratory diseases                                       11.66       10.24       12.1%
Diabetes Mellitus                                          0.76        0.63        17.5%
Table 2 Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits
Table 2. Summary of Estimated Costs and Benefits [USS (in constan 2000 dollars)l
Present Value of  Present Value of  Present Value of  Net Present Value
YProject Costs     Direct Benefits  Indirect Benefits
1                11,676,000            -                 -        (11,676,000)
2                46,703,636        87,488        17,790,003       (43,128,138)
3                59,805,785       341,638        72,638,319       (30,613,802)
4                93,172,802       892,515        191,428,306       22,219,690
5                81,029,984      1,576,558      346,706,817       267,253,391
6                66,993,685     2,302,824       513,412,876       448,722,014
7                36,150,039     2,369,365       536,522,502       502,741,827
8               243,097,562     2,184,124       501,990,490       261,077,051
9               224,091,753      2,013,365      462,743,961       240,665,573
10             206,571,852      1,855,956       426,565,797       221,849,901
TOTALS        1,069,293,100     13,623,833     3,069,799,070     1,879,111,507
IRR                      125%
Benefit/Cost Index                       2.8
- 118-



As shown in the table, benefits outweigh investments by a ratio or more than two to one. Over a 10-year
horizon, the present value of the project's cost is of nearly US$1.1 billion, while the present value of the
total benefits is estimated at more than US$3.1 billion, thus giving the project a net present value of
approximately US$1.9 billion. The net present value of the project over a five-year time frame is estimated
at US$204 million, thus demonstrating the robustness of the project. With the exception of the first three
years, the project is expected to generate annual savings to the system that outstrip the investment cost,
thereby paying for them. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the project is estimated at 125 percent,
reflecting the extremely high benefits relative to project costs. This ratio can be used to demonstrate the
value of this project relative to other projects in other sectors; any number lower than the discount rate (10
percent) would imply that the project should not be carried out.
Main Assumptions:
The following parameters are considered relevant in estimating the economic benefits of the proposed
project: the length of the project horizon and the time to impact the health of the population, the size of the
target population, the existing patterns of morbidity and mortality, the percentage decrease in mortality, and
the existing cost structure in the health sector. The assumptions are based on a study of the actual impact
of the family medicine model applied to two municipalities, in comparison with national averages for urban
municipalities. This study provides the basis for estimating targets in the reduction of morbidity and
mortality. Applying these changes to the expanding coverage of the model provides the
medium-to-long-term effect of the changes, represented in termns of reduced morbidity. Since these
assumptions are quantified for only a few proxy variables, rather than the full range of interventions and
effects, and the project horizon is only 10 years, results are conservative.
The analysis of the FHEP uses the following assumptions to measure the direct and indirect benefits:
* mortality from diabetes mellitus would be reduced by 20 percent; Based on results documented in
Jamison and Feacham's seminal work on "Disease Priorities in Developing Countries". The collection
of papers in this work document the effect of similar programs in terms of reductions in mortality and
morbidity; in addition, the papers include estimates of the cost-effectiveness of similar programs. For
the infant mortality rates the reduction rate was obtained from the study "Analise de Reestructuracao
dos Modelos Assistenciais de Sauide en Grandes Cidades: Padr6es de Custo e Formas de
Financiamento" elaborated by Sulamis Dain et al.
* mortality from infectious and parasitoid diseases would be reduced by 20 percent;
* mortality from circulatory diseases would be reduced by 20 percent;
* mortality from respiratory diseases would be reduced by 20 percent;
* infant mortality rate reduce from 35 to 23 per 1,000 live births;
* maternal mortality rate reduce from 63 to 51 mothers per 1,000 live births;
* mortality from malnutrition would be reduced by 20 percent;
* a 5.4 percent reduction on the hospitalizations from intra-cranial hemorrhages, cerebral infarction,
CVA not specified The target rates for the reduction of the main causes of mortality are based on the
average reduction rates calculated for the period 1998-2000, from the study of Sulamis Dain et al. The
municipalities considered in the study are taken like a benchmark reference.;
* a 35.5 percent reduction on hospitalizations for hypertension and other related diseases;
* a 12.1 percent reduction on hospitalizations for respiratory diseases;
* a 17.5 percent reduction on hospitalizations for diabetes mellitus;
* Benefits will be provided progressively throughout a six-year period;
- 119-



* The average cost of hospitalization is US$36.76 Obtained from the study of Sulamis Dain et al.;
* Health sector spending would increase in line with projected GDP growth from 2001 to 2007,
estimated at 5 percent nominal and 2 percent real per annum; and
*   Discount rate of 10 percent.
These assumptions are based on a detailed study of the implementation of the primary care model and of
the comparison between municipalities that implemented the family medicine program and control
municipalities where the program has not been implemented. The parameters are consistent with
international literature on similar projects. In the following sections, these assumptions will be used to
evaluate the benefits of the project and to assess, from an economic perspective, the impact of the project
on public finances. All target reductions in morbidity and mortality would be reached after six years.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
While the above results are meaningful, it is important to test the robustness of the results with regard to
potential delays or reductions in benefits. This is done through the use of sensitivity analysis assuming
delays of two and three years, as well as a reduction in benefits of 20, 30 and 40 percent. The reduction in
benefits may be derived from a lower than projected impact on health indicators or from reaching fewer
people than the a priori estimates. The following table summarizes the results of the sensitivity analysis.
Table 3. Summary of Sensitivity Analysis
Type of Sensitivity Analysis  (USNmill,on)  (I)
Base case                          1,879.1     125%
2 years delay                      1,160.2      95%
3 years delay                       853.1      79%
20% reduction in benefits          1,289.4     104%
40% reduction in benefits           699.7       78%
50% reduction in benefits           404.9       60%
The previous table shows the effect of delays and lower than expected benefits on the NPV and IRR.
Overall, the project would remain justifiable even assuming a 3 year delay in project benefits or a 50
percent reduction in the benefits received, assuming the traditional parameters which dictate that annual
rate of return earned should be greater than or equal to the discount rate of the project, to maintain an
efficient allocation of Bank resources. The high IRR also underscores the cost-effective nature of the
program. The analysis highlights the importance of focusing on measurable results.
Fiscal Impact and Sustainability
The first step in the analysis for the sustainability of the project was to establish the base level expenditures
prior to the implementation of the project. After this evaluation, forecast estimates were made on the
additional costs, which result from this project and the expected revenues accruing to the sector. The
projections of sector revenues are based on the application of the recently approved EC 29 that establishes
minimum health expenditure allocations and provides a framework for increasing spending in line with the
nominal growth in GDP. Macroeconomic projections based on the implementation of the EC 29 indicate
that nominal expenditure growth will be 5.0 percent annually. While this legislation ensures that health
sector revenues will not fall below the levels of 2000, it does not, however, guarantee that real expenditures
keep pace with the increases in recurrent expenditure implied by the proposed project.
- 120-



In 2000, total health expenditures of the Health Ministry in Brazil account for 2 percent of the GDP, or
approximately US$74 per capita. It is important to note that there is a trend toward the decentralization of
services provided through the Sistema Unico de Satude (SUS), from the Federal level to the state and
municipal level. Besides this trend toward decentralization the health sector is being reformed to create
mechanisms to transfer funds from the Federal government to state and municipal governments. Current
legislation indicates that the federal budget will increase the allocations to state and municipal health
budgets by 7 percent in 2000, and by 12 and 15 percent in 2004 for states and municipalities, respectively.
The projections of future public health expenditures are based in the document elaborated by Dain et al
(2001).
Based on the current projections for health expenditures, once the project is fully implemented the
incremental cost is estimated to be equivalent to 2 percent of the public expenditure, from year eight
onwards. More importantly, the sustainability of the project depends on the availability of incremental
spending in the sector that will sustain the recurrent costs attributable to the project. If the sustainability of
the project is analyzed in terms of the overall percentage of annual increases in MOH spending absorbed by
the project's recurrent costs, rather than the total public sector spending, the percentage increases to nearly
60 percent of the annual increases of MOH expenditures. Even with the increase in resource expected from
the implementation of EC 29, the full implementation of the project will imply a continuous effort to target
to family care the projected increases in health sector resources. Sustainability should not be a problem,
with incremental spending around 2 percent of public health spending, however, the project's viability will
be highly dependent on maintaining political support and a priority allocation of incremental budget
revenues.
Table 4. Fiscal    of the Famil Health Proects   millions  constant 2000 dollars
2002   2003   2004   2005   2006  2007   2008  2009   2010   2011
MOH expenditures       13,928  14,551 15,2011 15,890 16,612 17,372 18,154 18,971 19,824 20,716
Investment                 11     27     351    65    62     57    34      -      . _  _
Recurrent costs           0.2     25     37     5     561    51    30    474    48    487
Increase in the MOH
expenditures           _  _      623    650    689   722    760   78,    817    854    892
Recurrent costs as a % of
MOH increases              _     40     60/    90/   80/    70/   40/    580/   5691  55%
Recurrent costs as a % of
MOH expenditures         0.0%   0.20/  0.20/  0.49/  0.30/  0.30/  0.20  20/    2/     2%
Investment and recurrent
costs as a % of MOH
expenditures             0.1%  0.40/  0.50/   0.80/  0.70/  0.6/  0.49/  20/    2/     2%.
nvestment and recurrent
costs as a % of the increase
of MOH expenditures             18/    110/  1 8/  1 6   140/   80    580/   560/   55%
- 121 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
Annex 5
Financial Summary
US$'000
Implementation Period
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Phase I Year 4   Year 5  Phase 2 Year 6   Year 7  Phase 3  Progrta
Total Financing Required           11,676  51,374  72,365  135,414 124,013 118,636 242,650 107,894 64,042    171,936 550,000
Investment Costs
11,430  26,579  35,213  73,221  65,471   62,497  127,968 57,047   33,813  90,861   292,050
Recurrent Cost
245,000 24,795  37,152  62,193   58,543  56,139  114,682 50,847   30,229  81,075   257,950
Total Project Cost (*)
11,676  51,374  72,365  135,414 124,013 118,636 242,650 107,894 64,042    171,936 550,000
Front-End Fee (1%)         58,000                  677
Total Project Financing (Ist Phase)
11,675  51,374  72,365  136,091
_   25%                      44%                      31%
All costs include contingencies.
Operational Period
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Phase I Year 4   Year 5   Phase 2 Year 6  Year 7  Phase 3 Troam
Financing (*)                      12,353  51,374  72,365  136,091  124,013 118,636 378,741  107,894 64,042  550,677 1,065,509
IBRD
10,722  24,711  32,951  68,384   62,007  59,318  121,325 53,947   32,021  85,968   275,677
Government of Brazil
1,631   26,663  39,414  67,707   62,007  59,318  121,325 53,947   32,021  85,968   275,000
Central
1,631   26,663  39,414  67,707   62,007  59,318  242,650 53,947   32,021  171,936
State
Municipalities
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Others
Total Program Costs
12,353   1,374  72365   136,091 124,013  118,636 242,650 107,894 64,042    171,936 550,677
25%                       69%                     100%
* All costs include contingencies.
- 122-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
Procurement
1. Procurement Arrangements
1.1   Summary of the Procurement Arrangements. The procurement that will be required under the
Project will consist of workshops, training, hiring of consultants, the acquisition of medical equipment,
furniture, and information technology, and payment of the salaries of community agents and professional
staff performing activities under the Basic Care and Family Health Program. For the Basic and Family
Health Conversion Subprojects (Conversion Subprojects) in Component 1 (which will be implemented by
municipalities), the following arrangements will apply: (i) the procurement of smaller packages of goods
and works (below defined thresholds: see Table A2 and A3 below) will follow the procurement procedures
of the local law, which is compatible with Section I of the Guidelines (see below); (ii) procurement of large
packages of goods (which will follow ICB procedures) will follow Bank guidelines; and (iii) procurement
of local and international consultant services will follow the Bank's procurement and consultants'
guidelines with the following selection methods: consulting assignments over $100,000 will folllow QCBS
procedures, assignments below $100,000 may follow direct contracting procedures, health teams may be
hired under 3.19 of the Guidelines, and contracts for individuals below $50,000 are also permitted. For
Components 2, 3, and 4, which will be implemented at the central level, all the procurement activities will
be in accordance to the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits (January 1995,
revised January and August 1996, and September 1997) and the Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999).
1.2   National Procurement Environment. The Government of Brazil and the World Bank have recently
completed the first stage of a study on government procurement in Brazil and have concluded that the legal
framework and implementation are generally acceptable and guarantee adequate transparency. Moreover,
at the federal level, modern procurement techniques such as electronic purchasing (pregdo eletronico) and
the registro de precos are used that appear to be economic and efficient, and this Project is likely to benefit
from the use of such methods at the municipal level.
1.3    Use of National Procurement Rules under the Subprojects Pool. Given that the Bank has found
local procurement procedures acceptable and to allow for the use of pooled funds, the Bank will accept the
use of the procurement procedures as set forth in Brazil's national law for the NCB and for the
procurement of goods and works under Conversion Subprojects as approved in the procurement plans
presented by the participating municipalities. Using the local rules for this limited procurement will
minimize any mistakes that might be made by the participating municipalities. This measure was taken
because the national rules for limited procurement are consistent with the principles of economy, efficiency,
equal opportunity, and transparency set forth in the Bank's Guidelines. In addition, this is the only way to
allow the proposed pooling of Bank and government funds.
1.4   National Procurement Rules. The procurement methods set out under Brazil's Bidding and
contracting Law 8.666 (June 21, 1993), its amendments and other related laws are summarized as follows.
Concorrencia Publica involves public bidding open to all suppliers with no restriction on the participation
of foreign firms. The procedure follows a two- or three-envelope system where the qualification of bidders
- 123 -



is established at the beginning of the process, and only the envelopes comprising the proposals of the
qualifying bidders are opened and compared. The award is then made to the qualifying bidder with the
lowest price. Tomada de Pre,os involves public bidding open to all suppliers who previously registered
with the purchaser. The procedures follow the same steps as in the Concorrencia Publica except that the
time interval for the submission of bids is 15 days from the IFB instead of 30 days. New suppliers may
submit applications to the purchaser's register up to 72 hours before the deadline for the submission of
bids. The Convite is the same as the Tomada de Pre,os except that the purchaser invites at least three
suppliers to bid but other interested bidders, who may learn about the contract from the posting of the
invitation (convite), can register up to 24 hours before the deadline for submitting bids. Concurso involves
public bidding for hiring consultants through advertisements and that allows 45 days to submit a bid.
Dispensa de Licita,do allows direct contracting justified on the basis of 24 different situations listed in the
law, including works, other services, and goods costing up to 10 percent of the relevant threshold
established for the Concorrencia Publica. Additionally, there are two more national laws, one related to
the procurement of health inputs, the other allowing the municipalities to use "registro de pre~os " in cases
where prices have been obtained in a previous competitive bidding without requirements for a new bidding.
As mentioned above, the Bank has assessed the way in which these national rules are applied and is
satisfied that they comply with the criteria of open and equal opportunity and transparency.
1.5   Procurement Responsibility. There will be three levels of implementing agencies. At the central
level, the Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto (PCU) of the Ministry of Health will hire consultants and
procure larger packages of goods. It will subcontract training institutions, known as Institucoes Polo (IP)
under Component 2 and the other qualified entities, such as research institutions, needed for implementation
of Components 3. Under Component 4, the Borrower may also hire agencies to facilitate procurement
processes. The municipalities participating in Component 1 will carry procurement activities using the
methods established in the national procurement rules (for non-ICB goods and works). The Institu,ces
Polo, contracted through Component 2, will hire individuals and subcontract services (renting of facilities
and transport and paying fees and per diem for participants) using administrative procedures defined in the
Operational Manual (OM). The PCU will be responsible for overall procurement activity under the Project,
including compliance with procedures and timetables agreed with the Bank.
1.6   Procurement Implementing Capacity. The Bank has a Country Procurement Assessment (CPAR)
for Brazil dated 1993, and it is currently preparing a new CPAR in collaboration with the Brazilian federal
authorities. The preliminary results of this review indicate that the judicial protests or recurso continue to
cause major delays in government procurement. Another finding indicates that the use of COMPRASNET
and of E-purchasing (pregao eletronico) and other modern procurement methods will make government
procurement more efficient and transparent. The Bank has completed a capacity assessment of the PCU
and has developed an action plan for its improvement. There is no need to carry out a capacity assessment
of the Institu,ces Polo (IP), as they will be subcontractors for the Ministry of Health in carrying out
training activities. Under the Conversion Subprojects, the Ministry of Health, through the PCU, will be
responsible for upstream, procurement-related activities, including assessing the implementing capacity of
the participants, preparing and reviewing procurement plans, developing and monitoring improvement
action plans, justifying risk classification, coordinating procurement reviews, and preparing management
reports on compliance and prior review activities. In order to discharge these responsibilities, the PCU will
organize a procurement team consisting of at least one senior procurement specialist and one junior
procurement specialist, both of whom should be already familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
This team will assess the implementing capacity of the selected municipalities and determine the level of
risk involved in the case of each beneficiary municipality using a methodology acceptable to the Bank. The
team will prepare the procurement section of the Project's various directives and of its operational manual.
The team and its support staff will participate in a workshop focused on ensuring that the participating
- 124-



municipalities will follow the procurement arrangements set forth in the Loan Agreement. The workshop
will focus on the Bank's procurement policy and procedures and how they apply to the procurement
arrangements planned for the Project.
1.7   Procurement Plan and Plan of Action. The Conversion Subprojects of Component 1 consist of
the conversion plans and the activities financed through the other two grant transfers for the Basic Care
(PABfixed) and the Family Health (PABfam) Programs. The procurement plan for each participating
municipality will consist of three elements that relate only to the sub-pool: (i) activities specified in the
conversion plans; (ii) activities financed through PABfixed; and (iii) activities financed through
PABfam.The procurement plan describes the actions that will trigger disbursements, how procurement
methods should be chosen, and the level of prior review and the performance indicators to be achieved (see
par. 1.22). The PCU prepared an overall procurement plan for the tasks to be carried out during the
Project's implementation. This plan was discussed during the appraisal phase and will be used as a model
for the Project's implementation. This model procurement plan will be included in the Operational Manual
and in other toolkits and instructions on the preparation of the Conversion Subprojects by the
municipalities. The procurement plans of the selected municipalities will form part of the Conversion
Subprojects and will be assessed by the PCU and reviewed by the Bank in order to confirm the prior
review processes. This overall procurement plan was approved by the RPA's office and is in the project
files. It consists of: (i) contract packaging, applicable procedures, and process scheduling; (ii) a plan for
selecting consultants, including contract packaging, applicable procedures, short lists and selection criteria;
and (iii) details of the other pool transfers part of the program. The procurement plan and the consultant
selection plan will be updated every six months. A model plan with similar content will be included in the
Operational Manual, and the participating municipalities will use this model to present the procurement
plan contained in the Conversion Subprojects. The Bank will biannually review each procurement plan
and plan of action and assess the risk level of the municipalities participating in the Conversion
Subprojects. Based on these reviews the Bank, in coordination with the PCU, will upgrade and downgrade
their risk classification (see Para. 1.19 & Table A.3) accordingly. Depending upon their risk classification,
participating municipalities may be required to improve their procurement performance.
1.8    Confirmation of the Plans for Participating Municipalities. The Bank will review on a biannual
basis the procurement plan and plan for selecting consultants, and confirm its approval of the procurement
and financial risk classification of each participating municipality.
1.9   Methods for Bank-financed Procurement.    For the centrally implemented components
(Components 2, 3, and 4), the Bank-financed procurement will be carried out in accordance with provisions
stipulated in the Loan Agreement and in the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (published in January
1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) for the supply of goods and
the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants (published in January 1997, revised
in September 1997 and January 1999) for technical assistance and other consultant assignments. The
Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Standard Request for Proposals will govern the procurement of
Bank-financed ICB goods and consultant services respectively. The same rules will apply to ICB
procurement and to large contracts with consultant firms as identified in the procurement plans of the
participating municipalities. For the NCB's procurement of goods, the PCU will use the model standard
bidding document issued by SEAIN in November 2000. The pregdo and the electronic pregdo established
by the federal government will be used as alternatives to the NCB for selected items for which customized
designs are not required or for off-the-shelf items and as an alternative to shopping. The procurement
arrangements for each component are summarized in Table Al below.
- 125-



1.10  Bank-financed Goods. The Project will finance medical and non-medical equipment, information
and communications systems, vehicles and furniture. Tables A.2 and A.3 present the procurement methods
to be followed for goods according to municipal risk classification. If the Bank's capacity assessment
establishes that the municipality is low risk (a Type A municipality), it will be allowed higher thresholds
for selecting its procurement method, and will be subject to less prior review by the PCU. Conversely, if the
municipality is classified as high risk (Type C), its thresholds will be lower and its prior review by the PCU
will be more intensive. The initial risk grading of the participating municipalities will be subject to review
(upgrade or downgrade) depending upon their performance as monitored by the PCU. Given that all of the
participating municipalities cannot be known before the onset of the Project (as their participation will
depend upon the application of the selection criteria), no aggregate amounts can be set for the less
competitive procedures to be used by the municipal implementing agencies at this stage. The PCU will
produce summary reports that aggregate the amounts when defining the procurement arrangements under
the next APL phases. Under Components 2, 3 and 4, the PCU will carry out the NCB's procurement on
contracts estimated to cost less than US$300,000 (in an aggregate amount of US$750,000) and shopping
on contracts that do not exceed US$100,000 each (in an aggregate amount of US$1,000,000). Table A2
below describes in detail the proposed thresholds for the procurement of goods and for prior review.
1.11  Bank-financed Works. The works in the Project include small-scale rehabilitation of existing
health installations that the participating municipalities will subcontract directly to contractors when the
individual contracts do not exceed US$50,000. When no such contractors are available in the participating
municipalities, they will select a contractor from outside the local area on the basis of national regulations
as explained above. This type of investment will be specified in the procurement plans contained in the
Conversion Plans presented by the participating municipalities during the Project's implementation. No
procurement of works is anticipated under Components 2-4.
1.12  Bank-financed Consultant Services. The Project will finance consultant services and training up
to an estimated total cost of about US$43 million. Single-sourcing will total $6.2 million and will involve
the hiring of the Institucoes Polo (IP) and other research management entities. IPs will play an important
role as providers of training in the selected municipalities. Most of the IPs were selected competitively
under Ln-4047-BR. Because there would be no particular advantage in replacing the IPs, the existing IPs
will be re-hired on a sole source basis under a new commercial contract based on the lump-sum standard
form of contract with each contract not to exceed US$250,000. The other single-sourcing will involve the
hiring of research management entities up to an aggregate of US$1.2 million. The Project's consultants will
be selected and employed under arrangements acceptable to the Bank, using the Bank's Standard Forms
and Contracts. Most of the Project's studies under Components 2-3, the supervision of its implementation,
and its financial and procurement reviews will be carried out according to Quality and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) methods, Quality-Based Selection (QBS) [for research institutions] and individual
consultants, as detailed in Table A3 below. Some of the consultants under Components 2, 3, and 4 will be
hired by selected qualified entities following the Bank's Guidelines and certain regulations established by
presidential decree in February 2001 requiring the advertisement of individual assignments in order to make
the selection of individual consultants more transparent.
1.13  Hiring of Basic Care and Family Health PersonneL Under the Conversion Subprojects, the Bank
will contribute to the financing of activities related to the implementation of Basic Care and Family Health
Programs in the participating municipalities as part of the pooling arrangements. These activities include
compensation (salaries or honoraria) of the technical and professional staff performing activities related to
the organization, supervision, and provision of Basic Care and Family Health Services. The municipalities
will subcontract and pay these workers under several types of contracts, as required by local law.
- 126 -



Independently of the contracting methodology (service regime), these workers should be chosen according
to a competitive process as specified in the national legal regulations, and consistent with Bank Guidelines.
The hiring of these staff will be governed by local regulations for small service assignments reviewed by
and found acceptable by the Bank pursuant to para. 3.19 of the Consultants Guidelines. All contracts for
salaried workers would be financed as incremental operating costs in the Conversion Subprojects
Subproject category while consultants' contracts would be financed as "services" in the same category. All
other consultant contracts will be awarded following the Consultants Guidelines with the following
selection methods: consulting assignments over $100,000 will follow QCBS procedures and assignments
below $100,000 may follow direct contracting procedures.
1.14  Procurement Review and Methods. The Bank's procurement review will be carried out in
accordance with Appendix I of the Guidelines for Procurement. With respect to the participating
municipalities, the PCU will confirm the exact prior review process during its review of the procurement
plan that will be prepared by each municipality, reviewed by the PCU, and confirmed by the Bank. The
review levels should not differ substantially from those established in the Operational Manual, but the PCU
will consider clearly justified variations during the implementation of the Project with the agreement with
the Bank. All ICB will be subject to the Bank's prior review, irrespective of the estimated amount of its
contract. PCU will prior review all stages of these procedures in the case of smaller procurement activities.
Given that the local law will provide the basis for these smaller procurement activities, including those
operational costs under the national Basic Care services and Family Health Programs, the Bank will not
prior review those actions. These will be subject to independent procurement reviews and to ex-post review
by the Bank. With regard to consultant services, before participating municipalities issue any requests for
proposals, they should prepare a complete plan governing the selection of consultants under the Project as
part of the Plano de Conversao. This plan will be reviewed by the PCU and confirrned by the Bank. The
Bank will review the selection of consultants in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The Bank will prior
review larger procurement activities estimated to cost more than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals. The Bank will also be informed by the MOH about the terms and conditions of the sole
sourced institutions including IPs or other qualified national or international entities whose fees are not paid
out of the Loan proceeds. A review process similar to that for individual consultants will apply to training
and workshops. Since the participating municipalities will not be known until the application of the
selection criteria, no aggregate amounts have been estimated for less competitive procedures to be used by
the municipal implementing agencies.
-127-



Procurement methods (Table A)
TABLE A 1: SUMMAR Y OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category
[CB    NCB    Other   NBF    Total Cost
1. Goods                                  2.6    0.7     1.0    0.0        4.4
(2.4)  (0.5)   (0.9)  (0.0)      (3.8)
2 Consultant Services                    0.0    0.0    35.3     0.0       35.3
(0.0)  (0.0)  (30.3)   (0.0)     (30.3)
3. Training                               0.0    0.0     7.7     0.0        7.7
(0.0)  (0.0)   (6.6)  (0.0)      (6.6)
4.  Grant Transfers (eligible works, goods,
onsulting services and incremental operation
costs for Conversion Subprojects)         6.3    14.8   66.1     0.0       87.2
(1.9)  (4.4)  (19.8)   (0.0)     (26.2)
5. Incremental Operating Costs of PCU     0.0    0.0     0.8     0.2        0.9
(0.0)  (0.0)   (0.4)  (0.0)       0.4
6. Front-End Fee (1%)                     0.0    0.0     0.7    (0.0)       0.7
(0.0)  (0.0)   (0.7)  (0.0)       (0.7)
Total:                                    10.1  15.3    110.5    0.2       136.1
(5.2)  (4.9)  (57.8)   (0.0)     (68.0)
NBF. Amounts not financed by the IBRD
Figures may be rounded Costs include all contingencies.
TABLE A.2: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review of Goods
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
Type A    >400k    All             All ICB           Procurement audit
as may be needed;
regular supervision
and ex-post review
Type B    >350k    All ICB;        All ICB           One        annual
procurement
review;   regular
supervision and ex-
post review
Type C    >250k    All ICB;        All ICB           Annual
procurement
reviews;  regular
supervision and ex-
post review
UGP       >350k                    All ICB:          No    procurement
reviews;  regular
supervision and ex-
post review
- 128-



Table A.3: Prior Review of Consultant Services
(in US$ thousand equivalent)
QBCS             QBS              Single Sourcing      Other
Conversion
Subprojects
A. Firns                   All                          Prior review through
procurement plans (1)
B. Individuals
PCU Hiring
A. Firms                    All            >100k              >100k
B. Individuals                                                               >50k--full review (2)
<50k--terms of
reference
C. IP and others                                              All(3)
(1) Four contracts of less than $1 00k.
(2) Includes qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment.
(3) The re-hiring of the 31 Instituc6es Polo and the hiring of research management entities for an aggregate amount of $6.2 million for contracts of
less than $250k.
1.15   Methods for Non-Bank-financed Procurement. It is expected that the PCU will subcontract the
hiring of individual consultants through one or several qualified entity under a PRODOC document based
on a Management Agreement and Checklist approved by the Bank.
1.16   Advertising. A General Procurement Notice advertising the need for consultant services and for
the ICB's goods and consultant services should be published in United Nations Development Business no
later than March 2002. The Notice will be updated annually to advertise for outstanding consultant
services and ICB goods as specified in the approved Planos de Conversdo. In addition, detailed consultant
services and assignments will be advertised, as they become necessary in at least one national newspaper
with a large circulation and on the web page of United Nations Development Business. Furthermore, the
implementing agencies may also advertise some of the Project's studies in international newspapers or
technical magazines.
1.17    Procurement Records. The PCU will maintain detailed procurement records, reflecting the
Project's supply of goods, works, and consultant services, including records of time taken to complete key
steps in the process and procurement activities related to supervision, review, and audits. These records
will be maintained for at least two years after the Project's closing date. The records for goods and works
will include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening information, bid evaluation
reports, formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related addenda and amendments,
records on claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful information. The records for consultant
services will include public notices for expression of interest, requests for proposals and addenda, technical
and financial reports, formal appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and
amendments, records on claims and dispute resolutions, and any other useful information. The participating
municipalities will retain all of the bidding documents used, invoices, price comparisons, bids received, bid
evaluation reports, and all of the documentation required under the law and ensure that it is readily
available. The audit and procurement post-review supervision by the Bank and by government institutions
is particularly important because of the pooled funds for the Conversion Subprojects, which would follow
the norrnal flow of funds from the federal government to the municipalities. The filing, record keeping,
- 129 -



auditing, reporting, post-review, and monitoring of the smaller procurement activities are crucial for the
successful application of the funds and will be better performed under the national procurement rules that
the Bank has deemed adequate for ensuring economy, efficiency, and transparency.
1.18   Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: The Bank will carry ex-post reviews
through an annual supervision mission on procurement. The PCU and the Bank, including procurement and
financial management staff, will meet biannually to discuss the classification of Municipalities, to review
their procurement and action plans and to carry out the ex-post review. The Bank's project supervision
will retain a part time local implementation officer that would review procurement reports and will carry
out procurement reviews in the participating municipalities.
1.19   Procurement Reviews. In order to ensure compliance with the national procurement rules, the
participating municipalities will be subject to independent procurement reviews as often as is determined by
their risk classification (See Table A.2 above). The reviews will focus on the smaller procurement
activities, including the NCB, but will also review other procurement by the municipalities, including ICB,
hiring of consultants, progress on the implementing capacity action plan, and the terms and conditions of
the field staff for the Conversion Subprojects . The PCU will provide the Bank with procurement records
reviewed by independent procurement experts who are acceptable to the Bank no later than six months after
the end of each year or in accordance with Table A2 above. The terms of reference for the independent
procurement reviews will be in accordance with internationally accepted standards, and specified in the
Operatinal Manual.
1.20   Procurement Risk Assessment. The Ministry of Health has well-established implementing
agencies; thus, the PCU will benefit from the expertise of staff from the existing agencies. A risk level will
be accorded to each of the participating municipalities based on a self-assessment by the municipality and a
review by qualified staff at the PCU (see Table A.4 below). The Bank will confirm the resulting estimate of
risk in each case. Based on this approach, the PCU will prepare a capacity assessment for each
participating municipality before any disbursement is made under the Conversion Subprojects. The PCU
has been trained in the use of the Bank's toolkit for determining the procurement implementing capacity
and assessing risk. The Bank's standard capacity assessment includes interviews and tests covering about
50 items. The items are activities or resources available in the unit that performs the procurement
processing. These include filing, ethics, organization, staff, remuneration, codes, and manuals. The PCU
will be using the same questionnaire and methodology used by the Bank in classifying the risk of the
participating municipalities. Four or more items classified as High Risk will result in the municipality being
given a High Risk classification. Two or three items classified as High Risk will give it an Average Risk
classification. One or no items classified as High Risk will give it a Low Risk classification. If the
municipality has five or more High Risk items in the capacity assessment, it will not be eligible for a
Conversion Subproject, and will receive a D rating. The estimate is that about 50 percent, 25 percent, and
25 percent of municipalities will be classified as respectively average, high, and low risk. According to this
classification, the assessed the PCU's risk as average provided that it implements the action plan in the
project files. The capacity assessment of the PCU as well as the action plan for improving its procurement
capacity includes providing office and filing space, hiring specialized staff, and maintaining an information
system.
- 130-



Table A.4: Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Risk Rating   Type of Agency  Expected % of Municipalities in
each Risk Rating
Low           Type A          25%
Average       Type B          50%
High          Type C          25%
Ineligible    Type D          _
1.21   Remedies and Performance Indicators. The greatest risk involved in pooling resources is that the
Bank will largely be unable to track the use of its share of the pooled money all the way to the final
supplier and contractor. In order to minimize this risk, the Conversion Subprojects will build on the
existing Ministry of Health rules governing the transfer of funds, including control, supervision, auditing
and reporting, as the Bank believes that these rules are competent and robust. To complement these
measures, MOH has agreed to:
*  Classify the implementing risk of the participating municipalities using the same methodology used by
the Bank to assess its clients. This methodology was tested in three municipalities during the Project's
appraisal phase.
*  Hire a procurement expert to assess the implementing capacity of participating municipalities, classify
its risk, and monitor its action plan for improving its capacity.
*  Present the Bank with these assessments together with the recommendations of risk and the
procurement plan for each participating municipality. The Bank will formally approve those documents
in periodic review meetings.
*  Supervise the performance of the municipalities through visits and reporting tasks. If the MOH detects
changes in the elements that determined the municipality's initial risk classification, then it will propose
to upgrade or downgrade that classification. Monitor how the municipalities are implementing their
procurement responsibilities and identify any non-compliance with agreed performance indicators (see
below).
1.22   Misprocurement. The MOH will declare that misprocurement has occurred when any contract
has not been handled in accordance with the agreed procedures in the Loan Agreement. Consequently, any
contract subject to the Bank's procurement or consultant guidelines that violates those guidelines will be
declared misprocured, and the Bank will cancel the portion of the Loan that is allocated to the contract.
Under the Conversion Subprojects , in the case of smaller procurement activities that are subject to local
procedures, misprocurement will consist of a failure to award the contract to the lowest evaluated bidder, a
lack of records or information pertaining to the bidding and award, the disqualification of the lowest priced
bid without a sound reason, deviations from the approved procurement plan without prior approval, and
impeding audits or ex-post reviews.
1.23   Performance Indicators. The Bank will monitor and evaluate the procurement activities under the
Project using three performance indicators. The participating municipalities will be excluded from the APL
2 if they exceed the following parameters:
- 131 -



(a)  No more than 30% of contracting activities in which awarded contracts are subject to judicial
challenge regarding procurement in the first year; no more than 20% in the second year.
(b) No more than 3 injunctions (liminares) suspending procurement processes during the Project
implementation;
(c)  No more than two declared misprocurement actions during the Project implementation. In the local
procedures misprocurement will include: failure to award to then lowest evaluated bidder; lack of
records and information pertaining the bidding and award; disqualification of lowest price without a
sound reason; and deviations from the approved procurement plan without prior PCU and Bank
approval; and
(d)  No more than one downgrade on the procurement risk classification during project implementation.
2. Financial Management Arrangements
2.1    Brazil's Financial Management System as Applied to PARB Transfers. Brazil has a well-developed
and centralized system of public financial management. A well functioning centralized budget information
system SIDOR (Sistema Integrado de Dados Orcamentarios) is used by MOP (Ministerio do Planejamento
Orcamento e Gestao) to develop the national budget and to monitor its implementation. The actual
execution of the budget in terms of making cash payments, monitoring cash flows, and preparing financial
statements is done by a centralized financial management information system SIAFI (Sistema Integrado de
Administracao Financeira) operated by STN (Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional). There is a high level of
fiscal transparency, which is reflected in the public availability of budget documents, laws, budget
monitoring reports, and the public accounts. Two major audit, institutions, the Court of Accounts of the
TCU (Tribunal de Contas da Uniao) which reports to the Congress, and the Secretariat of Internal Control
of the SFC (Secretaria Federal de Controle Intemo) which reports to the Ministry of Finance, are
professional in their approach, have adequate operational independence from political interference, and
have the power to monitor the transfers from the MOH through to municipalities.
2.2    PAB transfers from the National Health Fund (FNS) to the municipalities follow the same financial
management norms and procedures as all of the other federal programs implemented at the state or local
level by any of the Ministries. The federal financial management system with respect to planning,
budgeting, financial administration, accounting, and internal controls is organized basically within three
secretariats in two ministries as follows:
* The Federal Planning and Budgetary System (SFPO - Sistema Federal de Planejamento e Orcamento)
administered by the Ministry of Planning
* The Federal Financial Administration System, administered by Treasury Secretariat (STN) in the
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
* The Federal Accounting System (SLAFI), administered by STN
* The Federal Internal Control System (SCI-Sistema de Controle Intemo) administered by SFC.
2.3    The MOH is responsible for preparing and executing its budget, which includes the PABtransfers.
The budget is prepared using SIDOR, and all budget data are centralized and consolidated by the Federal
Budget Secretariat (SOF-Secretaria de Orcamento Federal) together with the data from other spending
ministries. The SOF is responsible for formulating the annual federal budget proposal and progranmming its
execution once it is approved by Congress. The STN is responsible for controlling and accounting for
budget execution in terms of cash receipts and payments and for the financial programming needed for this,
- 132 -



as well as for preparing the financial statements. It uses the SIAFI central accounting system for these
purposes.
2.4    The Budget execution decree issued jointly by the SOF and STN provides for monthly cash
releases to the MOH based on forecasts of cash receipts and payments by the STN. This is designed to
ensure (a) the timely release of funds to administrative units to carry out their work and (b) the maintenance
of a balance between revenues and expenditure during the year. Overall responsibility for the release of
funds to the MOH on basis of the budget implementation plan rests with the STN. The STN transfers funds
directly from the single Treasury account maintained at Banco do Brasil to the FNS.
2.5    Responsibility for GOB accounting, reporting and cash management also falls under the STN,
which uses the SIAFI to perform these functions. The SIAFI is centralized and operates through an
extensive telecommunications network connected to the spending units of all agencies of the Federal
Administration. The SIAFI is used from the registration of the initial budget to the issue of monthly and
annual reports. The SIAFI (i) financial programs and implements the Budget, (ii) centrally processes and
records all budget payments, (iii) controls the implementation of the budget, (iv) produces the accounting
statements and reports required by different management levels, (v) maintains and manages the single
treasury account, and (vi) provides access and reporting services to financial managers of administrative
units.
2.6    For projects financed by the World Bank, the STN is responsible for maintaining the Special
Accounts in US dollars, distributing funds to the implementing ministries for making eligible expenditures,
reconciling the Special Account, and reviewing Statement of Expenditures and disbursement applications
prior to their final submission to the Bank. The MOH is responsible for ensuring that project accounting
information is given to the SIAFI on a timely basis, as the projects do not have a direct connection to the
system.
2.7    The SFC carries out audits of the PAB transfers on a regular basis. These transfers are also
subject to audit by the TCU at any time.
2.8    Financial Management Assessment. As required by OP/BP 10.02, a CMU Financial Management
Specialist carried out a financial management assessment during the Project's pre-appraisal phase.
Subsequently, in view of the Project's innovative financing and disbursement arrangements, a Senior
Financial Management Specialist from Bank Headquarters joined the CMU FMS to complete the FM
Assessment. The CMU Disbursement Analyst also provided guidance in matters within her competence.
2.9    The assessment was carried out on site at the SPS (Secretaria de Politicas de Saude), with the
Project Implementing Unit or Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto (PCU), their
Financial/Administrative team, and related Health Ministry representatives during the Bank's pre-appraisal
mission from September 24th to October 5th 2001 and its appraisal mission from November 12th to 16th
2001. The assessment involved discussions with the PCU, the SPS, and financial staff members, a review
of the financial systems to be used for project accounting, financial administration, controlling, and
reporting, and the intemal controls and administration procedures to be implemented to control and monitor
the Project's execution and audit arrangements.
2.10   Executive Summary. The overall conclusion of this FM Team was that, under the management of
the PCU, the Project would be able to maintain financial management arrangements compatible with
present Bank requirements in this regard. An action plan is presented,summarizing the Bank's agreements
with the PCU on the standards to be met by the financial statements in the PMR format and the time frame
- 133 -



for their submission after being certified by the auditors (the SFC). The borrower is the Federal
Government of Brazil, and, as per the Risk Assessment Matrix below, no major risks were identified that
would require special recommendations or actions other than those that were already in place and/or were
included in the action plan as per paragraph 2.30 below.
2.11   Summary of Project Financial Management Arrangements. The administration of the Project will
be decentralized to participating municipalities in Component 1 but will be centralized at the PCU (
Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto) in Components 2, 3, and 4. The PCU will be located in the Health
Policies Secretariat (SPS). For Component 1, funds will be transferred up to 40 municipalities (for APL
Phase I) to support the transitional costs of converting from traditional, facility-based care to a proactive,
outreach model of care in the Conversion Subprojects. Each municipality will be responsible for
implementing the subproject, including procuring goods and services. The PCU will supervise their
activities and require that the municipalities maintain appropriate financial management arrangements and
provide timely reporting on the financial and physical implementation of the Project to ensure
accountability and good governance.
2.12   In view of the wide variety of different characteristics of the municipalities that will be
implementing Component 1, the team developed a methodology to properly control and monitor the funds
financed by the Bank. This methodology classifies the implementing agencies by risk level based on their
existing management capacity. The classification consists of three levels: Level A means low-risk, Level B
means medium--risk, and Level C means high-risk. There will be also a fourth category, Level D meaning
not eligible, for those candidate agencies that clearly will not be able to fulfill the minimum financial
management requirements during the first phase of the project. (A municipality will not be eligible for
Conversion Subprojects if it is classified as Type D risk for either procurement or Financial management.
The municipalities will be classified on the basis of criteria established by the MOH and by the Bank and
according to assessments conducted by PCU staff and reviewed by the Bank. The Project's Operational
Manual will include the guidelines for assessing the financial management capacity of the municipalities.
These guidelines will encompass all of the financial administrative procedures and controls required for the
sound financial management of the Conversion Subprojects and will follow the principles established in the
Guidelines to Staff on Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-Financed
Projects issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June 30 2001.
2.13   The level and detail of the internal controls and procedures to be established for each implementing
agency as well as the frequency of follow-up reports, the scope of audits, and the preconditions for
transferring funds will depend on the relevant risk grading. Considering the multiple systems and
procedures used by the MOH to control the transfers from FNS, PCU's monitoring of the implementing
agencies will be permanent and constant, thus allowing them to change a municipality's risk level according
to its performance. The PCU Financial Manager and a World Bank FMS will make joint field visits to
selected municipalities to test the risk assessment instrument. Because of the direct financing of
municipalities under Component 1 of this Project, the Bank will work closely with the PCU to supervise
municipalities in their efforts to enhance their financial management systems.
2.14   Table B presents the various control procedures for the executing agencies according to each
respective risk level.
- 134-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B
Control Procedures by Risk Classification
PCU              Type A           Type B           Type C
Low Risk       Medium Risk       High Risk
FMR                     Quarterly
with full expenditure
documentation,
including Bank
account
reconciliation
FM Inspection visits                      Annually        Biannually       Quarterly
by PCU
FMBank's             Minimum of bi    Minimum of three  Minimum of four   Minimum of
Supervision            annual visits  Municipalities once  Municipalities    three
Missions                                during project,   once during    Municipalities
when          project, when     per year
approximately 50%  approximately
completed      30% completed
Internal audit by       Armually          Annually         Annually        Annually
MOH
Annually          Annually         Annually         Annually
Independent Audit
by SFC
A municipality will not be eligible for Conversion Subprojects if it is classified as Type D risk for either procurement or
financial management.
2.15   Country Issues. According to preliminary conclusions of Brazil's CFAA: "Brazil has a well
developed and centralized system of public financial management. Overall it is able to reliably track
budget expenditures. However the institutional arrangements and processes are complex. While they
achieve good results in terms of aggregate fiscal control, they are less successful in achieving good
expenditure prioritization and operational efficiency. " Brazil's public financial management system yields
reliable information and adequate management and tracking of the receipt and use of funds at the national
level and is well able to support Bank's lending programs. The issues that could affect the Project's
financial management system and/or the fiduciary responsibilities of the implementing agencies are
manageable.
2.16   Risk Analysis. A detailed risk assessment questionnaire has been completed by the FMS based on
sample observations and is in the Project files together with the financial management assessment working
papers. No major risks were identified as presented in Table B 1 below, except for eventual potential
- 135-



weaknesses in the financial management arrangements of some municipalities which do not have adequate
financial management systems in place as described in paragraph 2.19.
Table B1
Risk Assessment Matrix
Risk                       H      S    M    N    Comments
Inherent risk_
* Country specific                   X          See comments above.
* Entity specific                    X          Good  experience  with  projects
financed by the Bank.
* Project specific              X               Weak     financial  management
capabilities of some municipalities.
Control risk
1. Implementing Entity               X          Good  experience  with  projects
financed by the Bank.
2. Funds Flow                        X
3. Staffing                          X          Only personnel with well proven
experience will be hired.
4. Accounting Policies and                 X
Procedures
5. Internal Audit                    X
6. External Audit                    X          SFC.
7. Reporting and Monitoring   _      X          Integrated with accounting system.
8. Information Systems               X          Vigisus system will be used.
H - High   S - Substantial   M - Moderate    N - Negligible or Low
2.17   The PCU, a unit within the SPS, will be a well-structured entity with adequate personnel to
implement and manage the project. A well-proven accounting/monitoring system will be used, and some
adaptations will be made that are included in the action plan to further enhance its efficiency. At the PCU
level, the Bank considers that the risks related to the financial administration of the Project are acceptable,
and it requires no other additional control procedures other than those that already exist or that will be
implemented as agreed during the appraisal mission. As for the decentralized executing agencies, their risk
levels will be assessed individually as explained in paragraph 2.6 above.
2.18   Strengths and Weaknesses. The Project is likely to benefit greatly from a financial management
point of view from: (a) the experience of the MOH and the PCU in implementing and managing
Bank-financed projects, with good results; (b) only staff with well-proven experience will be hired to work
for the PCU; and (c) the FM system to be used is a system developed by the MOH's IT Department, which
is currently being used in the VIGISUS project and which was assessed and approved by the Bank for
PMR-based disbursement.   The FM   system  is related to the government's Integrated Financial
Management System (SIAFI), and the information in the one system has to be consistent and reconcilable
with the information in the other system. The Bank's Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) for Brazil, soon to be released, indicates that: "there is a well-established legal framework for the
development, implementation, and monitoring of the budget, starting with the Constitutional provisions
concerning financial management generally, the multi-year National Plan (PPA), each year's Budget
Guidance Law (LDO) and Annual Budget Law (LOA), along with the Law on Fiscal Responsibility
(LFR). These legal provisions are observed."
- 136-



2.19   One potential weakness of the Project, from a financial management perspective, may result from
the fact that it will directly allocate resources to the municipalities. These bodies vary widely in terms of
their management skills, existing capacity, and financial administration systems. This situation is being
addressed by means of the risk assessment to be performed in each municipality that will result in it being
given a risk classification as described above. The Project's financial/administrative manual will establish
adequate remedies for each municipality according to its risk classification. Three major remedies and
preventive actions are applicable: (i) different control procedures for type A, B, and C executing agencies
as shown in paragraph 2.8 above; (ii) the suspension of fund transfers by MOH to executing agencies that
do not comply with timely reporting requirements, as described in paragraphs 2.15 - 2.19 below (Flow of
Funds, Component 1); (iii) independent audits to be done in all of the participating municipalities under
Component 1; and (iv) the use of financial management performance indicators as described in paragraph
2.29 below, which will trigger the exclusion of any under-performing municipality from Phase 2 of the
project. In addition, if a municipality is found to have made any ineligible expenditures, these must either
be substituted for by other eligible expenditures that are appropriately documented or the municipality must
refund 30 percent of their total cost to the Bank at the yearly review of auditor's report. In case a
misappropriation of funds occurs in any given municipality, the municipality must return a corresponding
amount to the FNS, and further transfers will be suspended until the municipality has taken adequate action
to correct any weakness in its intemal control system.
2.20   Implementing Entity and Staffing. The PCU will be organized within the SPS, and its staff will
be recruited from among the staff of the SPS. Technicians will be contracted for specific tasks within the
Project. The PCU will have three Departments: (a) a Technical Department to be headed by a Public
Health Specialist who will be responsible for planning and monitoring the actions involved in implementing
the three components of the Project; (b) a Financial/Administrative Department that will be responsible for
coordinating all administrative actions including the preparation of contracts (convenios) with the executing
agencies, procurement, and the flow of funds; and (c) an Information Technology Department responsible
for the implementation and maintenance of the Management/Financial system.  An experienced
financial/Administrative Manager will be in charge of all accounting, reporting, disbursement, and audit
arrangements and for the support and supervision of the financial activities of the municipalities and other
implementing agencies. The Financial Departmnent will have about 10 staff members with the following
functions: one disbursement specialist, one specialist to check disbursement reports from implementing
agencies, one procurement specialist, three or four technicians to support implementing agencies, and one
financial management specialist to assess and evaluate the financial/administrative capacity of the
implementing agencies. The Financial/Administrative team, part of which is already in place, has proven
experience with the implementation of Bank-financed projects in the health area, and in due course they will
participate in financial seminars run by the Bank. The Bank considers the staffing of the PCU to be
adequate for this project.
2.21   Flow of Funds. Under the FHEP, the MOH will continue to use its current arrangements to finance
projects. This involves the transfer of funds from the National Treasury Secretariat (STN) to the National
Health Fund (FNS) at the MOH. This way of making transfers has been successfully used in previous
Bank-financed projects. The FNS has multiple other sources of funding, including revenues from tax levies
and other social contributions. All these sources together with the Bank financing constitute the total
funding available at the FNS for health programs in Brazil.
2.22   The first Bank disbursement, out of the Loan Account, will be to fund the Special Account, with an
initial deposit of US$1.5 million. The Bank will make subsequent reimbursements of funds to the Special
Account upon receipt of withdrawal applications prepared by the PCU and processed through the Budget
and Planning Secretariat of the MOH on the basis of the SOTs for Component 1 and SOEs for
- 137 -



Components 2-4.   Funds advanced by the STN to the FNS will subsequently be replenished by
withdrawals from the Special Account on the basis of the SOTs prepared by the PCU. These SOTs will be
prepared on the sole basis of the fund transfers to the eligible municipalities. The transfers will follow the
general procurement plans that govern the Conversion Subprojects.
2.23   On the other hand, funds will be transferred from the FNS to the Municipal Health Funds (FMS)
after the municipality in question has qualified according to the rigorous MOH rules to this effect.
Periodically, the municipalities account to the PCU for the funds that they have received through reports
that include documentation as required by the MOH. The pre-qualification conditions also establish
reporting requirements and overall fiduciary rules and regulations. The PCU will prepare quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMRs) on the basis of the information that they receive from the various recipients
of project funds. These reports will be submitted to the Bank and to the independent auditors for
supervision purposes and for the preparation of audits.
2.24   The Operational Manual of the Project will include details about the flow of funds, including the
rules and procedures governing fund transfers, record keeping and report preparation, audits, and
non-compliance remedies among other related topics. (Consistent with the Bank's Fiduciary
responsibilities, the Project's Operational Manual will establish procedures that in case the Municipalities
do not submit detailed expenditures reports up to a 150 days period. In this case, within 60 days the MOH
shall suspend additional transfers linked to the conversion plans. In case that the delay extends beyond 240
days, the MOH will initiate the proceedings to suspend transfers linked to PABfixed and PAB variable in
accordance with existing rules and regulations of the FNS. The MOH shall inform the Bank within 30 days
of the occurrence of the above circumstances. In this case, the Banke expects to discount from future
disbursements the equivalent amounts for the balance of the transfers involved).
2.25   Component 1 - Municipal Conversion Plans. This component will comprise three different
programs. Basic Care Services consists of transfers to municipalities in fixed, per capita amounts to cover
part of the general costs of providing primary care. The Family Health Program will consist of variable
transfers (depending on the extent of population coverage) to municipalities to finance the implementation
of services and activities. Finally, there will be variable transfers to municipalities to finance the Municipal
Conversion Plans to transform their primary delivery models into models based on the Family Health
Program. These three transfers are deposited into a single bank account of the relevant municipality, but
with a separate indication regarding the relevant program. However, these transfers are accounted
separately both by the municipality and MOH through the SIOPS system, described in paragraph 2.29
below.The Bank will finance 30 percent of the costs of goods, works, services and operationl costs needed
to implement Conversion subprojects and which are included in the total amount of the funds transferred in
these three programs. The PCU will prepare the SOT on the basis of the actual cash transfers made by the
FNS to the municipalities, and it will be reviewed and approved by the STN, which in turn will withdraw
the funds from the Special Account to replenish the initial transfers to the municipalities, which are always
pre-financed by the government.
2.26   In order to receive fund transfers from the FNS, municipalities (FMS) will have to pre-qualify on
the basis of rules and procedures established by the Health Policies Secretariat at the MOH. The criteria
for qualification are very detailed and essentially refer to the ability of the municipalities to provide a
number of services to their populations, having installed the necessary control mechanisms such as
appropriate accounting and internal controls, information systems and auditing, and appropriate staffing.
Municipalities will prepare the plans for converting to the Family Health Program to be reviewed and
approved by the MOH. The conversion plans and related procurement plans must clearly specify the
- 138 -



outputs, a detailed budget, and a timetable for implementation in such a form to allow the MOH to review
the subsequent performance of municipalities and to compare their actual expenditures to the budgeted
amounts. Subsequently, these items will be included in a signed MOH-municipal agreement.
2.27   Component 2 - Human Resources Development, Component 3 - Monitoring and Evaluation --
Component 4 - Project Management. For Components 2 and 3, the Bank will finance 90 percent of total
project costs, while for Component 4, the Bank's portion of financing will be 50 percent. The costs
associated with these components will be paid directly from the FNS. Since these components will be
managed and implemented directly by the PCU, there will not be any transfers to the FMS. The PCU will
prepare the relevant SOEs, submit them to the STN, which will in turn withdraw funds from the Special
Account and deposit them in the FNS.
2.28   Information and Financial/Accounting Systems. The PCU will operate a fully integrated with the
PMR management system for monitoring and controlling project execution and financial management,
including project accounting, reporting, special account control, disbursements, and the SOT/SOE. This
system was originally developed for the VIGISUS project (L.4394 BR). It was assessed by the Bank and
considered to be suitable for reporting and disbursement via Project Management Reports (PMRs). It was
again assessed and approved for this Project. The system is able to record budgets, estimates, and
objectives and compare these with actual figures and performance. It complies with all operational and
financial reporting requirements. The system will be used to record all project expenditures, aggregated by
project component and major project activities within each component. PMiRs will be prepared quarterly
for PCU management so they can review and assess overall progress on the project, including both
financial and physical progress. It was agreed with the Project Coordinator at the PCU that the PCU will
prepare PMRs showing cumulative quarterly/annual and life-of-the-project-to-date balances to be
submitted to the Bank for each quarter of the calendar year no later than 45 days after the closing date of
each quarter. These PMiRs will reconcile the SOTs on an annual basis with the actual expenditures made
by municipalities based on their procurement plans.
2.29   In addition, the following systems will also be used to enhance the financial management of the
Project: GESCON - Sistema de Gestao Financeira e de Convenios: The GESCON is a financial system
for managing "convenios" (sub-project contracts). This is a system designed to control and manage all
funds and resources used to finance the health programs of the MOH. The purpose of this system is to
monitor the complete sub-program (convenio) cycle starting from the initial registration of the potential
beneficiary agency up to final submission of completion and expense reports.
SIOPS - Sistema de Informacoes de Orcamento Publico em Saude: This system consists of a database
developed by the MOH to control all investments made in the municipalities in the health area by the three
levels of government - federal, state, and municipal. This system formally accounts for the health
expenditures of public agencies on the basis of financial data provided by these agencies. These financial
data are entered in the database by the source of the financing and by the health care activities to which
they are applied. It also accounts separately the money transfers made to the municipalities under the
PABfixed, PABfam and PABconv grants.
SIAFI - Sistema de Administracao Financeira Integrada do Governo Federal: As part of the federal
financial/accounting and administration system of the Brazilian government, all project transactions will
also be recorded in the SLAFI. The SIAFI is centralized in Brasilia and is interconnected with federal
government agencies nationwide and abroad. It was implemented in 1987 and is the largest and most global
instrument of public financial management in the country. It makes it possible for Brazilians to follow up
and control the federal government's financial activities on line and in real time. By means of data
- 139 -



extraction software, it will be possible to prepare specific reports from data in the SIAFI and to compare
these with other reports issued directly from the Project's financial system as deemed necessary by the
MOH. The PCU will reconcile the balances on the Project's records with those of the SIAFI on a regular
basis and will present any irreconcilable differences to the SFC for further scrutiny, review, and reporting
as necessary.
2.30   The Bank's overall assessment of the Project's financial management systems indicates that they
are adequate and sufficient. All systems are fully operational and will record all of the Project's financial
transactions from its inception. Internal controls include financial administration procedure manuals
applicable both to the PCU and to the decentralized implementing agencies.
2.31 Internal Audits. Internal audits for the project will be performed by the MOH's Internal Audit
Department. These internal audits will be perforned in accordance with their regular audit program (for
projects and transfers), and also according to agreements between project management staff and the SFC to
ensure that generally accepted auditing standards are met. This will enable the SFC to rely on these audits
for its own overall yearly audit. The financial implementation of the Subprojects will be monitored through
ESCON and SIOPS. PCU technicians will make physical inspections in the field to check that the
implementing agencies are complying with their plans and timetables. Both the intemal audit reviews and
the reports of the PCU field inspections must be presented to the Bank as requested.
2.32   External Audit Arrangements. Audits will be carried out yearly by the Federal Control Secretariat
(SFC) in compliance with a protocol of understanding signed between the Bank and the federal government
in 1998. Terms of reference (TOR) for project-specific audits will be agreed between the Bank and project
management who in turn will instruct the SFC to carry out the audit accordingly. The TOR will include
specific instructions to the auditors to audit the amounts transferred via the SOT as opposed to actual
expenditures and to certify the eligibility of the expenditures financed by the Bank. The SFC audit will
encompass all of the financial transactions under all four Project components. Under Component 1, the
SFC will audit all of the municipalities involved and all transfers done under MOH's basic care and other
health care programs including PABfixed, PABvariable and PABconversion plans. The Internal Audit
Department of the MOH will coordinate its audit work with that of the SFC to avoid any unnecessary
duplication. This will be particularly necessary in the case of the audit of Component 1 in connection with
transfers to the municipalities and their appropriate application to eligible expenditures under the funding
agreements signed between the MOH and the municipalities. Municipalities that benefit from the PABfixed
and the PABfam grants have their health programs audited as part of the regular audit of MOH programs
by the SFC. The Bank's FM Specialists will supervise the initial stages of the Project's implementation to
provide specific guidance on the scope, procedures, and reporting of the audit. This support will be part of
the overall technical assistance that the Bank expects to provide in this operation related to some of its
novel financial management arrangements.
The following are some salient features of the audit process:
* The objective of the SFC audit is to judge the accuracy of the financial statements prepared by the
PCU for the year-end in the PMR format. The auditor's report should also include an opinion on the
eligibility of the Project's expenditures and the adequacy of the internal controls. Any weakness should
be reported in the auditors' management letter together with the recommendations for improvement.
- 140 -



*  All the municipalities (100 percent) receiving funds under Component I will be audited at least once a
year or more if considered necessary by SFC, MOH or the Bank. The audits will be done year round,
and the scope of the audit for each municipality involved will be determined on the basis of its risk
classification, which in Component 1 will be determined by assessments carried out prior to the process
of ascertaining whether the municipality qualifies for funding. The audits will cover the totality of the
transfers made by the MOH to the municipalities. The TOR will determine the extension of tests in
project transactions and what specific audit steps should be taken in view of the municipality's risk
classification. The SFC will report the results and findings of these audits to the MOH once they are
completed.
*  The PCU will report on any audit exceptions and internal control weaknesses, and will check to see if
the necessary corrective actions have been taken every quarter.
*  The Bank will monitor the whole auditing process as described above as part of its overall financial
Management supervision of the Project.
2.33   In summary, due to the operational characteristics and pooling feature, the Project's audit
arrangements are designed to ensure appropriate accountability and good governance through effective
managerial interventions and adequate inspection coverage of expenditures documented to deternine and
ensure the eligibility of the expenditures financed by the Bank. The Federal Court of Accounts or Tribunal
de Contas da Uniao (TCU) may also audit the project at their own discretion. Table B2 summarizes the
audit reporting requirements.
Table B2
Audit Reports and Due Dates
Audit Report                                       Due Date
Project Accounts (PCU)
SOT (comp.1) SOE (comp.2,3,4) (PCU)         Up to six months after end of
Special Account (PCU)                              fiscal year
Compliance with Financial Covenants (PCU)
Management Letter (PCU)
Municipalities (according to audit plan, at least once  Upon completion as per audit
a year (as per 2.26 B above)                          plan
2.34   Reporting and Monitoring. The project will report in the PMR format on a quarterly basis as per
the models already agreed with the Bank. The reports will be generated directly from the Financial
Management System maintained at the PCU. The quarterly PMRs will show the expected figures, the
amounts transferred via SOTs, and actual expenditures and will reconcile between these amounts. Thus,
the PMRs will provide sufficient evidence and links between the transfers and actual expenditures. The
Bank will review the PMR, giving special attention to the reconciliation between the SOT transfers and
actual expenditures to ascertain the eligibility of the expenses subject to the Bank's financing. These
statements (PMRs) can also be used for disbursement purposes if the Project's management decides to use
the periodic disbursement method and obtains clearance to this effect from the Bank. The municipalities
will report to the PCU about the outputs of their health programs as established by the MOH in the relevant
signed agreements with participating municipalities. Also, the municipalities will provide financial
statements to the PCU using a simplified PMR format, to report actual financial data compared with the
- 141 -



estimated figures that will have appeared in the Conversion Plans. The municipalities will maintain the
necessary documentation, which will be subject to inspection by the PCU and the Bank's supervision
missions and also to being audited by the SFC. Other reports may be issued to report on the physical,
financial, and managerial execution of the Subprojects according to MOH guidelines and/or as deemed
necessary by the supervision missions of the Bank.
2.35   Financial Management Performance      Indicators:  The  following  financial management
performance indicators have been agreed to ensure the sustainability of the qualification credentials. In case
any given municipality falls short of any of the financial performance indicators, it will be excluded from
Phase 2 of the project.
*   It must have received no more than one downgrade in the financial management risk classification
during the implementation of the Project.
*   It must comply with the requirement to submit financial management reports to the PCU in at least 70
percent of cases by the established due dates set for the release of Component I funds.
*   It must provide evidence satisfactory to the Bank that it has taken appropriate actions to address all of
the recommendations contained in the auditor's management letter during the implementation of the
Project.
2.36   Action Plan. The matrix below contains the action plan agreed between the Bank and the PCU to
comply with all financial management requirements.
a)     Conditions to be complied before submission to Board (all done as of January 25th, 2002)
Action                                  Due Date
1. Submit samples of PMR reports for Bank's review
2. Establish criteria (in draft) for financial management assessment
of municipalities and correspondent risk level classification.
3. Draft of Financial/Administrative Manual                     Complied
4. Arrange for training of the Financial Administration personnel in a
FM Seminar to be held by the Bank in cooperation with SEAIN.
5. Prepare draft of TORs for auditing of the project (PCU and
executing agencies).
b)     Actions to be comnplied before effectiveness (estimated in May, 2002)
Action
1. Financial model fully implemented, including finalizing:
(i) adaption of ex-VIGISUS system; (ii) the PMR formats; (iii)
criteria for financial management assessment of municipalities
and correspondent risk level classification. (This step will
include visits to sample municipalities by the PCU Financial
Manager and a Bank FMS); (iv) the Financial/Administrative
Manual (as part of the Operational Manual) for the PCU and
for the executing agencies; and (v) TORs for auditing of the
project (PCU and executing agencies).
- 142 -



c)     Other actions
Action                                 Due Date
1. Hire the additional Financial/Administration personnel required for  May 2002
the       project, including a FMS for the PCU.
2. Arrange for training of the additional Financial Administration  As per training schedule to be
personnel to be hired in FM seminars to be held by the Bank  developed by SEAIN.
in cooperation with SEAIN
3. Prepare audit plan covering 100% of the municipalities involved,  Upon auditors' engagement in the
showing frequency and scope of audit                    project.
4. Auditors to prepare management letter commenting upon the PCU  6 months after Loan agreement
internal controls adequacy.                             effectiveness
3.     Disbursements
3.1    Overview. Disbursements under the project will be transactions and not report based. Expenditures
related components 2, 3, and 4, and incurred through PCU, will be reimbursed in accordance with the
normal procedures for Brazil which are described at paragraph 2.6. Withdrawal Applications for these
expenditures will be supported by SOEs/summary sheets as appropriate.  Funds will also be
advanced/reimbursed from the special account, to participating municipalities to finance expenditures
under component 1. In the first instance, and in order to capture and adequately monitor all the amounts
flowing to the municipalities, amounts so advanced will be summarized on a Statement of Transfer (SOT).
However, where any of the entries on the SOT relate to procurement under ICB or QCBS methods,
summary sheets and additional supporting documentation such as contracts and invoices will be required to
support Withdrawal Applications. The Bank will thus finance (i) by attribution, 30 percent of the total
expenditures related to the Government of Brazil's grant transfers disbursed by the FNS to participating
municipalities to cover the costs of goods, works, services and operational costs that they need to
implement the Basic and Family Health Conversion (Conversion Subprojects) Subprojects, in other words,
30% of the Conversion Subproject pool; and (ii) the actual costs corresponding to 100% of foreign and
local ex-factory expenditures for ICB goods and 100% of expenditures for QCBS consultants.
3.2    Disbursement Process for Component 1. Following recently revised procedures for external
financing in Brazil, and per request of the MOH, the STN will "pre-finance" the transfer of the grants by
advancing funds to the FNS as outlined in paragraph 2.25. After the funds are transferred from the
FNS/MOH to the municipalities, the STN will reimburse itself from the special account, by an amount up
to 30% of the amount of each transfer. Details regarding both the total amount of the transfer as well as the
30% reimbursement claimed will be recorded on the SOT and justification for the Bank's 30% share of the
financing of the Conversion Subproject costs will subsequently be provided on a reconciliation statement
included in each quarterly PMR. Transfers to the participating municipalities will be made according to an
agreed timeline in accordance with the procurement plans of the Conversion Subprojects. The procurement
plans and a uniquely assigned chart of account code will specify those activities and corresponding goods
and services needed for the implementation of the Conversion Subprojects, thus facilitating the attribution
process. Additionally, MOH has clear and rigorous classification standards for the determination of
eligibility of expenditures under Basic Care, Family Health and Conversion programs and the criteria used
in this regard were reviewed and found to coincide with those of the Bank by both the CMU Procurement
Specialist and the Financial Management Specialist (FMS).
- 143 -



3.3     Participating municipalities will report to the Ministry of Health on how they use the funds that
they receive, on a quarterly basis. The MOH will prepare Project Management Reports (PMRs)
summarizing project expenditures including municipalities' expenditures for Conversion Subprojects and a
reconciliation showing transfers to municipalities in comparison to actual eligible expenditures incurred to
date. All supporting documentation, with the exception of ICB and QCBS related documentation which will
be forwarded to the Bank, will be retained by each municipality. All documentation will be subject to
audit by the SFC and the MOH and to review by the Bank. Any ineligible expenditure will be subject to the
Bank's remedies (See par. 2.15 and 2.16; item 10 of table below).
3.3     The formats for the SOTs and PMRs were discussed and agreed with the MOH and STN during
negotiations. The PMR's will consolidate the physical and financial actions in each municipality.
Detailed Disbursement and Replenishment Process
for Component I (NonICB/QCBS portions)
1. MOH sends to STN information on the grant amounts to be transferred to FNS/MOH, based on
municipal procurement plans for Conversion Subprojects that will be co-financed by Bank (30
percent) and GOB (70 percent).
2. STN pre-finances these grant transfers to FNS.
3. FNS transfers grants to the municipalities.
4. FNS reports to MOH the amount transferred, MOH prepares SOT.
5. STN withdraws 30 percent of the grant transfers from the Special Account to reimburse itself.
6.  In accordance with normal replenishment procedures STN attaches the Special Account bank
statement and Reconciliation statement and sends to the World Bank.
7. Bank replenishes the Special Account (in this case disbursing against the SOT).
8. MOH prepares and submits PMR to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
9. Annual review and reconciliation of SOTs with eligible expenditures based on audited PMRs
submitted by MOH.
10. Remedies applied annually for ineligible expenditures, based upon reconciliation review.
3.4     Supervision at the municipal level will be done primarily by the PCU staff, while at the PCU,
it will be done by Bank staff.
3.5     Disbursement Process for Components 2-4. For Components 2, 3, and 4 (and the ICB and QCBS
portions for Component 1) will follow standard Bank procedures, and be based on SOEs/summary sheets
(as appropriate).
3.6     Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing will be available for expenditures incurred after the
appraisal date (Nov. 13, 2001) but not exceeding 10 percent of the loan amnount for Components 2, 3 and
4, or $4 million.
3.7     Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs for Components 2-4). SOEs will be used for payments
pertaining to: (i) consultant services under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 and
US$50,000 for firms and individuals respectively; (ii) goods under contracts not exceeding the equivalent
of $350,000; (iii) training and (iv) incremental operating costs.
- 144 -



3.8    Special Account. The Special Account will be denominated in US Dollars. The authorized
allocation is 10 percent of the loan amount. An initial deposit of US$1.5 million will be made in a
commercial bank upon Project effectiveness, and this will be increased to US$6.8 million, or 10 percent of
loan amount once disbursements and commitments reach US$20 million. Direct payment: minimum
application amount must be above 20 percent of the Special Account deposit.
3.9    The categories, percentages, and timetable for disbursement are presented in Tables C and D.
3.10   For ongoing monitoring, the PMR's will be reviewed by the Bank on a quarterly basis. In addition,
as part of the annual audit, the auditor will express an opinion on the eligibility of expenditures reported on
the reconciliation statement. If the reconciliation statement shows that eligible expenditures fall short of
amounts transferred during the year, a refund will be required to be made, to the Bank, of the excess
amounts transferred. In addition, if the audited financial statements are not received by the Bank, by the
due date, or if eligible amounts are not reconciled or refunded, the Bank will suspend further disbursements
of amounts under component 1.
- 145 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount in US$
Expenditure Category        Million Loan     inancing Percentage
Agreement
l.Goods (Equipment,                            100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
Furniture,Printing               3,420,000      ex-factory cost) 90% of local expenditures
Services)
100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
2. Consultants Services          31,473,000     ex-factory cost) 90% of local expenditures
3. Conversion
Subprojects
(a) Conversion
Subproject Transfers          17,080,000      0%
disbursed by MOH's
Fund
100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(b) ICB Goods                  6,300,000      ex-factory cost)
(c) QCBS Consultants            200,000      100%
4. Consultant and Other
services required for            2,727,000     100%
Research Subprojects
5. Incremental                    450,000      50%
Operating Costs (UGP)
680,000
6. Front-End Fee (1 %)                         Amount due under Section 2.04 of Loan Agreement
7. Unallocated                   5,670,000
Total Project Costs:   68,000,000
- 146 -



Brazil - Family Health Project
In Millions of US$
TABLE D - Schedule of Disbursements
World Bank FY           Period      Amount Disbursed      Cummulative           %
FY2002           May 2002-June                             2.6               4%
2002              2.55
FY 2003           July-Dec. 2002        7.65               10.2              15%
Jan.-June 2003        10.2               20.4              30%
FY 2004           July-Dec. 2003        10.2               30.6             45%
Jan.-June 2004        10.3               40.9              60%
FY 2005           July-Dec 2004         10.3               51.2             75%
Jan. June 2005        5.6                56.8              84%
FY2006 (*)         July-Dec. 2005         5.6               62.4              92%
Jan.-Apr. 2006        5.6                68.0             100%
(*) Includes disbursement grace period of 4 months.
- 147 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
Project Schedule,,                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       24                            24
First Bank mission (identification)                                            01/14/2001
Appraisal mission departure                                                    10/01/2001
Negotiations                                     01/22/2002                    01/22/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    05/31/2002
Prepared by:
Secretariat of Health Policies, Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grants, Pan American Health Organization
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
'Name                                     Speciality
Gerard La Forgia                   (Team Leader, LCSHD)
Isabella Danel                     Maternal-child care
Ruth Levine                        Technical support
Daniel Dulitzky                    Financial flows
Daniel Cotlear                     Techncial support
Sandra Rosenhaus                   Technical support
Rosita Estrada                     Costing
Sarah Menezes                      Administrative assistance
Efraim Jimenez                     Procurement specialist
Claudio Mittlesteadt               Financial management specialist
Daniela Marques                    Operational specialist
Suzana Amaral                      Procurement assistant
Cecile Ramsay                      Operations specialist
Marta Molares-Halberg              Senior Counsel
Carmen Hamann                      consultant
James Cercone                      consultant
Omowunmi Ladipo                    Financial Management Specialist/disbursement
- 148 -



Local Counterpart Team:
Geraldo Biasoto Jiunior
Claudio Duarte da Fonseca
Heloiza Machado
Patricia R.M. Leal
Carlos Carvalho
Ezau Pontes
Vera Figueiredo
Serafim Barbosa Filho
Sebastiao dos Santos
Maria de Fitima Naves
Mauricio Cardoso Oliva
Claudia Veigada Silva
Patricia Campos Ponto Martins
Peer Reviewers;
Varun Gauri, Anabela Abreu, Heman Montenegro,
- 149-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Ana Luiza d' Avila Viana, Brasil, 17 de Fevereiro de 2000. Projeto Avaliacao do Programa de
Sa-de da Famdlia.
Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Setembro de 2001. AVALIACAO DA IMPLEMENTACAO DO
PROGRAMA DE SAUDE DA FAMILIA EM GRANDES CENTROS URBANOS: VITORIA DA
CONOUISTA (BA) E GOIANIA (GO)
MINISTERIO DA SAUDE, Agosto/ 2001. PROGRAMA DE INTERIGRIZACAO DO TRABALO
EM SAUDE.
Elizabeth Barros, fevereiro de 2000. A Politica de Atencao a Saude de Mulheres e Criancas no Brasil:
algumas informacoes basicas.
Universidade Federal da Bahia, 1999. AVALIACAO OUALITATIVA DE SATISFACAO DO
USUARIO DO PROGRAMA DE SAUDE DA FAMILIA - PSF.
Brazil Maternal and Child Health, June 20, 2000. Country Management Unit for Brazil.
Human Develor,ment Sector Manazement Unit. Latin America and the Caribbean Region
INSTITUTO DE MEDICINA SOCIAL, UNIVERSIDADE DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO,
Outubro de 2001. Proieto de Pesquisa Analise de Reestruturacao dos Modelos Assistenciais de Saude
em Grandes Cidades: Padroes de Custo e Formas de Financiamento. Relatorio de Avaliacao da
Organizacao da Atencao Basica EM Teresina (PI).
INSTITUTO DE MEDICINA SOCIAL, UNIVERSIDADE DO ESTADO DO RIO DE JANEIRO,
Outubro de 2001. Projeto de Pesguisa Analise de Reestruturacao dos Modelos Assistenciais de Saude
em Grandes Cidades: Padroes de Custo e Formas de Financiamento.
Relatorio Preliminar Municipio de Caxias do SUL/ RS.
Analise de Reestruturacao dos Modelos Assistenciais de Saude em Grandes Cidades: Padroes de Custo
e Formas de Financiamento, 2001. Oferta de Estabelecimentos. Recursos Humanos e Equipamentos:
Uma Analise das Informacoes da AMOH/IBGE 1999 para Cidades Selecionadas.
Projeto de Pesquisa Analise de Reestruturacao dos Modelos Assistenciais de Saude em Grandes
Cidades: Padroes de Custo e Formas de Financiamento, Outubro de 2000. Analise Custo - Beneficio
Pesquisador Paulo Borges.
Projeto de Pesquisa Analise de Reestruturacao dos Modelos Assistenciais de Saude em Grandes
Cidades: Padroes de Custo e Formas de Financiamento Outubro de 2001. Relatorio de Avaliacao da
Organizacao da Atencao Basica EM Teresina (PI).
-150 -



Projeto de Pesquisa Analise de Reestruturacao dos Modelos Assistenciais de Saude em Grandes
Cidades: Padroes de Custo e Formas de Financiamento Outubro de 2001. Relatorio de Avaliacao da
Organizacao da Atencao Basica EM Belo Horizonte (BH)
Projeto de Pesquisa Analise de Reestruturacao dos Modelos Assistenciais de Saude em Grandes
Cidades: Padroes de Custo e Formas de Financiamento, Outubro de 2001. Relatorio de Avaliacao da
Organizacao da Atencao Basica EM SAO GONCALO (RD).
Marcus D. Ingle, Ph.D, March 1998. Managing Programs & Projects for Effectiveness and
Sustainability: The Logical Framework Approach.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, May 28, 1998. Second Social Action
Program Proiect.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, May 28, 1998. Project Agreement.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, May 28, 1998. Development Credit.
Agreement.
World Bank HR Benefits, 10/29/2001. Education. Washington, DC: The World Bank/ Latin America
and the Caribbean Regional Office.
SINTESE DOS RESULTADOS DE ESTUDOS SOBRE PSF, 1999. AVALIACAO DA
IMPLANTACAO E FUNCIONAMENT TO DO PSF
Ministerion da Saude, Brasilia 2000. Avaliacao da Implantacao e Funcionamento do Programa de
Saude da Familia -PSF.
C. Other
*Including electronic files



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
07-Dec-200 1
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P060221       2002 FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN TRANSPORT                  85.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     87.73      0.00       0.00
P073192        2002 PROJECT                                          14.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     14.46       0.00      0.00
P055954       2002 TA Financial Sector                               65.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     65.00       1.33      0.00
P059565       2001 GoiAs STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT                    69.60      0.00                 0.00       0.00     57.59      -0.64      0.00
P050772       2001 BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE I)               202.10      0.00                 0.00       0.00    181.68     -13.61      0.00
P059566       2001 LAND-BASED POVERTY' ALLEVIATION I (SIM)           90.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     89.10      -0.90      0.00
P073294       2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                          8.88      0.00                 0.00       0.00      8.68       1.42      0.00
P050880        2001 BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL                       30.10      0.00                 0.00       0.00     30.10       0.00      0.00
P050875       2001 Rural Poverty Reduction Project - PE              37.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     37.50       4.21      0.00
P050881       2001 Rural Poverty Reduction Project - CE              22:50      0.00                 0.00       0.00     22.50       0.00      0.00
P057649       2001 RURAL POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT - Pi              54.35      0.00                 0.00       0.00     54.35       5.21      0.00
P035741       2000 Rural Poverty Reduction Project - BA              15.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     13.55       6.05      5.09
P050776       2000 NATL ENV 2                                        50.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     42.00      -8.00      0.00
P039199        2000 NE Microfinance Development                      30.30      0.00                 0.00       0.00     29.60      -0.70      0.00
P047309       2000 PROSANEAR 2                                        0.00      0.00                15.00       0.00     14.05       3.08      0.00
P006449       2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                       136.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    130.91      41.69      0.00
P039200       2000 CEARA WTR MGT (PROGERIRH) (SIM)                   43.40      0.00                 0.00       0.00     42.97       6.90      0.00
P062619       2000 ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)                     5.05      0.00                 0.00       0.00      2.15       1.30      -0.34
P048869        1999 INSS REF LIL                                    15.0        0.00                 0.00       0.00    121.01      66.85      0.00
P050763        1999 SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                            202.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     61.21     -33.79      0.00
P054120        1999 BR- Fundescola 2                                165.00      0.00                 0.00       3.50     55.34      41.34      0.00
P055388        1999 BR- AIDS & STD Control It                        44.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     44.00      26.17      0.00
P058129        1999 ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO                             15.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      9.90       9.90      8.45
P043874       1999 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION (ERL)                   100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     61.87      60.21      0.00
P048357        1998 BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE - VIGISUS               20.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      7.31       7.31      0.00
P006559        1998 BRAZIL CEN.BANK TAL                              45.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     35.64      35.64      0.00
P038895       1998 (BF-R)SP.TSP                                     198.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    128.92     109.97     50.25
P038947        1998 FED.WTR MGT                                     155.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    125.42     125.42      0.00
P006474        1998 BR- SC. & TECH 3                                 55.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     52.80      32.47     17.97
P057910       1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                          5.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      3.33       3.33     -0.78
P043421        1998 BR PENSION REFORM LIL                           186.00      0.00                 0.00      17.17    144.21     160.93      0.00
P043420        1998 RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                               150.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     147.87    135.88     111.27
P042565        1998 WATER S.MOD.2                                    60.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     30.64      13.98      0.00
P035728        1998 PARAIBA R.POVERTY                                51.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     31.29      27.24      6.02
P051701        1998 BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                              80.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      13.27     -4.19      0.00
P034578       1997 MARANHAO R.POVERTY                                70.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     54.97      49.31     32.31
P006562        1997 RGS HWY MGT                                     100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     59.06      56.06     -1.63
P006532       1997 BAHIA MUN.DV                                     300.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     158.50    158.50      8.05
P038896        1997 FED HWY DECENTR                                  24.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      3.08       3.08      0.00
P006475        1997 R.POVERTY(RGN)                                   90.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      19.04     19.04      0.00
P046052       1997 LAND RFM PILOT (SIM)                               9.60      0.00                 0.00       0.00      3.47       3.47      1.69
P043873        1997 CEARA WATER PILOT (SIM)                          60.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     36.23      33.22      15.98
P043871        1997 AG TECH DEV.                                     30.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      0.46       0.46      0.00
P043868        1997 (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                                100.00      0.00                 0.00       0'.00    66.97      43.79      11.29
P042566        1997 RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                             39.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      3.04       3.04      0.00
P040028        1996 R.POVERTY(PE)                                   350.00      0.00                 0.00      50.00      43.42     93.42      16.09
P008554        1998 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURING                          300.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     117.02    117.02      0.00
P006210       1996 BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS                0.00      0.00                 10.00      0.00      3.62       4.83      5.45
P037828        1996 NAiL BIODIVERSITY                               175.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     97.44      92.98     37.31
P044597        1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                                  0.00      0.00                20.00       0.00       0.66      2.57       0.00
P006436       1995 BR BIODIVERSITY FUND                             140.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     22.68      22.68      9.12
P038882        1995 Ceara Urban Development & Water Resource        102.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      29.34     29.34       0.00
P006564        1995 RECIFE M.TSP                                     99.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      22.48     22.48       0.00
BELO H M.TSP
- 152 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                disbursements
Project ID  FY  Purpose                          IBRD      IDA               GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.  Orig Frm Rev'd
P006543    1994 BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.          150.00   0.00            0.00    0.00    7.36     7.36    0.00
P006522    1994 ESP.SANTO WATER                      154.00   0.00            0.00   54.00   18.29    72.29    8.87
P006524    1994 BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT              150.00    0.00            0.00    9.70    20.75  30.45    25.45
P006541    1993 BRWrR QOPLN(SP/PRJFED)               245.00   0.00            0.00    5.15    6.05    11.20    2.87
P006454    1992 RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                 167.00   0.00            0.00    0.00    22.41   22.41    0.00
P006505    1992 MATO GROSSO NAT RES                  205.00   0.00            0.00    0.00    31.75  31.75     0.00
Total:  5699.88    0.00          45.00   139.53  2844.44  1796.75  370.77
BRAZIL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1987/92/96/99       MBR                            20.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1993                Macedo Alimentos                7.26    0.00     5.00    0.00     7.26    0.00     5.00    0.00
1996                Mallory                         4.36    0.00     0.00    0.00     4.36    0.00     0.00    0.00
1975/96             Oxiteno NE                     12.50    5.00     0.00    0.00    12.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1982/84/86          PISA                            0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994                Para Pigmentos                 23.65    0.00     9.00   16.42    23.65    0.00     9.00   16.42
1987/96             Perdigao                       17.50    0.00     0.00    4.00    17.50    0.00     0.00    4.00
1989/95             Politeno Ind.                   7.31    0.00     0.00    0.00     7.31    0.00     0.00    0.00
1994/00             Portobello                     16.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    15.29    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                Puras                           5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998                Randon                          7.00    0.00     3.00    0.00     7.00    0.00     3.00    0.00
1991                Rhodia-Ster                     0.00    5.95     0.00    0.00     0.00    5.95     0.00    0.00
1995                Rhodiaco/PTA                   10.00    0.00     0.00    6.00    10.00    0.00     0.00    6.00
1990                Ripasa                          0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00
1997                Rodovia                        29.17    0.00     0.00   55.65    29.17    0.00     0.00   55.65
S.A.I.C.C.                      0.00    2.85     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.85     0.00    0.00
1994/96             SP Alpargatas                  18.33    0.00     5.00    0.00    18.33    0.00     5.00    0.00
1987/97             Sadia                          22.00    0.00     7.33  117.33    22.00    0.00     7.33  117.33
1994/95/97          Samarco                        12.60    0.00     0.00    8.00    12.60    0.00     0.00    8.00
1997                Samaritano                     20.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
2000                Saraiva                        11.54    3.00     0.00    0.00    11.54    3.00     0.00     0.00
1998                Seara Alimentos                 0.00    3.88     0.00    0.00     0.00    3.88     0.00    0.00
0                   Sucorrico                       9.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     9.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                TIGRE                          15.38    0.00     5.00    8.55    15.38    0.00     5.00    8.55
1996                TRIKEM                          0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1992/93             Tecon Rio Grande                6.65    0.00     5.50   15.39     6.65    0.00     5.50    15.39
1998                Tecon Salvador                  3.50    1.00     0.00    5.00     2.63    0.77     0.00    3.75
2001                Votorantim                      3.57    0.00     0.00    0.29     3.57    0.00     0.00     0.29
1993                Vulcabras                      18.33    0.00     0.00    0.00    18.33    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999                Wembley                         0.00   10.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   10.00     0.00    0.00
1997                Wiest                           0.00    0.00     8.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     8.00    0.00
1999                Arteb                          20.00    7.00     0.00   18.33    20.00    7.00     0.00    18.33
AutoBAn                        35.00    0.00     0.00   31.00    27.28    0.00     0.00    24.16
-153-



1998
1999               BACELL                        5.45   15.70    0.00   10.80    5.45   15.70    0.00    10.80
1993               BBA                          40.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               BSC                          10.71    0.00    0.00    5.74    10.71   0.00     0.00    5.74
1998               BUNGE/CEVAL                   0.00    8.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.06     0.00   0.00
1993/96            Bahia Sul                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1990/91/92         Banco Bradesco               11.74    0.00    0.00   13.98   11.74    0.00     0.00   13.98
1996               Bompreco                     18.75    0.00    5.00    0.00    18.75   0.00     5.00    0.00
1997               Bradesco-Eucatex              5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991               Bradesco-Hering               7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               Bradesco-Petrofl              7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991               Bradesco-Romi                 0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40     0.00    0.00
1991
Total Portfolio:       730.13  155.95  119.33   717.27  652.83  127.68  116.03  709.18
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
1994              GP CAPITAL                       0.00      0.00     20.00     0.00
1999              Cibrasec                         0.00      0.00      7.50     0.00
2000               Sepetiba                        27.00     0.00      6.00     18.00
2000               BBA                             10.00     0.00      0.00     50.00
2001               Satipel                         15.00    15.00      0.00      0.00
2001               AG Concession                    0.00    15.00     15.00      0.00
2001               Unisul                          15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               GPC                              9.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Cataguazes                      45.00     0.00      0.00     40.00
2001               Brad Templeton                   0.00     0.00     20.00      0.00
2001               Synteko                         18.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Apolo                            8.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      147.00     30.00    68.50    108.00
-154-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income      Development dlamond-
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                   170 1       516      647                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                3,590     3,680     4,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                  610 1     1.895     2.986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (Y)                                       1 3      1 6       1 3     GNI
Labor force (%)                                      1 9      2 3       2 0     GNI                           Grosa
per                           pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199400)                           capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poveity line)  22
Urban population (% of total population)             81        75       76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     B7        70       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             32        30       28
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            6         9                   Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  87       85       87
Illiteracy (% of populabon age 15+)                  15        12       10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  125    113      107        -Brazi
Male                                                                 106        --Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                               105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                        235 0   465.0     529 4     595 5
Gross domestic investment/GDP              23 3    20 2      20 4      20 5                   Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           9 1     8 2      10 6      10 9
Gross domesticsavings/GDP                  211     214       193       193
Gross national savings/GDP                 17 8    18 9      16 1
Current account balance/GDP                -5 5     -0 8      -4 8     -41      Domes1c                    Ie     n
Interest payments/GDP                       2 7     0 4       2 5       2 5     savingsc                   Investment
Total debtlGDP                             30 4    25 8      45 6      39.7     svn
Total debt service/exports                 63 4    22 5     112.3      77 9
Present value of debt/GDP                                    45 9
Present value of debt/exports                               403 7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                27       29      08        4.5       36             Brazil
GDP per capita                     0.8      1 5     -0 5      3 2       2 3        -     Upper-middle-income group
Exports ot goods and services      7 5      5 5    12 0      11 0      130
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                      is
Aqnculture                                 110      8 1       7 2       74      1
Industry                                   43 8    38 7      27 5      28 6     10
Manufactunng                             33 5               23 1     24 0      0
Services                                   45 2    53 2      65 3      640      -
Pnvate consumpbon                          69 7    59 3      61 8      62 5    .10
General qovemment consumpbon                9 2    19 3      18 9      18 2                   GDI    -     GDP
Imports of qoods and services              11 3     70       11 7      121
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqnculture                                  28      3 2       7 4       30     40 -
Industry                                    2 0     2 6       -16       5 0
Manufactunng                              1.6      21       -0.7              20
Services                                    33      30        13        39
0.
Pnvate consumption                          12      57        61        99            95   96    97   go         00
General qovemment consumption               7 3     -1 7      -9 3     -5 4    -20
Gross domestic investment                   3 3     3 4       -3 0      5 0           -Exports             l :  Imports
Imports of goods and services               0 5    119       -14 8     138 8
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
- 1 55 -



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                   2,500
Consumer prices                             .. 2,947.7       8.9      6.0    2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                     87.3  2,509.5      4.3      8.5    1,00
Govemment finance                                                            1 000V      .
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                             0 - 
Current revenue                             ..      ..      19.5     20.0             95   96   97    98   99   00
Current budget balance                                       0.4      1.0                GDP deflator     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                     -6.8     -3.2
TRADE
(US$Smillions)                           1980     1990     1999     2000      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         ..  31,414    47,140   53,589    75o00
Coffee                                     ..   2,656    2,746    3,048
Soybeans                                  ..    2,854    1,593    2,188     00_
Manufactures                              ..   19,624   35,312   41,027
Total imports (ci)                          ..  20,661    49,275   55,800
Food                                      ..    1,379    1,655    1,507    25-050
Fuel and energy                           ..    4,354    4,258    6,362
Capital goods                             ..    5,932    13,570  13,593        0
Export price index (1995=100)              80       81       91       97            94  gs  96   97   98  99   00
Import price index (1995=100)              65       74      113      118                *Exports     m Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                 123      109        80      82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                           1980     1990     1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services           21,857  34,615    55,205   64,470     0
Imports of goods and services           27,788  26,708    63,443   72,741    -
Resource balance                        -5,931   7,907    -8,238   -8,271     2
Net income                              -7,044  -12,523  -18,848  -17,886
Net current transfers                      42      834     1,689    1,521    -3
Current account balance                -12,933   -3,782  -25,397  -24,636    -4
Financing items (net)                    8,990   -5,043   13,634   33,815     5
Changes in net reserves                  3,943   8,825    11,763   -9,179    4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)   5,853   9,175    35,725   33,011
Conversion rate (DEC, localDUS$)      1.92E-11 2.48E-5       1.8      1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed    71,520  119,877  241,468  236,200
IBRD                                   2,035   8,427     6,822    7,377                   A: 7,377 C  76
IDA                                       0        0        0        0            G: 29,486
Total debt service                      14,757   8,168    67,522   53,200
IBRD                                    275    1,975     1,381    1,351                                0:48,358
IDA                                       0        0        0        0     |!,\
Composition of net resource flows                                                                          E: 9,932
Official grants                          14       41       62        ...... ..
Official creditors                      825     -633      660    -2,037               7
Private creditors                      3,745    -427   -11,828  -32,675
Foreign direct investment              1,911     989    32,659       ..
Portfolio equity                          0        0     1,961       ..              F:
Worid Bank program                                                                    139,279
Commitments                             820      905     1,863    1,593     A - IBRD                 E - Bilateral
Disbursements                           343      788     1,533    1,692    B - IDA  D - Other multilateral F - Private
Principal repayments                     98    1,251      952      887    cC-IMF                     G - Short-tem
Net flows                               245     -463      580      805
Interest payments                       177      725      428      464
Net transfers                            68   -1,187      152      341
Development Economics                                                                                        9/17/01
- 156 -



Additional Annex 11: Policy Letter
BRAZIL: FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION PROGRAM
CGM N 158/GM/MS
Brasilia, 29 de janeiro de 2002
Senhor James Wolfensohn
Presidente
Banco Internacional para Reconstru,co e Desenvolvimento - BIRD
Washington, D.C.
Prezado Sr. Wolfersohn:
Na uiltima decada, o Governo Brasileiro vem investindo no cumprimento das diretrizes apontadas
pela Constitui,ao de 1988 no que se refere ao Sistema Uinico de Sauide - SUS. Essas diretrizes podem ser
especificadas em tres pontos b$sicos. 0 primeiro deles refere-se a oferta de servi,os gratuitos de saude a
todos os brasileiros (universalidade do acesso). 0 segundo remete-se ao formato de atribui,ces e
disponibilizacao de servicos e a,c5es e, o terceiro destina-se a reorienta,cao do modelo assistencial.
0 modelo brasileiro de sauide tem se pautado por uma progressiva descentraliza,co, orientando a
implementa,Ao de servi,os no ambito dos Estados e Municipios, a partir de defini,ces, no plano nacional
(Uniao), de politicas e mecanismos de compensa,cao de deficiencias setoriais ou regionais. A
descentraliza,cao representa basicamente a constru,ao de um pacto que possibilita a transferencia de
recursos financeiros e da autoridade de gestao para estados e municipios, de rnodo que eles desenvolvam
diretamente as politicas de saude acordadas com o Ministerio da Sauide.
Talvez nao tenha sido realizado no mundo, por unidade de tempo, urn processo de
descentraliza,ao tao impactante quanto o da area da sauide no nosso Pais. A descentraliza,co, no Brasil, e
mais essencial do que na grande maioria dos paises, devido ao tamanho do territ6rio e da popula,cao, bem
como a complexidade da Federa,ao Brasileira, com 27 estados e mais de 5 mil municipios que desfrutam
de significativo grau de autonomia. Nao se transfere apenas a execu,co formal dos servi,os, mas tambem
a capacidade de compra desses servi,os, configurando maior racionalidade ao sistema. Com isso, todos os
municipios recebem hoje uma transferencia minima per capita de recursos para subsidiar seus servi,os de
aten,ao basica. Por outro lado, mais de 500 municipios, cobrindo cerca de 40% da popula,cao brasileira
(67 milh6es de pessoas), estao recebendo, diretamente, os recursos financeiros para cobrir os gastos
ambulatoriais e hospitalares do SUS.
No governo Fernando Henrique, o modelo de aten,ao A saiide passou por um aperfei,oamento com
relagAo A atribui,ao de prioridades, buscando-se enfatizar a aten,ao basica, refor,ando-se a importancia da
preven,ao como estrategia para evitar, postergar ou atenuar doen,as, repercutindo nao somente na
situa9ao de sauide da popula,co, mas tambem diretamente em mudan,a na aloca,cao de recursos entre os
- 157 -



niveis de complexidade da aten9ao. Majoritariamente, as grandes despesas sempre sao observadas quando
se atravessa a porta de um hospital. A organizacao da atencao basica possibilita a resolugao de grande
parte dos problemas de sauide da populasao, reduzindo a pressao sobre os outros niveis do sistema.
Os principais instrumentos que tem orientado as mudan9as e a reorganizacao da assistencia sao o
Programa Sauide da Familia (PSF) e o Programa de Agentes Comunitarios (PACS). 0 PSF e um programa
para implementa9Ao no nivel local (municipios), a partir de criterios definidos pelo govemo federal, que
subsidia cada equipe por meio de transferencias de recursos do Fundo Nacional de Satude ao Fundo
Municipal de Satude. Tais recursos somam-se As transferencias de base per capita do Piso de AtencAo
Basica (PAB Fixo) e aos recursos do or9amento pr6prio do municipio.
Aos estados, compete a coordenaqao do sistema estadual, a garantia de acesso da popula9ao aos
servi9os de maior complexidade e a provisao de medicamentos especiais; ao Ministerio da Sauide, cabe a
coordenagAo do sistema, a defmi9ao dos marcos gerais da politica de saiude, o financiamento e a regula9ao.
0 trabalho do Ministerio da Sauide na atencao bAsica tem produzido resultados bastante positivos. A
taxa de mortalidade infantil no pais, entre 1994 e 2000, caiu de 39,6 para 34 casos de morte por mil
nascidos vivos, ressaltando que houve um aumento considerAvel do nuimero de microrregioes e municipios
com taxa de mortalidade inferior a 20 por mil nascidos vivos. Em alguns deles, a taxa chegou a 14 mortes
por mil nascidos vivos. Isto ocorreu gragas ao combate As doencas diarreicas, respirat6rias, doen9as
previniveis por vacinagao e aten9ao as criangas desnutridas, atraves do  Projeto de Redugao da
Mortalidade na Infancia (criado em 1995). Este e urn dos pilares da area da atencao basica, contemplando
programas de imunizagao, saneamento, nutricAo (como aleitamento matemo) e outras aq6es na area de
atengio A sauide da mulher e da crian9a.
Alem da redug ao da mortalicdade infantil, o avango traduziu-se tambem, na redu9 ao do nuimero de
intemagoes de crian9as menores de um ano. Nesses casos, a queda no nlunero de ocorrencias e superior a
21%. Os resultados mais expressivos ocorreram exatamente a part* das intervencoes direcionadas pelo
Ministerio da Sauide em causas comuns de mortalidade, como as doencas diarreicas, observando-se queda
de 40% nas intemac6es e de 57% como causa de 6bitos.
Com o objetivo de implantar as acoes do Programa de Sauide da Familia e garantir sua
consolida9ao em municipios de maior porte, situados nos grandes centros urbanos, onde se concentra cerca
de 70% da populaqao, o Govemo Brasileiro solicitou apoio financeiro ao Banco Intemacional para
Reconstru9ao e Desenvolvimento - BIRD para desenvolver o Projeto de Implantaqdo e Consolidaado do
Sazude da Familia, com vigencia de 7 anos, dividido em 3 fases distintas (3, 2 e 2 anos respectivamente) e,
envolvendo recursos na ordem de 550 milhoes de d6lares, sendo 50% do BIRD e 50% de contrapartida do
govemo federal.
A implementa9Ao e consolida9ao dessa estrategia requerem um processo de substituivio da rede de
servi9os tradicionais e organizagao de servicos de refer8ncia (e contra-refer8ncia), assegurando acesso e
assist8ncia integral, para resultar em melhoria dos indicadores de sauide e qualidade de vida da populacao.
As aq6es previstas para o Projeto destinam-se ao fortalecimento e a reorganizacao da Atencao
Basica A Sauide no Brasil e configura9Ao de redes integradas de servicos. Os componentes contemplados
sao os seguintes:
(i)    Componente 1 - Apoio A Conversao do Modelo Assistencial para a Estrat6gia de
- 158 -



Saude da Familia nos municipios com popula9ao acima de 100 mil habitantes. As
linhas de investimento incluem moderniza,cao institucional; adequagao da rede de
servi,os; fortalecimento dos sistemas de avalia9ao e infornna9ao e; desenvolvimento
de recursos humanos (treinamentos e supervis6es).
(ii)   Componente 2 - Desenvolvimento de Recursos Humanos que inclui: capacita9Ao e
educa,co permanente de recursos humanos; formagao de recursos humanos em
Sauide da Familia e; apoio e monitoramento das atividades de desenvolvimento de recursos
humanos.
(iii)  Componente-3 - Monitoramento e Avalia,o que inclui: adequa9ao e consolida9ao do
sistema de monitoramento da aten9ao basica; avalia9ao da implementa9Ao do PSF e dos
P6los de Capacita,co de Recursos Humanos; Acredita,co das unidades basicas de saude
e institui,oes formadoras de recursos humanos e; projetos de pesquisa e Fundo de Pesquisa
em Sauide.
A comprovagao de bom desempenho financeiro por parte de qualquer projeto nao e suficiente para
se comprovar seu exito, a compatibiliza9ao de gastos efetuados com o alcance das metas previstas deve ser
o imperativo a ser buscado na analise de performance do projeto, garantindo-se a eficiencia na utiliza9ao
dos recursos financeiros alocados e a eficacia no alcance dos objetivos propostos.
Considerando que o Projeto foi aprovado pela Comissao de Financiamentos Externos - COFIEX,
coordenada pela Secretaria de Assuntos Intemacionais do Ministerio do Planejamnento, Or9amento e
Gestao - SEAIN/MP, para ser implementado em tres fases distintas ou, em tres APL (Adaptable Lending
Program), foi necessario estabelecer indicadores de desempenho que garantissem o monitoramento e
avaliagao criteriosa da performance dos municipios e do pr6prio Ministerio da Saude, como estrat6gia de
acesso as demais fases. Esse mecanismo alem de possibilitar o acompanhamento sistematico das a,ces
implementadas pelo Projeto permite uma adapta,cao das metas e um aprimoramento do Projeto para as
fases subseqiientes.
A primeira fase do Projeto, ou APL I, foi desenhada para ser desenvolvida em um periodo de tres
anos - 2002 a 2005 - e, dispoe de recursos no montante equivalente a US$136,0 milhoes (divididos em
partes iguais pelo BIRD e Governo Federal). Com base no montante de recursos, na vigencia do Projeto e
nas metas programadas foram construidos alguns indicadores (chamados de gatilhos):
(i)    implementar o PSF em cerca de 40 municipios com mais de 100 mil habitantes;
(ii)  atingir 35% de cobertura da popula9ao pelo PSF;
(iii)  desenvolver atividades de forma,co e treinamento de 14.000 profissionais e auxiliares
do PSF;
(iv)   desenvolver metodologias e arcabougos normativos para AcreditagAo de
Unidades Basicas/PSF e institui,6es formadoras;
(v)    desenvolver e implementar, em 50% das equipes de Sauide da Familia, protocolos
para referencias, contra-referencia e novas praticas assistenciais;
(vi)   implementar sistema-piloto de gestao baseado em desempenho do PSF;
(vii)  desenvolver estudos "Baseline" em todos os municipios selecionados para
efetivar o monitoramento e avaliagao do Projeto;
(viii)  avaliar a implementacao e funcionamento em 50% ldas equipes do PSF e em
15 p6los de capacita,co;
(ix)   desenvolver e testar o Sistema de Monitoramento e Avalia,co da Aten,co Basica/PSF
(m6dulo) municipal;
- 159-



(x)    certificar 30% dos municipios selecionados na condi,cao de gestao plena do sistema
municipal de saude, de acordo com a Norma Operacional de Assist8ncia a
Sauide - NOAS 01-SUS.
Para a viabiliza,co dos componentes e alcance de resultados serao instituidos instrumentos e
normatiza,oes, alem da implementa,ao de infra-estrutura fisica e incorpora,ao de pessoal compativel com
as necessidades do Projeto.
0 Govemo Brasileiro, atraves do Ministerio da Saude, assume compromisso no sentido de garantir
todos os meios para viabilizar o cumprimento das metas estabelecidas, possibilitando a passagem para as
fases subseqiuentes de desenvolvimento do Projeto.
Atenciosamente,
JOSE SERRA
Ministerio da Sauide
Carta de politica.ministro/mfd
- 160-









_______________--____   '_ti -   - -   _ _   - - -   --   - -  --- - - I _.  .J
IVNt   -: _  t -  j  (eFPEr,:H
(V EN EKLA   , .(ErC
COLO M B IA,       L             ? /
JI
0*            '  -_ '  .!.            t - . - '' '
X  \  ). -- >--iN   0  R  T  H - -          i
/         _      f  _~ <'K - ^  I,-~ -=             -5    *i -    ;:*.- 
WI            - -/ .:95rsncw f /  ; < ~ ~ -i t > NORTHEAST.
Rio Bronco                       I
P E R U \VEe4\  ' 
A Z>- rt/                     'I9                  :.  :
CENTEk- WEST,
?  i  _7  Cuiob6*
t 6 '0  L I . I A  '-.
5 1  t   /  SOUTHEAST,"'-
-'. I I,!   \PARAGUAY\     'S -
I   H  I        S-
, <: 0} aP ,. EN 1Q-tOTH 1; ..................B R AZ I L
I~ ~ ~ ~ - !..fF1._ .9| % f/  -  I  IL)-.'             , 
I         _,             I / - - [ .; | 15; ;T , , U!
%. ~ ~ . .  ''                     'k  . AY 1  
URUGUAY 4 _



