Page  1
March
13,
2001
Mr. Pedro Malan
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Esplanada dos Minist
érios, Bloco
-P-
70048
Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Re:
Japanese Grant for the Family Health and Basic
Health Care Project
-
Grant TF025957
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred
eighty eight thousand two hundred and fifty U.S. Dollars (US$588,250) (the Grant) to 
the Federative Republic of Brazil
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex
to this Letter Agreement.
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
Gobind T.
Nankani
Director, Country Management Unit
-
Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By
/s/
Maria Conseição Maranhão Pfeiffer
Authorized Representative
Date:
July
27, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the 
Family Health and Basic Health Care Project, which has as main objective to support
the Government in implementing a reform of the health services delivery model aimed at
strengthening health promotion and prevention
(the Project).
The activities
(the
Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
assessment of the equity, efficiency and outcomes of the Recipient’s PSF, 
PACS and PABS government programs.
The study will assess the impact in terms of
health outcomes of these programs.
It will look into targeting mechanisms and
cost-effectiveness of interventions, and will recommend actions to improve these 
Page  2
programs
(
these Activities are estimated to cost US$
145
,
000
equivalent
)
;
(b)
assessment of the impact and outcomes of the Recipient
’s health sector
decentralization process.
The study will assess the results in terms of health
outcomes of the decentralization process.
It will look into implementation issues of
the SUS decentralization making recommendations on how to improve it
(these Activities
are estimated to cost US$145,000 equivalent);
(c)
assessment of the Recipient’s framework for the regulation, procurement 
and distribution of basic drugs.
Based on the Recipient’s initiative to regulate
these sectors, the study will look into the current regulation framework and how to
improve it
(these activities are estimated to cost US$46,750 equivalent);
(d)
carrying out of a social assessment to help develop a plan to incorporate 
key sector players into the design and implementation of the proposed Project
(these
Activities are estimated to cost US$67,500);
(e)
carrying out of an economic and financial assessment to look into the 
macroeconomic framework for the Project and its financial sustainability.
It will
incorporate the Project’s economic evaluation (these Activities are estimated to cost 
US$92,000 equivalent); and
(f)
carrying out of an environmental assessment of infrastructure investments 
required to expand the Recipient’s key government health programs that benefit mainly 
women and children
(these activities are estimated to cost US$92,000 equivalent).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall, through the Ministry of Health’s Secretariat of Management 
of Investments in Health Affairs
(Secretaria de Gestão de Investimentos em Saúde- 
SGIS): (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly 
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose;
(c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the 
Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request;
(d)
from time to time exchange views with
the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and
(e) take 
all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the
Federative Republic of Brazil for purposes related to the Grant.
Without limitation
on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and
furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this
Annex. Furthermore, procurement may be carried out by Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (FIOCRUZ) 
or any other procurement agent selected by the Recipient and acceptable to the Bank.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the Activities
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
 Amount of the
%
of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Item
(Expressed in US Dollars)
to be Financed
Consultants' services
588,250
100%
TOTAL
588,250
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by the Bank;
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or 
in the territory of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of expenditures in the territories 
Page  3
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such
territories;
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such 
payment, to the Bank
’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or
(v) 
after October
16, 2001 or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written 
notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date), provided that, except in special 
circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of Bank
approval of financing for the Project.
However, withdrawals may be made for
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding application is
received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any
amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in
the form specified by the Bank.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she
shall have authorized in writing; and
(b)
be accompanied by such evidence in support
of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided
with the first application bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal application
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the
Activities.
The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.
The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in U.S.
Dollars a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank in the territory of the Recipient on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph
(a)
above and the records and accounts for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph
(a)
of this Section for such year as so audited;
and
(B)
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit,
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
Page  4
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(
contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank
’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Federative Republic
of Brazil, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have
been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1
above; or
(b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or
(c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to
the Project; or
(d)
if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s 
assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’
services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Section I.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs
3.13
through
3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality-
and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
The short list of consultants for services for evaluating the equity, efficiency and
outcomes of key government programs such as PSF, PACS and PABS and the impact and
outcomes of the decentralization process may comprise entirely national consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph
2.7
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for carrying out social assessment and environmental impact assessment
under paragraph
1.1
(d) and (f) of the Annex, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for the carrying out of the
Activities under paragraph
1.1 (c) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement for tasks 
Page  5
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
5
.
1
of the Consultant Guidelines may
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs
5.1
through
5.3
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines.
Selection of all consultants
’
services shall
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.
The contract shall be
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item" means the item set forth in the table in 
paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph
4
of this Attachment for the
Page  6
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested.
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account under the
eligible item, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph
5.1
(b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Recipient.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph
2
of this Attachment; or
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B)
deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the
Bank such outstanding amount.
