Report No. 1360-TA                                                                  FILE  COPY
Tanzania: Appraisal of the
Tabora Rural Development Project
April 8, 1977
Eastern Africa Regional Office
General Agriculture Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
SDR 1.00                                   Tanzania Shillings (TSh) 9.66
US$1.00                                 =  Tanzania Shillings (TSh) 8.30
TSh 1.00                                =  US$0.12
El 1.00                                 =  US$1.65
GOVERNMENT AND PARASTATALS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                          =  10,000 m  = 2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)                        =  0.62 miles
2
1 sq. kilometer (km )                   =  0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha.
1 kilogram (kg)                         =  2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                             =  0.26 U.S. gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton                 =  0.98 long tons
1/   The Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to
the SDR. The US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate is therefore
subject to change. Conversions in this report were made at US$1.00 to
TSh 8.30 which is close to the recent average exchange rate.



C-OR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADS         -      Agricultural Development Serwice of the World Bank
AFO         =      Assistant Field Officer
CBPP        =      Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
CCM         =      Chama cha Mapinduzi (the sole political party of Tanzania) 1/
Comworks    -     Ministry of Works
DDC         =      District Development Corporations
DDD         -      District Development Director
DFO         -      District Forest Officer
FD                 Forest Division
FTX         =      Farmer's Training Centers
GAPEX       -      General Agriculture Products Export Corporation
Kilimo            Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
LRD         -      Land Resources Division (of UK Ministry of Overseas Development)
Maji        =      Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
miombo      -      Woodland of Brachystegia and Julbernadia spp.
NBC         =      National Bank of Commerce
NMC         =      National Milling Corporation
ODM         -      Ministry of Overseas Development
PMO         -      Prime Ministers Office
RADO        -      Regional Agricultural Development Officer
RDD         -      Regional Development Director
RE                 Regional Engineer
RPO                Regional Planning Officer
RTC                Regional Trading Company
RWD         -      Regional Water Department
SFOs        -      Senior Field Officers
TARECU      -      Tabora Region Cooperative Union
TAT         -      Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
TCA         =      Tanzania Cotton Authority
TU4C        =      Tauzania Livestock Marketing Company
TPL         -      Tanganyika Packers Limited
TRCU        =      Tabora Region Cooperative Union
TRDB        =      Tanzania Rural Development Bank
TTG         =     Tabora Tobacco Grower's Cooperative Society
ULV         =      Ultra low volume
VIC         =     Veterinary Investigation Center
VPD         =      Village Production Committee
vpd         =      Vehicles per day
WMP         =      Water Master Plans
1/   The Tanganyika African National Union (TANU), the former party of the
mainland, was merged with the Afro-Shirazi Party in February, 1977 to
form CCM.
This document hu a fetricted distribution U  my be ud by recipients only in the perfonmanse
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriatlon.



I



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paxe No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . ...............           . *  **  *..*.*..  i-iii
1.   INTRODUCTION ......................*s..............****...    I
II.   BACKGROUND ............ . .. .. .  ......................................  3
The Economy of Tanzania ...... ....         .................. .    3
The Rural and Agricultural Sector .....         ...................  3
Regional Government and Administration ..............    4
Villagization and Cooperatives ............. ...... ....             5
Infrastructure and Services ................. **... *....S.*    6
Project Implementation Capacity ..........................           8
III.  THE PROJECT AREA ............................................ .......... .*    9
Location, Ecology & Economy ..............o....... ....o    9
Administration, Infrastructure and Services ...o...........   10
IV.   THE PROJECT ....... o .............................        ....   12
Ao   Brief Description  .................        o- .... ..o. .. ...... .   12
B.   Detailed Features .....o..... o ..... *....... *..*...   13
Crop Development ... ...... .. . -. . .  ... ................ ..... O... .   13
Livestock Development . ..o... ... . . . . . . .  ............ ...... .    14
Water Supply and Planning ........... ...................   14
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction ... ......        ....    15
Reafforestation *......**.**....*   .  ... .. ...... ...*... .......   16
Land-Use Planning ...... ........... . .... . . . . . .  .............. . . .   16
Project Implementation, Evaluation
and Regional Planning  .. ...... ....... ..... o.....   17
This report is based on the findings of two appraisal missions to Tanzania.
The first mission, in November 1975, comprised: J.H. Cleave (Chief of
Mission), D. Bovet (Roads), P. Tamboli (Agriculture), Mrs. J. Curling
(Financial Analyst) (IDA), H. Kelly (Livestock) (Consultant) and was
accompanied in part by Ms. T. Sato (Loan Officer). The second mission,
in March 1976, comprised J.H. Cleave (Chief of Mission), H. Kaneda (Small
Industry), J. Kozel (Water) (IDA); and P. Wood (Forestry) (Consultant).
The Fuelwood model (Annex 7) was prepared by G. Kutcher (IDA). Mrs. C.
Summers assisted in processing and checking the report at all stages.



-2-
Page No.
C.    Project Costs .......                      ...................................    17
D,    Financing  .... .................................                   a * * **.......  20
E.    Procure lent  .... ......... ...... .... .....             .   ...........          21
F.     Disbursement  ....................                   .................    22
G.    Accounts  and Audits  ......                     .      . .. ............... ,      22
V.     ORGANIZATION AND  IMPLEMENTATION  .....                    ......................          23
Project  Coordination,  Monitoring,  and  Evaluation  ....                      ......    23
Project  Implementation  ........................................                         24
Village  Participation                 ..........................         ...........     26
VI.     PRODUCTION,  OTHER  BENEFITS,  AND  IMPACT  ....................    26
Crop  Agriculture  and Livestock  ........... * ... ..............    26
Fuelwood           ..................................................                     28
Roads  ............            ......................................                     28
Water  Supplies                 .........................................                 29
Overall  Project  Benefits  ....................... . ..........    29
Government Cash  Flow                           ............................ . ...        29
Ecological  Effects  ..... ..... .... .                 .* ........... ....               30
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .... .................                                          ......  30
Economic  and  Social  Rate  of Return  ......                    ..................    30
Sensitivity  Analysis   ..             .    ........................................      31
Employment and Distribution of  Benefits   .............                       .....    31
VIII.      AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  .................                       ...    32



ANNEXES
1.   Tabora - Background, Agriculture and Agricultural Organization
2.   Crop Development
3.   Livestock Development
Appendix 1: Ministry of Agriculture - Veterinary Division: Regional Staff
Appendix 2: Village Livestock Farms - Mixed Farming Areas (Nzega and Igunga)
Appendix 3: Village Livestock Farms - New Developments (Miombo Zone)
4.   Rural Water Supply Component
Appendix 1:  Population Projections, Tabora Region
Appendix 2:  Regional Water Department Tabora - Organization Chart, WB 16561
Appendix 3:  Water Master Plan
Draft Terms of Reference
Appendix 4:  Village Population to be Supplied with Water, 1975-80
and Unit Costs
Appendix 5:  Village Water Supplies - Estimate of Annual Operation and
Maintenance Expenses
Appendix 6:  Tentative Time Schedule for Water Supply Component
Appendix 7:  Projection of Village Population without Water Supply
Appendix 8:  Estimate of Capital Cost for Rural Water Supplies in Period
1980-1990
5.   Roads Component
Appendix 1:  Organization of Roads Services and Road Conditions, Chart, WB 16309
Appendix 2:  Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
For Roads Maintenance & Improvement
Appendix 3:  Road Component Personnel and Equipment
Appendix 4:  Proposed Tabora Region Roads Organization, Chart WB 16310
Appendix 5:  Road Design Standard
Appendix 6:  Road Betterment Unit Capacities
Appendix 7:  Road Betterment Unit Development



-2-
Appendix 8: Road Component: Benefits
Appendix 9: Summary of Costs
Appendix 10: Roads Component Implementation Schedule
6.   Fuelwood Production
Appendix 1: Areas of Forest in the Tabora Block
(From Schultz Inventory, 1973)
Appendix 2:  Growth Rates in Simbo and Urumwa Trial Plots
Appendix 3:  Estimates of Village Wood Demand and Supply
Appendix 4:  Organization of Fuelwood Planting
Appendix 5:  Recommended Procedure for Measuring Fuel Consumption in
Tobacco Curing Barns
7.   Fuelwood Production:  A Model of the Timber Investment Decision
8.   Terms of Reference for Preparation of a Regional Land-Use and Capability
Master Plan
Appendix 1: Implementation Schedule and Disbursement Schedule
9. Project Organization, Monitoring, and Evaluation
Appendix 1: Project Headquarters Staff
Qualifications and Terms of Reference
Appendix 2:  Monitoring and Evaluation:  Work Schedule
Appendix 3:  Project Implementation Schedule
10.  Project Cost Estimates
Table 1:   Summary by Component
Table 2:   Project Secretariat
Table 3:   Agricultural Development Component
Table 4:   Livestock
Table 4a:  Ministry of Agriculture - Veterinary Division - Tsetse Survey & Control
Table 4b:  Ministry of Agriculture - Veterinary Division - Regional Livestock
Development Services
Table 5:   Water Supply



-3-
Table 6:   Roads Component
Table 7:   Forestry
Table 8:   Summary by Type of Investment
Table 9:   Vehicle Costs (excluding Roads)
Table 10:  Equipment Costs (excluding Roads component)
Table 11:  Buildings & Civil Works
Table 12:  Technical Assistance Cost
Table 13:  Local Salaries
Table 14:  Vehicle & Equipment Costs:  Roads Component
11. Schedule of Estimated Disbursement of IDA Funds
12.  Government Cash Flow
13. Economic Costs and Benefits and Sensitivity Analysis
MAP:  Administrative Divisions - Roads - Population - IBRD 12307
Major Crops - Agro-Economic Zones - Rainfall - IBRD 12308R
Livestock and Tsetse Infested Areas - IBRD 12309
Forest Reserves - IBRD 12516






TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanzania's development strategy puts emphasis on increased agri-
cultural production by smallholders in villages, and seeks to encourage
local involvement in planning and implementation. In its approach to these
objectives, Government has decentralized its organization, giving the 20
Regions powers to plan and carry out development programs and allowing con-
siderable autonomy in administration. The Regional structure is now fairly
well established, although still understaffed and typically short of funds.
However, many villages have only recently been formed and are inadequately
planned, and, although given strong legal powers, are largely untried as the
focus of development. Moreover, Government is in the process of instituting
major organizational changes effecting marketing, crop-financing, input supply
and credit channels, extension services, training and education, and it
will require time to carry these changes through to a settled stage.
ii.       The aim of the proposed Project is to initiate a new rural-develop-
ment program in the largest Region in the country, Tabora, utilizing and
strengthening the Regional structure, but adopting a pilot approach to most of
its components. It would establish pilot agricultural, livestock, and fuel-
wood development programs based on villages, and would provide infrastructure
and planning which would establish a basis for the Region to handle later
investments routed either through another Regional project or through compo-
nents of national programs. The Project would involve direct agricultural
investments in only some 42 villages (with some 75,000 people) mostly in the
more densely populated NE Districts of the Region where control of grazing is
an urgent necessity and intensification of crop production is needed. It
would, however, supplement and complement ongoing Projects in the Region
(which are partly IDA-financed) so that, in combination, IDA Projects would
directly involve some one-third of the Region's 380 villages whilst the
Project's water, and road investments, and planning activities, would affect
the whole Region.
iii.      The Project would provide (a) pilot approaches to intensified crop
and livestock production including new inputs, revamped extension services,
storage, cattle-dips and training; (b) a pilot reafforestation program to
provide fuel especially for tobacco-curing; (c) a start on a low-cost village
water supply program; (d) capacity to maintain and improve both network and
village access roads; (e) a Land Use/Capability Plan, a Water Master Plan,
a tsetse-fly survey, and a strengthening of the village land planning unit,
to provide a framework for Project and future investment in the Region; and
(f) specialist personnel and radio communications to strengthen Regional
capacity to implement the Project, and staff, equipment and funds to monitor
Project progress and evaluate impact, and to assist in the planning of
further developments in the Region.



- ii -
iv.       The Project would be integrated into the existing Regional organi-
zation and mostly would be-carried out by the Regional functional units,
suitably strengthened. It would be under the direction of the Regional
Planning Officer operating through, and with the guidance of, a Project
secretariat comprising a Project Coordinator, a Financial Controller and an
Evaluation Officer and their staff appointed under the Project. A Project
Expeditor in Dar es Salaam would improve liaison and assist procurement.
Overall responsibility for policy decisions would rest with the Regional
Development Committee chaired by the Regional Development Director.
v.        The total Project cost over 5 years is estimated to be US$23.5 mil-
lion. A grant from the United Kingdom Overseas Development Programme equiva-
lent to about US$5.6 million would be applied to the road maintenance and
reconstruction component, and to the land-use survey, to cover 76% of the
cost of these components. An IDA Credit of US$7.2 million and a Canadian
credit of Can $5.0 million    are proposed to cover 74% of the total costs
of the remainder of the Project. These would meet the foreign exchange costs
and 25% of local currency costs. The Canadian Credit would be administered
by IDA. The proposed Credits would be on standard IDA terms to Government.
The remaining US$5.9 million (25%) of the Project would be met by the Govern-
ment of Tanzania and by villagers. Key conditions of the IDA Credit include
the continuation of adequate budgetary allocations to ongoing operations in
Tabora; satisfactory arrangements for the staffing and supervision of audits
of village cooperatives; and agreement on the qualifications and experience
of Project Secretariat staff prior to their appointment, which would also be
a condition of Credit effectiveness.
vi.       Procurement under the IDA and Canadian Credits of vehicles and
spares (US$1.0 million), farm inputs (US$1.9 million), materials for water
supplies (US$2.5 million), and radio and other equipment (US$0.5 million),
would be by international competitive bidding (ICB). Civil works (US$1.2
million) would be by contractors following ICB, with a 7-1/2% preference on
local bids. The design and construction of water supplies (US$2.5 million)
would be by force account. The Water Master Plan would be carried out by
consultants selected in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines. In
order to ensure full operation of the Project in the 1977/78 crop season,
Government has been encouraged to prepare contracts for key staff, some
vehicles, and housing in advance of Board presentation. If necessary, the
Association will consider authorizing award of contracts and retroactive
financing on these items. Procurement for the roads component would be in
accordance with UK guidelines and the Land-Use Planning would be carried out
by the Land Resources Division of the UK Ministry of Overseas Development.
vii.      The Project would increase production of cotton, groundnuts, grains
and beef in the affected villages and would, consequently, enhance incomes
and nutrition. It would result in reduction of fuel costs in tobacco-cur-
ing; in savings in vehicle operating costs, reduced crop spoilage and direct
production benefits from road improvement; and in health and production
benefits from improved water supplies. Benefits to the ecology are to be
expected from grazing control, reafforestation and land planning under the
Project. However, the greatest returns are probably those which would accrue



- iii -
to future investments supported by the technical, planning and organizational
experience of the Project and the enhanced implementation capacity of the
Region. An IER in the range 10-20% over 20 years is estimated for the com-
bined components for which benefits can be quantified. The Project is sen-
sitive to slow implementation and if benefits occurred 2 years later than
expected but costs arose as scheduled, an IER of 17% (the point estimate)
would fall to 10%. In its short-term perspective, the Project has, there-
fore, some risks, and sound management, for which provision is made, is the
key to its success.
viii.     Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in Tanzania has
included IDA Credits totalling US$117.1 million and IBRD Loans for US$30
million for eleven agricultural Projects and one Regional Rural Development
Project -- this in Kigoma Region, adjacent to Tabora. Agricultural Projects
have included cotton, tobacco, tea, maize and beef production, and cashew,
tobacco and sugar processing. Lack of experienced management and limited
planning capacity, as well as procurement problems and the effects of the
accelerated villagization program and other changes in the institutional
environment have been major problems leading to slow implementation. Gov-
ernment is addressing these problems which have also been taken into account
in the design of this Project.
ix.       The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million to the
Government of Tanzania.






TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Tanzania has made the development of its rural sector the corner-
stone of its overall development strategy, and in its approach to this
objective, Government has decentralized the administrative organization into
20 Regions and has undertaken a program to move the entire rural population
into villages. The Villagization Program, seen as a step towards fully collec-
tivised ujamaa villages which are the ultimate objective, was accelerated
in 1974/75 creating considerable problems which will need close planning
attention to solve. In the longer run, however, villages are expected to
provide economies of scale in delivering inputs and social services and to
increase the participation of the rural people in the development process.
Both the Region and the village are central to the implementation of any
Project in rural Tanzania for which two routes are currently being pursued:
the one, the multi-sectoral development of the entire Region and the other
using the Region as the implementing entity for components of nation-wide
agricultural development programs.
1.02      The aim of this Project is to initiate a Region-wide rural devel-
opment program with emphasis on production. It is oriented both to sup-
plement and complement ongoing developments in the Region (which are partly
IDA funded), and to develop the capacity of the Region to handle further
investments routed either through a further Regional project or through
components of national programs. The Project period will allow time for
the area to settle down following villagization and the upheaval of anti-
cipated changes in the cooperative organization. It makes provision for
infrastructure the need for which, in part, arises from the villagization
program, and provides a planning and pilot development program needed as
a basis for future investments. The aim would be to start to put Tabora in
a position that in about a decade all villages would be engaged in cash
crop production with water, access roads, storage, village management, a
cooperative structure, and agricultural extension services all in place and
with development on both the intensive and extensive margins proceeding
against the background of sound land-use and water development plans.
1.03      Tabora Region comprises four Districts:  two are relatively densely
populated and the inhabitants are principally cattle keepers but are also
engaged in a variety of crop production; the other two Districts are little
developed because of tsetse infestation and in these settlement is confined to
the lines of communication. The Bank Group already has investments in tobacco
(since 1970) and maize (just effective) in these last two Districts: the
focus of village development under this Project would be in the two heavily
populated Districts.



- 2 -
1.04      Previous Bank Group assistance to the agricultural sector in
Tanzania has included IDA credits totalling US$117.1 million and IBRD
loans for US$30 million for eleven agricultural and one Rural Develop-
ment Project. Agricultural projects comprise one for agricultural credit,
three for livestock and one each for tobacco, tea, coffee, sugar, cashew
nuts and maize, and a tobacco processing project which became effective in
February, 1977. The Rural Development Project is for the Kigoma Region
to the west of and adjacent to Tabora: it became effective in 1974. Credits
have also been provided for agricultural training (1971), feeder road devel-
opment (1972) and highway maintenance (1974).
1.05      Project implementation has generally tended to make a slow start.
Particular problems have been the dearth of experienced management and limited
planning capacity; frequent and inadequately planned changes in the institu-
tional structure; a shortage of immediately available trained technical
manpower; and procurement problems with spare parts, cement and imported
equipment. All the smallholder Projects (cotton, tobacco, tea and the Kigoma
Rural Development Project) have been affected by the accelerated villagiza-
tion program. Although the first Livestock Project was reasonably success-
ful, the second is progressing slowly. The Tea Project has encountered
serious difficulties with inadequate and high-cost services and lack of
management control while weak management coupled with technical problems due
to villagization and a change in relative crop prices is adversely affecting
the Geita Cotton Project which is being reviewed. The Kilombero Sugar Project
and the Cashew Project are progressing well and are expected to be completed
on time. The Kigoma Rural Development Project is behind schedule due to
delays in recruiting senior staff, problems with procurement of materials and
implementation of civil works, and slow village planning (para. 2.23). Effec-
tiveness of the National Maize Project was delayed by problems in coordinating
co-financing.
1.06      The proposed Project arose from a request by Government following
preparation of the Kigoma Project and was prepared by the Government with
the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission in East Africa (RMEA).1/ This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Tanzania in
November 1975 consisting of Messrs. J.H. Cleave, D. Bovet, P. Tamboli,
Mrs. J. Curling (IDA), and H. Kelly (Consultant), in part accompanied by
Ms. T. Sato (Loan Officer), and a follow-up mission in March 1976 consist-
ing of Messrs. J.H. Cleave, H. Kaneda, J. Kozel (IDA) and P. Wood (Consultant).
1/   A small-scale farm implements production component was included in
the request, and was appraised but has been omitted from the Project.
Investment in this area is possibly justified, but needs further
investigation particularly of the market potential and the appropriate
ownership/management structure. It is therefore proposed that it be
reconsidered as part of the Small-Scale Industry Development program
under the Second National Sites and Services Project, which includes
Tabora town. The project is expected to be ready for Board presentation
about mid-1977.



II. BACKGROUND
The Economy of Tanzania
2.01      Tanzania has a total population of about 15.3 million (mid-1976)
which is increasing at about 2.8% a year. The country has a land area of
about 880,900 km and thus has a low average population density of a little
over 17 km . Average per capita GNP for 1974 is estimated at US$130 p.a.,
but in some rural areas, the per capita income does not exceed US$50/year.
The real growth rate of the economy was about 4-1/2% p.a. between 1969 and
1974, lagging behind the targets for the second five-year plan for that
period mainly due to the failure of the main agricultural crops to reach
planned projections. Tanzania has been badly hit by the recent dramatic
increase in oil prices although export prices for a range of agricultural
crops have recently improved.
The Rural and Agricultural Sector
2.02      About 94% of the population live in rural areas and 90% of the
economically active population is engaged in agriculture, which contributes
roughly 40% of Tanzania's GNP, half accounted for by subsistence production.
Some 80% of exports are from agriculture, mainly cotton, coffee, sisal and
cashew. Sisal is grown on estates; the rest are smallholder crops, as are
tobacco, maize and rice.
2.03      Until the villagization program, most production was concentrated
on scattered family smallholdings, cultivated by hand, and producing both
family subsistence and cash crops. Census data suggest that over 80% of
holdings were less than 2 ha although this figure is believed to be low.
Plots were small and irregular, but, in general, fragmentation was not a
problem. The objectives of villagization are political, social and produc-
tive: to improve local participation in government, to facilitate provi-
sion of social and economic services and to aid the introduction of new
techniques and the distribution of modern inputs into agriculture. Ulti-
mately, in a fully developed "ujamaa" village, it is intended that cultiva-
tion will be collective. However, a satisfactory incentive system still
has to be developed for such collective farming and currently individual
smallholders may cultivate their own plots side-by-side ("shoulder to shoulder"
is the Tanzanian expression) within village blocks. It is estimated that some
75% of the rural population are now settled in villages averaging between
350-400 families.
2.04      There have been several recent important developments affecting
the rural sector. In 1972, the Regional and District administrations in
Tanzania were reorganized and strengthened, principally to improve the im-
plementation of rural development programs and to increase local involve-
ment. Under this decentralized system, the Regions were authorized to plan



- 4-
and implement their own development programs and were allowed a high degree
of autonomy in administration. Then, in 1974, a new boost was given to the
creation of villages, whilst under the Villages and Ujamaa Villages Act of
1975, the elected village council has been given substantial powers to
direct and control local development (see para. 2.10), and the village now
provides the basic framework for agricultural production and marketing. Par-
allel with these developments, the principles of an approach to agricultural
and rural development proposed by the Bank's Agricultural sector study were
accepted by Government. This envisages the nation-wide development of a
technical base for agricultural and rural improvements and the continuous
upgrading of support services for sub-projects which would be implemented
and planned in the Regions but given technical direction and coordinated
in both time and sequence from the center.
Regional Government and Administration
2.05      The regional political head is the Regional Commissioner who has
the rank of Cabinet Minister. He is a member of the National Assembly and
of the National Executive Committee of the party, Chama cha Mapinduzi (CCM).
His counterpart at the District level is the Area Commissioner who is the
CCM District Secretary, Chairman of the District Development and Planning
Committee, and a member of the District Development Council. All Commis-
sioners are appointed by the President.
2.06      The head of the regional civil service is the Regional Development
Director (RDD) who has the equivalent rank of a Principal Secretary in a
Central Ministry. He is assisted by a Regional Planning Officer (RPO) and
the heads of the 10 regional functional departments. The District adminis-
tration is headed by a District Development Director (DDD) assisted by a
District Planning Officer and the District functional managers. All impor-
tant decisions are made by a District Development and Planning Committee,
chaired by the Area Commissioner, and have to be approved by the District
Development Council chaired by the CCM District Chairman. All civil ser-
vants in the Region are, in principle, responsible to the RDD and not the
central ministries in Dar es Salaam whose principle function is to provide
technical advice and services to the Regions, including research and staff
training. Staff, once appointed to a Region, can only be transferred to
another Region with the agreement of the RDD.
2.07      Villagers play a role in the development process through the basic
CCM unit, the 10 family cell; the Village Council; and the various committees
created by the Village Act, 1975.
2.08      These administrative arrangements help interaction between the
political structure and the Civil Service and provide a line of communication
from central Government through the Region to the District and village.
However, several problems exist. Planned staff strengths have not been
achieved, particularly at the lowest level, and staff quality remains low.
Project implementation capacity is uneven and there has been varying
interpretation by regional officials of the emphasis to be given to aspects
of national policy. These problems are currently aggravated by uncertainties



-5-
as to the future of the cooperative organization and of rural wholesaling
and retailing, and therefore of channels for village credit, input delivery,
and marketing.
Villagization and Cooperatives
2.09      The Arusha Declaration of 1967 and the TANU Guidelines of 1971
identified the ujamaa village as the goal for effecting self-reliance and
a community approach to development. However, when progress proved slow,
emphasis was shifted to the formation of planned or development villages
as an intermediate step towards full ujamaa status. In these, production
could take place on an individual family basis with the family retaining
rights in the produce from the land which they worked. The speed with
which the move to villages has taken place is remarkable and appears to
have been achieved without serious trouble although considerable compul-
sion was used. The target for completion of the villagization program
was set for the end of 1976. The precise pattern of development within
each village has been left to the villagers and regional authorities to
decide.
2.10      This considerable local autonomy has now been spelled out in the
Villages and Ujamaa Villages (Registration, Designation and Administration)
Act of 1975 (see Annex 1, paras 35-39). Under the Act and the Rules made
under it, the RDD is empowered to register any village of not less than
250 "kaya" (family units) which has clearly defined boundaries. Each such
village is to perform its functions as if it were a multi-purpose coopera-
tive society. Each is required to have a Village Council of not more than
25 people whose principal functions are to plan and coordinate the agricul-
tural and other activities of the village operating through five or more
committees to which it may delegate responsibilities. The Village Council
has power to allocate land and control its use; it owns all heavy agricul-
tural machinery and other capital goods (except for livestock and small
farm tools which remain the property of individuals); it can borrow and is
required to establish a capital fund, a reserve fund, and a disposable fund;
and it may be granted wide judicial and administrative powers for the politi-
cal, economic or social development of the village. Thus the Village
Council which is elected by the Village Assembly is expected to have com-
plete control over the operation of a village.
2.11      Adoption of the Villages Act implies major changes in the coopera-
tive marketing organization. Instead of primary societies having a voluntary
membership with no firm geographical boundaries, membership is now exclusive
to the registered village, and the cooperative becomes the sole routing for
inputs and crop sales. The District and Regional Unions have been dismantled,
and the parastatals responsible for specific crops will deal directly with
individual villages. As a matter of expediency, however, cooperation between
groups of neighboring villages is generally anticipated, and a period of trial
and error in the new supply and marketing structure is to be expected.



-6-
Infrastructure and Services
2.12      Agricultural Services.  The Agricultural Extension Service is
organized regionally and coordinated and provided technical guidance by the
Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo) in Dar es Salaam. Most extension personnel
are employed by Kilimo but in areas dominated by a major crop may be staff of
the relevant parastatal (para. 2.15). About 2,500 field staff are engaged in
crop work and a further 800 in animal husbandry and animal health programs.
At present, an assistant field officer (AFO) is responsible at ward level, for
supervision of agricultural services to about 1,000 farmers (3 villages): he
is answerable to the District Agricultural Development Officer, normally
controlling three or four wards.
2.13      The extension services have generally been ineffective in intro-
ducing improved techniques to farmers due partly to pricing policies and
high-cost services which reduced farm-gate prices and thus, incentives, but
also to lack of adequate staff, a lack of proven technical packages, inade-
quate training and poor management, the latter reflected in little work
programming, limited logistic support, frequent transfers and administrative
problems. Refresher courses are infrequent, an average extension worker
receiving additional training only once during his service.
2.14      Long-, medium- and short-term agricultural credit to farmers is
provided by the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) through cooperative
societies. TRDB administers special funds on behalf of Government and has
been supported by the Bank Group as the main credit channel for IDA funds.
The standard rates of interest charged by TRDB are 8-1/2% on short-term
loans and 7-1/2% on medium- and long-term loans. Cooperative societies
onlend to members at the same rates.
2.15      Forest Management.  Overall responsibility for forest policy, and
for sector planning rests with the Forest Division (FD) of the Ministry of
Natural Resources and Tourism. Responsibility for the management of Regional
reserves and reafforestation has been decentralized and is carried out by FD
staff under Regional and District Natural Resources Officers. The FD em-
ploys about 5,000 people including 20 professional foresters, and 70 techni-
cal foresters holding diplomas in forestry. Technical training is carried out
in the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry in Morogoro and other local and
foreign training centers and it is anticipated that a current shortage of
trained staff will be overcome by about 1980.
2.16      Parastatal Organizations.  During the 1970's, a number of Govern-
ment owned, but fairly autonomous organizations have been given increas-
ingly wider powers over the production, collection, processing and market-
ing of major crops, their functions cutting across those previously exercised
by Government departments or the cooperative unions. Important among these
are the Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA), the Tobacco Authority of Tanzania
(TAT), and the National Milling Corporation (NMC), the latter responsible



-7-
for grain crops. Recently Regional marketing and distribution responsibili-
ties were allocated to specified parastatals: the functioning of this new
approach remains to be seen. The parastatals may carry out crop research,
employ extension staff, and provide inputs on which they may pay subsidies
derived from surpluses on crop operations. They are required to operate on a
commercial basis, but do not pay corporate tax. However, the responsible
Minister is empowered to set prices and rates and under the Parastatal Organi-
zations (Financial Supervision and Control) Act, 1975, may direct the transfer
of surpluses. Thus he has considerable control over the parastatals' opera-
tions.
2.17      Rural Water Supplies.  Universal rural water supply is a declared
goal of Government, targetted for 1991. Recently an intermediate target was
set of at least one water source in every village by 1980 -- in part because
of the need arising from accelerated villagization. However, the water supply
program has been constrained by lack of technical and skilled manpower for
planning and execution and by its capital and recurrent finance requirements.
Government is supporting a least-cost approach to water supplies (although
this has to be tempered by considerations of local needs) which requires good
information on the underlying hydrogeology of the country. This is being
obtained by a series of Regional Water Master Plans, of which those for 5
Regions are finished or nearing completion, and another 6 are under prepara-
tion. Most are done by consultants financed by bilateral aid. Government
has for sometime accepted the principle of cost recovery in urban water
supplies and is reviewing its policy on this issue with respect to rural
water facilities. The review is expected to be completed by the end of
1977. Also, a program to train selected villagers to operate and maintain
water supply systems is being formulated. It is anticipated that such oper-
ators would be supported by their respective villages.
2.18      Water supplies are the responsibility of the Ministry of Water,
Energy and Minerals (Maji) but project implementation rests with the Regions.
The Regional Water Engineer (RWE) has direct control over the design, con-
struction, operation, and maintenance of rural water supplies, but the
Ministry reserves powers to check the design of difficult projects, assists
the Regions in procurement, provides advice on standardization of designs
and equipment, trains sub-professional staff, and operates construction and
drilling teams which it hires to the Regions.
2.19      Road Construction and Maintenance.  Of some 33,000 km of roads
in Tanzania, nearly 30,000 km are unengineered earth and gravel roads suit-
able only for dry-weather movements. Primary roads -- some 7,000 km of
trunk and territorial main roads linking the regional capitals with each
other and neighboring countries -- are the responsibility of the Ministry
of Communications and Works (Comworks), whilst the planning, budgetary con-
trol and execution of work on local main roads (9,000 km) and tertiary roads
(17,000 km) devolves on the Regional Engineer (RE) and his staff, subject
only to technical guidance and assistance from Comworks. In practice, the
RE frequently also acts as executing agent for Comworks on maintenance of
the primary network.



-8-
2.20      Highways are expected to account for a significant proportion of
the total budget under Tanzania's third Five-Year Development Plan (nominally
for 1975/80 but delayed in preparation) with emphasis including the improve-
ment of roads to serve agriculture and the improvement of highway mainte-
nance. A major constraint in the program is lack of qualified personnel, a
shortage which has been partially responsible for a major deterioration in
road maintenance since 1970. Shortages exist in the professional and tech-
nician grades, but a center for training foremen, inspectors and mechanics
has recently opened and is beginning to turn out staff at this level.
Project Implementation Capacity
2.21      Problems have occurred in all areas of project implementation
in the agricultural and rural sector in Tanzania except for turnkey construc-
tion work. In particular, delays in start-up have occured in most projects,
and these have arisen from delays in procurement and minor construction work,
delays in staff recruitment often associated with poor management, shortage of
extension staff and accountants, problems with the management of parastatal
bodies directly concerned in implementation, and changing price policies
of inputs and commodities. The Bank is assisting implementation of agricul-
tural Projects by seconding of two officers to Kilimo, to assist in procure-
ment, project implementation, and financial control. More assistance in
implementation will be needed as the range of Project investment expands (see
para. 4.15).
2.22      To be successful, any Regional Development Project must focus on
strengthening Regional institutions and cover not only directly project
related institutions but also those related to non-project activities in
the area. An unknown is the implementation capacity of the Village Councils,
newly created under the Village Act. These problems point to a need for a
simple administrative structure, a carefully developed project implementation
schedule, simple investment components, adequate technical assistance, and a
cautious pilot approach to development within villages.
2.23      The Kigoma Rural Development Project.  Lessons being learned in the
Kigoma Project, the first Regional rural development project in Tanzania,
should be particularly closely followed. After 2 of the scheduled 5 years of
operations, disbursements on this project were under 30% of appraisal expecta-
tions, with delays particularly attributed to bottlenecks in the delivery
of critical supplies and inputs, and to Government's limited inplementation
capacity, especially in the water supply sector. Initial adoption rates in
agriculture were high, and more recently there has been impressive progress
with construction of village infrastructure (mostly classrooms and godowns)
and with villager's self-help contributions, and the Project is clearly
making a positive impact on the Region. However, responses to the projects'
agricultural packages remain uncertain and proposed village-level trials
have not yet begun. Little progress has been made with the smaller project
components, including feeder roads and livestock development; agricultural
credit recovery is running at only 35% of loans; the quality of village book-
keeping is unsatisfactory; and no audit of project accounts has yet taken



place. In the face of these problems, it is proposed to consolidate imple-
mentation in FY78 on the 50 (out of a target of 135) villages so far incor-
porated in the project, and it is expected that the Association's heavy
supervision input (averaging about 35 man weeks a year) will be continued.
The Project brings out the crucial need for a pilot period in the development
of technical packages at village level; for strong, imaginative, management
supported as necessary by considerable in-depth implementation assistance by
the Association; the need to tackle bottlenecks outside the Region; and a
gradual build-up of project implementation.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
Location, Ecology & Economy
2
3.01      Tabora Region, covering some 70,000 km  or 9% of the land area of
mainland Tanzania, is the largest Region in the country.  It lies 4°- 60 S of
the equator but with elevations mainly between 1000m and 1500m has a warm
mild climate. The rainfall is markedly seasonal, mainly falling between
November and May, and reduces progressively in total from about 1000 mm a year
in the West of the Region to under 700 mm in the East, where rainfall reli-
ability is also significantly lower. Soils range from sandy loams in the
South Center and West, to heavy soils in poorly drained areas especially in
the North. They are widely variable and frequently associated in a catena.
Rainfall and soils are the major determinants of the natural vegetation and
agricultural potential of the Region. The West and South is dominated by
miombo woodland (Brachystegia and Julbernadia spp.) over Hyparrhenia grass-
land whilst in Nzega and Igunga Districts, the natural woodland is Combretum,
Acacia and Albizia spp. associated with varied grasslands.
3.02      Tsetse fly infests much of the Region and has protected the miombo
woodland away from the major lines of communication. Consequently, the popu-
lation is concentrated in the North-east and close to the major road and rail
routes. Of the estimated total of 780,000 (mid-1976), some 440,000 are in
Nzega and Igunga, to give a density of 32 per km , and 340,000 divided be-
tween Tabora and Urambo Districts where in the rural areas (i.e. excluding
some 50,000 in Tabora town), the population density is under 5 per km . In
recent years, the population has been swelled by an influx of refugees from
Burundi but even without this, the growth rate has been about 4% -- consider-
ably above the national average -- due to immigration from other Regions.
Po ulation densities in adjacent areas to the north and east are up to 60 per
km .
3.03      Tabora, the Regional center is on the Central railway from Dar es
Salaam to Kigoma, at its junction with the Mwanza line. About 10 trains a
week come up to Tabora which is also served by scheduled flights. A fair but
poorly maintained gravel road links Tabora to Dodoma and Mwanza via Nzega but
the other roads in the Region are poor and district roads are frequently only
dry-weather tracks.



- 10 -
3.04      The major economic activity of the Region is smallholder farming,
in which some 91% of the population is engaged. Agriculture, agro-industries,
livestock, forestry and fishing account for nearly 90% of the gross mar-
keted product of the region, valued at TSh 222 million (US$27 million). The
gross regional product was estimated in 1974-75 at TSh 425 million (US$53
million). One-third comprised subsistence production, one-third crop sales
of which tobacco dominated, and only 19% was contributed by services and
non-agricultural production (Annex 1, para 1.). The average per capita
income of TSh 600 (US$75) per head is below the national average and the
per capita farm income of TSh 475 (US$59) is probably also below its average
although Tabora is considerably better off than Regions like Kigoma, its
neighbor to the west.
3.05      Although only about 7% of the Region is under cultivation, and it
contains only 5% of the Tanzanian population, in recent years, Tabora has
been responsible for about 55% of the national production of tobacco, 30% of
harvested groundnuts, 20% of paddy, 17% of cotton and 11% of maize. However,
production of maize, paddy, groundnuts and sorghum, has been declining and
the Region has recently been importing both maize meal and rice. Crop cultiva-
tion is generally traditional with hand-implements, and, until villagization,
was extensive in nature on scattered smallholdings. With the concentra-
tion of the population in villages and the establishment of cultivation
blocks, production conditions have changed markedly except for tobacco,
introduced about 20 years ago, and typically produced by smallholders con-
centrated in groups of villages. Although village grouping has considerable
advantages for the provision of extension and related services, it may lead
to serious soil depletion and erosion problems and causes a problem of fuel-
wood for curing tobacco, presently obtained from the surrounding miombo but
becoming increasingly costly to transport.
3.06      The Region also has some 1 million livestock, about 7% of the
national herd. These are under traditional grazing and the off-take (about
5.2%) is low. With 55% of the land area tsetse-infested, the herd is con-
centrated in the fly-free north-east which, with stocking rates estimated at
1:1.2 ha, is badly overgrazed and subject to severe erosion. Herds, which
vary considerably in size, are communally grazed under traditional management,
and control over grazing and calf nutrition is therefore very difficult.
Consequently a low calving rate, high calf mortality, and poor weight gains
characterize the livestock sector. This is aggravated by poor disease
control, partly arising from failure to enforce compulsory dipping regula-
tions, and inadequate dip supervision and maintenance. Losses in market-
ing are also high due to inadequate stock control and lack of marketing
facilities.
Administration, Infrastructure and Services
3.07      Tabora has the typical Tanzanian administrative structure (Chart,
WB 16562 in Annex 9). It is now organized into four Districts; the former
Nzega District having been subdivided into Nzega and Igunga in 1975 and the
former Tabora District subdivided into Tabora and Urambo at the same time



- 11 -
(Map, IBRD 12307). Staff in the new Districts is still being built up and
is relatively inexperienced, but the Regional team is well established and
has been continuously associated with the Project in preparation and appraisal.
3.08      There are some 350 villages averaging about 350 families each and
embracing over 90% of the rural population. The approximate distribution of
villages is shown in Map, IBRD 12307. Registration of villages under the
Village Act was due to be completed by late 1976. Although registration
involves definition of the village population and land area, it is not a
pre-requisite that village resources (such as land, water, access, storage)
be declared adequate for viable operations, and no village plan is required
before registration. However, a small land planning unit has made a start on
physical mapping of village layouts.
3.09      Agricultural and Veterinary Services.  Agricultural extension ser-
vices in the Region are organized on crop lines, under the Tobacco Authority
of Tanzania (TAT) and the Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA) for their respective
crops and under the Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo) for other crops includ-
ing grains. There are about 300 extension workers in the Region, or enough
contact staff for 2 men for every 3 villages, but many extension workers are
inadequately trained or inexperienced or both, and only 27 of the staff are
university graduates. Lack of transport facilities and of locally proved
research information also reduce the efficiency of the agricultural services.
A 3-man team of veterinarians provided by the German Democratic Republic
gives technical direction on livestock, and directs the work of the Veterinary
Investigation Center (VIC). There are 10 veterinary centers in the Region.
Staffing is adequate except at the key Field Officer level, but lack of both
transport and recurrent funds inhibit operations. There are 23 registered
livestock buying stations in the Region, operated by the Tanzania Livestock
Marketing Co. (TLMC).
3.10      Water Supplies.  Tabora is not included in the present Water Master
Plan program. From the limited information available on the hydrology and
hydrogeology of the Region, it appears that groundwater is scarce or absent
in the north-east, that finding water from shallow-wells is reasonably
assured in the center and South, and that groundwater is available in both
shallow and deep horizons in the West. Of the 710,000 rural population, it
is estimated that about 16,000 (2%) are presently supplied from piped sys-
tems or open reservoirs, and a further 199,000 (28%) have adequate ground-
water sources. Of the remainder in need of improved water, about 250,000
(35% of the rural population) can only be supplied from surface sources,
about 180,000 (25%) could be served by shallow-wells, and the remaining
65,000 (9%) would need to be supplied by boreholes. In the next 15 years,
the Region's population is expected to increase by about 370,000 and would
be supplied in similar proportions from the various sources.
3.11      Road Construction and Maintenance.  The primary purpose of roads
in Tabora is to support agricultural production both to evacuate produce
and to provide access for inputs and extension workers. Road conditions
have deteriorated in recent years so that several stretches of the 2000 km



- 12 -
of network roads and two-thirds of village access roads (which total some
1300 km) are impassable during portions of the six-month rainy season.
Road surfaces also are rough enough to cause very high vehicle operating
costs. Maintenance of all roads in the Region is the responsibility of
the Districts, under the supervision of the Regional Engineer. At present
there are inadequate staff, equipment and spares for maintenance, and staff
are underqualified: as a result, only 60% of network roads currently receive
any maintenance attention at all, and there is no program of village access-
road maintenance.
3.12      Forestry and Fuelwood Supplies.  The Regional demand for wood
for domestic fuel and for tobacco curing has increased dramatically and the
miombo woodland of Tabora has been stripped to the point that in the relativ-
ity densely populated north-east, the land has been denuded, massive erosion
is a threat, and domestic fuel is desperately short; whilst in the older-
established tobacco areas, costs of transporting fuel are increasing as the
land close to tobacco villages are clear-felled. The most hopeful approach
to providing wood fuel and slowing the unplanned exploitation of the miombo
forest is the establishment of fast-growing, high-yielding exotic species in
plantations. However, plantations on an individual farmer basis have not been
successful and an alternative approach is needed. Nurseries to provide
seedlings are run by the Regional FD staff. Additional trained staff are
needed for extension work, and tranport facilities are needed by nurseries
and by extension personnel.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Project would, over a 5-year investment period, initiate a
new Region-wide development program in Tabora. The Project would be designed
to meet the uncertain implementation capacity of the villages and the problems
of developing appropriate technical packages following villagization, and also
to meet the need for improved management both in overall control and in
implementation of components. It would be oriented to supplement and com-
plement ongoing developments in the Region, and to improve its capacity
to handle further investments, providing mostly on-the-job training in planning
and technical services. In a phased pilot program, the Project would directly
encourage crop and livestock production; would provide facilities especially
water, roads and wood fuel, which are lacking in ongoing developments; and
start to put in such infrastructure by low-cost techniques in other areas to
help the consolidation of new villages into viable production units. It would
strengthen the implementing and planning capacity of the Region and provide
water and land-use plans as the basis for future development, which, it is
envisaged, would be assisted either by a second-phase Region-wide Project or
by the incorporation of components of national projects into Tabora. The
Project would include provision for:



- 13 -
(a) pilot approaches to intensified crop and livestock production
in about 42 newly-formed villages not already included in
other programs, principally in Nzega and Igunga;
(b) capacity to carry out an immediate low-cost water supply
program, Region-wide, and funding for a Water Master Plan;
(c) equipment and workshops to increase capacity to maintain and
improve access and network roads throughout the Region;
(d) a pilot reafforestation program based on villages in the old
established tobacco areas, primarily in Tabora and Urambo
Districts;
(e) production of a Land Use/Capability map which, with the
Water Master Plan, a tsetse survey, and strengthening of the
village planning team, would provide a framework for further
investments in the Region;
(f) specialist personnel, housing, equipment and supplies to
strengthen the capacity of the Region to implement the
Project, monitor progress and evaluate impact, and assist
in the formulation and planning of further developments in
the Region.
The Regional Development Director (RDD) would have overall responsibility
for Project implementation and the Project would be executed, under the
direction of the Regional Planning Officer assisted by a Project Coordi-
nator, through the Regional and District functional units or parastatals
as appropriate.
B. Detailed Features
Crop Development (Annex 2)
4.02      A pilot program in some 30 selected villages (Annex 2, para. 5) of
Nzega and Igunga Districts would seek (a) to establish means of increasing
production (principally from higher yields) of cotton, paddy, sorghum, and
groundnuts by the provision of inputs and improving agricultural extension
and related services, and (b) in order to provide a basis for extending the
program to other villages in the Region, to carry out extensive crop demon-
strations-cum-trials under farmers' field conditions using improved practices
derived from other zones. The program would be headed by a qualified agro-
nomist who, in addition to his role on the Project Planning Team, would
oversee the extension and trials programs for which staff, housing and trans-
port would be provided. Provision would be made for a mobile extension van,
and village storage facilities; and the Project would also provide personnel
and laboratory equipment for the newly completed tobacco research center at
Tumbi.



- 14 -
4.03      Cotton production in Igunga would be enhanced by timely planting
of an established improved variety; improved plant populations and weeding
practices; the application of fertilizers; and an insecticidal spray pro-
gram. Rainfed paddy yields would be raised by use of fertilizers and im-
proved management; and improved seed varieties would be tried. Sorghum
production would be increased by use of available high-yielding varieties,
fertilizers, and improved cultural practices; whilst groundnut yields from
local seed would be increased by application of fertilizer, and improved
planting density and weeding.
Livestock Development (Annex 3)
4.04      The livestock development component would comprise a pilot intro-
duction of sedentary, commercially oriented, production methods into about
6 selected established villages (Annex 3, para. 28) in the tsetse-free Nzega
and Igunga Districts, and a pilot introduction of livestock into a further 6
villages in miombo forest areas subject to light tsetse-fly challenge. These
last could be in areas partially cleared by timber-felling for tobacco produc-
tion. It would make provision for transport, veterinary centers, dips and
other capital investments including 6 weigh-bridges; technical and management
assistance for livestock development planning, a limited tsetse survey and
tsetse control program; and operating costs in the five-year development
period. Water and access would be adequate or would be provided under the
relevant components of the Project. The component is not dependent on the
second Livestock Project (Cr. 382-TA) which has had implementation problems
but has only a minor input within Tabora Region.
4.05      Increased production in the tsetse-free areas would be derived
from control of grazing and herd-size on demarcated village lands; exten-
sion advice and health control by Assistant Field Officers, supported by
the services of the area veterinary center; provision of or upgrading of
a village dip; and the introduction of stall-fattening, supported by short-
term credit for stall construction and stock purchase. The villages selected
for the stall-fattening component are expected to be among those included
in the pilot crop development program (para. 4.02). In the newly-stocked
villages in the light tsetse challenge areas, animal health would be main-
tained by subsidized prophylactic treatments for trypanosomiasis. Manage-
ment of the village breeding herd, expected to be about 670 cows, would be
centered on controlled rotational grazing and a closely supervised dipping
program. Each village would receive a cattle dip, and one fully equipped
veterinary center would be established per 3 villages. Fly barriers would
be cleared and maintained by the Regional tsetse control division, rein-
forced under the Project by a mobile tsetse unit under direction of an
experienced tsetse ecologist, which would also make a survey of secondary
growth areas to establish tsetse distribution, habitat and potential breed-
ing areas -- data also needed for the Regional Land-Use Plan (para. 4.13).
Water Supply and Planning (Annex 4)
4.06      This component would provide for construction of low-cost water
sources and simple installations in selected villages with production



- 15 -
potential, and for a Regional Water Master Plan, to start simultaneously
and to be programmed so as to provide some guidance to the Regional Water
Engineer (RWE) in his ongoing program. Design and construction capacity
would be strengthened by providing professional manpower, transport, equip-
ment and materials to the departments under RWE. Villages are expected to
meet part of the capital cost of installations and a significant part of the
recurrent costs of maintaining supplies (para. 2.17). The Water Master Plan
would be prepared by consultants.
4.07      There would be little risk in making a start with simple water
facilities under the Project on the basis of existing knowledge of ground-
water resources, and the need for water in some villages is such that delay-
ing all construction until after completion of a Master Plan would not be
justified. Priority in water supply development would be given to shallow-
wells with handpumps or, failing that, to boreholes with handpumps or engines.
The type would depend on the circumstances of the particular village. The
program would be flexible: it could probably fully satisfy 75-100 villages
or provide reasonable resources to a larger number. Selection of villages
would be by the Regional administration on the basis of least cost, produc-
tion impact, need (with due consideration given to improving supplies in the
ongoing IDA-assisted Maize Project and to supplementing supplies to produc-
tion villages selected in this Project), and the demonstrated willingness of
villages to contribute in cash or kind to the construction and maintenance
of the water supply facilities. At negotiations, assurances were given by
Government that these criteria for village selection would be followed, and
that the Association would be consulted before commitment or construction of
any major water scheme estimated to cost more than US$125,000 equivalent.
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction (Annex 5)
4.08      The project would provide for improved routine road maintenance
of network roads, and reconstruction of network and access roads. For
maintenance, the Project would provide technical and managerial assist-
ance, training, and workshop equipment. Priority would be given to the
network road maintenance task. A major technical assistance input would be
to strengthen maintenance management; while equipment would be provided to
improve the four District mechanical maintenance units which would operate
within a Regional plan. Network road reconstruction would concentrate on
the repair and upgrading of identified bad spots which are presently largely
impassable in bad weather. It would be by a capital-intensive unit which
has an estimated capacity to reconstruct about 75 km of road a year.
4.09      Access road betterment would be by three units employing labor-
intensive technology to improve about 400 km of roads for 200 villages. The
units would each have a 25-man permanent core of technicians whose main
function would be to supervise and provide technical assistance for the
village labor which would undertake the construction and to train them in
post-betterment maintenance. Each unit (Annex 5, Appendix 5) would have an
annual capacity of about 32 km of 3 m road.
4.10      The road component is complementary to and consistent with the
overall highways strategy of Tanzania. It would provide direct support to



- 16 -
the directly productive components of the Project as well as to the ongoing
IDA-assisted Tobacco and Maize projects, and would provide planning capacity
and infrastructure for further development in the Region.
Reafforestation (Annex 6)
4.11      The component is to establish a pilot program in which villages
would plant up and manage plantations, under Forest Division (FD) super-
vision, to supply fuelwood for tobacco curing and domestic use. Three
nurseries would be established or expanded under the Project and would grow
and deliver, to some 15 established tobacco villages, seedlings for planting
about 50 ha per village a year. Planting in each village would be in several
blocks selected with Project guidance by the Village Council. It is antici-
pated that, in all except full ujamaa villages, areas within the blocks would
be allocated initially to individual families who would be responsible for
maintenance and would harvest the fuel. The first cutting would take place
at about the ninth year, to be followed by coppice crops in the 17th and
25th years after which the area would be replanted. The Project would pro-
vide for clearing of land, fencing and, where necessary, water, at the nur-
series; seasonal nursery staff (to be supervised by staff recruited for
the purpose -- an Assistant Forester and a Field Assistant per nursery);
vehicles for transport of seedlings and for extension staff; and a village
training program. The cost of seedlings would be minor: but in order to en-
courage timber planting, it is not proposed that villagers would be required
to pay for them.
4.12      Wood plantations represent a long-term investment which, it is
frequently suggested, smallholders may not be willing to undertake. How-
ever, analysis with the aid of a linear programming model demonstrates that
villagers would find the investment very profitable especially if present
fuelwood transport costs were unsubsidized. (Annex 7). The model also shows
that the present subsidies on fuelwood transport discourage timber planting
(and thus increase the stripping of the miombo woodland) but do not increase
tobacco production. At negotiations, Government agreed to phase out any
transport subsidies by 30 June, 1982.
Land-Use Planning (Annex 8)
4.13      The Project includes provision for a team to produce a land-use
and land-capability master plan for Tabora Region and prepare detailed
village maps for selected villages. The work would be carried out at two or
three levels: a reconnaissance survey at 1:250,000 based on interpretation
with ground truthing of the 1:50,000 aerial photographs taken in mid-1974,
to map present land-use; if justified in the light of the reconnaissance
results, a village-site selection map at 1:50,000 to delineate areas with
immediate development potential having regard to soil, terrain and socio-
economic factors; and the detailed village maps at 1:10,000 of areas selected
according to local priority to show productive capacity and potential use.
For each class, appropriate economic exploitation or farming systems would
be established.



- 17 -
4.14      Provision is also made for enlarging and strengthening the Village
Planning Unit of the RADO to bring operational strength to four three-man
field units by providing (a) training at Nyegezi and on the job; (b) field
and drawing equipment; and (c) additional draftsmen. Secondary school
leavers suitable for training are available in Tabora. The teams would
cooperate with village councils and village Production and Marketing com-
mittees to produce a contoured village layout and production plan, enlarg-
ing on the land capability information.
Project Implementation, Evaluation and Regional Planning
4.15      To assist the Regional Planning Officer, who would be directly
responsible for implementation of the Project, the Project would provide a
Project Coordinator, a Financial Controller and an Evaluation Officer in
Tabora, and a Project Expeditor in Dar es Salaam. The Project Coordinator
would coordinate and direct the activities of functional managers involved
in the Project. The Financial Controller would be responsible for Project
procurement activities and would manage and control Project funds. The
Evaluation Officer would have charge of a small team responsible for collect-
ing, coordinating and analyzing for Project management relevant data for
monitoring Project progress to facilitate management decisions, and would
organize evaluation of Project impact (Annex 9). The Project Expeditor
would be established under the Prime Minister's Office and posted to Dar es
Salaam to assist in the procurement and dispatch of Project materials and
to provide liaison between the Project and concerned functional Ministries
and parastatals in Dar es Salaam. He would serve a similar function for the
Kigoma Rural Development Project (Cr. 508-TA).
4.16      To assist in communications between the Project and Regional head-
quarters, and centers of Project activity, 5 radio-telephone links would be
provided.
4.17      An essential task for the Regional authorities would be to pre-
pare programs and projects for future implementation within Tabora Region,
drawing on the results of the Project as these become available, and util-
izing the facilities being provided under the Project. Planning would be
by the Regional Planning Office, supported by the technicians in the Project
executive.
C. Project Costs (Annex 10)
4.18      Total Project cost, over a five-year disbursement period, is
estimated at TSh 195.0 million (US$23.5 million) of which US$ 15.9 million
(68%) is the estimated foreign exchange component. The component costs are
presented in Annex 10, Tables 1 through 7 and are summarized below:



- 18 -
Foreign
Component and               Local    Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
proportion of base
cost                        --------TSh '000 ---------    -------US$ '000------ 
Crop Development (16%)       5,629    16,853   22,482       679      2030    2709      75
Livestock
Development    (11%)       8,320      7,112   15,432    1002        857    1859      46
Water Master Plan (7%)       2,520      7,980   10,500      304       961    1265      76
Water Supply - Design
and Construction (24%)    11,656    23,369   35,025    1404          2816    4220      67
Road Maintenance
and Improvement (20%)    9,008    20.154   29,162    1085         2428    3573       69
Forestry   (1%)                866        574    1,440      104        69     173      40
Land-Use
Planning (10%)             3,744    11,230   14,974       451      1353    1804      75
Project implementa-
tion and evalua-
tion 1/   (11%)           6,285      9,125   15,410       757     1100    1857       59
Base Cost Estimates         48,028    96,397  144,425    5786    11614   17400         67
Contingencies
Physical  (9%)             3,874     9,639   13,513       467     1161    1628       71
Price  (26%)              11,382    25,700   37,082    1372       3096    4468       69
Total Project Costs         63,284   131,736  195,020    7625    15871   23496         68
1/   Includes unallocated housing and housing for technical assistance in Roads
component.



- 19 -
4.19      Cost by type of expenditure are given in Annex 10, Table 8, and are
summarized below:
Foreign
Item and                    Local   Foreign   Total    Local Foreign  Total Exchange
proportion of
base cost                        TSh '000--------   -------US$ '000-----    %
Vehicle & Spares (5%)          970    5,543    6,513    117        668      785    85
Equipment (2%)                 517    2,583    3,100        62     311      373    83
Buildings (5%)               4,854    2,635    7,489    585        317      902    35
Technical Assistance (13%) 4,789   14,373   19,162    578   1,732   2,310    75
Incremental
Local Staff (8%)            11,748       -      11,748  1,415       -    1,415       -
Incremental
Operation & Main-
tenance  (5%)              2,301    4,060    6,361    277        489      799    64
Farm Inputs (8%)             1,787   10,087   11,876    215   1,216   1,431    85
Construction
Materials (13%) 1/           2,850   16,250   19,050    343   1,952   2,295    85
Consultant contracts (8%)  2,855    9,095   11,950    344   1,096   1,440    76
Other n.e.s. (2%)            2,605       435    3,040    314        52      366    14
Roads component (20%) 2/   9,008   20,154   29,162  1,085   2,428   3,513    69
Land-Use Plan (10%) 2/       3,744   11,230   14,974    451   1,353   1,804    75
Base Cost Estimates         48,028   96,397  144,425  5,786  11,614  17,400    67
Contingencies
Physical  (9%)             3,874    9,639   13,513    467   1,161   1,628    71
Price (26%)               11,382   25,700   37,082  1,372   3,096   4,468    69
Total Project Costs         63,284  131,736  195,020  7,625  15,871  23,496    68
1/   For Water Supplies.
2/   To be financed by UK (see para 4.20).



- 20 -
Costs have been estimated at October 1976 prices and exclude the few identi-
fiable taxes. A physical contingency of 10% has been included on equipment,
vehicles, civil works and the Water Master Plan, and 15% on expatriate staff
costs. 1/ Price contingencies, representing the mission's judgment of likely
price changes, have been allowed at the following annual rates (a) equipment
and foreign salaries for 1976: 9%, for 1977-79: 8%, and for 1980 on: 7%, and
(b) for civil works for 1976: 13%, for 1977-79: 12%, and for 1980 on: 10%.
Local staff costs have been inflated at 5% a year throughout, a level in
keeping with Government's policy of wage and salary constraint. Price
escalations total 26% of baseline costs.
D. Financing
4.20      Financing of Project costs would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
US$ (mln).       %
IDA                                  7.20          31
Canadian Government                  4.80          20
ODM (UK)                             5.60          24
Tanzania Government                  5.26          22
Villagers                            0.64           3
Total                          23.50         100
The proposed IDA Credit of US$7.2 million would be on standard terms to Govern-
ment. The proposed Canadian Credit of Can $5.0 million would be administered
by IDA under the terms of an agreement between the Government of Canada and
IDA, a draft of which was circulated to the Board on April 1, 1977 (Sec IDA
R 77-31) and pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association acting as administrator on behalf
of the Government of Canada. The two Credits would be applied to all except
the Roads and the Land-Use Planning components and would cover the foreign
exchange costs and 25% of the local costs, or 74% of total costs of these
components. Seventy-six percent of the Roads and Land-Use Planning compo-
nents would be financed from a Grant of about [3.4 million (US$5.60 equiv-
alent) to the Government of Tanzania from the United Kingdom Overseas Devel-
opment Programme. Overall 75% of Project costs would be externally financed.
Villagers in Tabora Region would pay US$640,000 for incremental farm inputs.
Villagers will also provide unpaid labor on access roads and timber planting,
which is not costed, and contribute to water supply construction, maintenance
and operation (paras. 2.17, 4.06).
4.21      The Project pre-supposes that Government's budget allocations to
Tabora Region will be continued through the Project period and that adequate
maintenance funds would be made available for the upkeep of roads and water
supplies and the repair and running of Project-provided equipment following
the Project period. Assurances on these points were given at negotiations.
1/   This last reflects varying costs of expatriate assistance from different
sources, and considerable variations between contracts for differing
specializations.



- 21 -
A condition of Credit effectiveness would be the prior or simultaneous ful-
fillment of all conditions for the disbursement of the UK grant and the
effectiveness of the Canadian Credit.
4.22      In view of the long procurement times typical for some equipment
and for expatriate personnel and housing, and to ensure that the items would
be available in time for the Project to be operational during the 1977/78 crop
season, Government has been encouraged to prepare contracts for key items of
equipment, civil works, and technical assistance. Should these contracts be
ready in advance of Board presentation, the Association will consider author-
izing award of the contracts subject to IDA procedures and at Government's
risk. If necessary, also, part of the contracts would be financed retro-
actively, subject to Board approval (para. 4.25).
E. Procurement
4.23      Procurement from the IDA and Canadian Credits would be as follows:
(a) Orders for vehicles and spare parts (US$1.0 million),
tools, laboratory, office and radio equipment (US$0.5
million), would be bulked as far as practicable and orders
of US$100,000 or more would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines.
(b) Housing and stores construction (US$1.2 million) is ex-
pected to be by contractors selected following interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with guidelines.
In the evaluation of bids, local contractors would have a
7-1/2% preference margin.
(c) Orders for equipment and civil works below US$100,000
would be handled in accordance with existing Government
procedures which are satisfactory.
(d) Materials for water supplies construction (US$2.5 million)
would be procured by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
(e) Design and construction of water supplies (US$2.5 million)
would be by force account.
(f) Requirements for fertilizers, insecticides and sprayers
(U.S.$1.9 million) would be bulked with similar items
required under other IDA-assisted Projects in Tanzania.
These would be procured by international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
(g) The Water Master Plan (US$1.4 million) would be pre-
pared by consultants selected in accordance with the
Bank Group's guidelines on the selection and use of
consultants. They would provide their own equipment



- 22 -
except for vehicles, which would be procured in accor-
dance with (a) above, and test rigs, to be provided by
Maji.
Any contracts placed and orders made in advance of Board presentation
(para. 4.22) would be in accordance with the above procedures. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined above
would be followed.
4.24      Road equipment and technical assistance supplied under the UK
grant would be obtained from the UK in accordance with UK procurement
guidelines: the Land-Use Planning component would be carried out by the
Land Resources Division (LRD) of the UK Ministry of Overseas Development
with equipment similarly procured.
F. Disbursements (Annex 11)
4.25      Disbursements of funds from the IDA and Canadian Credits would be
on the following basis:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange expenditure and 85% of
the local cost for vehicles, and equipment and the
purchase of materials and inputs (US$5.9 million);
(b) 50% of total cost for buildings (US$0.6 million);
(c)  100% of the foreign exchange costs, and 75% of the
local cost of consultants and technical assistance
(US$3.5 million).
The IDA and Canadian Credits would be disbursed by IDA in the ratio of 7:5
for all of the above items. Disbursements would be fully documented. Except
for technical assistance expenditures, any funds remaining in the accounts
at Project completion would be available for reallocation to Project related
expenditure at the discretion of the Association.   With respect to technical
assistance, any savings in funds would be cancelled unless the Association
shall otherwise agree to a reallocation. An estimated schedule of disburse-
ments is contained in Annex 11. Project related expenditures on civil works,
equipment, or technical assistance incurred after January 1, 1977 up to an
aggregate amount of $200,000 would be eligible for retroactive financing.
4.26      Disbursement from the UK grant would be administered directly by
the UK. It would cover 100% of the foreign exchange costs and 17% of
the domestic costs of the Roads and Land-Use Planning components.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.27      Project funds would be channelled from Government to the Regional,
Development Budget and administered for the Regional Planning Office by the



- 23 -
Project Secretariat (para. 5.01). The Project Financial Controller would
maintain separate accounts of Project funds and would make annual allocations
as necessary to the Regional functional managers who would in turn keep
separate accounts of the use of Project funds, under the supervision and
guidance of the Financial Controller. Payments for items procured or handled
by Central Ministries or Authorities would similarly be made by the Project
Secretariat against the certification of the relevant Authority.
4.28      To ensure sufficient liquidity for the Project, it is essential
that Government makes timely and adequate annual provision of funds to the
Project. At negotiations Government gave assurances that this would be
done on the basis of annual budgets prepared by the Project management and
approved by RDD.
4.29      Accounts of Project funds would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and the accounts and auditors reports would be
submitted to the Association within six months of the close of the financial
year. Accounts of all village funds would be kept by those village coopera-
tives assisted by the Project. These would be audited by staff funded by the
Prime Ministers Office. At negotiations assurances were given that Government
would ensure the satisfactory staffing, supervision and functioning of such
audit.
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Coordination, Monitoring, and Evaluation
5.01      The Regional Administration would have overall responsibility
for the Project and policy matters would be decided by the Regional Develop-
ment Committee chaired by the Regional Development Director. The Project
would be coordinated, guided and monitored by a Project Secretariat, headed by
the Regional Planning Officer (RPO), who is a member of the Regional Develop-
ment Committee. The chief executive of the Project would be a Project Coor-
dinator, appointed for the purpose and directly answerable to the RPO. He
would be supported by a Financial Controller and an Evaluation Officer, each
with appropriate staff. The positions of Project Coordinator, Financial
Controller, and Evaluation Officer are crucial to the running of the Project:
provision is made for them to be recruited internationally. Suggested TORs
and qualifications are at Annex 9, Appendix 1. At negotiations, Government
gave assurances that the suitability, in terms of their qualifications and
experience, of successful candidates for these posts would be agreed with
the Association prior to appointment. It was also agreed that it would be a
condition of Credit effectiveness that these three staff had been appointed.
5.02      Reporting on the physical progress of Project components and
on use of funds would be from the functional managers to the Project
Coordinator. The Evaluation officer would be responsible for both moni-
toring the Project's progress and effects, and organizing in-depth evalua-
tions of impact and problems as needed (Annex 9). The Evaluation Officer



- 24 -
would also assist the RPO in supervising preparation of data and plans for
post-Project investments and would play a major role in the preparation of
a report at the completion of the Project analyzing the implementation and
impact of the Project against the targets and objectives set. Responsibil-
ity for this report would rest with the Government, and at negotiations
assurances were given that Government would prepare the report, in consul-
tation with the Association, and submit it to the Association within 6
months of completion of disbursements.
5.03      In view of the multi-sectoral nature of the Project, and the
flexible nature of several components, the Project will require close super-
vision, especially in the startup period, and it will be important that
selected supervision missions include technical staff of the Association.
This is particularly important for the Water Supply component.
5.04      Links with the Party, CCM, would be continued at all levels:
the Regional Development Committee reports to and executes policy deci-
sions from the Regional Executive Committee, chaired by the Regional
Commissioner, and there is close Party involvement in village decision-
making. Links with the Ministeries and parastatal headquarters in Dar es
Salaam and Dodoma would be strengthened by the appointment of a Project
Expeditor stationed in Dar es Salaam under the Prime Minister's Office
whose function would extend to assisting in and expediting material pro-
curements. He would serve a joint function with the Kigoma Project
(Cr. 508-TA) and in due course, is expected to provide similar services
to the Mwanza/Shinyanga and Mara Projects, now in preparation. At nego-
tiations it was agreed that his appointment would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness, and would be made in consultation with the Association.
Project Implementation
5.05      Project execution generally would be through the existing Regional
and/or District organization, as appropriate to the component, strengthened
as necessary by additional technical personnel and funding within the func-
tional units. The integration of the Regional and Project organization is
shown in Annex 9, Chart, WB 16562. In detail: (a) The preparation and
execution of elements under the water supply component would be at Regional
level under the Regional Water Engineer (RWE). The RWEs division responsi-
ble for design and construction would be strengthened (Annex 4, paras. 24,
26). Manpower, which is available, would be recruited through normal Civil
Service channels. RWE would continue to hire drilling and earth-moving teams
from the Ministry of Water Development and Power (Maji), Dar es Salaam. The
Water Master Plan would be carried out by consultants under the supervision of
the RWE with methodology standardized and scope of services coordinated by
Maji (Annex 4, paras. 22, 23 and Appendix 3) and simultaneously reporting to
Maji and the Project. (b) The Roads component would be administered by the
Regional Engineer supported by senior technical personnel (Annex 5, para. 15
and Appendix 1) supplied as a team under the Project by UK development assis-
tance. A modified roads organization would be set up at Regional level,
probably comprising the formation of a Network Road Section and an Access Road



- 25 -
Section. The Network Road Section would be charged with the planning and
supervision of network road maintenance and improvements, to be carried out by
Regional and District units; the Access Road Section would control Regional
units working on the reconstruction and construction of village access roads
and would train and supervise villagers who would be responsible for the
upkeep of their village access roads. (c) The crop-agriculture component
would be administered by the Regional Agricultural Development Officer (RADO)
supported by a planner/agronomist and an extension training officer, provided
for under the Project. Implementation would be through the Nzega and Igunga
District Agricultural Officers by two Field Officers, provided under the
Project and posted to those Districts (Annex 2). Teams of the village Land
Planning Unit strengthened by training and equipment supplied under the
Project by UK assistance, would continue to operate under the RADO. The
first crop year of the Project would be spent in training and establishing
the groundwork for the production program. It is assumed that the build-up
of farmers would be gradual rising from 30-35 per village in year 2 to about
200 per village in the fifth year (Annex 2, para. 6). (d) The livestock
development component would come under the purview of the Regional Livestock
Development Officer. He would be assisted by a livestock development
specialist provided by the Project who would direct the program, coordinating
program activities with those of the relevant District livestock development
staff, and who would provide a Regional livestock planning capability. The
veterinary team funded by the German Democratic Republic would continue to
provide technical assistance to animal health services. The mobile tsetse
unit would be run by a project-provided tsetse ecologist (Annex 3). Village
development would be phased to allow full discussions on the proposals and
their implications (e.g. for the village herds and milk suppply) with the
village assembly, and for the preparation of agreed plans. The first 2
villages would be established in the second project year, and, assuming
successful initial experiences, 5 in each of the following 2 years (Annex 3,
para. 36). (e) The fuelwood production component would be run, under the
office of the Regional Natural Resources Officer, by a Forester and two
assistant foresters recruited under the Project, in cooperation with District
Forest Division staff. (f) The Land Use/Capability survey would be carried
out by LRD reporting to the Project secretariat.
5.06      A schedule showing overall Project implementation is given in Annex
9, Appendix 3; and details are given in the Annexes on the components.
5.07      It is envisaged that the two sanitary engineers, the construc-
tion engineer, and two drilling foremen for the Water Supply component; the
planner/agronomist and the extension training officer in the crop-agriculture
component; and the livestock development specialist and the tsetse ecologist;
would all be recruited internationally. In order to avoid risk of unnecessary
delays in the implementation of the Project, their recruitment has not been
made a condition of Project effectiveness. However, these are key staff for
the relevant components and operations within the components other than
procurement of necessary buildings, vehicles and equipment should not proceed
before appropriately qualified and experienced staff are in position. At
negotiations, assurances were given by Government that these key staff would



- 26 -
be recruited by 1 March, 1978. The Food and Agriculture Organization of
the United Nations (FAQ) could be the source for the four agricultural and
livestock specialists, using Project funds in trust.
Village Participation
5.08      The village would be the basic development unit of much of the
Project and an aim of the Project is to secure the fullest participation
of village members in the planning and implementation of Project components.
This will be done by involving the Village Council through its committees,
established under the Village Act, particularly the Finance and Planning
committee which should work with the Land Planning Unit in the designation
of agricultural, stock and forest plantation lands; the Production and
Marketing committee on the implementation of the direct production components
in effected villages; and the Work and Transport committee on village involve-
ment in access roads and contributions to water supply maintenance. The
effectiveness of the new village organization is untried and a flexible
approach to encouraging local participation and strengthening the new village
cooperatives will be needed by the Project staff. Similarly, if the projected
changes to the structure of extension, training, input, marketing and credit
services (para. 2.10, 2.11) and the development of new links between national,
regional, sub-regional and village organizations, are not to delay Project
implementation, Project management will need to be imaginative and pragmatic
in its task.
VI. PRODUCTION, OTHER BENEFITS, AND IMPACT
Crop Agriculture and Livestock
6.01      Direct production benefits of the Project would arise from in-
creased yields of cotton, rainfed paddy, groundnuts and sorghum, and from
improved cattle productivity and the introduction of a stall-fattening
enterprise. The improved crop packages--principally improved seed varieties,
better planting rates, and use of fertilizers--would raise yields over 5
years, and the area under improved practices would expand as more farmers
innovate. The anticipated crop production results for farmers innovating
within the Project period are summarized below (see Annex 2, para. 7).



- 27 -
Yields per farmer:                           Annual Incremental
Pre-      After        Farmers      Area        Production
Project  5 years    innovating  involved   5 yrs.   10 yrs.
-----kg/ha------                  ---ha- -    -----m tons-----
Seed Cotton             500      1,000        3,000        3,000      930    1,650
Groundnuts (shelled)   400         600        6,000        1,800      556       840
Sorghum (grain)         500      1,500        6,000       3,900    1,583    3,468
Paddy                 1,000      2,000        3,000        3,000    1,500    3,000
In the 42 villages involved in the Project, a total 6,000 out of 15,000
farmers are expected to have adopted improved practices on one or more crops;
whilst a further 3,000 will have adopted improved extensive livestock manage-
ment or stall-fattening, to produce 650 tons of meat a year by 1987.
6.02      This direct production will partly go to enhancing subsistence pro-
duction and partly to increasing cash income. The production budgets (Annex 2,
Tables 15 and 16) indicate that family consumption in the order 2,300 calories
and 44 grams protein per head per day would be available to Project farmers
whilst making cash sales of cotton, groundnuts, sorghum, paddy and beef
of about TSh 2,000 (US$240) a year. (Ready export markets exist for cotton
and groundnuts, and internal markets for sorghum, rice and beef. The quantities
involved would not effect prices). It is estimated that average per capita
incomes on Project farms would at least double from the present TSh 320
(US$40) a year level, in 5 years (Annex 2, para. 17). The budgets also show
significant increases in returns to incremental family labor as well as
returns on incremental expenditures on inputs of between 160 and 500%--levels
high enough to lead to an expectation of ready adoption by farmers.
6.03      In these estimates, the Tanzanian 1976/77 prices to growers have
been used (TSh/kg):
Seed Cotton (AR):  2.00            Groundnuts (shelled):  2.50
(BR):  1.00           Sorghum (grain)      :  0.90
Paddy            :  1.00           Beef                 :  3.10
Recently Government has been taking steps to ensure real values to farmers
are maintained, and the already announced 1977/78 prices show increases
of 11-20% for sorghum, cotton and paddy, and a major rise for groundnuts
(48%) and beef (77%). If this policy were continued, the farmers' budgets
would be conservative.
6.04      The direct agricultural production impact of the Project is small
because of its essentially pilot nature. It must also be appreciated that,
for the same reason, it is uncertain and the figures given above are indicative,
and assume reasonable success with the pilot program. It is anticipated,
however, that sufficient knowledge will be gained of the application of
improved practices to farms in NE Tabora to ensure replication in a following



- 28 -
period. If such further development reached 100 villages, with 60% adoption
rates (i.e. involving 23,000 farmers), then on the same basis, the annual
incremental production results by the 5th year of that phase could be: Seed
cotton, 3,700 m. tons; groundnuts, 2,000 m. tons; sorghum, 6,000 m. tons; and
paddy, 6,000 m. tons.
Fuelwood
6.05      The pilot fuelwood establishment of some 5,000 ha of eucalyptus
plantations in about 1  tobacco-growing villages would yield, from the
ninth year, about 15 m /ha/yr. of fuelwood. This would be mainly for
tobacco-curing. The impact of the fuelwood component is, therefore, largely
indirect. The production benefits arise from increasing the area under
tobacco and avoiding a reduction in tobacco and maize production which
would occur as the labor-time cost of cutting wood for the ever-retreating
natural forest increased (and possibly also as net returns on tobacco
diminish in the face of increasing transport costs). Income increases also
arise from savings in fuelwood transport costs. There are several approaches
to quantifying these benefits.   The linear programming model, which demon-
strates the feasibility of village fuelwood planting, in Tabora conditions,
uses transport savings and suggests long-term village income gains of over
25% a year (Annex 7, Tables 2 and 3). This component would be replicable in
other tobacco villages, and could also be applied on a smaller scale to
village domestic fuel production in the denuded NE Districts of Tabora.
Roads
6.06      The measured benefits of the enhanced maintenance and reconstruc-
tion of the network roads in Tabora arise from savings in vehicle operating
costs on existing traffic, whilst the provision of all-season access to
villages will give both vehicle operating savings and agricultural produc-
tion benefits from assured year-around provision of inputs and services,
and decreased crop spoilage. Unquantified benefits likely to elise from
the roads component include savings on induced traffic, and improved access to
social and administrative facilities. Gross benefit levels would vary with
the mix of maintenance and reconstruction. A year-round weighted average
vehicle cost savings estimate from network roads reconstruction is TSh 1.28
per vehicle/ km. These have been assumed to apply to 188 km by year 5 and
nearly 400 km from year 9. A further saving of TSh 0.28 per vehicle/km is
calculated from the incremental maintenance levels: this could apply to 100
km in 5 years and 200 km from the 7th year. Access road benefits-- savings
from vehicle cost savings, production benefits, and crop savings-- are cal-
culated to average nearly TSh 18,000 per village (US$2,200) per year in 1976
and apply to 80 villages by year 5 and 224 villages on completion of the
program (Annex 5, Appendix 8), by which time, allowing for growth in production
and traffic, annual benefits from access roads could be about TSh 6.0 million
(US$725,000) a year. By that time, network road benefits are estimated at
about TSh 5.5 million (US$660,000) a year.



- 29 -
Water Supplies
6.07      The,water supply component is estimated to provide improved
supplies to 140,000-160,000 rural people by 1981, bringing the propor-
tion of Tabora's rural population supplied with water to about one-
third (vs 23% now). Even so, the absolute number of people in villages
lacking improved supply is expected to remain unchanged in the Project
period--some indication of the size of the problem. Benefits from improved
water supplies are difficult to quantify: in addition to health benefits,
provision of water may release seasonally constrained labor to directly
productive use, whilst an important effect of the program is expected to be
the stabilization of villages for which satisfactory water sources can be
established, thus encouraging longer-term agricultural investments and pro-
duction in them.
Overall Project Benefits
6.08      It is in fact, a reasonable presumption that the various elements
of the Project, which are designed to be complementary, will be mutually
reinforcing, and the benefits of the package of investments will be greater
than the sum of the parts. Moreover, the Project will supplement ongoing
developments in the Region, including those which are IDA-financed and,
perhaps most important, will develop the capacity of the Region to handle
further investments, whether routed through a further Regional project or
as Regionally executed components of a national Project. This goes beyond
the direct planning investments--the Water Master Plan, the Land Use/
Capability Plan, the tsetse survey, and the work of the Evaluation Unit--
and includes the results of the pilot production exercises in crops, live-
stock, and timber; and the experience and enhanced implementation capacity
being developed both within the functional departments of the Regional
administration and the villages. Together, these should enhance the prospects
of achieving the objective of self-sustaining growth in the Region. There is
no satisfactory way of measuring these benefits: but it is clear that they
are positive, additional to those quantified, and will effect most of the
Region's rural population.
Government Cash Flow (Annex 12)
6.09      The incremental effect of the Project on the Government budget is
summarized in Annex 12. In this calculation, it has been assumed that Govern-
ment receives parastatal surpluses (see para. 2.16); that input subsidies will
be reduced in 5 years and phased out in 10 years; and that villagers meet two-
thirds of the maintenance costs of Project water supplies and maintain their
own access roads. It is indicated that the Project in itself would result in
a long-term deficit averaging about US$250,000 a year. It is, however, anti-
cipated that this would be offset by strongly positive cash flows arising
from the future investments expected, based on the infrastructure provided
and knowledge gained in this Project, (para. 4.01).



- 30 -
Ecological Effects
6.10      By instituting land-use planning, village block lay-outs, and
controlled grazing with destocking in an area which is subject to severe
erosion caused particularly by overgrazing, the Project will have beneficial
effects on the Region's ecology. The land-use mapping will also provide a
basis for the rational exploitation of the miombo woodland, the cutting
of which will be slowed by the fuelwood component and similar planting ex-
pected to follow. Care will need to be taken in road reconstruction and
maintenance that drainage lines are respected and that gravel pits do not
become breeding grounds for malarial mosquitoes. The effects on the various
water tables and water courses of the water supply component will need to
be monitored: the Water Master Plan should, however, provide a basis for
the rational development of the water resource. Fertilizer and spray appli-
cations in the villages in which these inputs are to be tried are possible
ecological hazards which will, accordingly, be monitored by the Project
(Annex 9, Appendix 2).
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS (Annex 13)
Economic and Social Rate of Return
7.01      The Project is providing village trial results on crop and animal
agriculture; a major input in planning and training for future development;
and a start on a program of infrastructure. It is essentially preparing the
Region for future investments which should have high pay-off, but by its na-
ture the Project itself does not readily lend itself to conventional economic
analysis.
7.02      The separate components have been analyzed, and over a 20 year pe-
riod, those which are measurable give the following economic rate of return:
(a)  Crop agriculture                                       18%
(b)  Livestock development (including Tsetse Survey)        20%
(c)  Road maintenance and upgrading                         21%
(d)  Fuelwood plantations                                   40%
No attempt has been made to calculate the return to the Water Master Plan
or Water Supply component, nor to Land-Use Planning. (The Tsetse survey
is counted as a cost without defined benefits in the Livestock component).
Moreover, the return figures for the pilot agricultural components implicitly
assume success with the applied research program which by its nature may not
be a valid assumption. These figures in particular are therefore indicative
only. Combining all the evaluated components and including the Project
headquarters costs, the economic rate of return on the Project as a whole is



- 31 -
estimated at 17% over 20 years (Annex 13). Given the reservations above, an
IER in the range of 10-20% on the total quantifiable components is considered
a realistic expectation. Including the costs of the Water and Land-Use
Planning components, but attributing no benefits to them, the point estimate
of IER would fall from 17% to 8%.
7.03      In the return calculations, the local cost element has been deflated
by the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) for Tanzania of 0.75 as no specific
factors are yet available for Tanzania. This is the equivalent of applying
the shadow exchange rate for Tanzania of TSh 11.00 = US$1.00. Without applica-
tion of the SCF, an IER of 17% would fall to 10%. Unskilled labor, including
incremental farm labor, has been shadow priced at 40% of the official rural
wage rate: this level is representative of the opportunity cost of such labor
in the Region.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.04      The Project would be effected by slower than expected implementa-
tion -- to slow adoption rates by farmers, to delays in road construction and
maintenance, to delays in procurement -- and similarly to lower than expected
yields or growth rates. The overall and individual component sensitivities
have been tested as shown in Annex 13. The more sensitive components are
crop agriculture and livestock (see para 7.02). Even if the applied experi-
ments in these proceed as planned, major short-falls in production are a
clear risk. The roads and fuelwood components are very stable. Overall,
there is no reason to expect that risks would all operate in the same direc-
tion in a Project which comprises a series of semi-autonomous components and
the emphasis in Project design is to ensure sound management at all levels.
However, as a measure of such an occurrence, all benefits have been lagged.
If all benefits are delayed 1 year whilst all costs are incurred on sched-
ule (an unlikely twin event), the point estimate of IER drops to 13% and with
a benefit delay of 2 years falls to about 10%.
Employment and Distribution of Benefits
7.05      The direct employment effects of the Project are small.  Aside
from short-term employment on construction of Project facilities, some
hundred or so unskilled workers would be involved in roads, well-construction,
cattle-dip maintenance and forest nurseries. Farmers are expected marginally
to increase their time devoted to agricultural production and would also
provide labor on access roads.
7.06      Project beneficiaries are a cross-section of the rural population
of Tabora. The 6,000 farmers expected to innovate will tend to be the better
ones and therefore those rather better-off than average. However, all members
of the Project villages would have equal opportunity to take part; there are
few rigidities in Tanzania working against the poorer members of the rural
community; and per capita farm income in Tabora is also probably below the
national average farm income (para 3.04). The tobacco farmers who would
benefit from the fuelwood component are among the wealthier of the rural



- 32 -
community. Benefits of water supplies would be distributed without discrimi-
nation among the villages most in need of water and demonstrating a willing-
ness to contribute to the costs and upkeep of facilities. Access road
benefits would largely accrue directly to farmers in proportion to their
production, but, because trucks are largely owned by monopolistic parastatal
corporations, and because tariffs are fixed nationally, the network road
benefits would tend to go to truck and bus owners. Thus only indirectly
would they be felt by the rural population and even then not only, or neces-
sarily, in Tabora Region, except, perhaps from improved schedules on passenger
services.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following major
points, that:
(a) the selection of villages for the water supply component
would be on the basis of least cost, production impact,
need, and the willingness of villages to contribute to the
construction and maintenance of facilities (4.07);
(b) the Association would be consulted before commitment or
construction of any major water scheme estimated to cost
more than US$125,000 equivalent (4.07);
(c) transport subsidies on fuelwood for tobacco curing would
be phased out by 30 June, 1982. (4.12);
(d) budget allocations to Tabora Region would be continued
through the Project period and that adequate maintenance
funds would be made available for the upkeep of roads and
water supplies and the repair and running of Project-pro-
vided equipment following the Project period (4.21);
(e) the suitability in terms of their qualifications and
experience of successful candidates to the posts of
Project Coordinator, Financial Controller, and Evaluation
Officer would be agreed by the Association prior to
appointment (5.01);
(f) Government would submit a report to the Association within
6 months of completion of disbursements analyzing the im-
plementation and impact of the Project against the targets
and objectives set (5.02); and
(g) contracts with the key staff listed in para. 5.07 would be
completed not later than 1 March, 1978 (5.07).



- 33 -
8.02      It was also agreed at negotiations that, as conditions of Credit
effectiveness:            9
(a) all conditions for the effectiveness of the Canadian
Credit and the initial disbursement of the UK grant
would have been fulfilled (4.21); and
(b) that the Project Coordinator, Financial Controller,
Evaluation Officer, and Project Expeditor had been
appointed (5.01) and (5.04).
8.03      The proposed Project would be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$7.2
million on standard terms to the Government of Tanzania.






ANNEX 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabora - Background, Agriculture and Agricultural Organization
A.  Economic and Physical Background
The Region's Contribution to National Production               Para. 1
Climate                                                        Para. 2
Land-use, Soils and Ecology                                    Para. 3
Agro-Economic Zones (Map IBRD 12308)                           Para. 5
B.  Crop Production
Tobacco                                                        Para. 13
Cotton                                                         Para. 15
Paddy                                                          Para. 16
Maize                                                          Para. 17
Sorghum                                                        Para. 18
Groundnuts                                                     Para. 19
C.  Agricultural Research Requirements
Cotton                                                         Para. 21
Paddy                                                          Para. 22
Sorghum                                                        Para. 23
Groundnuts                                                     Para. 24
D.  Agricultural Extension and Other Services
Training for Agricultural Services                             Para. 30
E. Marketing and Price Policy
Marketing                                                      Para. 32
Price Policy                                                   Para. 35
F.  The Village Act, 1975                                          Para. 36
Table 1:  Av. Maximum and Minimum Temperatures and Rainfall in the Tabora Region
Table 2: Agro-economic Zones in Tabora
Table 3: Past Production of Important Crops in the Tabora Region
Table 4: Production Prices of Selected Crops 1968-1976






ANNEX 1
Page I
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabora - Background, Agriculture and Agricultural Organization
A. Economic and Physical Background
The Region's Contribution to National Production
1.        Tabora Region, with about 25,000 km  of cultivable land, is an
important agricultural Region. Nearly 80% of the gross marketed regional
product is derived from agriculture and the agro-industrial sector, and
recently average harvested production in the Region has comprised 60% of
the nation's production of tobacco, 30% of groundnuts, 20% of paddy, 14%
of sorghum, 11% of maize and 7% of cotton. The composition of the gross
regional product in 1974-75 was estimated to be as follows:
TSh                %
million          of total
Tobacco                                      70               16.5
Cotton                                       24               5.6
Mlaize                                        19              4.5
Paddy                                         17              4.0
Groundnuts                                    6                1.4
Total crop sales                       136              32.0
Livestock                                     15              3.5
Agro-industries                               35               8.2
Timber                                        11               2.6
Beekeeping                                    3               0.7
Fishing                                        1              0.2
Total marketed agricultural
production                           201              47.3
Subsistence production                      142              33.4
Total agricultural sector              343              80.7
Services                                     61               14.4
Construction                                  15               3.6
Other industry                                 6               1.4
Total non-agriculture                   82              19.3
Gross Regional Product                 425             100.00



ANNEX I
Page 2
Climate
2.        The average elevation of the Region is 1,100 m, with some ridges
along the eastern border rising to 1,500 m. Due to relatively small dif-
ferences in altitude, the temperatures are fairly uniform throughout the
Region. The annual mean maximum and minimum temperatures are 29 C and 17 C
respectively (Table 1). The average annual rainfall is about 800 mm (Table
1) and ranges from 650 mm along the eastern border to as high as 1,000 mm
in the western edge. The rainy season lasts about six months from November
to May, followed by a dry season of six months. Although the annual pre-
cipitation is sufficient for growing many crops, its distribution during
the rainy season is critical, especially in the east and the north-east
where breaks of 2 to 4 weeks in the rainfall during February and March
causes periodic failure of maize and paddy. The risk of crop failure due
to drought is significantly less in the western part of the Region.
Land-use, Soils and Ecology
2 2
3.        Of the 700,000 km  total land area, yearly 25,000 km  (36%) is
good agricultural land, of which only 2,500 ke  (10%) is being cultivated
currently2 National forests occupy 27,000 km (39%) while the remaining
18,000 km (25%) is in other, non-agricultural, use. An accurate and de-
tailed soils map of the Region is now available: however, five major soil
groups have been identified:
- Alluvial Black Cotton Soils in Igurubi, Igunga, Lugobo
in the east and Koga in the south-west;
- Granitic Banded Ironstone Light Sandy Loams in Ziba,
Nkinga, Simbo, and Puge in the Central Eastern zone;
- Medium Acid Dark Brown to Red Sandy Loams covering most
of the Tabora and Urambo Districts;
- Well drained Reddish Brown Loam in Itoba, Choma and
Nzega; and
- Poorly drained Dark Sandy Clay on the westernmost fringe.
Most of the cultivable soils are suitable for a wide range of food and fiber
crops and have potential for profitable yields under good management.
4.        The ecology of the Region is closely linked to the soil type and
rainfall pattern. The sandy soils are dominated by species of the allied
genera Brachystegia and Julbernardia forming miombo woodlands. The dominant
grass cover in the miombo is Hyparrhenia. On the heavier soils of Nzega,
the tree cover consists of Combretum, Acacia, and Albizia species associated
with various grasses.



ANINEX 1
Page 3
Agro-Economic Zones (Map IBRD 12308)
5.        Based on climate and factors such as water availability, commu-
nications, marketing facilities and administrative boundaries, the Tabora
Region can be divided into six main Agro-Economic Zones, shown on Map IBRD
12308 and summarized in Table 2.
6.        The Western Zone:  Except for the extreme western fringe bordering
on the Ugalla and Gombe rivers, soils of this zone are medium acid dark brown
to red sandy loam. The western edge is mostly a river flood plain and swamp
but an extensive land area on the eastern shore of Lake Segara has potential
for large scale irrigation. The main cash crop is tobacco. In the woodland,
there is high tsetse-fly infestation which limits cattle raising.
7.        The Southern Zone covers the southern third of the Region and 65%
of its area is forest reserve. A majority of soils belong to medium acid
dark brown to red sandy loam groups. This zone is also about 70% tsetse
infested. Tobacco is the major cash crop and planting of tobacco is increas-
ing due to two recently established tobacco complexes financed by the World
Bank Group and to newly settled tobacco villages organized by the Tobacco
Authority of Tanzania (TAT). Maize, paddy and groundnuts are major subsis-
tence crops throughout the zone.
8.        The Central (Tabora) Zone is in the geographic center of the Region
surrounding Tabora town. The zone is ecologically similar to the Western
zone except for the absence of forest reserves. There are two reservoirs,
Igombe for Tabora town, and Kazima. The latter could provide irrigation to
about 100 ha of vegetables, fruits and paddy. This zone has the advantage of
easy access to market for milk, vegetables, fruits, poultry and cereals.
9.        The North-West Zone is the main paddy producing area of the Region
because a large area in this zone has the soil and low-lying terrain necessary
for successful paddy cultivation. The South-eastern part has good potential
for tobacco growing while the area in the north is suitable for cotton.
Nearly 80% of this area is tsetse free and has good range land which is,
however, being overgrazed.
10.       The Central Eastern Zone covers Central and South-eastern Nzega and
Central eastern Tabora District. There are good cotton producing alluvial
black soils in the north and a substantial area in the south-western part,
adjacent to forest land, is suitable for tobacco. Low rainfall limits maize
yields in most of the zone.
11.       The North-East Zone lies in the Manonga plain.  It has predominantly
black cotton soils and is a major cotton growing area of the Region. The
zone is tsetse free, and the cattle density is high. Cattle numbers need to
be reduced to avoid continued overgrazing and such a reduction would also
facilitate increases in cotton cultivation.



ANNEX I
Page 4
B. Crop Production
12.       Tobacco, cotton and paddy are major cash crops, while maize, sor-
ghum, groundnuts, and cassava are primary subsistence crops in the Region.
Production trends (Table 3), present crop-husbandry and yield levels, major
constraints in increased production, and the potential yield levels of im-
portant crops in the Region are discussed below.
Tobacco
13.       Tobacco was introduced into the Region by the Overseas Food Cor-
poration in early 1950. Initially the production was utilized for local
cigarette manufacture only, but since the opening of the export market,
the flue-cured tobacco production in the Region has increased from 4.4
million kg in 1968-69 to 10 million kg in 1973-1974 (i.e., an increase of
127%). The crop is produced by 23,000 smallholder families who grow and
cure the crop on an individual or group basis. Tobacco is usually grown
in a five-year rotation alternating with food crops. The average smallholder
farmer in Tabora produces only 600-650 kg/ha of saleable tobacco.
14.       The favorable agro-climatic conditions in the Region offer a great
potential for tobacco expansion, and the IDA Credit sanctioned in 1971 for a
flue-cured Project had as its main objective the settlement of some 15,000
new tobacco growers, of which 10,000 were to be in Tabora Region. The Proj-
ect aimed at increased production of flue-cured tobacco in Tanzania by about
9 million kg by 1978, of which about 6 million kg would be in Tabora Region.
The progress of this Project, however, has been much slower than expected,
production is lagging 3 years behind schedule, and the Project has been ex-
tended to December 1977. The main constraints have been associated with the
settlement aspect of the Project including delays in construction of village
water supplies; slow recruitment of farmers; and smaller areas cultivated per
family than anticipated. Yields per unit of land have been low and stagnant
due to shortage of extension staff. The Project is now picking up momentum.
In this Project, only the pilot fuelwood component (Annex 6) and a minor
assistance to tobacco research touches on tobacco production.
Cotton
15.        Cotton production is concentrated in Nzega and Igunga Districts
and primarily in the Manonga Valley. Due to fluctuations in the areas
sown, production in the last 10 years has been uneven, but in 1974 exceeded
14,000 tons (Table 3). In the north-eastern part of Manonga Valley, with the
help of ox-ploughs, 5 to 8 ha of cotton are cultivated annually per family
while in the western Manonga and Igunga, average cotton plots vary between 1
and 2 ha per family. Use of oxen for tillage is also common. Sowing is done
in November-December, while picking commences in May and continues up to
July. At the present, crop husbandry is poor, characterized by late plant-
ing at sub-optimal spacing, poor thinning and inadequate weeding, no use



ANNEX 1
Page 5
of chemical fertilizers and very little use of insecticides. Yields range
from 300-1000 kg/ha with an average of about 500 kg/ha of seed cotton.
Considerable increase in cotton production in the Region is therefore feasible
by improving husbandry methods (Annex 2, para. 7 (a)) and increasing inputs.
There is also scope for area expansion as presently only 30,000 ha (20%) of
the total 150,000 ha of suitable black cotton soils are under cotton. Some of
the major constraints to cotton production have been unreliable rainfall,
competition with livestock and with other crops like maize, and lack of
adequate research and extension services.
Paddy
16.        Although Tabora Region is estimated to have produced about 30%
of the national paddy, crop statistics are often inconsistent. The esti-
mated production has fluctuated between 16,000 to 43,000 tons in the past
9 years (Table 3). Regional paddy production is concentrated in Igunga and
Nzega Districts where most of the farmers follow a nursery/transplanting
system which offers considerable savings on weedings. The nurseries are
sown in late October and early November and transplanting is done after 4 to
6 weeks to coincide with the first rains. Bunds for controlling and holding
water are also established just before transplanting. Native varieties are
commonly grown in natural depressions (mbugas). Use of chemical fertilizers
and pesticides is not in vogue and all cultivating and harvesting is done by
hand. The average yield in the Region is about 1000 kg/ha but varies con-
siderably throughout: the highest yields reported are about 2,000 kg/ha and
the lowest about 500 kg/ha. There is considerable potential for increasing
paddy production both by expansion of area in western Nzega and in Urambo
District (where, in addition to suitable soils, rainfall is fairly assured)
and by increasing yield per unit of land by introducing improved agronomic
practices (Annex 2, Para. 7 (b)). Major constraints, however, are lack of
research information and extension services.
Maize
17.        Maize is grown extensively throughout the Region, mainly as a
subsistence crop. Estimated average regional maize production in the last
8 years (Table 3) is about 49,000 tons. Maize is usually the first crop
planted at the onset of the rainy season. Interplanting of groundnuts and
beans with maize is a common practice. Except for the Manonga Valley where
ox-ploughing is done, all land preparation, planting and cultivation is by
hand using a heavy bladed hoe. Most farmers use local seed varieties and do
not use insecticide or fertilizers. Thus, although the yield potential is
3,000 kg/ha the average yields obtained are in the range of 500-700 kg/ha,
except for maize grown in rotation with tobacco where yields are about 1,000-
2,000 kg/ha due to residual fertilizer effects. As part of the National Maize
Project (IDA Credit 606-TA), which became effective in mid-1976, maize pro-
duction would be expanded in 43 villages of the Tabora and Urambo Districts
by providing subsidized hybrid seed, insecticides and chemical fertilizers.
The Tabora Rural Development Project would not involve further direct inputs



ANNEX 1
Page 6
into maize production. In the North-east, the most serious constraint is
marginal total rainfall (650-700 mm) while in the central Nzega, some pro-
longed dry spells during growing season affect the yield and sometimes result
in the failure of the crop. Therefore, in the areas affected by the crop
component of this Project sorghum, rather than maize, should be encouraged.
Sorghum
18.        Before the introduction of maize, sorghum was extensively grown
in the low rainfall areas of the North-east in Igunga and Nzega Districts.
However, as maize is generally a preferred food, it has tended to replace
sorghum. The estimated annual average harvested production in the Region
during the last 6 years has been about 16,000 tons (Table 3). Sorghum is
grown in mixed cultivation with other crops and is often planted with the
onset of rains in November on a cloddy seedbed on the black clay soils. No
chemical fertilizers and insecticides are used. Thinning and weeding are
usually by hand. Harvesting commences in March-April. Yields range between
about 300 and 2000 kg/ha but the average is estimated at 500 kg/ha. So
far, no steps have been taken to introduce improved varieties and associated
improved agronomic practices. Sorghum is adapted to a wide range of ecolog-
ical conditions. Its great merit is its drought resistance and it would
produce good yields of grain under conditions which are unfavorable for other
cereals. Therefore, encouraging sorghum production under improved husbandry
(Annex 2, Para. 7 (c)) would be profitable in the Nzega and Igunga Districts.
Groundnuts
19.        The Urambo ward of Tabora Region was the site of one of the
Overseas Food Corporation's large groundnut schemes. Statistics of ground-
nut production in the Region prior to 1969-70 are not available, but the
estimated average annual production in the last 5 years is 9,000 tons of
shelled nuts (Table 3). Much of the production has been from the dry areas
of the cental Nzega. Groundnuts are often grown in rotation with cotton,
tobacco, maize and other cereals, and are usually grown late in the rotation
and cultivated by hand. Fertilizers and pesticides are not used. The average
yields under the present management levels are 300-400 kg shelled/ha, but it
is possible to obtain a level of 600 kg/ha under advanced management (Annex 2,
Para. 7 (d)). The main constraints are insufficient extension staff, lack of
research information and unattractive prices paid to farmers.
C. Agricultural Research Requirements
20.        The Ministry of Agriculture is in charge of the national research
network covering the major agro-economic zones of the country. Nine agricul-
tural research stations with their associated experiment sub-stations are
engaged with crop research activities. The Tabora Region is served for cot-
ton by the Western Research Station at Ukiriguru and by the sub-station at
Mwanhala, located just south of Nzega. The Tumbi Research Station, nine km
west of Tabora, caters for Tobacco Research. The Region has received little



ANNEX 1
Page 7
or no attention in the field of food crops, no trials have been conducted at
all on paddy, sorghum, and groundnuts. In view of the serious dearth of re-
search information, it is important that on a long-term basis, the national
research network should identify basic research concerning breeding, agronomy
and plant protection. However, in the shorter term, adaptive research should
be carried out on the Regional station and farmer's fields by the Regional
extension staff under the guidance of National and Regional research staff.
Requirements of adaptive research on cotton, paddy, sorghum and groundnuts
are briefly outlined as follows:
Cotton
21.        The recommendation of planting the UK 64 variety in Tabora Region
is based upon trials carried out some 15 years ago at Ukiriguru. New variety
trials, together with time of planting, spacing and weeding observations need
to be introduced in Igunga and Nzega. Trials at Ukiriguru indicated the
superiority of endosulfan applied using ultra low volume (ulv) battery powered
hand sprayers. Similar trials should be replicated in Igunga and Nzega with
particular reference to type and timing of insect attack so as to formulate
optimal spraying regimes and to replace the present recommendations for pest
control using DDT, Sevin and Diomethoate by the conventional knapsack sprayers
in a six to eight spray regime. In view of the high cost of oil-based spray,
research should also be extended to use of water-soluble ULV sprays, and to
techniques of insect counts to establish optimum timing. Since responses to
fertilizers have not been accurately determined for the Black Cotton soils
of this Region, systematic trials to investigate optimum doses of chemical
fertilizers and their methods of application should be carried out under
farmers' field conditions.
Paddy
22.        The main paddy research center in Tanzania is at Katrin (Kilombero
Valley) in the Morogoro Region where breeding and genetic programs for im-
proved variety, agronomic and fertilizer trials are underway for that region.
Due to different agro-climatic conditions, the results of Katrin trials cannot
be successfully transferred directly to Nzega and Igunga Districts. A fresh
adaptive research pilot program needs to be initiated specifically for agro-
climatic conditions of Tabora to develop improved production possibilities.
This program should include testing of variety performance, fertilizer re-
sponses and optimum husbandry practices with special reference to moisture
conservation by bunding, optimum plant populations, and split application of
nitrogen.
Sorghum
23.        Sorghum varieties which yield over 50-60% more than local varie-
ties and are well adapted to regional climatic conditions are being tested
at Ukiriguru for cultivation above 900 m. These varieties should be tested
under Igunga and Nzega conditions and the apparent superiority of these im-
proved varieties should be further checked by observation of their response
to improved agronomic practices such as early planting, close spacing, in-
creased weedings and stalk borer control. Fertilizer response studies should



ANNEX 1
Page 8
be initiated with particular reference to the economics of application, and
the form of nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers suited to Black Cotton soils
of the Region.
Groundnuts
24.        The recently introduced improved large seeded Bukene variety has
a somewhat superior kernel compared to the local Mwitunde variety which is,
however, somewhat more resistant to Rosette disease. The future research
program should, in addition to variety testing, focus on time of planting,
spacing, seed dressing and incidence and control of Cercospora leaf spot
disease. Response to fertilizers, especially phosphorous and sulfer, and
the economic aspects of fertilizer application under farmers' field condi-
tions needs to be investigated to formulate packages of improved practices.
D. Agricultural Extension and Other Services
25.        Agricultural extension services in the Region are organized crop-
wise, for tobacco by the TAT, for cotton by the Tanzania Cotton Authority
(TCA) and for all other crops, by the Ministry of Agriculture (Kilimo).
The present strength of the total Regional extension staff is 308.
Kilimo     TAT        TCA      Total
Senior Field Officers (SFO)                1          1          5         2
Field Officers (FO)                       16          4          -        25
Assistant Field Officers (AFO)            60        145          -       205
Field Assistants (FA)                     46          -        30         76
Total        123        150         35       308
26.        At present there is sufficient contact staff for a ratio of 1:500
farm families.  However, in general, the extension staff is either inade-
quately trained, inexperienced or both. The Field Assistants (FA) are
primary school leavers and have received no formal training except short
in-service instructions in some specific activity (like maize production).
Their usefulness, therefore, is very limited. The Assistant Field Officers
(AFOs) have undergone two or three years of diploma or certificate course
after secondary school. They are usually young men, lacking practical ex-
perience and are not familiar with local agricultural conditions. The Field
Officers (FOs) and Senior Field Officers (SFOs) are university graduates with
varying experience but they are few in number. Poor communications, lack of
transport facilities, absence of research information to formulate improved
agronomic recommendations and deficiencies in marketing, input supply and
credit aggravate the situation and help to render the present extension
service ineffective.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
27.        These problems may be further compounded by recent changes in the
organization of extension which Governmert has initiated. The Field Assis-
tants (FA), one being phased out and indications are that the village level
contact will in future be a villager to be selected from the village by the
Village Council and trained in extension work. These new appointees will
have very litt:Le formal education and no prior training of modern agricul-
tural technology or extension methods and would be inexperienced in his job.
Under the new setup, one AFO (possibly on ward level) would be responsible
for supervising and guiding three village-level workers.
28.        Under the Tobacco Industry Act of 1972, the Tobacco Authority of
Tanzania (TAT) was established as a parastatal body to promote tobacco pro-
duction and its sale for domestic use and export. TAT organizes supervisory
service extension, and supply of subsidized inputs for tobacco growers and
provides improved facilities for curing, grading and baling of tobacco. The
primary tobacco cooperative societies act as TAT's agent in buying tobacco
from the growers.
29.        The Tanzania Cotton Authority (TCA) established as a parastatal
body in 1973, is charged with the responsibility of promoting cotton indus-
try. TCA organizes seed and input supply, marketing of seeds cotton, ginning,
seed crushing, marketing and exporting of cotton lint. TCA also operates
three seed multiplication centers in Nzega District. TCA subsidizes 50% of
the price of fertilizers, spray chemicals and sprayers and supplies the in-
puts. The Tabora Region Cooperative Union (TRCU) used to act as an agent for
TCA, buying and ginning the cotton. In view of legislation under the new
Village Act (Para. 35), the situation would now change. In the Tabora Region,
TCA has 5 Senior Field Officers concerned with the management of the ginnery
and with the assistance of 30 Field Assistants, are engaged in the insecticide
spreying campaign.
Training for Agricultural Services
30.        Tumbi research station and training institute conducts a two-years
training program mainly for tobacco extension staff of TAT. The current out-
put of this institute is 30 trainees per year, but it is expected to expand
to about 60 in 1977/78. There are two rural training centers, one at Mwahala
in Nrega and the other at Urambo where general training is organized for
extension staff and farmers. The National plan for training general agricul-
turalists at AFO level envisages a yearly turnout of about 300 by 1978, but
due to competition from other Regions, projects and agricultural parastatal
organizations, only 5 to 8 trained extension staff would be assigned annually
to Tabora Region. Recently all except five of the Rural Training Centers
have been transferred from Kilimo to the Ministry of Education and con-
verted into Folk Development Colleges. The remaining five Training Centers
are under the Prime Minister's Office and are functioning as Village Manage-
ment Training Centers. During this transition period, the training program
is likely to get a setback and could be an important constraint on agricul-
tural development programs. Adding to this is the need to train hundreds of
village-level workers (para. 27) and it would appear that special measures
should be taken at Regional level to provide a local short-term training
program.



ANNEX I
Page 10
31.        There is an acute shortage of trained accountants and bookkeepers
in the newly formed village societies. Under the Fifth Education Project
(IDA 607-TA) which became effective from March 1976, Technical Assistance has
been provided for the rationalization and detailed planning of training of
villagers in accounts, bookkeeping and audits. At this stage, the output of
trainees is uncertain and it is also not known when the first batch will be
available.
E. Marketing and Price Policy
32.        Marketing:  Maize, sorghum and groundnuts are primarily produced
as subsistence crops. Small surpluses are sold by the smallholders directly
in nearby markets to the merchants or consumers, or were sold through the
primary cooperatives to the Tabora Regional Cooperative Union (TRCU) which
acted as buying agent of the National Milling Corporation (NMC) for maize
and sorghum and of the General Agricultural Products Export Corporation
(GAPEX) for groundnuts. Paddy is grown as a cash grain crop and was sold to
NMC through TCRU. The Village Act of 1975 (Para. 35) and subsequent changes
in the cooperative organization throws a cloak of uncertainty over the
present and future structure of organized marketing, channels for village
lending and crop finance, and the role of villages in credit, input delivery
and marketing. At present, the Regional Unions disbanded, the role of the
parastatals is being enlarged but discussion is repeated on the possibility
of creating a Regional intermediary parastatal or forming groups of villages
to economize on services.
33.        The primary cooperative societies used to purchase seed cotton
from producers at the buying stations located at strategic villages throughout
the cotton producing area. It was then marketed to the Regional Cooperative
Union and delivered to the ginnery which was owned by the Cooperative Union.
TCA became the owner of the cotton lint at the ginnery, and sold the lint
by private treaty and by auctions held at Dar es Salaam. Presumably TCA
will now purchase directly from village societies, and will take over the
former Union facilities for processing.
34.        The Union was not involved in tobacco marketing and the existing
system is expected to continue. Tobacco is purchased from the producers by
primary societies (the largest of which is the Tabora Tobacco Grower's (TTG)
Agriculture Production Cooperative which represents over 10,000 farmers) and
is sold to TAT direct. TAT then transports it in its own or hired vehicles
to Morogoro for processing by the Tanzania Tobacco Processing Company (TTPC).
After processing, TTPC consigns exports to Dar es Salaam, but the crop remains
TATs responsibility until sale FOB.
35.        Price Policy:  Agricultural products are purchased at prices fixed
by Government after intermittent reviews. The producers' prices of selected
crops during 1968-76 are summarized in Table 4. The price (in current terms)
of food crops have been significantly increased (by 150%) to encourage pro-
duction to meet shortages of food supply and to minimize imports. Producer



ANNEX 1
Page 11
prices of cash crops are now generally quite related to world market prices
and cotton and flue-cured tobacco prices have been raised by 92% and 43%
respectively during the last 7 years.
F. The Village Act, 1975
36.        Under the villagization program, the rural population of Tabora
Region has been concentrated into about 380 settlement villages, each village
having about 250-500 families with an average of about five members in each
family. The Villages and Ujamaa Villages (Registration, Designation and
Administration) Act of 1975, makes provision for the registration of these
villages by a Registrar (who is effectively the Regional Development Direc-
tor) a step which confers legal status and considerable powers on a village.
Under the Act, the village is deemed to be a cooperative society and the
former cooperative societies cannot operate within a village except with
the consent of the Minister.
37.        The Act requires every registered village to have a village
assembly made up of all persons of 18 years or over, and a Village Council
elected by the village assembly which would consist of not more than 25
adults of 21 years or older, resident in the village. The Village Council is
empowered to do "all such acts and things as are necessary or expedient for
the economic and social development of the village" and in particular it can
plan and coordinate the work of villages engaged in agriculture or other
activities.
38.        The Village Council is required to establish five committees each
of not more than five members of the Council, to cover Finance and Planning;
Production and Marketing; Education, Culture and Social Welfare; Work and
Transport; and Security and Defence. Every Village Council is required to
establish three funds which may be financed from fees, gifts, grants or
borrowing, i.e., (a) a capital fund for capital expenditure, (b) a reserve
fund against which contingency charges may be met and (c) a disposable fund
which may be used for any other purpose. A Village Council is required to
prepare an annual statement of accounts which are to be audited by a person
authorized by the Registrar at least once every year.
39.        A village may be designated an Ujamaa Village when it is estab-
lished that a substantial portion of the economic activities of the village
are being undertaken on a communal basis. The Village Council would own all
heavy agricultural machinery and other capital goods, including storage
facilities and transport, and is required to acquire any such machinery and
capital owned by individual residents in the village. Livestock and small
farm tools and equipment may remain the property of individuals. Every
resident of the village is required to give a contribution by work or other-
wise, to communal activities or enterprises in the village.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
40.        Thus the Act and the initial subsidiary legislation give enormous
power to the Village Council including virtually unlimited control over vil-
lagers' agricultural and other pursuits. It remains to be seen how far this
power is exercised. It seems that if the provisions of the Act are to be
fully effective, virtually all rural development efforts will have to focus
on the villages and success or otherwise will largely depend on the capacity
of the Village Council. However, the conditions for registration of villages
are not stringent and registration does not in itself give any control over
economic viability.



ANNEX I
Table 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Av. Maximum and Minimum Temperatures and Rainfall in the Tabora Region
Temrerature                         Rainfall.
Mean           Fean            Monthly       -Average
Maximum        Minimum        Average 2/        days of Rain
°C             °C              mms
January              27.6            17.4             136                 16
February             28.1            17.5             125                 14
March                28.0            17.4             161                 15
April                27.7            17.3              40                 13
May                  27.8            16.3              33                  4
June                 27.9            14.8               3                  0
July                 28.2            14.6               -                  0
August               29.4            15.8               -                  0
September            31.0            17.6               4                  1
October              32.1            18.9              14                  3
November             30.7            18.8              81                 13
December             28.0            17.7             184                 20
Year                  28.9           17.0    Total:  795                  99
1/    Source   Kilimo
2/    30 year average



IANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agroeconomic Zones in Tabora*
Western Zone                Southern Zone              Central Zone                 Northwest Zone                    Central East Zone             Northeast Zone             Total
1.  Poulation (1973)      108,000 2!                  39,300                     60,oo0                      98,600                             203,000                       122,000                     630,Oo0
2,  Wards                   8) 'JIyankulu, Tbiri       (61 Sikonge, "ibono,       (7) Kal.nde  Urambo,        (14) BuKombi, Mambali,             (18)Upuge, Kissengi,          (7) MbWtu, Igunga                61
yowa, Irambo, Kaliua      Kitu-da, Kipili,            Mabama, Ilalangulu,        Karitu, Isanzu, Itobo,              Imalaseko, Page, Ndogo        Kininginila, Igurubi
'snoke, T1singe, Ndono     Chabutwa, Tutnlo,           Itetemia, Mtendeni         Kasela, Mwasala, Igusule,          Nata, Itumba, Nyasa            Kiningu, Mwashikili,
Misha                      Mwangoye, BuKene, Uduka,           Itwigu, Chabultwa, Ndala,    Choma
Kahama, Nalcalanga, Magengati      Simbo, Miguava, Mwiti,
Nikiniziwa, Lsuo,gbogwe,
2                         Tongi , Ziba
3. Total area              21,300 Km2                 23,000 Km                   3,000 Km.                   5,000 Km                           15,000 Km2                    32 000 _2                    70
a.  -Forest             8,Soo Fe2                  15,000 KM2                 1,300 K.-70                                                     1,500 112300 s2                                          P70,0O
b., Arable              7,500 Km2                  150G0 Km2                  I,700 Km2                   3,000 Km2                           0,500 Km2                    2,000 Km2                     7         (24,900 km2)
4.  Crops (73/74)            ha     f Yield kg/ha    _  ha lYigid ip /ha           ha      Yield kg ha         ha     Yield kg/ha                  ha     Yield kg/ha           ha-  Yield kg7ha              ha
a. Tobacco             15,1         650            1,100       ¢55            1,077        ¢50              _           -- _T_  1 2                        650              __                          15,531
b1  Maize              22,000        ,000             8000     800            7,800        860           10,500         850                  28,000        870              __         __               75,800
o.Sorghu--                                 --      --        ---                         -                                                                               i-  -  -1,600  860           11,600
d. Seed Catto             __         __               __       _                _                           350        570                      400       570             24,o00      580               24,750
e   Paddy              10,000     1,200            2 , 000    2,100           2,000      1,200            8,100      1,200                    6, 800     1,200             1,600    1,180               30,500
f. O  nfts              7,500       400(5hell d)  1,000        400(.helle ) 1,100          4oo(Shelle ) 3,900          300 (Shelled)         15,600        400(Shelled)    __          __               29,100
g   Cassava/veg.       20,000     1,500             7,500    1,200            7,200      1,333           10, 000     1,200                   19,000      1,260             4,000    1,200               67,700
Total              72, 00                     20,000                     19,000                     32,000                               71,000                       41,200                       255,000
5.  Rainfall in. sm         1,000 - 1,100                 860 - 950                 850 - 950                   850   950                           750 - 860                    650 - 750                   --
6.  Cattle                  5,0000                     6oc                       60U,000                    160 ,000                            365,000                      290,000                       950,000 (total)
7. Cattle dips                  3                           3                         5                           6                                   4                            2                            23
8.  Maize/ PaddyMi]]s          20                           6                        10(Exclusive Tabora         11                                  12                            6                            65
9. 1~tc,age and  2 wa'0'c-e~  ith    8wit), 9~rj .2                ijwn~                                    
9.  'torage and                52 warehoulsos wito          a withl 930 m2           24 withl,0 60h 4            15 with 2,395 m                     37 witlh 1,395 a2            26 with 2,278 m2             162 with 13,438  2
Processing Facility       5,580 m2  capacity                   capacity                  capacity                   capacity                             capacity                     capacity                     capacity
10. Ext. staff housni g         50 unitf                     9 units                  10 units                     9 units                            28 units                      17 units                     123 units
I1.  Av. Annual net
income/fami]y           2,203 To).                    990 Tsh                   493 Tsh                     412 Toh                             460 Tsh                      870 Tsh                    __
/$265)-                     ($19                       ($60)                       '  S5                              ($55)                       ($105)
A feasibility study of the development poten ial and feeder road improvents  in the TaOra Regin   B -rokosult Report - 1975 (Draft)
Includes 34,000 Refugees in Illyankulu Ward (now estimated 55,000)
1/ In this region only Io*of the arable land is under cultivation.
April 12, 1976                                                                                                                                                                                           Table 2



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Past Production of Important Crops in the Tabora-V Region
Groundnuts
Year            Tobacco           Cotton           Paddy          Maize          Sorghum           shelled
(million kg)       (MT )            (MT )         ( MT)            (MT)             (MT)
1965-66                              4,900          32,000        80,000
1966-67                              9,700*         18,000        62,000
1967-68              -               8,900*         43,000         78,000            -
1968-69             4.4              5,300*         30,800         53,000          16,500
1969-70             4.7             10,200*         26,000        30,000           20,000             8,500
1970-71             4.3             13,100*         16,000         30,000          20,000             1,700
1971-72             6.5             10,700          35,500        28,000            8,000           10,000
1972-73             7.0             10,100          17,600         30,000          11,645           15,000
1973-74            10.0             14,100            na            na             20,000           10,000
1/   Source:  Kilimo
2/   Source:  TAT
3/   Source:  TCA
*    Includes (Nzega and) Kahoma District.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Producer Prices of Selected Crops 1968-1976
(T.Shs./per MT )
Crop               1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1 increase in
1976 over 1968
Seed Cotton (AR)           1,060   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,130   1,130   1,500   1,750   2,000               88.7
(BR)            510     550      550      550      600      600     650      850   1,000          96.0
Flue-Cured Tobacco         5,160   5,150   5,060   4,940   5,800   5,850   6,400   7,000   7,400                43.4
Maize                        265      275      250     242      264      350      500      750     800         201.9
Sorghum                      294      296     350      370      388      500      550     800      900        206.1
Paddy                        472      517      580     524      565      570      650     800   1,000          111.9
Groundnuts (Shelled)         892      935   1,068      938   1,116   1,150   1,500   2,000   2,500             170.2
Cassava (Dry)                281      183     206      211      220      310      360     400      450          60.1
1/   Sources:  1966-75 Tanzania Agricultural Rural Development Sector Study.  Volume III, Table 38.
1976 -   Country Economist - Tanzania.



ANNEX 2
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Development
A. Introduction:  Constraints on Agricultural Development            Para. 1
B. Sub-Project Proposal - Agricultural Development
Objective                                                       Para. 2
Sub-Project Approach                                            Para. 3
The Sub-Project Components                                      Para. 4
Sub-Project Description                                         Para. 5
Supply of Inputs                                                Para. 9
Labor Availability                                              Para. 10
Improved Extension Service                                      Para. 11
Assistance to the Tumbi Tobacco Research Station                Para. 13
Sub-Project Implementation                                      Para. 14
C. Sub-Project Costs and Benefits                                   Para. 15
D.  Economic Rate of Return                                          Para. 18
Table 1:  Cotton Ha Budget
Table 2:  Paddy Ha Budget
Table 3:  Sorghum Ha Budget
Table 4:  Groundnut Ha Budget
Table 5:  Cotton Production (With and Without Project)
Table 6:  Paddy Production (With and Without Project)
Table 7:  Sorghum Production (With and Without Project)
Table 8:  Groundnuts Production (With and Without Project)
Table 9:  Farm Inputs for Cotton (With Project)
Table 10: Farm Inputs for Paddy (With Project)
Table 11: Farm Inputs for Sorghum (With Project)
Table 12: Farm Inputs for Groundnuts (Wqith Project)
Table 13: Man days Labor Required for ProDosed Cropping Under
the Sub-Project
Table 14: Agricultural Development - Implementation Schedule
Table 15: Farm Model I:    Cotton/Sorghum/Groundnuts
Table 16: Farm Model II:   Paddy/Sorghum/Groundnuts
Table 17: Farm Model III:  Cotton/Sorghum/Groundnuts/Cattle
Table 18: Farm Model III:  Paddy/Sorghum/Groundnuts/Cattle






ANNEX 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Development
Aa Introduction: Constraints on Agricultural Development
1.        Realization of the agricultural potential of Tabora Region is
.irlted by the following major constraints:
(a) The current crop-husbandry practices (use of local seed,
late planting, improper plant population, lack of fertilizer
use and plant protection measures) contribute to low average
yields per unit of land.
(b) Most of the extension service staff are generally in-
experienced and are not well trained. Lack of mobility,
poor extension organization and methods render the existing
service ineffective. The effectiveness of the weak extension
service is further reduced by:
(i) a dearth if the adaptive research information essential
for formulating recommendations of improved agronomic
practices. No attempts have been made to introduce
improved high yielding varieties of paddy, sorghum
and groundnuts nor have any trials been conducted to
investigate suitable cultural practices for these
crops for maximum yields;
(ii) a lack of good roads and a communications system.
The greatest demand for assistance and guidance
from the extension service by the farmers is in
the growing season which coincides with the wet
season when roads are in poor condition and in
many areas are impassable.
(c) Lack of an efficient delivery system. The high cost of
inputs and limited credit facilities also restrict input
use.
(d) Delays in the purchase of crops due to lack of timely
crop financing and to poor organization of the para-
statals.
(e) In most new villages, the demand for storage exceeds
the availability, and cotton, tobacco and grain crops
deteriorate when not stored properly, with consequent
losses in value.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
B. Sub-Project Proposal - Agricultural Development
Objective
2.        The proposed agricultural development component is an attempt to
remove some of the key constraints and provide a basis for the Region to
develop its agricultural potential at village level. It comprises a
pilot program designed to establish means of promoting agricultural pro-
ductivity in the Nzega and Igunga Districts of the Tabora Region and
provide a basis for further development on a larger scale at a later date.
The main objective is to find means of intensifying the production of cotton,
paddy, sorghum and groundnuts by use of inputs, improving agricultural
extension and other related services, and conducting large scale crop
demonstrations and test trials under the farmers' field conditions. This
program would directly benefit about 6,000 smallholder families in these
two Districts.
Sub-Project Approach
3.        The choice of the Nzega and Igunga Districts - which are relatively
densely populated and inhabited principally by the livestock owners who are
also engaged in a variety of crop production - has been made because these
two Districts have received little attention for agricultural development,
except for a minor component of the Bank-Group financed second livestock
Project. Directly encouraging an agricultural production oriented project
in newly established villages, which are not already embraced in Bank aided
development 1/, is intended to supplement and complement the ongoing develop-
ment in the Region. In view of the lack of relevant research data to make
specific recommendations on improved agronomic practices for increased crop
production, a pilot approach is proposed, where large scale crop demonstrations-
cum-trials would be laid under farmers' field conditions to test the impact
of already known improved agronomic practices extrapolated from the experience
elsewhere with similar conditions. Experience over the initial years of the
project together with the results of field trials and demonstrations would
provide basis and guidance for a future agricultural program in these and
other areas of the Region.
The Sub-Project Components
4.        To intensify the production of cotton, paddy, sorghum and
groundnuts on a flexible, pilot, basis in about 30 already established,
high potential, villages of the Nzega and Igunga Districts, the sub-
project would provide:
1/   The other two Districts, Urambo and Tabora are receiving Bank Group
assistance for the development of flue-cured tobacco under the Flue-
cured Tobacco Project and for increasing maize production in 43
villages under the National Maize Project.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(a) An experienced agronomist/planner who would organize
the program and who would also strengthen the agricultural
p anning capacity of the Region;
(D'  An extension training officer to organize and conduct
a training program for village level extension staff;
(c)  A mobile extension team headed by a field agronomist
to conduct a large numoer of crop-denonstrations-cum-
trials under farmers' field conditions;
(d) A Field Officer (FO) with housing and transport in each
of the two Districts;
(e) 10 additional extension agents (AFO), so that there would
be one AFO per 3 Project villages, each provided with
housing and transport under the Project;
(f) Subsidized farm inputs to participating farmers in all
the Project villages; and
(g) Storage facilities for inputs and produce in each of the
Project villages.
It would also provide:
(h) Personnel and laboratory equipment, which could not be
put in place under the Flue-cured Tobacco Project, Credit
217-TA, to supplement Tobacco Research at the Tumbi Research
Station.
Sub-Project Description
5.        The first step would be the selection of 30 villages, about
15 each in the Nzega and Igunga Districts. The suitability of a village
for Project assistance would be agreed by the Project agronomist and
the staff of the District Development Director. Criteria for selection
would be that the village be registered under the Villages Act, 1975; that
it has a trained village secretary, and bookkeeper; assured water supply
and access roads; and has provided a suitable candidate as the village
extension officer. In due course, the Land Planning Unit would also
prepare a village plan as the basis for outlining the land-use develop-
ment for the selected villages (Annex 9).
6.        The proposed crops, and cumulated numbers of villages and
expected farmer participation is indicated below:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Project Year
District   Crop                                  1      2     3      4     5
Igunga     Cotton/sorghum/  No. of villages   -         6     15    15    15
groundnuts        No. of farmers    -   200   1000  2000  3000
Nzega      Paddy/sorghum/   No. of villages   -         6     15    15    15
groundnuts        No. of farmers    -   200   1000  2000  3000
Adopting farmers are assumed to rise to 50-55% of the total farmers in each
of the villages 1/.
7.        The agronomic practices which would be the basis of an extension
package proposed for advanced management are only tentatively established--
thus the pilot nature of this component--and would need to be modified in
the light of experience and according to changes in cost/return ratios.
The currently recommended packages applicable to Tabora Region are:
(a) Cotton: Sowing of an improved variety (UK 64, until a
better one is found) in the last week of November and
first week of December on 90 cm wide contour ridges
(to help soil moisture conservation); planting 6-10
seeds per hole at a distance of 35 cm, and thinning to
only two healthy plants at each stand; frequent weeding;
applying 100 kg/ha of Triple Super Phosphate at the
time of ridging, and 100 kg/ha of Sulphate of Ammonia
6 weeks after sowing, (with placement along the ridge
about 5 cm away from the plant); and spraying ten weeks
after sowing with Endosulfan and Hostathion, six times
at 2 week intervals. This management is estimated to
give an average yield of 1000 kg seed cotton per ha and
a net return (excluding labor) of TSh 1543 per ha as
summarized below and detailed in cotton-ha budget (Table 1).
Level of Husbandry
(with Project at
(without Project)       full development)
Traditional          Advanced Level
Yield of seed cotton (kg/ha)                500                 1,000
Gross return (TSh/ha)                       775                 1,800
Input costs (TSh/ha) (Subsidized)             -                   257
Labor costs (Man days/ha)                   110                   176
Net return excluding labor (TSh/ha)         775                 1,543
Return to labor (TSh/man day)                 7                     8.8
Return to incremental labor (TSh/man day)  -                        9.7
Return to incremental input (%)                                   221
1/   About 250 to 500 farmers are grouped in a village, with an average
of some 375 families per village.



ANNEX 2
Pa5e 5
(b)  Paddy:  There are no local experimental results.  Generally
a higher than traditional plant population is desirable, as
is early transplanting (late January and early February) of
healthy seedlings on hills and planting of 5-6 seeds per
station at a spacing of 15 x 15 cm.  Bunding to conserve
moisture, frequent weeding and a top dressing of 200 kg
of Sulphate of Ammoniia per ha split in two applications
(The first half applied at maximum tillering and second
just prior to panicle initiation) are also recommended.
TIese practices would give a yield of 2000 kg paddy/ha
and a net re-turn (excluding labor) of TSh 1842 as
sumrmn:rized below and detailed in the paddy/ha budget
(fabie 2).
Level of Husbandry
(with Project at
(without Project)       full development)
Traditional          Advanced Level
Yield of paddy (kg/ha)                    1,000                  2,000
Gross return (TSh/ha)                     1,000                 2,800
Input costs (TSh/ha) (Subsidized)            50                    158
Labor costs (Man days/ha)                   140                    174
Net return excluding labor (TSh/ha)         950                  1,842
Return to labor (TSh/man day)                 6.8                   10.6
Return to incremental labor (TSh/man day)  -                        26.2
Return to incremental input (%)               -                    517
(c)  Sorghum:  Early planting of high yielding varieties from
Ukiriguru, as a pure stand, with a seed rate of 12 kg/ha
and spacing of 15 x 60 cm; and application of 50 kg Triple
Super Phosphate and 150 kg Sulphate of Ammonia per ha is
estimated to give an average yield of 1,500 kg/ha and a
net return (excluding labor) of TSh 1174/ha as summarized
below and detailed in Table 3.
Level of Husbandry
(with Project at
(without Project)       full development)
Traditional          Advanced Level
Yield of sorghum grain (kg/ha)              500                 1,500
Gross return (TSh/ha)                       450                 1,350
Input costs (TSh/ha) (Subsidized)             7                   176
Labor costs (Man days/ha)                   120                   156
Net return excluding labor (TSh/ha)         443                 1,174
Return to labor (TSh/man day)                 3.7                   7.5
Return to incremental labor (TSh/man day)  -                       20.3
Return to incremental input (%)               -                   439



ANNEX 2
Page 6
(d) Groundnuts: Planting as pure stand, with 2 rows to the
90 cm ridge with 10 cm between plants in the rows, and one
seed per hole; adequate weeding and applying 100 kg of
Triple Super Phosphate per ha is likely to give a yield
of 600 kg shelled nuts per ha, and a net return (excluding
labor) of TSh 1245 per ha, as summarized below and detailed
in the groundnuts ha budget (Table 4).
Level of Husbandry
(with Project at
(without Project)        full development)
Traditional          Advanced Level
Yield of shelled nuts (kg/ha)                400                    600
Gross return (TSh/ha)                     1,000                   1,500
Input costs (TSh/ha) (Subsidized)            100                    255
Labor costs (Man days/ha)                    145                    175
Net return excluding labor (TSh/ha)          900                  1,245
Return to labor (TSh/man day)                  6.2                    7.1
Return to incremental labor (TSh/man day)  -                         11.5
Return to incremental input (%)                -                    163
8.        The quantities and values (at 1976 prices) of the incremental
production in the Sub-Project are detailed in Tables 5, 6, 7, 8 and
summarized below:
Project Year
1        2          3          4          5
Seed Cotton (MT)             -        29          220        520         930
Total value (TSh)       -   52,200      396,000   936,000  1,674,000
Paddy (MT)                   -        40          260        750       1,500
Value (TSh)             -   40,000      260,000   750,000  1,500,000
Sorghum (MT)                 -        35          258        758       1,583
Value (Tsh)             -   31,500      232,200   682,200  1,424,700
Groundnuts (MT)              -        38          196        416         556
Value (Tsh)             -   95,000      490,000 1,049,000  1,390,000
Supply of Inputs
9.        For the cotton villages, TCA would continue to be responsible for
distribution of improved seed and inputs for cotton, sorghum and groundnuts
to the project farmers. For the paddy villages, however, Kilimo would
arrange to provide improved seed of paddy, sorghum and groundnuts either



ANNEX 2
Page 7
by obtaining these seeds from Ukiriguru or by organizing at village level,
seed multiplication from the nucleus material from the Research Center.
Where this is necessary, the Field Agronomist would be responsible for
organizing seed multiplication on a scale adequate to ensure a sufficient
and steady supply of improved seed to participating villages. Other inputs
for paddy villages would be provided through TCA to each village cooperative.
TCA is also expected to be responsible for crop collection in the Project
area. Crop finance is obtained by TCA which recovers financing costs through
the price structure. The details of estimated yearly requirements of the
on-farm inputs for cotton, paddy, sorghum and groundnuts are presented in
Tables 9, 10, 11 and 12, and are summarized below:
Project Year
Unit      1        2          3          4         5
Cotton
Seed                    MT       -         8        40         80         120
Triple Super Phosphate MT        -        20       100        200         300
Sulphate of Ammonia    MT        -        20       100        200         300
Endosulfan              L        -    1,800      9,000    18,000       27,000
Hostathion              L        -       400     2,000      4,000       6,000
ULV Sprayers            Nos.    -         80       400        800       1,200
Paddy
Seed                    MT       -        10        50        100         150
Sulphate of Ammonia    MT        -        40       200        400         600
DDT                     MT       -         0.4        2.0       4.0         6.0
Sorghum
Seed                    MT       -        10        52        104         156
Triple Super Phosphate MT        -        13        65        130         195
Sulphate of Ammonia    MT        -        39       195        390         585
DDT                     MT       -         3         13        26          39
Groundnuts
Seed                    MT       -         8        42         84         126
Triple Super Phosphate MT        -        12        60        120         180
Labor Availability
10.       An estimate of labor "requirements" for important crops of the
Region was made by Collinson 1/. The average family size is about five
person (two adults and three children), equivalent to about 60 man days
per month. Since the size of holding and cropping system is governed by
the labor availability during the peak season, month by month requirement
1/   "Comparative Economics of Tobacco Production on Small Family Farm
in Tabora Region" - Dar es Salaam, 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
of family labor has been worked out (Table 13) for the proposed cropping
pattern under the Project area, as a check that labor would be available
when needed in the crop year. Although this is a crude measure, the
budgets appear feasible on the basis of available data.
Improved Extension Service
11.       To achieve the projected yield increases, improved extension
techniques are needed. The extension staff would carry research results
to the farmers and bring back farmers problems to the research and thus
provide the missing link between research and extension. Under the
guidance of the Project agronomist and Senior Field Officer, and in
association with the extension agronomist, the District Field Officer
(DFO) would work out a detailed timetable for each of the Assistant
Field Officers (AFO) who in turn would establish a program for his village
level workers. Each DFO would be responsible for the work of 5 AFOs. Every
month he would prepare a plan of work for the following month. He would
spend a minimum of 10 days a month visiting his AFOs and the villages.
Each visit would last a full day, and devote special attention to the
particular crop prevalent in the village at the time of his visit. Each
AFO would be responsible for the work of 3 village extension workers and
would visit each in his village once a week on a fixed day and focus on a
pre-determined topic. This would take up 3 days of the AFOs week. One day
a week would be devoted to in-service training, and the remaining time to
office work, (reporting farmers' problems to research), demonstration,
and visiting farmers with special problems. Each village-level extension
man would be responsible for advising the 300 + farmers of his village,
and would, as far as possible, organize his contacts in groups of not
more than 40-50 farmers. Each group should be contacted at least twice
a month on a pre-determined program. The village worker would use
carefully selected farmers and conduct demonstrations on their fields.
To supplement this program, an experienced and qualified agronomist, in
charge of a mobile unit would be provided for in the sub-project. He
would be responsible to organize and conduct demonstrations-cum-test
trials on cotton, paddy, sorghum and groundnuts; assemble, analyze and
interpret the results; organize farmers' field days to popularize the
results of the demonstrations; and impart on-the-spot training to the
extension field staff.
12.       On account of the probable changes in the village level extension
staff (Annex 1, para. 7) and due to the uncertain state of the national
extension training program (Annex 1, para. 29), and to avoid delays in
Project implementation, the Project makes provision for an extension training
officer who would be responsible for organizing and conducting a continuous
training program for the Project extension staff. In the first year, he
would conduct a six months classroom - cum practical training for the
newly appointed village level workers from the Project villages and their
AFOs. Shorter refresher and updating courses would be held in subsequent
years, designed to integrate the training with the ongoing extension work
of these village staff, so as to continuously improve the quality of
extension staff at village level.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Assistance to the Tumbi Tobacco Research Station
13.       Under the flue-cured tobacco Project (Credit 217-TA), funds were
assigned for strengthening the Tumbi Research Station by providing for
expatriate research staff and their housing, laboratories and equipment.
The construction of laboratories has been completed but the research staff
could not be recruited for want of housing and laboratory equipment could
not be purchased for want of funds. Now that the houses and laboratories
are available, the sub-project would make provision for one expatriate
agronomist cum soil analyst and the laboratory equipment to pursue tobacco
research at Tumbi and to train the national staff.
Sub-Project Implementation
14.       Table 14 shows the implementation schedule for the Sub-Project.
C. Sub-Project Costs and Benefits
15.       Costs:  The total sub-project cost is estimated at TSh 31.8 mil-
lion (US$3.8 million) of which TSh 23.8 million, i.e. 75% (US$2.0 million)
represents foreign exchange requirements. These costs are detailed in
Annex 10, Table 3 and summarized as follows:
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   F.E.
------ TSh'000 ------   ---- US$ '000) -----    %
(A) Capital Costs:
(i) Buildings         966       242   1,208    116       29      145      20
(ii) Vehicles           48       272      320       6     33       39      85
(iii) Lab Equipment    180    1,019   1,199         21    123      144      85
(B) Operating Costs:
(i) Salaries &
allowances   2,290    4,988   7,278    276    601         877      69 1/
(ii) Maintenance of
building         63        16       79      8       2       10     20
(iii) Vehicle operating
costs           272       272     544      33      33      66      50
(iv) Maintenance of
equipment       100       300     400      12      36      48      75
(C) Farm Inputs           1,720    9,744  11,464    207  1,174   1,381         85
Total         5,639   16,853  22,492    679  2,031   2,710
1/   Salary of expatriate staff only.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
16.       Benefits:  The gross value of annual incremental production of
cotton, paddy, sorghum and groundnuts (Tables 5, 6, 7, 8) in 1976 current
prices is estimated at TSh 6.0 million (US$0.7 million) at full develop-
ment after year five. Farm family models for participating families
are detailed in Tables 15 and 16 and summarized below:
Farm Model I - Cotton/Sorghum/Groundnuts
(Farm Size 2.6 ha)
With Project          Without Project        Incremental
per     per           per       per         per      per
family  Capita        family  Capita        family Capita
Net Cash Surplus (TSh)  2021         404        569        114        1452      290
Value of subsistence
(TSh)                  1650       330       1030        206         620       124
Total (TSh)               3671       734       1599       320        2072       414
Total (US$)                442        88        193        39         250        50
Farm Model II - Paddy/Sorghum/Groundnuts
(Farm Size 2.3 ha)
With Project          Without Project        Incremental
per     per           per       per         per      per
family  Capita        family  Capita        family Capita
Net Cash Surplus (TSh)  1902         380        684        137       1218       243
Value of subsistence
(TSh)                  1245       249        880        176         365        73
Total (TSh)               3147       629       1564       313        1583       316
Total (US$)                380        76        188         38         190       38
Thus the total income (net cash surplus and value of subsistence) of the
participating farmers is projected to increase by 126% per family in cotton
villages and 96% per family in paddy villages. Under the livestock develop-
ment component of the Project (Annex 3), some farmers would participate in
a stall feeding program, which would give an additional net benefit of
TSh 100/family per year, adopting mixed farming in Nzega and Igunga (Tables
17 and 18).
17.       A note on Size of Holdings and Area Cultivated:  In the farm
models, the area cultivated annually per family is assumed to be 2.3 to 2.6 ha,
but the agricultural census results, suggest that holdings which would allow
this would be among the largest in the Project area. 1/ However, there is
some evidence that the census data are unreliable:
1/   Preliminary Census data indicate that 55% of all holdings in the
Tabora Region are less than 1 ha, 25% are between 1 and 2 ha; about
10% between 2 and 3 ha; and that the Regional average is 1.34 ha.
(IBRD Report No. 541a TA - 1974, Table 53).



ANNEX 2
Page 11
(a) A sample survey in the Mwanza Region indicates that the
number of land holdings of between 2 and 3 ha is 30-50%
more than reported in the census.
(b) Apparently there is enough cultivable land even in the
main sub-project area, for the cultivable area of holdings
to average 12 ha, while, allowing for normal 4 ha. More-
over the labor budgets for the proposed crop combination
in the sub-project indicate that 2.3 to 2.6 ha could be
managed by the available family labor.
(c) Based on their own observations Brokonsult 1/ in their
report used an area of 2.2 to 3.2 ha actually cultivated
annually per family.
(d) a minimum food intake to avoid clinical under-nutrition
would be about 1800 calories and 29 gr. protein per head/day.
There are no indications of such poor levels of nutrition
in Tabora, yet families could not achieve this intake
on the average holding suggested by the census - even if
farmers were not additionally engaged in the cash economy.
D. Economic Rate of Return
18.       The economic rate of return of the component is estimated to be
17% over 20 years. In this calculation, the Standard Conversion Factor for
Tanzania (0.75) has been applied to domestic market prices for non-tradeables
and to border prices, FOB or CIF adjusted for transport and handling between
Dar es Salaam and Tabora, for tradeables. The costs were calculated from
Annex 10, with the following changes:
(a) The Tumbi laboratory costs were excluded;
(b) In year 6, expatriate staff are assumed replaced
by Tanzanian staff at TSh 40,000 per officer per
year (with no foreign exchange cost);
1/   Brokonsult AB:  A feasibility study of the development potential and
feeder road improvements in the Tabora Region (1975).



ANNEX 2
Page 12
(c) The economic cost of labor has been taken at TSh 5.85
per man day, equivalent to 40% of the official rural
wage rate of TSh 14.60 per man day. 1/
The costs, broken down into capital, operating and farm input costs, are shown
in Annex 10, Table 3.
19.       In deriving benefits from incremental production, groundnuts and
paddy were assumed import substitutes, cotton to be an export, and sorghum and
cotton seed to be for local consumption. The farm-gate prices of groundnuts
and paddy are their CIF values, and of cotton its FOB value, adjusted for
domestic transport and handling costs. Sorghum and cotton seed have been
valued at their domestic prices and adjusted to border prices by the applica-
tion of the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF). The SCF, which is the ratio
of the official exchange rate to the shadow exchange rate, has also been
applied to the local cost element in transport and handling. The base prices
of the five commodities before adjustments are:
Sorghum                   TSh/mt 1,000
Groundnuts                TSh/mt 2,870
Paddy                     TSh/mt 2,602
Cotton     AR             TSh/mt 9,039
BR             TSh/mt 5,630
Cotton Seed               TSh/mt   553
20.       Sensitivity Analysis.  The sub-project is most sensitive to the
farm input costs, including the cost of incremental farm labor. This is
because farm inputs become the major component of the total costs after the
initial two years, growing to over 70% of total costs after five years. A
20% increase in the farm input costs causes the Project rate of return to
fall from 18% to 11% a decrease of over one-third. The economic rate of
1/   The official rural wage rate of TSh 14.60 per man day is of limited
value in price calculations due to lack of employment opportunities.
The economic wage rate for rural labor has therefore been based on
the rates of return to labor in the alternatives available to farmers
in the absence of the project. These alternatives were the production
of various crops by unimproved methods which have average rates of
return ranging from TSh 3.7 to TSh 7.0 per man day. The marginal
rate of return to labor is presumably less than these average rates.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
return is clearly partly dependent upon the inputed cost of incremental farm
labor, but with labor costed at TSh 7.3 per man day (50% of the rural wage
rate, instead of 40%, and rather above the best estimated opportunity cost
within crop agriculture) the IER is still about 13%.
21.       The internal rate of return is less sensitive to changes in other
operating and the capital costs. A 10% overall increase in costs decreases
the economic rate of return to about 12%, and a 20% increase in all costs
reduces IER to 7%.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Ha Budget
(Without Project)                  (With Project)
Traditional                       Advanced                                         Incremental
Yield in kg seed cotton/ha (UK 64) -                                                                500                            1,000                                             500
Gross Return (T.Sh.) -
Grade AR at T.Sh. 2.0 /kg                                                                    550                            1,600                                             800
Grade BR at T.Sh. 1.0 /kg                                                                    225                              200                                             100
Total T.Sh./ha                      775                             1,800                                             900
Cost of Inputs
A.    Materials                                                                                                     Unsubsidized                Subsidized          Unsubsidized               Subsidized
3/
Insecticides (a) Endosulfan at 9 lit/ha                                                       _ -                  126                        63                   126                       63
(b) llostathion at 2 lit/ha  4                                                 -                     86                        43                    86                       43
ULV  Sprayer set.  I per 2.5 ha, replaced each 2 years -                                      -                     20                        10                     20                      10
Batteries to operate ULV sprayer                                                              -                     12                         6                    12                        6
Tools and cleaning materials 6/                                                               -5                                               3                      5
Fertilizer: (a) TSP at 100 kg/ha and T.Sh. 250/100 kg (unsubsidized)
and 80 T.Sh./100 kg subsidized  7/                                           -                    250                        80                    250                      80
(b) SA at 100 kg/ha and T.Sh. 150/100 kg (unsubsidized)
and 52 T.Sh./100 kg subsidized  7/                                           -                    150                        52                    150                      52
Sub-Total Materials                                        649                       257                   649                      257
B.    Labor (man-days/ha)
Land Preparation and Ridging                                                                  50                               65                                              15
Planting                                                                                       2                                5                                               3
Fertilizer Application                                                                                                          4                                               4
Thinning and Weeding                                                                          25                               40                                              15
Insecticides Application                                                                       _                                I                                               I
Harvesting and Grading                                                                        30                               55                                               25
Uprooting and Burning Stocks                                                                   3                                6                                                3
Sub-Total Labor                      110                              176                                               66
Net Return excluding labor (T.Sh.)                                                           775                 1,151                    1,543                    251                      643
Return to labor (T.Sh./man-day)                                                                7 0                   6.5                       8.8                   3.8
1/    TCA and mission estimate.
2/    Official producer prices with traditional cotton in the proportion of 55% AR and 45% BR; Advanced Cotton in proportion of 80% AR and 20% BR.
3/    Endosulfan at T.Sh. 14.00/lit at 9 lit/ha.
4/    Hostathion at T.Sh. 43.00/lit at 2 lit/ha.
5/    ULV sprayer, mask and gloves at T.Sh. 200 per set.
6/    T.Sh. 5 for paraffin to clean ULV sprayer.                                                                             x
7/    At 1976 prices.  TSP = Triple Super Phosphate; SA = Sulphate of Ammonia.                                                                                                                         ,D r4
8/    Comparative Economics of Tobacco Production on Small Family Farm in Tabora Region by MP Collinson 1970 DSM.                                                                                        ro



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Paddy Ha Budget
(Without Project)               (With Project)
Traditional                    Advanced                                Incremental
Yield in kg Paddy/ha -                                                                1,000                         2,000                                    1,000
Gross Return T.Sh./ha @ 1.0 /kg -                                                    1,000                          2,000                                    1,000
Cost of Inputs
A.     Materials                                                                                             Unsubsidized           Subsidized         Unsubsidized        Subsidized
Seed:  50 kg/ha @ T.Sh. 1.0 /kg                                                    50                50                     50                  -                     -
Fertilizer:  200 kg/ha of Sulphate of Ammonia                                        -              300                    104                 300                 104
@ T.Sh. 150/100 kg (Unsubsidized)
@ T.Sh.  52/100 kg (Subsidized)
Insecticides:  2 kg/ha of 5% DDT                                                     -                8.80                   4.40                8.80                4.40
@ T.Sh. 4.40/kg (Unsubsidized)
@ T.Sh. 2.20/kg (Subsidized)                                   _
Total T.Sh./ha                   50              358.80                 158.40              308.80               108.40
B.     Labor (man-days/ha) -/
Seedbed                                                        10                             10                                        -
Land Preparation                                               50                             55                                        5
Planting                                                       20                             25                                        5
Weeding                                                        40                             50                                       10
Fertilizer Application                                          _                              3                                        3
Spraying                                                        -                              1                                        1
Harvesting                                                     20                             30                                       10
Sub-Total Labor                 140                           174                                       34
Net Return excluding labor T.Sh.                                                        950            1,641.20               1,841.60              691.20               891.60
Return to labor T.Sh./man-day                                                             6.8               9.4                  10.6                 20.3                26.22
1/   Kilimo and mission estimate.
2/   Official gazatted produce price - 1976.
3/   Comparative Economics of Tobacco Production on Small Family Farm in Tabora Region by MP Collinson 1970 DSM.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sorghum Ha Budget
(Without Project)             (With Project)
Traditional                   Advanced                            Incremental
Yield  in kg dried grain sorghum/ha 1/                                                      500                        1,500                                 1,000
Gross Return @ T. Sh. 0.90/kg 2/                                                            450                        1,350                                    900
A.  Cost of Inputs                                                                                         UnsubsUidized      Subsidized        Unsubsidized        Subsidized
Seed:  @ 12 kg/ha                                                                      11                   11                11
@ 40kg/ha for pure stand
Fertilizer:  TSP    at 50 kg/ha and T.Sh. 250/100 kg (unsubsidized)                   --                  125                 40                125                40
and T.Sh. 80/100 kg (subsidized)
S.A. at 150 kg/ha and T.Sh. 150/100 kg (unsubsidized)                                       225                 78                225                78
and T.Sh. 52/100 kg (subsidized)
Insecticide: DDT Q 10 kg/ ha and T.Sh. 4.40/kg (unsubsidized)                                              44                 22                 44                 22
2.20/kg (subsidized)                        _
Total T.Sh./ha                                         11                  05                151               t94                140
B. Labor (Man-days/ha) 3/
Lawn preparation                                                                       62                           70                                     8
Planting                                                                              3                            3
Weeding                                                                              40                           50                                     10
Dusting                                                                             --                             1                                      1
Fertilizer Application                                                              --                             2                                     2
Harvesting                                                                           15                           30                                     15
Total                                                 120                          156                                     36
Net return excluding labor T.Sh.                                                            439                  945             1,199                 506               760
Return to Labor T.Sh./man-day                                                                 37                  650                 7.7               54.0              716
1/    Kilimo and mission estimate.
2/    Official gazatted produce price - 1976.
3/    Comparative Economics of Tobacco Production on Small Family Farm in Tabora Region by MP Collinson 1970 DSM.
w. ru



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnut Ha-Budget
(Without Project)        (With Project)
Traditional               Advanced                    Incremental
Yield:  Shelled nuts kg/ha   1/                                                          400                      600                           200
Gross Return @ T.Sh. 2. 50 per kg of shelled nuts 2/                                   1,000                    1,500                           500
A.  Cost of Inputs                                                                                      Unsubsidized    Subsidized  Unsubsidized   Subsidized
Seed:  @ 40 kg/ha for Traditional mixed cropping                                       100            175              175            75              75
@ 70 kg/ha for pure stand
Fertilizer:  TSP at 100 kg/ha, T.Sh. 250/100 kg (unsubsidized)                          -             250               80           250              80
and T.Sh. 80/100 kg (subsidized)
Total T.Sh/ha                               100            425             255            325             155
B.  Labor (Man-day/ha) -
Land Preparation and Ridging                                                       30                       30
Planting                                                                      5                         8                            3
Weeding                                                                      30                        35                             5
Fertilizer Application                                                       -                          2                             2
Harvesting                                                                    50                       60                            10
Shelling                                                                     30                        40                           10
145                      175                            30
Net Return excluding labor                                                        900          1,075           1,245            175             345
Return to labor T.Sh./man-day                                                       6.2            6.1              7.1           5.8            11.5
1/   Kilimo and mission estimate.
2/   Official gazatted produce price - 1976.
3/   Comparative Economics of Tobacco Production on Small Family Farm in Tabora Region by MP Collinson 1970 DSM.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Production (WLth and Without Proiect)
1976/77       1977/'78       1978/79         1979/80       1980/81
(Unit)        Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4         Year 5
Project Villages                                                                Nos.            -                  6            15             15             15
Nos.  -    2,250         5,625          5,625          ~~~~~~5,625
Total farmers @ 375 per village                                                 Nos             -              2,250         1'000          2,000          300
Expected adopters                                                                                                             ,
Non-adopters                                                                    Nos.            -              2,050         4,625          3,625          2,625
Cotton Production without Project
Area under Traditional cotton @ 0.9 ha per family                        ha             -             2,025         5,062           5,062          ),062
Production @ 500 kg/ha                                                   MT             -             1,013         2,531           2,531          2,531
Cotton Production with Project
A.      By Adoptors
Area under advanced cotton                                              ha              -               200         l,OOO          2,000           3,000
Average yield of seed cotton under advanced management                kg/ha             -                650           750            850          1,000
Production                                                              MT              -                130           670          1,420          2,280
B.      BY Non-Adootors
Area under Traditional cotton @ 0.9 ha per farmer                        ha             -              1,823         4,162          3,262          2,362
Production @ 500 kg/ha                                                  MT              -                912         2,081          1,631          1,181
Total Production with Project                                                    MT                             1,042       2,751          3,051           3,461
Yearly incremental production                                            MT              -                29           220            520            930
Value of incremental prodietion at TSh. 1800/MT                       T.S S                         52,200       396,000         936,r)00     1,674,000
I X



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Paddy Production (With and Without Project)
1976/77       1977/78        1978/79        1979/80        1980/81
(Unit)       Year 1         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4         Year 5
Project Villages                                                               Nos.            -                6            15             15             15
Total number of farmers @ 375/village                                          Nos.            -            2,250          5,625         5,625          5,625
Expected adopters                                                              Nos.            -              200         1,000          2,000          3,000
Non-adopters                                                                   Nos.            -            2,050         4,625          3,625          2,625
Paddy Production without Project
Area under Traditional Paddy @ 1.0 ha/farmer                            ha             -            2,250         5,625          5,625          5,625
Production @ 1,000 kg/ha                                                MT             -            2,250         5,625          5,625          5,625
Paddy Production with Project
A.      By Adoptors
Area under advanced Paddy                                               ha              -             200          1,000         2,000          3,000
Average yield of Paddy under advanced management                       kg/ha            -           1,200         1,500          1,750          2,000
Production                                                              MT              -             240         1,260          2,750          4,500
B.      By Non-Adoptors
Area under Traditional Paddy                                            ha              -           2,050         4,625          3,625          2,625
Production                                                              MT-                         2,050         4,625          3,625          2,625
Total Production with Project                                                   MT               -          2,290          5,885         6,375          7,125
Yearly incremental production                                           MT              -              40           260            750          1,500
Value of incremental Paddy production @ T.Sh 1000/MT                   T.Sh             -          40,000       260,000        750,000       1,500,000



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sorghum Production (With and Without Project)
1976/77       1977/78        1978/79        1979/80        1980/81
(Unit)      Year 1         Year 2         Year 3        Year 4         Year 5
rroJect villages                                                                Nos.          -               12             30             30             30
Total number of farmers @ 375/village                                           Nos.          -            4,500         11,250         11,250         11,250
Fxpected adoptors                                                               Nos.          -              400          2,000         4,ooo          6,ooo
non-adopters                                                           Nos.          -            4,1°°         9,250          7,250          5,250
Sorghum Production without Proiect
Area under Traditional Sorghum @ 0.8 ha per farmer                       ha           -            3,600          8,964         8,964           8,964
Production @ 500 kg/ha                                                   MT                        1,800          4,482          4,482          4,482
Sorghum Production with Proiect
A.      By Adoptors
Area under advanced management @ 0.8 ha/farmer in Cotton
villages, @ 0.5 ha/farmer in Paddy villages                             ha           -              260          1,300          2,600          3,900
Average yield under advanced management                               kgia            -              750         1,000          1,250          1,500
Production                                                               MT-                         195         1,040          2,340          3,965
B.      By Non-Adoptors
Area under Traditional Sorghum @ 0.8 ha/farmer                           ha           -            3,280          7,400          5,800          4,200
Production @ 500 kg/ha                                                   MT           -            1,640          3,700         2,900           2,100
Total Production with ProjeCt                                                    MT           --           1,835          4,740          5,240          6.065
Yearly incremental production                                            MT                           35            258            758          1,583
Value of incremental production at TSh. 900/MT                          TSh                       31,500       232,200        682,200      1,424,?00
-s ro



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Groundnuts Production (With and Without Pro lect)
1977/78       1978/79        1979/80         1980/81       1981/82
(Unit)      Year 1         Year 2         Year 3          Year 4        Year 5
Project villages                                                               Nos.           -               12             30              30            30
Total number of farmers at 375 per village                                     Nos            -            4,500        11,250          11,25C        11,250
Expected adopters                                                              Kos,           -              400          2,000          4,ooo         6,ooc
Non-adopters                                                                   Nos            -            4,100          9,250          7,250         5,250
Groundnut Production without Project
Area under Traditional Groundnut @ 0.1 ha per farmer                    ha            -              450          1,125           1,125         1,125
Production @ 400 kg/ha                                                  MT            -              l80            450O            450           450
Groundnut Production with Project
A.      BY Adoptors
Area under advanced Groundnuc @ 0.3 ha per farmer                       ha             -             120            600           1,200         1,800
Average yield under advanced management                                kg/ha          -              450            500             550           600
Production                                                              MT            -               ,4            276             576           906
B.      By Non-Adoptors
Area under Traditional Groundnut @ 0.1 ha per farmer                    ha             -             410             925            725          525
Production @ 400 kg/ha                                                  MT             -            164             370             290          210
Total Production with Project                                                   NT             -             218            646             866         1,006
Yearly incremental production                                           MT             -              38             196            416           556
VTalue of incremental production at TSh. 2,500/MT                      T               -          95,000         490,000      1, 040,000   1,390,000



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs for Cotton (With Project)
1977/78      1978/79         1979/80       1980/81        1981/82
Input Quantities and Costs                                   (Unit)       Year 1         Year 2        Year 3         Year 4        Year 5
Fertilizer:  (A) TSP @ 100 kg/ha                                               MT              -              20          100            200             300
Cost  -  Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 2500/MT                                      T.Sh             -          50,000      250,000        500,000         750,000
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh 800/MT                                         T.Sh             -          i6,000       80,ooo        160,000         240,000
(B) Sulphate of Ammonia @ 100 Kg/ha,                              MT             -              20           100           200             300
Cost  -  Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 1500/MT                                      T.Sh             -          30,000      150,000        300,000        45s,ooo
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh 520/MT                                         T.Sh             -          10,400       52,000        104,000         156,000
Insecticides:(A) Endosulfan @ 9 lit/ha                                          L              -           1,800        9,000         18,000          27,000
Cost  -  Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 14/lit                                       T.Sh             -          25,200      126,000        252,000         378,000
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh  7/lit                                         T.Sh             -          12,600       63,000        126,000         189,000
(B) Hostathion @ 2 lit/ha                                         L              -             400         2,000         4,ooo           6,ooo
Cost  -  Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 43/lit                                       T.Sh             -          17,200       86,000        172,000         258,000
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh 22/lit                                         T.Sh             -           8,800       44,ooo         88,ooo         132,000
ULV Sprayers  8 one sprayer/2.5 ha                                            Nos.             -              bO           400           800           1,200
Cost  - Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 200 per set                                   T.Sh             -          16,000       80,000        160,000         240,000
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh 100 per set                                    T.Sh             -           8,000       40,ooo         80,000         120,000
Batteries  @ 2/ha                                                             Nos.             -             400        2,000          4,ooo           6,ooo
Cost  -  Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 6/Battery                                    T.Sh             -           2,400       12,000         24,ooo          36,ooo
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh 3/Battery                                      T.Sh             -           1,200        6,0oo         12,000          18,000
Tools and Cleaning Material
Cost  -  Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 5/ha                                         T.Sh             -           1,000        5,000         10,000          15,000
Cost  - Subsidized 9 T.Sh 3/ha                                            T.Sh             -             600         3,000         6,000           9,0oo
Total Cost  - Unsubsidized                                                T.Sh             -         141,800       709,000     1,418,000       2,127,000
Subsidized                                                 T.Sh            -          57,600       288,000       576,000         864,ooo
* TSP - Triple Super Phosphate.
>



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs for Paddy (With Project)
1977178       1978/79        1979/80       1980/81        1981/82
Farm Inputs                                                  (Unit)       Year 1         Year 2         Year 3        Year 4         Year 5
Seed at 50 kg/ha                                                                 MT             -              10            50            100            150
Cost at T.Sh 10OO/MT                                                            T.Sh            _          10,000        50,000        100,000        150,000
Fertilizer:  At 200 kg/ha of Sulphate of Ammonia                                 MT             -              40           200            400            600
Cost  - Unsubsidized at T.Sh 1500/MT                                       T.Sh             -          60,000       300,000        600,000       900,000
Cost  -  Subsidized at T.Sh 520/MT                                         T.Sh             -          20,800       104,000        208,000       312,000
Insecticides: At 2 kg/ha of 5% DDT                                               MT             -            0.4           2.0            4.0            6.0
Cost  -   Unsubsidized at T.Sh 4400/MT                                     T.Sh             -           1,760         8,800         17,600         26,400
Cost  -   Subsidized at T.Sh 2200/MT                                       T.Sh             -             880         4,400          8,800        13,200
Total Cost - Unsubsidized                                                  T.Sh             -          71,760       358,800        717,600      1,076,400
Subsidized                                                    T.Sh             -         31,680        158,400       316,800        475,200
ID



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Inputs for Sorghum (With Prolect)
1977/78         1978/79        1979/80        1980/81        1981/82
(Unit)        Year 1         Year 2          Year 3        Year 4          Year 5
Seed @ 12 kg/ha                                                                   MT             -                  3             16             31             47
Cost @ T.Sh 900/MT                                                       T.Sh             -             2,700         14,400         27,900         42,300
Fertilizer @ 50 kg/ha TSP                                                         MT             -                13             65            130            195
Cost  -  Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 2500/MT                                     T.Sh             -            32,500        162,500        325,000        487,500
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh 800/MT                                        T.Sh             -           10,400          52,000        104,000        156,000
@ 150 kg/ha of Sulphate of Ammonia                                    MT              -                39            195            390            585
Cost  -  Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 1500/MT                                     T.Sh             -           58,500         292,500        585,000        877,500
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh 520/MT                                        T.Sh             -           20,280        101,400        202,800         304,200
Insecticides @ 10 kg/ha DDT                                                       MT             -                 3             13             26              39
Cost  - Unsubsidized @ T.Sh 4400/MT                                      T.Sh             -            13,200         57,200        114,400        171,600
Cost  - Subsidized @ T.Sh 2200/MT                                        T.Sh             -            6,600          28,600         57,200         85,800
Total Cost  -  Unsubsidized                                              T.Sh             -           106,900        526,600      1,052,300      1,J78,900
-  Subsidized                                               T.Sh             -           46,280         228,800        457,600        686,100
* TSP - Triple Super Phosphate.
Fz r



TANZANIA,
.TAB3ORA RURAL DENVELO.PtENT 1'ROJFCT,
L-rm In uts fo~r  rouq tw&ts (Wtkroiect',
1977/78      1978/79    19?9/80       1980181        1981/82
(Unit)      Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5
Seed ( 70 kg/ha                                         MT               -           8            42           84           126
Cost @ T.Sh 2500/MT                                T.Sh              -      20,000      105,000     210,000       315,000
Fertilizer  ( 100 kgtha TSE'*                           FT               -           12           60          120           180
Cost  - Unsubsidized Q I.5h 2500Im                 T.Sh              -      30,000      150,000      300,000       450,000
Cost  -  Subsidized @ T.Sh BOOIMT                  T.Sh              -       9,600       48,000       96,000       144,000
Total Cost
Unsi"bsidized                             T.Sh b                   50,000      255,000      510,000       765,000
Subsidized                                T.Sh             -      29,000      153,000       306,000       459,000
* TSP - Triple Super Phosphate.
a3 -



TANZANIA
TABORA - RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Man-days Labor Reouired for Proposed Cropping Under the Sub-Project
Unit                     Hectare        Aug.      Sept.      Oct.      Nov.     Dec.      Jan.    Feb.       Mar.      Apr.     May      June      July       Total
Cotton/Sorghum/C.nuts/Cassava
Cotton                        1.0           8         3          28        22        14         9      21        14        17        15       15        10         176
Sorghum                       0.8           -         -           -        13        27        39      10        13        14         8        -         -         124
Groundnuts                    0.3            -        -           -         7        13         6        7        9        10         -        -         -          52
Cassava                       0.5           -         -           4         2         -         -        -       18         9         8        -         -          41
Total                         2.6           8         3          32        44        54        54      38        54        50        31       15        10         393
Paddy/Sorghum/G.nuts/Cassava
Paddy                         1.0           -         -           -        23        32        20      20        25         8        31       15         -         174
Sorghum                       0.5           -         -           -         8        16        24       7         8         9         6        -         -          78
Groundnuts                    0.3           -         -           -         7        13         6        7        9        10         -                  -          52
Cassava                       0.5           -         -           4         2         -         -        -       18         9         8        -         -          41
Total                         2.3           -         -           4        40        61        50      34        60        36        45       15         -         345
I/    Comparative Economics of Tobacco Production on Small Family Farm
in Tabora Region - by the Collinson 1970 DSM.
D to



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT - IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
~~~~ sJF  43f#a- erFAS oA   -J~             A'5W       t J}r ws   JF7428D<
I   19 7       j l97B             lIt0             19               1981
Staff Recruitment                                     -
1.  Agronomist Planning Unit
2.  Extension Agronomist, Mobile Unit                            -           .
3.  Extension Training Officer                        -0 K         , .      .    . . 
4.  Research Officer, Tumbi                                                                              ___ .
Building Program                   _      =  . 
1.  Initiation of Contracts
2.  Completion of Number of Houses                                 A-4
3.  Completion of Number of Stores                                               _                           1
Equipment Order Lead Time                                                          12              12
1.  Vehicles                                                  -                 .
2.  Laboratory Equipment                                      -         .                          _
3.  Other Farm Inputs                                                              __ F                  -- --  -
Production Villages                                                                                       A J;.
'.  Cotton/Sorghum/Groundnuts (No. of Villages)                          i-                                                          -
2.  Paddy/Sorghum/Groundnuts (No. of Villages)           - t
-~~~~-
S                     I~~~~--



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECI
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Farm Model I: Cotton/Sorghum/Groundnuts
Farm Size (2.6 ha)
Without
Unit         Project                                              Proiect Year
1           ~~~~2             3                4                  5
Output      Cotton
Area                                              ha              0.9                 0.9              1.0              1.0               1.0                 1.0
Yield (Seed Cotton)                             kg/ha           500                 500              650              750               850              1,000
Volume (Total Production)                         kg            450                 450              650              750               850              1,000
Net Value  - AR @ T.Sh 2.0/kg                    T.Sh           495                495             1,040            1,200            1,360               1,600
- BR @ T.Sh 1.0/kg                   T.Sh             90                 90              130               150              170                 200
585                585            1,170            1,350             1,530              1,800
Sorghum
Area                                              ha              0.8                 0.8              0.8              0.8               0.8                0.8
Yield                                           kg/ha           500                 500              750            1,000             1,250              1,500
Volume                                            kg            400                 400              600              800             1,000              1,200
Less family consumption  1/                       kg            400                 400              600              650               650                650
Met Volume                                        kg              -                   -               -               150               350                550
Net Value @ T.Sh 0.90/kg                         T.Sh             -                   -               -               135               315                495
Groundnuts
Area                                              ha              0.1                 0.1              0.3               0.3              0.3                 0.3
Yield                                           kg/ha           400                 400              450              500               550                600
Volume                                            kg             40                  40              135              150               165                180
Less family consumption  1/                       kg             40                  40               90               90                90                 90
Net Volume                                        kg              -                   -               45               60                75                 90
Net Value @ T.Sh 2.50/kg                         T.Sh             -                   -              113              150               188                225
Cassava & Vegetables
Area                                              ha              0.5                 0.5              0.5               0.5              0.5                 0.5
Yield                                           kg/ha         1,200              1,200             1,200            1,200             1,200              1,200
Volume                                            kg            600                 600              600              600               600                600
Less family consumption  1/                       kg            600                 600              600              600               600                600
Net Value                                        T.Sh             -                   -                -                 -                -                   -
Total Value of Marketable Produce                       T.Sh            585                585            1,283             1,635            2,033               2,495
2/
Inputs -    Cotton                                            T.Sh             -                  -               257              257              257                 257
Sorghum                                          T.Sh             6                   6              140              140               140                140
Groundnuts                                       T.Sh            10                  10               77               77                77                  77
Total Input Costs                                        T.Sh            16                 16              474               474              474                 474
Net Cash Surplus                                        T.Sh            569                569              889             1,161            1,559               2,021
1/   The consumption of cereals, root crops, vegetables and groundnuts would give about 2053 calories and 44 gin. protein/head/day
2/    Based on ha Budget Table Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRI CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Farm Model II: Paddy/Sorghum/Groundnuts
Farm Size (2.3 ha)
WXtnout
Unit             Project                                                 Projeit Year
1                2                  3                4                  5
OutPu t      Paddy
Area                                              ha                 1.0                 1.0              1.0                1.0               1.0                1.0
Yield                                          kg/ha             1,000               1,000            1,200              1,500            1,750              2,000
Volume (Total Production)                         kg             1,000               1,000            1,200              1,500            1,750              2,000
Less family consumption  1/                       kg               150                 150              200                200               200                200
Net Volume                                        kg               750                 750            1,000              1,300            1,550              1,800
Net Value @ T.Sh 1.0/kg                          T.Sh              750                 750            1,000              1,300            1,550              1,800
Sorghum
Area                                              ha                 0.8                 0.8               0.6               0.5               0.5                0.5
Yield                                          kg/ha               500                 500              750              1,000            1,250              1,500
Volume                                           kg                400                 400              450                500               625               750
Less family consumption  1/                       kg               400                 400              450                500               500               500
Net Volume                                        kg                           -                         -                  -                125               250
Net Value @ T.Sh 0.90/kg                        T.Sh                 -                   -               -                  -                113               225
Groundnut s
Area                                              ha                 0.1                 0.1               0.3               0.3               0.3                0.3
Yield                                          kg/ha               400                 400              450                500               550                600
Volume                                            kg                40                  40              135                150               165                180
Less family consumption  1/                       kg                 -                   -               90                 90                90                 90
Net Volume                                        kg                 -                                   45                 60                75                90
Net Value ( T.Sh 2.50/kg                         T.Sh                 -                                 113                150               188               225
CasBava & Vegetables
Area                                              ha                 0.5                 O.P               0.5                0.5              0.5                0.5
Yield                                           kg/ha            1,200               1,200            1,200              1,200             1,200              1,200
Volume                                            kg               600                 600              600                600               600                600
Less family consumption  1/                       kg               600                 600              600                600               600                600
Net Value                                        T.Sh                 -                  -                 -                  -                -
Total Value of Marketable Produce                       T.Sh               750                 750            1,113              1,450             1,851              2,U5
2/
Inputs -    Paddy                                            T.Sh                50                  50              158                158               158                158
Sorghum                                          T. Si,              6                   6               88                 88                88                 88
Groundnuts                                       T.Sh               10                  10                77                77                77                 77
Total Input Costs                                       T.Sh                66                 66               323                323              323                323
Net Cash Surplus                                        T.Sh               684                684               790              1,121            1, 528             1, 901
1/    The consumption of cereals, root crops, vegetables and groundnuts would give about 2053 calories and 44 gm protein/bead/day.
2/    Based on ha Budget Table  Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DFVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Farm Model III - Cotton/Sorghum/Groundnuts/Cattle
Without
Unit             Project                                                Project Year
1               2                 3                 4                 5
Net Cash Surplus from Farm Model I                         T.Sh                569                569             809              1,161             1,559            2,021
output       Cattle                                        T.Sh                --                 500              500               500               500              500
Legumes/Grass
Area                                            ha               --                    0.10             0.10             010              0.10              0.10
Yield (dry matter)                           kg/ha               --               3,000            6,ooo              6,ooo            6,ooo            6,ooo
Volume                                          kg               --                 300              600                600              600              600
Sorghum/Fodder j
Area                                            ha               --0.2                                                    02               0.2             0P.2
Yield (dry matter)                              kg                                                  4,oO'             4 ,ooo'          4,ooo             4,oo8
Volume (dry matter)                             kg               __                                  800                800              800              800
Input Costs  Legume/Grass                                  T.Sh                --                  20               1                  10               10                10
Sorghum/Fodder                               T.Sh                --                  28               10                 l0               l0                l0
Cattle                                        T.Sh               --                 380              380                380              380               380
428              40o               40o               400              40o
Incremental                                                      --                  72               100               100              100               100
Net Surplus                                                                         641              909             1,261             1,659            2,121
Excess fodder production for fattening of domestic herd
j Fodder seed retained after year one.
,- >
H H
(D H
-1 A



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DF:VETOPMyNT PROJECT
AGCICULTURA1 DEVEWPMEVT
Farm Model III - Pddyv/Sorebum/Groundnutn/Cattle
Without
Vnit           Project                                               Project Year
1         ~~~~2                                               35
Net Cash Surplus from Fa,sm Model I                       T.Sh              684                684              790             1,127           1,528            1,902
outpJt       cattle                                       T.Sh               --                500              500               50              500              500
Legwae/ OGres
Area                                          ha                                    0.10             0.10             0 10             0.10             0.10
Yield (dry matter)                          kg/la              --               3,000           6,0o0             6,ooo            6,ooo            6,000
Volume                                        kg               --                300              600               600              600             600
.So-_hum/Foddrr j
Area                                          ha               --                                   0.2               0.2              0.2              0.2
Yield (dry matter)                            kg               --                               4,000 o4,000                       4,C.z           4,ooo
Volume (dry matter)                           kg                                                  800               800              800              800
_np_t _osts  Legume/Grass                                 T.Sh              __                  20               10                10              10               10
Sorghum/Fodder                              T.Sh                                   28              10                10               10               10
Cattle                                      T.Sh               __38                               380               380              380              380
428              4oo              400              4oo             4ho
Incremental                                                    __                  72             100               100              100              100
Net Surplus                                                                       756             809             1,227            1,628            2,002
j Excess fodder producF.on for fattening of donestic herd,
J Fodder oeed retained atter year one,
HIS'
I-.






ANNEX 3
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development
A.  Livestock in Tabora Region
Livestock in the Economies                                     Para. 1
Livestock Health                                               Para. 9
Livestock Marketing                                            Para. 15
Technical Services                                             Para. 18
B.  Summary of Constraints to Increasing Livestock Production   Para. 23
C.  The Sub-Project                                                Para. 26
Village Livestock Farms:  Nzega and Igunga (Appendix 2)        Para. 28
Village Livestock Farms:  Miombo Zone (Appendix 3)             Para. 31
Regional Livestock Development Services                        Para. 32
Tsetse Control                                                 Para. 33
Marketing Improvement                                          Para. 34
D.  Operating Procedures, Costs and Benefits                        Para. 35
Cost Estimates                                                 Para. 36
Producer and Economic Benefits                                 Para. 37
Appendix 1: Ministry of Agriculture - Veterinary Division:
Regional Staff
Appendix 2: Village Livestock Farms - Mixed Farming Areas (Nzega and Igunga)
Table 1:  Investment Costs per Village
Table 2:  Herd Projections per Village
Table 3:  Estimate of Sales and Operating Expenses per Village
Table 4:  Financial Projections and Indicative Financial Rate
of Return per Village
Appendix 3: Village Livestock Farms - New Developments (Miombo Zone)
Table 1:  Investment Costs per Village
Table 2:  Herd Projections per Village
Table 3:  Estimate of Sales and Operating Expenses per Village
Table 4:  Financial Projections and Indicative Financial Rate
of Return per Village






ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development
A. Livestock in Tabora Region
Livestock in the Economies
1.        Livestock production in Tabora Region, particularly extensive cat-
tle keeping, has developed as part of the mixed farming economy of the north-
ern districts of Nzega and Igunga. Clearance of woodland in these areas for
growing cash and subsistence crops has destroyed the habitat of the tsetse
fly, the vector of trypanosomiasis and the major factor limiting ruminant
production in the forests which still cover 75% of the Region. Surplus agri-
cultural production has been bartered or sold for herds of cattle which have
assumed considerable economic and social importance in traditional society.
2.        In addition to their value as a source of food and as draft power,
cattle represent wealth and prestige; they are essential in marriage con-
tracts, comprise a common form of inheritance and are used to guarantee loans
and in formal pacts of friendship. Because of this customary use and the
complex patterns of ownership and beneficial interests built up in the herds,
commercial trading in cattle has been slow to develop. Stocks are rarely
sold other than in times of drought or to meet immediate cash or social
needs, and commercial slaughter is confined to the main urban centers. A
history of losses from disease and drought has also encouraged the policy
of building of herds wherever there is adequate pasture. Although major
epidemic diseases such as Rinderpest and Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
(CBPP) have been successfully contained, tick-borne diseases continue to
take a heavy toll, and the cattle owner considers it prudent to increase
his herd numbers as insurance against future outbreaks.
3.        The combination of the social demand for cattle and the limitation
of the grazing areas by the geographical distribution of the savannah tsetse
fly have led to severe overstocking in the northern districts. Increasing
pressure on the land for cash and subsistence cropping has aggravated the
situation and seasonal transhumant movement of stock is now common practice.
Use of cleared forest lands following settlement and temporary destocking
will give localized relief, but an effective grazing control and land-use
policy would be needed to arrest the erosion of the light soils by over-
grazing.
4.        The Regional herd of about 1 million head of cattle, or about 10%
of the national herd, contributes substantially to the economy of the Re-
gion. Market sales of 30,800 and the purchase of 40,300 head by Tanganyika
Packers Limited (TPL) were recorded during 1975 but are partially double
counted. However, including village and bush slaughterings of about 20,000,
current slaughter off-take is probably 60-70,000 head (6% - 7%) per annum
valued at about TSh 15,000,000.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        The distribution of the herd is determined by the availability of
tsetse-free grazing. The estimated livestock population in Tabora Region in
1973 was ('000 head):
Districts               Cattle        Sheep      Goats
Nzega and Igunga         835           135        186
Tabora and Urambo        177             7          2
Total             1,012           142        188
The estimates for Nzega and Igunga may also include a number of transhumant
stock from Mwanza Region. In recent years, there has been considerable mi-
gration of cattle from Shinyanga District and from Nzega through to Mbeya
and the Southern Highlands. The movement has been a result not only of the
extended drought, but also of the reluctance of the pastoralists to accept
lower stocking rates and sedentary ranching practice being pressed by the
authorities.
6.        The local cattle are small zebu stock, hardy and well adapted to
the harsh dry season of the savannah. Individual herds are grazed in groups
of up to 300 or 400 in the fallow lands and secondary bush of the cultivated
areas. With the onset of the dry season and the receding challenge of the
tsetse fly, extensive transient use is made of miombo forest grazing. Lack
of adequate watering facilities is a general problem through the Region, but
is acute in the miombo and prevents more intensive dry season exploitation
of the woodland savannah.
7.        The heavy stocking in the tsetse fly tree zones has not been con-
trolled by the statutory measures provided by the Grazing Control Ordinance
(Cap 156). Large areas surrounding villages and watering points have been
subjected to serious over-grazing with the resultant extensive deteriora-
tion of light top-soils through sheet and gulley erosion. Government re-
cognizes the severity of the problem, which it is seeking to combat through
its policy of villagization and enclosure, and a TANU-backed call for 10%
annual decrease in cattle holdings throughout the Region. The likely effect
of this program will be to encourage further transfer of stock through mi-
gration rather than effective reduction in cattle numbers through increased
slaughter off-take. The social demands for cattle are deep-rooted and
there is considerable mistrust of the principles of communal ownership of
stock which are seen as part of the villagization program. Moreover, village
enclosure will not succeed in rehabilitating the natural pastures unless
accompanied by stock management and grazing control. The potential carrying
capacity of the grasslands has been amply demonstrated at Ibolugero Seed
Station where 49 head of cattle are carried on about 50 ha throughout the
year with specialized management; simple enclosure and rotational grazing can
maintain both the stock and pasture in good condition. The development of
the livestock industry in Tabora would largely depend on improving the man-
agement of available grazing, without which destocking or the increase of
pasture lands through forest clearance will prove ineffective.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        Stock management standards are poor and are reflected in the low
productivity of the herd. Inadequate nutrition is a major cause of late-
maturing cows and a calving rate of under 50%. Poor lactation results in
stunted calves and contributes to the heavy calf death rates of 25% to 30%.
Disease control, except for vaccination against major economic diseases,
such as Rinderpest or CBPP, is rarely practiced, and as a result, cattle
weights are typically low. TPL, which receives 80% of its throughput from
Shinyanga and Nzega, reports average carcass weights of about 100 kg.
Livestock Health
9.        The diseases of major economic importance affecting livestock
are the tick-borne diseases, of which East Coast Fever and Anaplasmosis
are common, Trypansomiasis and Foot-and-Mouth disease. Rinderpest and Conta-
gious Bovine Pleuropneumonia, both of which were problems in the past, have
been successfully contained through effective vaccination and quarantine
control measures.
10.       Records of the Veterinary Investigation Center (VIC), Tabora, in-
dicates that East Coast Fever and Anaplasmosis are the diseases causing the
most serious cattle losses. Such diseases can be controlled through routine
dipping, but only about 7% of the herd receives treatment, and even that is
irregular although no charge is made for the use of dips. A further problem
is the inadequacy of the dip strength: analysis has shown that the majority
of dips are not maintained with the recommended levels of acaricides. Dip-
ping routines are essential to the implementation of the Regional animal di-
sease control program and little progress will be achieved until dip mainte-
nance is effective.
II.       Foot and Mouth disease is endemic throughout the Region, and 16
incidences of the disease, chiefly Types 0 and A, were reported in 1975.
However, stock losses (as opposed to reduced herd productivity due to the
disease) are not significant.
12.       Epizootic diseases such as Anthrax and Haemorrhagic Septicaemia
occur sporadically throughout the Region. VIC which has recently diagnosed
Anthrax fatalities in both humans and cattle, considers that the incidence
of such diseases is far heavier than reported. Cattle owners are reluctant
to risk carcass condemnation and sick animals are usually slaughtered for
consumption rather than allowed to die from disease.
13.       The widespread distribution of the tsetse fly (Glossina Morsitans
and G. Palipides) vector of Trypanosomiasis has limited settlement in the
Region. Forest clearance, as has occurred in Nzega and Igunga, destroys
the breeding habitat of the vector and eradicates the disease. In forest
areas, the degree of infestation depends largely upon the availability of
suitable moist breeding vegetation; this characteristic of the vector permits
limited exploitation of the miombo grazing during the dry season. In the
partially cleared zones or new settlements (such as Ulyankulu), although
pockets of primary infestation persist and cases of trypanosomiasis continue
to occur in the human and cattle populations, cattle may be maintained if
creation of tsetse barriers and selective spraying of breeding areas are



ANNEX 3
Page 4
supported by chemotherapy and prophylactic treatments of stock. However,
recurrent management and maintenance costs of such a program are high, and
reinfestation, such as has occurred in the barrier-protected Tanzania Live-
stock Marketing Company (TLMC) Ipala holding ground, is a constant problem.
14.       Due to lack of funds, little tsetse survey or control work has
been carried out in recent years. Tsetse distribution records have not
been maintained and a tsetse survey of the new settlement areas of Urambo and
Tabora districts and of other zones of potential settlement is essential
if cattle and mixed farming are to be introduced. A major area of investiga-
tion would concern the advance of tsetse fly into old cultivated areas now
abandoned but classified as viable fly-free grazing areas.
Livestock Marketing
15.       The 23 registered livestock markets and buying stations in the
Region are operated by TLMC which is also responsible for the maintenance
of the Ipala holding ground in Tabora District. TLMC was established as a
subsidiary of the Livestock Development Authority to handle the marketing
component of the Second Tanzanian Livestock Development Project (IDA Credit
382-TA). The Regional TLMC unit is based at Nzega and two marketing teams
control auction buying at each market. Animals are sorted, branded, and
sales recorded. In addition, TLMC buys on its own account for local butchers
and NACO ranches; these purchases have been low, averaging only 300-320 per
month. In April 1975, however, TLMC was appointed buyer for Tanganyika Packers
Ltd. (TPL) and total monthly purchases have risen to about 2,900 head. Buying
procedures are loose and differences between buying station and TPL arrival
weights show losses of up to 25%. Only 7-10% loss may be attributed to weight
loss in transit to Dar es Salaam, and the high figures mainly reflect lack of
control at buying points.
16.       Buying at the markets is competitive.  TLMC, which buys under the
constraint of a fixed price (TSh 1.45 to TSh 1.55/kg liveweight according to
grade), is only able to attract poorer animals of Grade III quality (180 kgs
to 230 kgs) liveweight. However, because of the absence of a large domestic
market and the distance to major export markets, cattle prices are generally
lower than in the favorably located markets of northern Tanzania. As a re-
sult, about 80% of TLMC purchases are made in Nzega and the adjoining dis-
trict of Shinyanga in Mwanza Region.
17.       Few markets have adequate stock-handling and dipping facilities
and only two are equipped with weighbridges. At the time of Project apprai-
sal, no proposals had been made for market improvement in Tabora under IDA
Credit 382-TA. Since it took over the operation of the major cattle markets
from the District Development Corporations (DDC), TLMC has experienced in-
creasing acceptance by both traders and producers. In view of the importance
of the Region as a source of cattle for TLMC, market development would be
fully justified and would strengthen the regional TLMC organization. Funds
are already available under IDA Credit 382-TA. Improved facilities would
also provide infrastructural support for a Regional destocking policy and for
smallholder fatstock production which are proposed under this sub-project.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Technical Services
18.       Regional livestock development services are headed by a Livestock
Development Officer and technical direction is provided by a three-man team
of veterinarians supplied under a bi-lateral aid agreement with the German
Democratic Republic (GDR) (Appendix 1). The GDR personnel also direct the
work of the Veterinary Investigation Center (VIC). All field services are
administered at District level through the 10 veterinary centers in the Re-
gion with the exception of the tsetse control division which is based at
Regional headquarters.
19.       Although increasing attention is being paid to production, live-
stock services are concerned primarily with disease control. The Region is
a compulsory dipping area under the provisions of the former Animal Diseases
Ordinance (Cap 155) and much of the livestock department's resources are
directed towards dip construction and maintenance. No charge is made for
use of the dips and other prophylactic and curative treatments are supplied
at cost.
20.       The field services are generally inadequate and ineffective.  Only
23 of 41 dips in the Region are working and dip strengths are rarely main-
tained. Many have been badly sited and cannot operate during the dry season
for lack of water. Veterinary Centers lack essential veterinary equipment
and refrigerators for drug storage and the service as a whole has neither
sufficient transport nor funds to operate it.
21.       Staff numbers are adequate except at the key Field Officer level
where current staff levels need to be brought up to strength (Appendix 1).
In the tsetse control division, the recurrent field vote of TSh 10,000 a
year does not allow any survey or control work to be undertaken and the 19
divisional staff are occupied with sporadic testing for trypanosomiasis in
the human population.
22.       The GDR veterinary assistance team has established sound technical
facilities from which the service could readily expand. Lack of recurrent
funds, however, limits the range of its activities. It is doubtful whether
the current field program has more than a marginal effect on the low levels
of productivity in the existing cattle producing areas. Attempts to stock
zones of low tsetse challence would require considerable improvement in the
coverage and quality of the district services.
B. Summary of Constraints to Increasing Livestock Production
23.       Major constraints to increased and improved livestock production
are summarized as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 6
(a) Technical
Inadequate nutrition of feed and water due to:
(i)  heavy overstocking of cultivated tsetse free
areas;
(ii)  lack of permanent and properly distributed
watering points;
(iii) restricted use of miombo grazing due to tsetse
challenge;
(iv)  lack of policies on grazing control and stock-
rates.
(b) Infrastructural
Inadequate Regional and District production services
and animal health services, in particular lack of:
(i)  planning capacity for smallholder mixed-farming
and livestock development;
(ii)  District planning and implementation of grazing-
control programs;
(iii) properly trained and experienced senior field
staff capable of organizing and supervising an
effective dipping and disease control program;
(iv)  adequately equipped dips and veterinary centers;
(v)  adequate budgetary support, particularly for
transport;
(vi)  tsetse survey and control capacity.
24.       Of these constraints, overstocking constitutes the major barrier
to development. The legislative and political framework within which an
effective destocking and grazing control policy could be implemented exists
(para. 7). However, the rate at which sub-project production investments
could be made would depend upon the ability of the District authorities to
apply stated Government policy. Full support for District field staff by
the Regional and Central Government livestock development agencies is essen-
tial if the sub-project is to achieve its required impact.
25.       Improved production is also contingent upon the provision of animal
health control facilities, particularly well-maintained dips. Provision of
the infrastructure necessary for sub-project implementation would also benefit
surrounding areas and develop the services required for an expanded second
stage project.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
C. The Sub-Project
26.       The sub-project would introduce as a pilot scheme, over a 5-year
development period, sedentary and commercially oriented livestock production
within the existing cleared and light bush areas of the Region and in the
areas of low tsetse challenge of the miombo forestland. Primary objectives
of this limited production component would be:
(a) to develop simple grazing control practices and grass-
land management techniques;
(b) to improve traditional cattle management practices;
(c) to establish the optimum size and location of live-
stock villages as part of Regional land-use planning;
(d) to introduce intensive livestock production to small-
holdings and to establish the degree to which small-
scale fattening could reduce dependence upon extensive
production;
(e) to develop the techniques and services required to
maintain sedentary cattle herds in areas of low tsetse
fly challenge;
(f) to develop credit and marketing mechanisms best adapted
to the needs of the traditional producer.
Experience gained during implementation would thus provide positive guide-
lines for longer term policies of destocking, range and grassland manage-
ment and improved livestock production. The sub-project would also rein-
force the existing veterinary infrastructure to provide the increased animal
health control and technical supervision necessary for sedentary traditional
sector cattle production.
27.       Specifically, development would comprise:
(a) Village Livestock Production which would involved
about six villages in existing production areas and
its introduction in about six new settlements in
the miombo zone affecting in all about 3500-4000
families. Mixed farming development would receive
strong support and small-scale fattening introduced
in existing villages.
(b) Technical Services and Infrastructure. Regional
Livestock services would be strengthened through:
(i) provision of transport, veterinary centers,
dips and other essential capital investments;



ANNEX 3
Page 8
(ii) budgetary support for Project-related activi-
ties during the five-year development period;
(iii) establishment of a livestock planning capacity
to support the Regional Planning Office;
(iv) build-up of the tsetse control division to un-
dertake a tsetse survey of the Region and pro-
vision of limited tsetse control capacity;
(v) provision of expert management services for
(iii) and (iv).
Village Livestock Farms: Nzega and Igunga (Appendix 2)
28.       The sub-project would establish a pilot program of improved live-
stock production in the existing agricultural and tsetse free light forest
areas of Nzega and Igunga districts. Under the provisions of the Villages
and Ujamaa Villages (Registration and Administration) Act 1975, a specific
area of land is being allocated to each registered community. Sub-project
villages would have been registered, would have a trained village secretary
and would have adequate domestic water. They would maintain herds consistent
with the carrying capacity of their designated grazing areas. A typical
village would consist of about 350 families with full rights of usufruct over
an area generally in excess of 6,000 ha. Initial stocking rates would allow
for expansion of stock numbers through improved productivity and, a breeding
herd of about 600 cows would be maintained. Extension coverage and animal
health control would be provided by one Assistant Field Officer Grade II
per village supported by the services of the area Veterinary Center. A
cattle dip in each village would be improved or constructed as necessary.
Other provisions would be dry season grazing paddocks, stock handling fa-
cilities and improved breeding stock, whilst other sub-projects would make
provision, as needed, for investments in dams or watering points, and access
tracks. Grazing and cultivation areas would be planned and demarcated by the
Village Production Committee (VPC) assisted village planning units, trained
under the Project. A key element in village development would be improvement
of the carrying capacity of the grazing in the light bush and fallow lands.
Estimated investment costs per village are detailed in Appendix 2, Table 1,
and projections of herd growth are in Table 2. Sales and operating expenses,
and overall financial projections with an indicative rate of return, are given
in Appendix 2, Tables 3 and 4 respectively.
29.       To encourage voluntary destocking and sedentary livestock produc-
tion, and to compensate villagers for loss of potential income from reduced
stock numbers, a stall fattening component would be introduced supported by
short-term loans channelled through TLMC and TRDB. High yielding forage
(Pennisetum Purpureum), common as dry season fodder throughout the northern
Districts, would be grown in individual and communal areas of cultivation
in participating villages and fed with a supplement of feed grain or legume
crops (see Appendix 2, Table 3). Fattening stock would be bought and re-
sold through TLMC.  The village, as a legal entity, would be the prime bor-
rower of the credit for fattening stock purchases and would on-lend to
individual farmers. The purchase price of fattening stock would include



ANNEX 3
Page 9
full costs of animal health treatments and an insurance premium of about
10% to cover deaths during the fattening period. Average per head weight
gains of about 80 kgs. are anticipated over a 150 day fattening period.
30.       In addition to the production of subsistence and cash crops, ani-
mal offtake from the average stabilized village herd would rise from 12 m.
tons carcass weight to 44 m. tons at full development; about 48 m. tons per
annum of fattened stock would also be produced. The average investment per
village, phased over two years, would amount to TSh 240,000 requiring a loan
of TSh 140,000.
Village Livestock Farms: Miombo Zone (Appendix 3)
31.       The sub-project would establish livestock in about six villages
in selected areas of the miombo now subject to light fly challenge (Appen-
dix 3, Table 1). The clearance and maintenance of fly barriers and effec-
tive animal health control, supported by free or subsidized prophylactic
and curative treatments for trypanosomiasis, would be essential to thL suc-
cess of this pilot development and the costs of the tsetse survey and control
programs have been provided under the sub-project (Appendix 4). Development
would be phased to follow the construction of one fully equipped and staffed
dip per village and one veterinary center per three villages. The land area
in each village would be demarcated and on-farm inputs would be provided
comprising watering points or dams, stock handling facilities, and improved
breeding stock. Management of the stabilized breeding herd of 670 cows
would be centered upon rotational and controlled grazing, greater produc-
tivity through improved nutrition, and a closely supervised dipping and
vaccination program. Average investment per unit would amount to TSh 112,000.
At full development, a typical village would produce about 12 surplus breed-
ing animals for sale and generate a slaughter offtake of about 50 m. tons of
beef per annum (Appendix 3, Table 2). Estimates of sales and operating
expenses are given in Appendix 3, Table 3 and financial projections are in
Table 4.
Regional Livestock Development Services
32.       The sub-project would meet the costs of establishing the planning
and field services for the implementation of the livestock production compo-
nent. To direct the program, a livestock development specialist, who is
expected to be internationally recruited, would be appointed. He would
provide Livestock Planning capacity in the Project secretariat (and, there-
fore, in the Regional Planning Office) and would work in close cooperation
with the GDR veterinary team which would continue to provide technical
assistance for the animal health control services. Laboratory, storage and
office facilities would be improved at Regional Headquarters and at the VIC
Tabora, and provision would be made for essential vehicles and equipment.
Nine dips and three veterinary centers would be constructed for specific
sub-project development and housing provided for field staff. Recurrent budget
support would be allocated for field services particularly for the operation
and maintenance of vehicles. Total capital costs for the five year program
would amount to TSh 2.8 million and budgetary support (including training
costs) for the same period to a further TSh 3.4 million (Annex 10, Table 4a).



ANNEX 3
Page 10
Tsetse Control
33.       Problems of tsetse infestation and reinfestation of secondary
growth in cleared areas now abandoned constitute a major constraint to the
exploitation of large stretches of the miombo bordering the cleared and
cultivated districts. The sub-project would finance the reinforcement and
expansion of the Regional tsetse control division to undertake a tsetse
survey of areas of potential development and to carry out a limited program
of vector suppression. A fully mobile tsetse unit would be established
under the direction of an experienced tsetse ecologist, also probably in-
ternationally recruited, and would carry out a three year detailed survey
of the forested areas of Nzega and Igunga Districts, of Urambo to the north
of the railway line, and of western Tabora District. In addition to estab-
lishing current tsetse distribution, the survey would identify and record
favored vegetative habitat and potential breeding areas, information which
would be essential to the formulation of tsetse control program and land-
use planning. (The unit would provide the team preparing the Land Capa-
bility Map of the Region with the relevant data for inclusion in their plan
document). The division would be provided with limited clearance capacity
to enable it to maintain key tsetse barriers in the developing areas and
to deal with problems of reinfestation. Capital costs of the tsetse con-
trol component would total TSh 1.8 million and recurrent costs, including
survey costs, TSh 4.1 million (Annex 11, Table 4b).
Marketing Improvement
34.       In support of the TLMC market development program and to encour-
age liveweight sales, six additional markets would be equipped with cattle
weighbridges. Sites would be chosen by Regional staff according to need
based on recent sales figures. The estimated installed costs of the weigh-
bridges is TSh 480,000 (Annex 11, Table 4).
D. Operating Procedures, Costs and Benefits
35.       Loan Procedures.  The village development loan program would be
administered at Village Production Committee level. Development loans would
be made by TRDB. Loan application and preparation would be guided and en-
dorsed by the Livestock Development Specialist (LDS). LDS would also assist
in developing technical and economic evaluation procedures with TBRD for live-
stock credits. Block loans would be made to Village Councils which would be
responsible for the management of communal loans and the on-lending of indi-
vidual credits. TRDBs standard procedures would apply to individual and joint
loans and standardized bookkeeping procedures would be established in the
village. Technical supervision would be provided by LDS.
Cost Estimates
36.       The total sub-project cost (excluding contingencies) is estimated
at TSh 15.42 million over a five year period. The phasing of the village
developments has been lagged by up to two years to allow for the build up of
effective veterinary field services. Summary costs are (TSh Million):



ANNEX 3
Page 11
Year   1           2          3          4          5        Total
No. Cost No. Cost No. Cost No. Cost No. Cost No. Cost
A.   Village Developments
Capital Costs
(i) Nzega and Igunga
(App 2, Table 1)   -    -    2  .19    2. .46    2  .46    -  .27    6  1.38
(ii) Miombo
(App 3, Table 1)   -    -    -   -         3. .17    3  .32    -  .14    6   .62
sub-total                     .19        .63        .78         .41        2.01
Recurrent Costs                          .05        .08         .08        .08         .29
(iii) Incremental
Working Capital
(Annex 10, Table 4)       -        .20        .08         .20        .29         .77
sub-total                     .44        .79       1.06        .78         3.07
B.   Technical Infrastructure
(i)  Livestock Services
(Annex 10, Table 4a)   1.85    1.16          1.12        1.25        .60        5.98
(ii)  Tsetse Control
(Annex 10, Table 4b)   1.37        .88       1.38        1.42        .84        5.89
(iii)  Marketing
(Annex 10, Table 4)        -       .24        .24         -           -     6   .48
sub-total           3.22    2.28        2.74       2.67       1.44       12.35
Total Sub-project Costs        3.22    2.72        3.53       3.73       2.22        15.42
Details of costs are set out in Annex 10 and Appendices 2 and 3 to this
Annex, as shown.  All estimates have been based upon prices prevailing in
November 1975, modified to October 1976 levels.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
Producer and Economic Benefits
37.       Budgets have been prepared for the village livestock development
models and for each category of technical services costs. The production
models indicate that participating villages would realize a good return on
their investment; approximately 25% for existing villages and 22% for new
developments. Village incomes arising from cattle production would increase
from an estimated pre-development level of TSh 37,900 to between TSh 85,000
and TSh 100,000 in Year 6, averaging about TSh 380 per family. It is esti-
mated that at full development, annual production from sub-project farms
would amount to about 650 m. tons of beef and 150 surplus breeding females
for sale.
38.       Strengthening of the veterinary field service would be directly
reflected in the increased herd productivity of the sub-project herds,
amounting to 22,300 head. Better animal health control would also be ob-
tained in neighbouring herds using improved district veterinary facilities.
It is conservatively estimated that at least 50,000 adult cattle would
benefit from the use of well-maintained dips and a full vaccination pro-
gram. At an overall resultant decrease of 1% in the death rate, direct
benefits amounting to the value of 500 head of TSh 175,000 would be obtained.
The improved health of the stock would also be reflected in increased produc-
tivity and better market prices.
39.       These results do assume the levels of management proposed in the
Project, and the ability of the village council and assembly to grasp the
necessity for rigorous control of the village lands. In particular, there
can be no half measures with stock control associated with the dipping
program on the village livestock farms. Cattle which have been regularly
dipped and excluded from the challenge of tick-borne diseases become par-
ticularly prone to such diseases if ticks are allowed to re-encroach.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture - Veterinary Division: Regional Staff
A. Field Staff: Regional H.Q. Districts and Tsetse Control
Tsetse    1/    2/
Category                  H.Q.   Nzega  Igunga  Tabora  Urambo   Div.   Total  Est.  Bal.
Veterinary Officers        1        1        -      1        -        -        3      7    (4)
Field Officers             3        2        -      1        1        1        8    11    (3)
Assistant Field Officers 2          6        6     11        7        3       35    45   (10)
Field Assistant            2       16        8     26        9       15       76   130   (54)
Clerical Staff             2        2        -      -        1        -        5     -      -
Drivers                    3        2        -      -        -        -        5     -      -
Minor Staff                -        4        -      -        -        -        4     -      -
Total              13       33       14      39      18       19      136   _ _
B.  Field Staff:  Veterinary Investigation Center, Tabora 3/
VIC
Veterinary Officers                   2
Field Officers                        1
Assistant Field Officers              3
Field Assistant                       5
Clerical Staff                        3
Drivers                               2
Minor Staff                           5
Total                         21
1/ Staff as of 9/30/75; staff lists slightly overstate actual dispositions due to
appointments of staff to political positions and long-term training assignments.
2/  Estalishment 1974/75.
3/ VIC, Tabora serve Tabora and Kigoma Regions, and Mpanda District.



T'AN2WNIA
TABO0PA RURAL DEVTlOIWENT PROJECT
Village Livestock Pa.ms - m,.oed Parming Areas (Neega and Ignnga)
Inttestsent Costs per Vilias
(TSh  000)
Demarcated Village Area   3900                                             Ressrved Grazing Area:               50C                      Watering points per village-                    4
N,mber of Famtli,a           250                                           (dry season grazing)                                         Villages per Veterinary Center                   3
Csltivated Area               753                                          Ado,lt head before develipment'  1352                         Labor available for comsonal inprove- ents: 12500 man/days per  annum
labor reqnlred for on-fern inve-stents          6500 nan/days
Unit                                                                      Total          Total                us$
In"eestment Itets                    TTnit               Cost                Year I                        fear .                  N mber          *mat                 Equiv.               .            Amount
(fs)             Ni         Cost              No           Coot
A   A-oss Roads and TrackssY                     km                150              3             .5             3                5            6              1 0                120 5
Land Preparation
Flsrbre.ks 2/                                km                300             7            2 1             7              21             14             4.2                506 o
l-esere  razing Ioprivements 3!              ha                 6o           100            6.0           100              6 0          200            1J.0               1,446 0
Watering Points
Da-s                                         soit           12,600             2          25 2              2             16.2                          5h 4              6,072 3            4,857 8            80
Stockhandling Fasclities
Corrals and Yardo                            unit           ll,000             1           10.             -              -                             10.0              1,105 3              120 5             10
Stock Skellere  nd Fattening Pens 2/         vlit              500           100          50.0            150           75 0                           125.0             15060.2              ,506.0            10
Sub-Toali                                                                93 8                         108.8                          202.6              4 ,4ho.o           6,484 3
Physical Contingencies 10%                                                                  9 4                          10.9                           2D.3              2,441.0               648.4
Slb-Total                                                               103 P                         119 7                          222.9             26,851.0             7,132 7
P   Sthck Purchases
larroced tbIb6                               head              700            -            -               10             7 0             10             7 0                843.4
Breeding Females                             head              500            -            _              110            203)             4t            20 0              2,4o9 6
Go,b-Total                                                               _17                                                          27.0              3.253 0             7,132 7            2
Total InvT -estnt Coot 'A & B)                                                            103.2                         146 7                          249.9             30,104 6
2/ Valued at 50 mnn/days/kI; TShs 3 per can/day
2/ 10 a bretalk for reserved grazAg; valued at 100 oar/days//ko: TChs 3 per ann/day
3/ Timited clearing of undergrowth and demar-ati-o of area; 20 man/days/Ia; TCShn 3 par man/day.
m .]sal dem construction (approxinately 5G m. ); 40 hrs D8 operation at TSts 300 per hour; 200 nan/days hand labor at TShs 3 per man/day.
/ Individnal skelters/pens of eheple -onstnctiion; valued at TSh. 500 per head to include watering troughs and simple yard.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Table 2
TA?Z ANTI.
TABORA R!RAL DEVMELOP=3   PROJsCT
'Mil-a   Livestock Farns - Mixed Farming Areas  Nooga  and Igs-b)
Herd Pro jeati.a. par Village
'ate-or-                         Per head  B1 Pefore
. hsi              Deve-lop-ment
Years    Years                                                                 Pod--------- ------------------End  of Farm Year---------------------
derd Conpo-stlon                     0-5        6-20                             1                        2          4                     6           7        8-2c
RB11                                  h20         68Y                                                     50         50         5Y          50         50         50
u  ss437                                        480             67r 30                         2     60o           600        6oc        600         600        6cc
'nhives                                12^ ,   11D                  ?71                                  3C0        360        36c        360         360        360
testers   1-^4 s-ntbs                  182        200               0           1i4           '7         120        127        162         162        162        i62
lairs      _2-14 ro tOs               2Y0        220 517                                     108        121         128        i62        162         162        162
b-feaers    03 ye- s                   347        387               ,            c0           93'        100        114        121         154        154        154
Males       -0 Years                   380        420              '             91            91        100        115        122         154        154        i14
Htfaers   3-4 yea;-                    380        420              Ps -c                       81         84         95        lo-
Males      3-4 years                  6c0          -                             Al            82         85         95
Maes       4-5 year                   600          --                                                               -                     1-          - 16    642
totanl llairb  4ra/                                               13l          1                        1560       TpW                   1225
Tons-l 1-hB0600    117 154 -o                                                                                      1329      T785        10          r
P-rsl-ased Iteers                                                 -                            93        100        250        250        25'J        250        250
I-tv-ni Anial Vsits- ls-                                                                    1327       1360        15715      175        1532       1532        1532
leanth s
PMills                                                                                               6          4                 3          3          3          3
055n                                                             h'l                                     42         30         30          30         30         30
'nl-ves                                                           ,; 7                                   C hO   60   56         36         36         36          36
Hleaters   -7-?4 s-ontic                                            1             sj           10          7          6           6          8          e          8
U4n1es     2-?4 -ont1                                                                          12          3          6           6          a          8          a
Htaners     -l years                                                0              9                                              6          i          B
Maleo      Y- years                                                                9            9          6s                     6                      48        8
etfers   3-4 yenrs                                                  a              1            3          6           4          5                    -
lIaies     3-4 Tes-s                                                I              I                                  14                               -
Mlales     4-2 years                                                b              6            7         -           _          -          -          -          -
- b-Total                                                   190                         197        145         117        103        102        101        101
rl's-chased bteers                                                                -            -           7          12        12        _1           12         12
Ts-toY  s-to                                                                                  197qq  190  17  13T  -r9         T15         Ti         7 13       T13
s-slOT                                 700        700              _                           _          10                                              
ls-5o-                                                                         -          nf          -          - 7'n Inn-             --
Thvoiesn& <leers                        0         969380          -                           -         100        250         250        25         250        250
s-.' 1 Yrrte-s                                                    -               -            -         150        2E0        250        251         <52        250
> 1 q rl 11-                        h-^        6Pc               10            13           16-                                      5                           5
slIos l                               132        48o              13             30           7          73         50         60          00         22         90
lull tkers                            3140        389              -              -            -          -          -           -          12         15         15
rplu  M.-ales                         62o         66c             47              6o          85          87         87        177        108         138        138
2    - rr  P is                        431        49o             -               -           -          -    P     e           a         e 4     4  88  11       11
S0mb-Total                                                   70            103          176        165        1142       42          301        259        259
Isclased SIters                        500        "n-,c00                                                          239 _3                   338       238        238
Total Dales                                                        79 10                     2h9         307       70          4o         E39        1497        197
Taohns-nI C-offi ces,, Esit
calnion                                      d                     ho             4s           45         50         60         -          6c          6o         60
'm-taint irs -cOalves                        d                    25             23           -2         2C         15          00         1O         10         12
- 4idolts                       d                    12              14          _0           7          5          5                                 5
I,slisa B-ula                                s                     15             ?0           24         12         121         10         10         10         10
- los                               d                      2              5           L2         12          9         10          -5         15         15
-asesfs                             d                     _              -            _          _          _          -           10         10         12
r,11   s-v Yatio                         Bll/'o-ns                 1              10 10        10         12         12 12                  12         12         12
c-e /Tota'l 4d                                                                    41          39          38         30         3f         37          37         37
Mar-s-ng Capa-ity 6/                       Ha/is                  3 1            3 1          3-1      2 8 1      2.5-1      2 3 1         3-      2 3 1      2 3 1
't-cbknc is-,e                             'la/Av              2 .11           2 2-1       2 5-1      2 4-1         - l     2 3 1         0 3-i   2 3-1      2 3 1
Pinuohter lfftake 7/                          0                                    7           14         11          D         15          1_        1          15
Emts-t-On Mate dt                            1                      4             11           14         11          9         15         I1          I6         I6
Car-ass   Weight
Yearn      Years
Sla-ghter Offtate                    c-4       ,-20           M Tomses        i       Tonnes         MOTonses  e.Ton Tes   M.'oones   M.Ton ses   M.Tones   MTo-   IsT-i
',,Is                                200         220             2 0            2h           3.2         1.0        1.2        1.0        1.1        1 I        1 1
Cos                                   1147       155              1.9           4 2         10 5       10 2         7.0        9 4       13 3       13 9        13.9
H-f-                                  117        120              -                          -           -          -          -          1.2        I 9         1 8
Surpl-                                1u0        270             8 5           10.9         19.3       15 7        15.7       32.0       21.6       27 6       77 6
PMr-hased Stlers                     200         ?00              -             -            -         i8.6        47.6       47.6       47.6       47.6       47.6
Total Ca-nan- Wblght                                             12 3          176          29           r         71.3       89 0    9     l   2    Eo            0
-anal In-reAental Car-ass
ikeivbt                                                         -              5.3         16 7       33.2        59.0       76.7       73.1       79.7       79.7
Cattle values are s-o-te-   o rise by about 10  sn ye-r 5 due to s-pr-ved stadards sf s-utritiln,  -asagenant and henlth   Vnlle  based
on current narket pls-s-n d e-ntei s  of  -aroass weights.
2/ Breed-ng sf 3 year sId hasters,offs    encsng year 5; enarlier maturty ashbered throogh improved nuirtloas
3' Herd cnlled of older sales sn Year 1 foe 109 reds-ts-n-n t  held s-mbers (A V 's)   Offtake af mature 3 ts  4 year old .ales
o-omens-no Year 4
4-/ Anamni la-tss rnlrla-1tsd as Totsl hbed les 1009  of  alves
Ty -rohnsed stee-s  fur fats-sng s-trodicee lens  I foils-sng e-tsbl-sh-ent sf forage and legume  os-
K' 'artog Cspas-ty and s--king rnte based upsn abuut 3000 tn  avahlable fall-w and bask gra-sg far farm bred sts-k on y.  Staok
feed for fatten-ng st-ik ..o-ided thro-gh planting of fos-age/leg-mes.
7/ Tatni fars bred stook  s-ld fur  sas-ghter repressed an a percentige of total herd (ea-Isd-ng purs-s-ed steers)
-/ Totn     - farm bred stack  s-ld for slnoghter nod breed,ng eapres-sd as a percentage of ttsal herd (ea-luding pus-hased steera).



IAIIZASIr-
TAEO2T  l-. hh ',E ,F-LCBI*E1i   DJIECIT
ulage L-mestoch Fas- - : oxe, Tarl.  Areas'eg
Estimate of Sales and Operating Exrerses pat Village
(TSh' 000)
I no'             Beforer e      ------------------------------ a-------------------
"at           Coat            Ielopoent    1                             2            4                                   7-20
TShs I
A Sles a -
FBnch trod Detfle                               -                -               4D  '         57          86 7         76 e        135.]         163.6         14th4        148.L
Purchased .trers                                -                -                 -          -            )6 5         71.0        119.0         1190          119.0        119.u
TOTAL OALEL                                                              4l5j           57.0        133         14'7.8        254.1        282 6         267 4        26'7.4
P Operating Fxpensea
Forage Prod-ctios Expenses 21                  hBa              1                  -           -             2.5         5. f          5.0           5.0          5.°          5.0
Animal Health
Vaccines, Prllgs & Drenches _"/                 head              20               2.0          10.0          31.2        33.7         33.7          32.8         32.8         32.8
Mtinerals 9/                                      -                10               -            52.          16.6         19 3        19 3          18.9          18.9        18.J
qob-T.tal                                                                   2.0         15.0          47.8        53.0         53.0          51.7         51.7         51.7
Maintenance
Access Roads & Oracing Reser-ee                              5%, of calue         -            -                3            3          .3            .3            .3          .3
lams                                             -          lS  of value           -           -              1.2         55           2.5           2.5          ?.5          2.5
Stock hIandling Fertilizers                                  5% of calue           _                                      68           68           6.8           6.8          68
Sath-Total                                                                  -           -              4           9.6          9,6           9.6           9.6         9.6
Sub-Total Expenses                                                                2.0          15.h          54 3        67 6,        67.6         66 3          66.3         66 3
Contingensies 5t                                                                   .1           C.6          2'.7         3.4          3.4           3.3           3.3         3.3
SBb-Total                                                                  2.1          15.8          37.0       71,(         71.0          69.6         69.6         69.6
Steer Purchases                                                                    -                         38         S5.0          95.0          95.0         95.0         95.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                                           _ 1         1 5.o6        95."       125          166 0         164.5        164.6        164.6
let Operating Income                                                             37.9          41.c          38.2;       28 R         88 1         118.o        102.8        IO1.8
Annual Incremental OperaFilg Incone                                               -             3.3            ' 3       (15 11       50 2          So 1         64 9          ,4. 9
I  fattle sales only  included: sales of snall stock and domestic poultry treated an indlvidioal farm income.
/ (a  Cettle fattening req.iremcnts cale-lated at 6 kEg  Iry metter (D.M. ) and 2 kgs of grain or legume per head per day arid/or 150 day faeten.ng perlod: Bmerege daily weight
gain o t' kgo.  Forage and grain/logume cut and fPd aB  green shop   Total requirement per head
I M.   900 kgs
grsin/legcse    305 kgs
C,rLt-mation requ-reme-ts per head
Ego/he              ha per head
Forage )  6ooO0                    15
Legune      700)
Grain       700                   .20
As grain also rrodocco frage, total cUltivati-c per head 1n  reduced j 3 ha (Year 2 5 25  has; Yeers 3-20   5i hao/year)
(b' Cultivation costs include -eed and fertiller rosts for grass/legune production.
3/ Includes fll1 cost of treatments for rench bred eas lns onlv. tattenong steers purchased already vaccinated end small c-st of drenches end drugs (excluding dipping) absorbed by
budgeted figsure
4/ For all animals                                                                                                                                                                                             rs >
/ No labor charges inolnded; all labor 000ts borne by -rudividual ownere or by village on self help basis                                                                                                     a -



TANZANIA
TABOO) NODRAL DEIELOOPI' P300ECT
Villaog Lmvestolk Farms - Mlixed Farming Areas (Nerga and Agonga.
Fanasojal Oreieetnese cad Isgisative Fptsanlial Rate of Recess per Villacet
(TSh '000)
AeFere
A   FINANCTAL PROOJPCTTONS                        Development         1           2            3           4                        6           _2                                 IC          II          72         13-19       20
Cash InfO nsa
I   ale-                                         40o o            7 1        133 2       147.3       254.1        282.6        267.4      267 4       267.4      PT7 4        267.4        .67.4      267.4       -G7.4      267.4
2.  Lo-F-term Inve6tments
(a)  Development Loan                        -               60.o        80.0         -            -           -            _-                     -          -            - _         _           _
(35   Borrowers I o-- n-httib r t /           _              43.1         66.,6
donkong Capital Resol-eos.
(am)  Iert-os Teen's Balance                                 -            -
(b) Short-term Locs for Lien-tork
p-rh6nes 2/                              _.-                        38.0         95.0         95,0)       95.Z   925..5.  95.              0        95.0 .0 05q5.0                   20        O.O        95          95.'4
TOTAL                           40.3            16o.i       317 8        242.8       349.1        377.6        362.4      362.4      362 4       362 4        362.4       36s.4       362.4       362.8      362.8
.jseh Outflow
l   bono-tens Inoentonlt.  4/
(a' Devetosteot Lost                          -              60.0         80 0
(b) Penrosrr  Contnb..t.o-                    -              43 I        66.o
2   "Peratill LryPernee
(a'  lsoluauon of loaf n ,nterent and
Isoestohk ronrhas-s                     2.1             47.9        57.0         71.0         71.0        69.6         69 6       69.6        69 6       69.6         69.6         69.6       69.6        69.6        69.6
(43 Loan interest on:
1i)  Development Loan                   -                7,1        11.9         11.9         11.9        10 6          9.3        7.9         6.6        5.3          4.o          2.7        1.4        -           -
Iii'  Shont-term  Loan                   -               -             3.2         8 1          8.1         8.1          8.1        8.1         8.1         .,1         8.1          8.1                    8.i         8.1
3   Lnt Rapaents-
(a)  D-evlop-ent Loan                        -               -                        -             ).3        15           17 5       15.5        17.5        15.5        15.7         15.5        16.o       -           -
(b)  Ohont.tenn Inan I                                       _            _           38 0         95.0        95.0         99.0       95.0        95.0       95.0         95.0         95.0       95.0        95.0        95.0
4   Li-et-ozh                                                                 3Pr(3:aoes  38.o  95.0   35.0         97..0       942         9"         95.0        95.0         95.0                                95.0       95.0
SOb-Total                        2 1            156.1       256 7        224.0       296.5        293.8       9192.5      291.1      289.8       288.5        287.2       281.9       285.1       267.7      267 7
r Apploos-ate -ontrboti-on of cattle herd
to Carmen's nonobtm living costa             37.9            38.0         32.0         38 2o       38.0 38.0 38.2 38.0 38.C                                    28 0         38.0        38.0        38 .        38.0       38.0
TOTAL                           -              194.1       P94.7        262.0       334.5        331-8        330.5      325.1       323.        tL26.9      325.2        323.9      323.1       305.1       305.1
r   Expeoted Cash BOsakno  of Year s   d          -              34.o)        23.1        (19.23       14.6         45.8        31.9        33.3        34 6       35.9         37.2        38.5        39.3        57.3       57.3
FINANCIAL RATE OF oETOO3N
New Inoettmnts                                             (103 S3      '1,7           -
7n-renental operating me-ws 9/                                3.3          0.3        (15.43       58.6         80.1        64.9        64.9       64.9        649          64.9        64          64 9        64.9       G4,"
Incremental Herd "aloe                                                                                                                                                                                                    (29.3)
Net B-nefit Stre-m                                         (106.53      li47.0)       (15 1)       50.2         Sc 1        64 9        64.9       64 q        64 0         64.9        64 9         4 3        64.9       35.6
Iad..c.ies Fos-nnal1 Rats of Rerurn: 20%
1' Average term of development lossan  -Id be 12 years at e 1,/24  terest and three year period of grace on osp,ta_ vepayments.
2/ Approo-mately 420 of total -nvestment rost
3/ Fantetnig loans woIld be made by T3RDt at 8 1/2% interest
4/ Represents the total  -at of nea investments onsl-ding breedng stook
The term  'inc-e-ntal  -   -esd to denote nnoeeaes an P-ePat-g incme avnr pse-d-selnoPent 1-oel.  Onorer-ntsl her-  value i  oalv..Ines   an  Ixf-erenoe  stosror. rp1-9-velop-ont mod *':11 develop snt
herd salel-lower resid-al als refle-te decrease io sOos of ranch bred h-end in J coordanCe with .oversmen1 liv-stok pyo11-or- tot Region
ITP,



TAN7A2IA
TABORA RURAL DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
Village Livestock Farms - Rev Developments (Mi-obo Zone)
InvestUC.lt Costa aer Village
(TSh' 00)
Demarcated Village Area  4200 ha                                        Reserved Orating Area:           1400 ha             Watering points per village:                  4
Number of families:       250                                           (dry season grazing)                                 Villages per Veterinary Center:               3
Calculated Area:          500 ha                                        Adult herd before development: 1352                  Labor available for ccm,unea improvements:  12500 man/days per annum
Dips per village:                  1                 Labor required /or on-farm  developments
Unit          Unit               Year 1                    Year 2                  Totsl         Total             us$
Cost          No          Cost           No          Cost           Units         Cost          flS34m1ent                          Amount
A  Access Roads and Tracks              km              150            3             5            3            .5              6            1 0             120 5
Land Preparation
Firebreaks 2/                        km             300            7           2.1            7           2.1             i4            4.2             5o6 o
Reserved Grazing                    ha               6o          100           6.o          1o0           6.o            200           12 0           1,445.8
Watering Points
Dams V                               unit        12,600            2          25.2            2          25.2              4           50.4           6,072.3              80          4,857.8
Stockhandling Facilities
Corrals 2 yards                     unit         10,000            1          10.0           -            -                            10.0           1.204.8              10          1,205.0
P ub-Totel                                                         43.8                       33.8                          77 6           9,349.4                          4,978.3
Physical Contingencies 10%                                                     4-4                        3-4                           7.8             43.                              478
Sub-Total                                                                                     37.2                            o40                4                          5,47
B. Stock Purches
Improved Bulls                      head            700            5           3.5            5           3.5                           7.0             843.4
Breeding Females                     head           500           20          10.0           20          10.0                          20.0           2,409 6
Sub-Total                                                          13.5                       13.5                          27.0           3,253.0              40
Total Investment Cost (A & B)                                                61 7                       50 7                         112 4          13,537.4              40          5,476.1
6/ Valued at 50 man/Bays/ice; TSna 3 per man/amy.
L/ 10 n. breaks cleared for reserved grazing; valued at 100 man/dmys/k.; Tila 3 per an/day.
3 Limited clearing of undergrowth; 20 man/days/ha: TSha 3 per unc/day
/ Smali dam conatruction approidmately 5o 0; 40 irs D8 operation at Tshi 300/per hour; 200 nan/days hard labor valued at TShi 3 per man/day.
I



ANNEX 3
Appendix 3
Table 2
TANZAIIA
TABORA RURAL DFVELOPMET PROJECT'
Village Livestock Farms - New Developments (Miombo Zone)
Herd Projections per Villase
Category                        Per head                Before     ---------------------------End of Farm Year-------__________
Value             Development   1          2          3         4                    6         7-20
Herd Composition                  Years 0-5  Years 6-20
Bulls                               620       680             60        66         54        54         54        54         54        54
Cows                                430       480            670       670        670       670        670       670        670       670
Calves                              100       110            268       301        335       402        402       402        402       402
Heifers 9-24 months                 180       200            100       107       120        142       181        181        181       181
Males    9-24 months                200       220            101       108        121       143        181       181        181       181
Heifers 2-3 years |                 340       380             90        90        99        114       135        172       172        172
Males    2-3 years                  380       420             91        91        100       115        136       172        172       172
Heifers  3-4 years                   380       420             80        81         84        94        108        -          -         -
Males    3-4 years                  600        -              81        82         85        95         -         -          -         -
Males    4-5 years                  600        -              73        73         4SI-
Total herd                                       1620        669      113        1829      186        1832      1832       1832
Total Average                                               13 1352  p   7       1
Deaths
Bulls                                -                         6         6          4         3          3         3          3         3
Cows                                 -         -              67        67         47        34         34        34         34        34
Calves                               _         _              67        53         60        50         40        40         40        40
Heifers 9-24 months                  -         -              10        10          8         6          7         9          9         9
Males    9-24 months                 _         _              10        10          8         6          7         9          9         9
Heifers 2-3 years                    -                         9         9          6         5          6         7          9         9
Males    2-3 years                   -         -               9         9          6         5          6         7          9         9
Heifers 3-4 years                    -         -               8         8          6         4          5         5
Males    3-4 Ysars                   _         _               7         8          6         4          5        --
Males    4-5 years                   -         -               6         7          5                  -                     - _
Total Deaths                                      199        187       156        117       113        l14       113        113
Purchases
Bulls                               700       700             -          5          5        -          -         -          -         -
Breeding Females                    500       500             -         20         20        -
Total Purchases                                     -         25        25         -         -          -         -          -
Sales
Cull Bulls                          620       68o             10        10         17         5          5         5          5         5
Cull Cows                           430       480             13        25         48        46         55       100        100       100
Cull Heifers                        340       380             -         -          -         -          -         14        17         17
Surplus Males                       600       660             47        55         95       117        191       121        155       155
Surplus Females                     430       480             _                                                   83         12        12
Total Sales                                        70         90        160       168       251        323       289        289
Unit
Technical Coefficients
Calving                                        %              40        45         50        60         60        60         60        60
Mortalities - Calves                           %              25        20         20        15         10        10         10        10
- Adults                                         10         10         7          5         5          5         5         5
Culling - Bulls                                               15        15         25        10         10        10         10        10
- Cows                                                 2         4         7          7         8         15        15         15
- Heifers                              *              -         -          -         -         -          10        10         10
Bull/Cow Ratio                             Bull/Cows          11        12         12        12         12        12         12        12
Cows/Total Herd                                %              41        40         4o        36         36        36         36        36
Carrying Capacity  J                         Ha/Av           3:1       3:1        3:1      29:1       29:1      29:1      29:1       29:1
Stocking Rate                                Ha/Av           3:1       3:1        3:1      29:1      29:1       29:1      29:1       29:1
Slaughter Offtake 6                                            4         5         12         7         13        13        15         15
Extraction Rate Z/                                             4         5         12         7         13        17        16         16
Carcass Weight
Slaughter Offtake               Years 0-5 Years 6-20   M.Tonnes M.Tonnes M.Tonnes M.Tonnes M.Tonnes M,Tonnes M.Tonnes  M.Tonnes
Bulls                               200       220            2.0       2.0        3.4       1.0        1.0       1.1       1.1        1.1
Cows                                140       155            1.8       3.5        6.7       6.4       7.7       15.5      15.5       15.5
Heifers                             110       120             -         -          -                    -        1.7       2.0        2.0
Surplus Males                       180       200            8.5       2        17.1      21.1       382        24.2      310
Total Carcass Weight                              133l                                                                    !2'.2   4i
Annual Ineremertal Carcass Weight                             -        2.1      13.9       15.2                 29.2                  3
C/ Cattle values are expected to rise by about 10% a year 5 due to improved standards of nutrition, management and health.  Values based
on current market prices and carcass weights.
| Breeding of 3 year old heifers commencing year 5; earliest maturity due to improved nutrition.
Herd eulled of older males in year 2.  Offtake of 3 to 4 year old males c        g   year 4.
Animal Unit calculated as total herd less 100% of calves.
2 Carrying capacity and stocking rates based on 3500 ha follow and bush grazing plus 500 to 700 has crop residue on cultivated lands.
| Total farm-bred stock sold for slaughter exported as a percentage of the total herd.
V  Total farm-bred stock sold for slaughter and breeding expressed as a percentage of total herd.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Livestock Farm - New Developments (Miombo Zone)
Eatimate of Sales and Operatina Expenses per Village
(TSh '000)
Unit              Before
Unit             Cost             DeveloPment        1             2              3               4                              6               7-20
-           ~~~~TShsa72
A.  Sales
Cattle                                    -                -                  40.           -              88.2           93.1           114.6           176.4           165.9           165.9
Total Sales                                                            4o.0                          88.2           93.1           114.6           176.4          165.9           165.9
B.  Operating Expenses
Animal Health
Vaccines, Drugs & Drenches              Head               30                  2.0           5.0           16.7           27.4            28 0            36.6            55.0           55.0
Minerals                                  -                10                               11.0           16.7            18.3           18.7            18.3            18.3            18.3
Sub-Total                                                               2.0           16.0           33.4           45.7            46.7            54.9           73.3            73.3
Maintenance
Access Roads & Grazing Reserves            -            5% of value            -              _              .2              .2             .2              .2              .2              .2
Dams                                      _            10% of value            -             -              2.4             2.4            2.4             2.4             2.4             2.4
Stock Handling Facilities                 -            10% of value            _              _             1.0            1.0             1.0             1.0             1.0             1.0
Sub-Total                                                               _                             3.6            3.6             3.6             3.6             3.6             3.6
Contingencies 51                                                               0.1           1.0            l.9             2.5            2.5             2.9             33               3
Total Operating Expenses                                                       2.1           17.0          37.6           51.8            52.8            61.4            80.2            80.2
Net Operating Income                                                          37.9                         50.6            41.3           61.8           115.0            85.7            85.7
Annual Incremental Operating Income                                                          (4.9)         12.7            3.4            23.9            77.1            47.8            47.8
i Cattle sales only included; sales of small stock and domestic poultry treated as individual farm income.
Includes prophylactic land curator treatments for trypanosomosis control and dipping costs are veterinary treatment during period of herd build up are subsidized.  Cost of treatment per
head per annum to produce
Year          TShs
1              5
2             10
3             15                                                                                                                                                     H
4             15
5             20a
6-20           30                                                                                                                                                     HIW
A nominal expense of TShs 2000 has been included to cover cost of pre-development treatments.
N/ No labor charges included; all labor costs borne by individual owners or by village on self help basis.
July 19, 1976



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Livestock Farm - New Developments (Miombo Zone)
Finaca   roetos and Indicative FncilRtofReturn per Village
(TSh 000)
Before
A. FINANCIAL PROJECTiONS                       Development   1         2         3         4         5          6         7         8          9        10         11        12        13-19      20
Cash Inflows
1.  Sales                                     40.0    50.0       88.2      93.1      141.4     176.4     165.9      165.9     165.9      165.9     165.9      165.9     165.9      165.9     165.9
2.  Long-term Investments                      -       43.5      38.5      -          -                   -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -
(a) Development Loan                       -       18.0      12.0      -
(b) Borrowers Contribution 2/              _        _         _        _         _          _         _          _         _          _         _         _          _         _          _
3.  Working Capital Resources
(a) Previous Year's Cash Balance           -        -         -        -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -          _         _
(b) Short-term Loans
TOTAL                         40.0   111.5    138.7        93.1     141.4      176 4     165.9     165.9      165.9     165.9      165.9     165.9      165.9     165.9      165.9
Cash Outflow
I   Long-term Investments
(a)DDevelopment Loan                      -       43.5      38.5      -         -          -         -                    -          -         -          -         -          -         -
(b) Borrowers Contribution                -       18.0      12.0
2.  Operating Expenses
(a)  Excluding of Loan Interest            8.5     26.2      37.6      51.8      52.8       61.4      80.2       80.2      80.2       80.2      80.2       80.2      80.2       80.2      80.2
(b)  Interest on Development Loan          -        3.7       7,0       7.0        7.0       6.1       5.2        4.3       3.5        2.6       1.7         .9      -          -         -
3. Repayments on Development Loan              -         _        -                   10.3      10.3       10.3      10.3       10.3      10.3       10.2      10.0       -
Sub-Total                      8,5     91.4     95.1       68.8      70.1       77.8      95.7      94.8       94.0      93.1       92.1      91.1       80.2      80.2       80.2
4.  Approximate contribution of cattle
herd to farmer's minimum living costs    31.5      20.1      25.0      25.0       25.0      25.0      2° °       50.0 °     50-0      50-0      50.0        0         50.0      50.0       50.0
TOTAL                         40.0    111.5    120.1       93 8      95.1      102.8     145.7      144.8     144.0      143.1     142.1      141.1     130.2      130.2     130.2
5   Expected Cash Balance at Year's End        -         -       18.6       (0.7)    46.3       73.6       20.2      21.1       21.9      22.8       23.8      24.8       35.7      35.7       35.7
B. FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
New Investments                                        (61.7)   (50.7)      -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Incremental Operating Income                           ( 4.9)   (12.7)      3.4       23.9      77.1       47.8      47.8       47.8      47.8       47.8      47.8       47.8      47.8       47.8
Incremental Herd Value                                   -        _         -                     _        -           _         _        -          -           _        -         -          14.-6
Net Benefit Stream                                    (66.6)   (64)           4       23.9      77.1       47.8      47.8      417.8      47.8       47.8      47.8       47.8      47.8       62.4
Financial Rate of Return: 22%
i/ Average term of development loan would be 11 years at 8.55 interest and three year period of gross on capital repayment.
/ ApproximatelY 20% of total investment cost.
3/ The term incremental is used to denote increases in operating income over pre-development level.  Incremental herd value is calculated as the difference between pre-development and full
development herd value.
July 19, 1976






ANNEX 4
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Component
A. The Water Sector in Tanzania
Tanzania:  Water Availability                                 Para. 1
Tanzania:  Rural Water Supply Situation                       Para. 3
Tanzania:  Water Supply Sector Organization                   Para. 6
B. Water in Tabora Region
Tabora Region:  Water Availability                            Para. 11
Tabora Region:  Rural Water Supply Situation                  Para. 14
Tabora Region:  Organization of the Regional
Water Department (RWD) (Appendix 2)           Para. 15
C. The Water Supply Component
Objectives and Implementation                                 Para. 16
Implementation Organization                                   Para. 20
Water Master Plan                                             Para. 22
Design of water supplies                                      Para. 24
Construction of Water Supplies                                Para. 25
Operation of water supplies                                   Para. 27
Operating Costs of Water Supplies                             Para. 31
Time Schedule                                                 Para. 33
Impact of Water Sector                                        Para. 34
Appendix 1:  Population Projections, Tabora Region
Appendix 2:  Regional Water Department Tabora - Organization Chart, WB 16561
Appendix 3:  Water Master Plan
Draft Terms of Reference
Appendix 4:  Village Population to be Supplied with Water, 1977-82,
and Unit Costs
Appendix 5:  Village Water Supplies - Estimate of Annual Operation and
Maintenance Expenses
Appendix 6:  Tentative Time Schedule for Water Supply Component
Appendix 7:  Projection of Village Population without Water Supply
Appendix 8:  Estimate of Capital Cost for Rural Water Supplies in Period 1980-1990






ANNEX 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Component
A. The Water Sector in Tanzania
Tanzania: Water Availability
1.        Tanzania is generally a dry country, poor in surface and ground-
water. The rivers belong to the three drainage basins. The eastern basin,
oriented to the Indian Ocean, includes a few small coastal rivers of which
the Pangani and Rufiji are the largest. In the west, the rivers flow into
Lake Tanganyika and the Zaire river, and the northwest basin drains into
Lake Victoria and the Nile. The driest regions are in the center and in
the Rift Valleys, which have no rivers and scarce groundwater. The central
plateau, on which Tabora lies, gets less than one meter of rainfall and
the Rift Valleys, protected from the wet winds, are even drier. Presence
of turbidity of surface water, salinity of many groundwater resources and
high fluoride content in some aquifers create a water quality problem.
2.        Hydrological and hydrogeological information concerning available
water sources is scarce, confined usually to a few sporadic observations.
In 1969, a start was made on a program to investigate the available water
resources in each Region and prepare an inventory assessing the reliability,
quantity and quality of the sources. So far, the work has been finished
in two Regions and work is in progress in several more. However, scheduled
investigations financed by bilateral aid will take more than five years, and
several Regions including Tabora are excluded from existing plans because of
lack of funds.
Tanzania: Rural Water Supply Situation
3.        In 1971, the first long-term program for water supply was pre-
pared with the objective that the entire rural population would be supplied
with safe water in twenty years (21.5 million persons by 1991). The initial
capital cost estimate of this program was US$310.0 million, implying about
US$15.0 million (in constant prices) to be spent in each of the following
twenty years. To reduce the cost of the program, implementation was to be
by Government's own manpower using consultants or contractors only to a
limited extent.
4.        Funds allocated for rural water supply development have been
increased annually through the Program but the allocations have always
been less than needed and implementation is much behind schedule. At
present, only about 20% of the rural population draw water from village
water systems -- about 2/3rds of the target. In view of the country's
difficult economic situation, which is expected to continue for the next
several years, it can be expected that the rural water supply program
will be further slowed down.



ANNEX 4
Page  2
5.        The selection of villages for new water supply construction
is made by the Regional administration. The type of water supply depends
on local conditions and ranges from a simple protected spring or well
with a hand pump, to a distribution system serving the consumers through
public standpipes. House connections are not used in villages and so
far water in rural areas has been supplied free of charge. Running
expenditures, totalling yearly about US$0.8 million, come from the govern-
ment budget. It is envisaged, however, that ultimately village coopera-
tives, when better organized and with access to a steady income from agri-
cultural production, will take over the maintenance and operation of rural
supplies with government assistance in the form of professional advice
and technical assistance when needed.
Tanzania: Water Supply Sector Organization
6.        The Ministry of Water Development and Power was established in
1969 to consolidate within one ministry the activities in the water and
power sectors. Following decentral ation in 1972, direct control of
implementation of the water supply programs was passed to the 20 Regions.
In 1975, the Ministry's responsibility was extended to the field of
mineral resources and is now called Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
(Maji).
7.        The Regional Water Engineer (RWE) is in charge of water develop-
ment in the Region, and has direct control over the design and construction
of rural water supplies and over the operation and maintenance of all water
supplies. The RWE is responsible to the Regional Development Director
(RDD). A direct link between the central ministry and RWE exists only for
purely technical advice: all other contacts are made through the Regional
administration. RWE departmental organization differs from Region to Region,
but usually it has an administration and accounts section; an engineering
section responsible for planning and design; a construction section; an
operations section; and maintenance workshops; and employs altogether about
200 to 500 persons of all categories.
8.        The Ministry is responsible for advising the Regions on stan-
dardization of designs for rural water supplies, particularly of mechan-
ical plant, and also reserves the power to check and modify the design
of technically difficult projects such as dams. The Ministry has to be
consulted on, and may act for the Regions as an agent in, all procurement
of construction material, equipment and transport. The Ministry operates
several special construction teams equipped either with heavy earth moving
tractors or with drilling machines which it rents to Regions for Regional
projects.
9.        Manpower:  All RWE's permanent staff are employees of Maji; their
salaries are paid from the Ministry's central vote and they are subject to
transfer, subject to the RDD's agreement, according to national needs. The
Ministry also organizes the training of all categories of sub-professional
grades and it has to be consulted in all training matters. The Ministry
employed, in 1975, about 7,000 persons, the majority working in operations



ANNEX 4
Page 3
and maintenance. The main problem in all activities in the sector remains
the shortage of professionals and, in certain categories, the lack of
skill training. Professional vacancies have never been completely filled
and dependence on expatriate engineers will continue at least until 1979.
In that year, a group of over 100 Tanzanian civil engineers sent to India
for a regular four-year degree course will be available. However, Tanzanian
geologists, hydrologists and chemists will have to be supplemented by further
recruitment from abroad even after 1979, until the overseas training for
Tanzanians can be arranged and completed. The shortage of civil engineering
technicians probably will be eased by 1980 by output from the Ministry's
expanded Water Resources Institute, but a shortage of mechanical and electri-
cal technicians will continue for years and the vacancies will need to be
filled by overseas recruitment. The shortage of skilled and semi-skilled
workers and ways of overcoming it are currently under special Ministry
study.
10.       Funding:  Water supply development programs are financed from
both national and external sources channelled through the national budget.
Funds for operation and maintenance are provided from national sources
and come through an annual budget for recurrent expenditures. In addition,
several bilateral technical assistance programs provide advisers and
regular staff. The distribution of both development and recurrent funds
for rural water supply between the Ministry and the Regions in the last
three years is illustrated below:
Rural Water Supply Budgets, 1973/74 - 1975/76
(TSh'000)
DEVELOPMENT BUDGET                       RECURRENT BUDGET
1973/74   1974/75    1975/76          1973/74   1974/75    1975/76
Ministry       20.40     18.80       76.00             -          -          -
Regions        41.01     42.06       84.80           5.42       6.46       6.70
TOTAL          61.41     60.86      160.80           5.42      6.46        6.70
Tabora
Region         1.80      1.95        2.57           0.19      0.25        0.30
Not approved estimate.
B. Water in Tabora Region
Tabora Region: Water Availability
11.       There is little known about the hydrology of Tabora Region
and even less of the hydrogeology and groundwater. However, from the
limited information available, it seems that groundwater is scarce or
completely absent in the north-eastern part of the region, particularly



ANNEX 4
Page 4
in Igunga District. The most favorable situation is found in north-western
Tabora where groundwater appears to be available in both shallow and deep
horizons. In central and southern areas, a reasonable probability of
obtaining water from shallow wells exists but this depends on the actual
locality. The deeper water horizons are similarly spotty. The boreholes
in the central part, i.e. in Tabora District are likely to be much deeper
than in Urambo District and groundwater from deeper horizons generally
provides smaller yields. Both shallow and deep groundwater may, depend-
ing on locality, be too saline to be palatable.
12.       It is estimated that about 250,000 persons (36% of the 1975 rural
population) with about 400,000 head of cattle, can be supplied only from
surface water sources. A further 245,000 persons could be supplied by
groundwater, and of these, about 180,000 persons with an equivalent
number of cattle should be supplied from shallow wells and the rest from
boreholes. The increase of rural population in the period 1975-90, i.e.
about 370,000 persons, could be supplied in a similar pattern as assumed for
1975. (The growth of population by Districts is shown at Appendix 1).
13.       In the conditions of Tabora Region, it is estimated that the
capital costs for the different water supply types is:
Shallow well with hand pump   TSh 50-200 per person, depending on
number of persons per well
Boreholes with pump and         TSh 300-350 per person depending on
small reservoir                 the diameter and depth of the borehole
Dam, with treatment plant       TSh 400 - over 1000 per person depend-
and extensive distribution    ing on the size of the scheme.  Smaller
system                          schemes are more expensive.
Tabora Region: Rural Water Supply Situation
14.       The population of Tabora Region in 1976 is about 780,000 persons.
About 70,000 persons lived in townships and the remaining 710,000 persons
in rural areas, mostly concentrated in villages which by now, are or
shortly will be, registered. About 160,000 persons in villages are
supplied with water from 36 piped systems or charcos (open reservoirs)
constructed in the last 10 years. The remaining rural population get



ANNEX 4
Page 5
their water from shallow wells, rivers or open reservoirs, many carrying
it long distances to their homes. In general, only a very small part
of the population is supplied in a satisfactory manner. A part of the
existing system was designed for smaller populations whilst about 10%
of the wells and boreholes contain unsuitable water. Shallow wells, and
a majority of small ponds or reservoirs, often dry up for weeks at a time.
Tabora Region: Organization of the Regional Water Department (RWD)
(Appendix 2)
15.       The Tabora RWD consists of the following units:
(a)  Financial and Administrative Division, responsible for
general administration, stores, general accounting and
water accounting in the towns in which water is paid for.
It has 30 persons on its permanent staff. The head of the
division is an assistant accountant.
(b)  Planning and Project Preparation Division, responsible for
the preparation of perspective and yearly plans for develop-
ment and for the investigation and design of rural water
supplies. It has 17 permanent staff and the head of the
division is an executive engineer.
(c)  Operation and N>intenance Division, headed by a Water
Inspector, responsible for the operation of rural and
urban water supplies and for the maintenance of mechanical
plant and equipment. It consists of two separate units:
(i) the maintenance unit which operates the mechanical
and electrical maintenance workshops. Its biggest
activity is the maintenance of cars and trucks.
The unit has 40 permanent staff headed by a mechanical
engineer;
(ii) an operations unit which concentrates on maintenance
of water supply structures; maintenance of distribution
systems; repair of leakages and pipe bursts; operation
of pumpstations, and water treatment plants; and main-
tenance of dams. The unit has 150 permanent staff,
headed by a senior water technician.
(d) Construction Division, responsible for the construction of
rural water supplies. It consists of three units, under an
executive engineer;



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(i) a yard preparation unit, comprising two groups manufacturing
wooden parts of buildings and concrete building elements
in the yard. The unit has 6 permanent staff;
(ii) an earth moving unit which coordinates the operation of
machinery rented frow the Ministry for the construction of
dams or haffirs. The unit has 10 permanent staff and is
headed by a technical assistant;
(iii) a water supply construction unit dealing with the construction
of boreholes, shallow wells and water supply schemes. The
unit has 12 persons organized in six working teams.
(e) Research and Training Division, responsible for the water and
soil laboratory, and rainfall and riverflow recording. It also
keeps records of staff training. The division has 6 permanent
staff and is headed by a senior water technician.
C. The Water Supply Component
Objectives and Implementation
16.       The water supply component of the Tabora Rural Development Project
has a key supporting role with both direct production effects and strong
influence on the stabilization of the recently created villages. It would
provide a low cost water source and simple water installation in selected
villages with production potential. The cost of the component is about
US$5.5 million including about US$2.4 million local costs. The component
has two parts. The first part estimated to be about US$1.6 million, is the
systematic investigation of all water resources and the preparation, on
this basis, of a Regional Water Master Plan, and the design of water sup-
plies. The second part, to be implemented by Regional direct labor, is the
construction of water supplies at an estimated cost of about US$3.9 million.
Because of the urgent need for improving the water supply situation in
many villages, development of water sources will proceed simultaneously
with the preparation of the Water Master Plan. The design and construction
of water supplies is expected to take five years and the preparation of the
Water Master Plan, 1-1/2 years.
17.       The selection of villages for water supply construction program
would be made by the Regional administration. The design and construction
of water supplies would be executed by the RWD and would follow the pro-
cedures established for development projects. The Project would increase
the capacity of the RWD to a level adequate for the preparation and imple-
mentation of the water supply component.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
18.       The type of water supply installed would depend on the conditions
of a particular village. As a rule, first priority would be given to
groundwater reachable by shallow wells and pumped by handpumps. In the
absence of shallow groundwater, the feasibility of a borehole, equipped
with a pump, engine, elevated tank and standpipe would be investigated.
Only in areas with a complete lack of groundwater would water installation
based on surface water be developed.
19.       The program for the component would be flexible.  It could fully
satisfy about 75-100 villages, to be selected by the Regional administration
from all four Districts on the basis of least cost, production impact, and
need. However, rather than provide optimum supplies to rather few villages,
investments would be made to a level sufficient to assure as many villages
as possible of enough water within reasonable walking distance, with the
prospect that additional water resources would be opened up at a later
date. Although optimal water-source:user ratios might be 1:100 persons for
shallow wells and 1:1500 for boreholes, targets for villages in this phase
should probably be 1:200 and 1:2000 respectively and costs have been cal-
culated on this basis. This still implies 9-10 wells or one borehole per
average village. Priority would be given to improving supplies in any
villages included in the ongoing IDA-assisted Maize Project where there may be
a critical need, and to supplementing supplies in the villages selected for
the main Project in most of which, however, it is anticipated that availability
of adequate supplies will have been confirmed as a condition of selection.
Implementation Organization
20.       Project preparation and implementation would be at the Regional
level under the RWE, with manpower strengthened in practically all depart-
ments. Design capacity would be increased by provision of professional
manpower and transport, and construction capacity would receive enhanced
skilled supervision capability and transport, both for the construction
of shallow wells and other water schemes. For the construction of bore-
holes and dams, RWE would hire drilling and earth moving teams from the
Ministry. Maintenance and operation capacity should be increased initially
to meet present requirements; the operation and maintenance of new water
supplies developed under the sub-project would have to be studied and
evaluated at a later stage when the types of new water supplies would be
known.
21.       Tanzanian professional manpower required for the sub-project
would be procured by the Ministry on RWE's request; the personnel would be
employed on standard Government terms and the cost of such personnel would
be met from Project funds. For the Water Master Plan, proposals would be
invited from consultants on the basis of terms of reference which will be
agreed with IDA (Appendix 3). Professional supervision and coordination
with other Regional Water Master Plans would be by the Ministry, but approval
of the consultant's detailed work schedule and on-site supervision would be
RWE's responsibility. Project equipment and construction material would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
Water Master Plan
22.       Water Master Plans (WMP) have been prepared for Dodoma and
Shinyanga Regions (1972). They are almost completed for Tanga, Mtwara
and Lindi Regions, and are under preparation for about six other Regions.
The Dodoma WMP was prepared as a model by a special task force from the
Ministry; all other WMP have been prepared by consultants, whose
methodology is standardized and coordinated by the Ministry. The same
procedure would be followed for Tabora Region with the addition that the
consultant would coordinate the investigation time schedule with the
needs of the water supply component. This would require a start with
hydrogeological investigations in the most populated and geologically
complicated areas mostly in Nzega, Igunga and Urambo districts where
investigations would have to be coordinated with the findings of the
neighboring Shinyanga study. The investigation program for selected
villages would concentrate in the first instance on the feasibility of
the installation of shallow wells i.e. on the availability of shallow
groundwater and only when this fails, the investigation would be
extended to other alternatives. The hydrogeological investigations in
the rest of the Region would follow only after the requirements of the
component are satisfied.
23.       In Tabora Region, the hydrological part of the WMP dealing with
surface water would be simpler than in other Regions, because the catch-
ment area of Lake Tanganyika, covering more than a half of the Tabora
Region, has been studied already by a NORAD team which has established
gauging stations throughout the basin. However, investigation of the
remaining part of the Region, belonging to the catchment area of Lake
Eyasi, would be investigated as a matter of priority as it includes
Igunga and Nzega Districts. As in other Regions, Government would make
drilling rigs with auxiliary equipment available for the consultants'
investigation work. The consultant would operate the rigs and supply
drilling teams.
Design of water supplies
24.       Additional professional staff would be assigned to the exist-
ing Planning and Project Preparation Division of RWE (para. 15). The
present capacity of the division, consisting of one executive engineer,
two senior technicians, four surveyors and a number of junior technicians
and draftsmen would be extended by:
2 sanitary engineers               4 surveyors
1 laboratory assistant             6 draftsmen estimators
4 technicians
The equipment needed in connection with this manpower increase would in-
clude 8 four-wheel drive pick-ups; survey equipment; a soil laboratory;
field equipment including tents, water filters, and tools; office furniture;
drawing boards; a copy machine; drawing tools; and small office equipment.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Construction of Water Supplies
25.       The RWD construction capacity is geared to the drilling of
boreholes, erection of small concrete or steel reservoirs, construction of
small dams and open reservoirs, laying pipelines, construction of small
pumphouses and installation of pumps and engines, but only to a small extent
to the construction of shallow wells.
26.       For the construction stage, the Construction Division (para. 15)
would be strengthened by:
1 construction engineer,          2 building foremen,
2 technicians,                    2 drilling foremen,
2 water supply foremen,           4 draftsmen
2 well sinkers,
Additional transport and plant for shallow well construction would be
provided, comprising:
10 four-wheel drive pick-ups,      1 concrete plant with moulds,
10 trucks (10-15 tons),            mechanical workshop with tools,
2 truck cranes,                   an Auger-type drilling rig, mounted
on a tractor or four-wheel-drive
4 tractors with trailers,          vehicle.
Operation of water supplies
27.       During the first phases of implementation, the RWE would estimate
the required future operational capacity and make proposals for provision
of finance, manpower and equipment. In analysing the financial implications,
the RWE would study the impact of payment of part of the cost by villages
and make proposals to the RDD for imposing charges. A detailed program for
training manpower needed to maintain sub-project and other facilities would
be drawn up by the end of 1977.
28.       Preparation of a full water supply program calls for extensive in-
vestigation and engineering. As no such plan would be available until about
the second year of the project, the water component cost and impact has to be
estimated from available information about both water availability and the
existing village water supply status. The populations shown as being served
by the different water sources in Appendix 4 are, therefore, indicative only.
On this tentative basis, it is estimated that about US$4.2 million would be
sufficient for the design and provision of an adequate water supply to the
75-100 villages.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
29,       A coneideabie part (23%) of the total water component is allocated
to the investigation of natural water resources in the Region and preparation
of the regional WMP. The extent of the investigation undertaken for the WMP
study is much in excess of the needs of the construction program envisaged
within this Project, but is a pre-requisite for post-Project investment in more
elaborate water schemes.
30.       Total construction cost for the water supply component would be about
US$3.9 million of which US$1.8 million (48%) is foreign cost. The ongoing
Regional water supply development program for the next five years, for which
the estimated budget is TSh 2.0 million (US$0.24 million) annually is included
in the component. Details of the total cost estimates are given in Annex
10, Table 5. The unit construction costs by type of facility for the water
supply component are detailed in Appendix 4 to this Annex.
Operating Costs of Water Supplies
31.       Existing rural water supplies are operated and maintained by RWE,
who charges these activities against his annual recurrent allocation from
the central budget. Amounts available for the operation of water supply
in Tabora Region, as in the country as a whole, have been, for the past few
years, considerably smaller than needed. As a result, the technical
level of operations is very low, preventive maintenance is non-existent,
and water supplies often do not operate because of lack of funds for re-
pairs or for the purchase of fuel for the operation of pumps. The alloca-
tions usually have been at the level of about TSh 2.0 per year per supplied
person, compared with an estimated need for adequate operations of about
TSh 8.0 to 10.0 (Appendix 5).
32.       Given the country's economic situation, there is little hope that
future budget allocations will increase to the required level: it will
therefore be necessary for villages to meet a larger part of recurrent costs
of water supplies. The precise manner in which the anticipated cost may be
recovered could vary with the type of water system and proposals acceptable
to the regional, district and ward authorities would need to be developed
within the framework of the Village Act, 1975. The principle of recovering
running costs from water users and the level of contributions to be made by
villagers is an issue on which early policy statements are expected.
Time Schedule
33.       The pr.gram for water supply development would span the Project
period of 5 years. In the first year, design work and material procurement
would be undertaken for the sub-project, and a start made on the Water Master
Plan. The only construction taking place would be the ongoing Regional pro-
gram. Construction of shallow wells under the sub-project would proceed
as soon as materials became available and more complex construction would
be started in year 3 as soon as materials and equipment had been procured.
An implementation schedule is shown in Appendix 6.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
Impact of Water Sector
34.       The water supply component is estimated to supply an additional
140,000-160,000 persons by 1982. It would bring the percentage of rural
population supplied with water in the Tabora region to over 35% by 1982,
when the new installations are finished. This would be well above the
nation's average, but some indication of the size of the problem is that
even this effect will fail to keep up with anticipated population growth
-- there were about 490,000 villagers without adequate water supply in
1975, but after the water supply component is implemented, that number
would have increased to about 500,000 persons (Appendix 7). The develop-
ment of water supplies in the 1980's and beyond obviously will depend
on the financial situation of Tanzania, and budget allocations for rural
water supply. However, it is estimated that in order simply to keep pace
with the growth of Tabora Region population, some TSh 10.0 to 12.0 mil-
lion would be needed annually for water supply development (Appendix 8),
and if less funds are available for water supply development, the number
of people without access to a water supply would continue to increase.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 1
Page
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population Projections, Tabora Region
1.        The population count for Tabora Region in August 1967 was 562,871.
Since 1967 the boundaries of Tabora region have been redefined and now
exclude Mpanda district with a 1967 count of 60,803. The two then remain-
ing Districts of the Region, Tabora and Nzega had 200,051 and 302,017 people
respectively. A next count in Tabora Region (with new boundaries), taken by
regional authorities in late 1973 recorded the total population as 693,193
with Tabora District having 292,135 persons and Nzega District 401,058
persons.
2.        The recorded population growth rate for Tabora and Nzega Districts
combined was 3.1% (1957-67). Between 1967 and 1973, the population growth
rate was 5.1%; however, this included an influx of some 45,000 or more
refugees from neighboring countries.  If the impact of these refugees is
excluded, the population growth rate between 1967 and 1973 was 4.0%, which
was considerably higher than the 2.7% rate used in projections for the same
period by the Central Statistical Bureau.
3.        The major increase of population in this period has been experienced
in the already well populated areas. The eastern and southern areas with low
population have shown only moderate if not negative growth rates. The follow-
ing tabulation documents the population growth (1967-73) and population
density (1975) by Divisions of the former Districts:
Population                            Population
Growth Density                        Growth Density
Tabora District            3.3%    4.7       Nzega District      4.5%   29.2
Ulyankulu                  3.0     9.2       Igunga              6.6    41.2
Urambo                     3.0     3.6       Nyasa               2.8    44.1
Lolangulu                  6.7    13.1       Itobo                3.2    29.3
Uyui                       5.3    13.1       Simbo                3.5    14.0
Sikonge                    1.6     2.1                                      2
Kitunda                    0.3     0.7       Note:  Density:persons per Km
Igalula                    1.0     1.4
4.        The recent growth rate of 4.0% is more the result of significant
in-migration and high population mobility than that of higher than national
average fertility. Under the same circumstances a continued growth rate
of 4.0% could be anticipated for the future. However, it is considered
that the village resettlement program will have a fundamental impact on
the life style of the rural population. The intensification of agricul-
ture and the provision of social services is likely to have a stabilizing



ANNEX 4
Appendix I
Page 2
effect on the population. In the projections, the future growth rate is
slightly above the national average, recognizing some migration but not
on the scale that has occurred in the past. The average annual growth
rate for the Region is 3.1% for 1975-80 and 3.2% for 1980-90, with dif-
ferentiating rates applying to each of the four Districts organized in
1975.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1Population Projections By Districts In Tabora Region
1973                1975                     1980                    1985                1990
___________o_ po  ation                    p                = mtion  o   ao              Popu lation            Population
--Trntq I -   Riroxl    Tn o. R I       Riiral                             Tnta_       RIIXpral
Tabora             188,ogo    140,800    200,166    155,032    233,766    176,202    273,726    207,482    321,270    244,526
Jrambo             104,045      99,365    128,030    123,018    152,055    146,104    170,590    165,501    214,479    206,062
Nzega              239,173    228,862    253,953    244,608    295,509    284,416    343,391    331,432    401,957    386,862
Igunga             161,885    161,025    170,676    169,818    195 ,590    195,590    226,o44    224,881    262,033    259,997
TOTAL              693,193    630,052    752,825    692,476    8T7,2T9    802,312  1,013,751    929,296  1,199,739  1,097,447
Source: BROKONSULT/AB: A feasibility study of the development potential and feeder road improvements in the
Tabora Region (1975).                                 
Distribution for four districts:  Bank staff estimates                                                              c Id
L  .
4-



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-WATER SUPPLY COMPONENTS
REGIONAL WATER DEPARTMENT TABORA-ORGANIZATION CHART
Regional
Water
Enginleer
Finance and       |       l       Planning and      l        l      Operat; Mntance                       C onstruction                   Reseach and
D\vis on    l       l    ~~~~Project Preparat                 MagDlisnt                                'ucDvsin                        Tra ning
Administrati                                                                     D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  inistrioWnr  nlyi
j   Stores  l   j    Surveying and    l          2      Ma ntenWorkshop                    Construction                         Core
1   Section  l   q    Investigatiorl    lL               Operatint  of                      Isectrath Movingord
1   Unit   l   1       Estimates       l               1       DnvWa er Suple        r            T Pepamain|                     eod
e Dmivision       |                   Daiviing                         Dvision                                 atrSpl                         Divisiougng
and Registry    l   t   Office   l               1   Ma~~~~~Reiotnalc   |                onstructfon                         iningors 
Drawing                              Structures   |_                    Drilling
X    Equipment  t           1   Maintenance                            Team
S2urce RWE Tabora                                                          H    Oealn 
WorldnBank-it  B5Bt
Regional~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  
Account  Designs      H ad,                                af                     L      Raml."~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Water Master Plan
Draft Terms of Reference
1.   Objective
The objective of the survey is to provide the Government of
Tanzania with firm recommendations for the immediate and long-term
(20 years) development of the water resources of Tabora Region, with par-
ticular reference to the supply of water to villages for human and stock
use. As a matter of urgency least-cost sources are to be identified
to serve a number of villages which have already been selected. The area
to be covered will comprise the entire Tabora Region.
2.   Scope of Work
(a) To collect and study all existing maps and aerial photographs,
hydrological and geological data, information and records.
(b) To study the distribution and rate of growth of the population
and livestock of the Region, paying particular attention to the
newly established villages, their location and plans for their
development; to develop in collaboration with the Government
a schedule of the domestic and livestock water requirements,
both immediate and long-term in the Region.
(c) To survey and assess all existing water supply installations in
the Region, to study and evaluate in outline all existing
projects concerning the exploitation of water.
(d) Having regard to the findings under (b) and (c) above, to
identify sources and prepare a brief outline for the de-
velopment of the priority projects, and make recommendations
for their further implementation, and most effective incorpo-
ration in a Regional development plan. Special emphasis is
to be given to any water supply requirements of the Tabora
Rural Development Project.
(e) To perform geological and hydrogeological studies in the area
sufficient to estimate the amount and quality of the ground-
water in different hydrogeological areas, and to prepare
a proposal and recommendations for the methodology and
procedure to be used in detailed groundwater investigations.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
Page 2
(f) To evaluate the available hydrological and meteorological
information and estimate the surface water resources on the
basis of this material; to prepare an extension plan for the
observation networks, and organize its implementation in
order to acquire data for an inventory of the surface water
resources; to make preliminary studies of discharge in dif-
ferent conditions; to train personnel to the extent necessary
to continue the study activities.
(g) To carry out detailed surveys and investigations as necessary
and to prepare plans, designs, and cost estimates for the
priority projects referred to in (d) above, as agreed with
the Government. To recommend methods and procedures for
construction of the works.
(h) To study and report in brief outline the possibilities of
other projects for water shortage and utilization in the Re-
gion, including irrigation and swamp reclamation.
(i) To provide a phased rural water supply development plan for
the Region with timings and financing plan for each phase,
and a summary of the study results.
3.   Reports
(a) Quarterly Progress Reports will be presented simultaneously to
the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (Maji) and to the
Projetct Management, giving an account of the activities during
the preceding three months, and will propose any necessary ad-
justments to the Plan of Operation.
(b) Interim Report. This report will similarly be presented 12 months
after the work has begun. It will give the results of the study
of the economic, social and administrative conditions in the area
and of the geological and hydrogeological studies. Recommendations
should be made for appropriate design criteria for the quality
of water, and for the dimensioning of project elements, and also
the basis of determining priorities. An adjusted Plan of Operation
for the rest of the work period should be attached to the report.
(c) Draft of the Water Master Plan. The draft is to be presented
to Maji and the Project 18 months after the work has begun.
It will include the adjusted and supplemented study results
discussed in the interim report. It will also include proposals
for water supply projects and their cost estimates, an implemen-
tation plan in stages, with alternatives. The draft will make
an appreciation of the factors influencing implementation, such
as costs, availability of trained supervision and skilled
labor, construction organization and legal matters.



ANNEX 4
Appendix 3
Page 3
4.   The Water Master Plan
When the Government of Tanzania and the Regional and Project
authorities have commented on the draft and decided between the different
alternatives, the Water Master Plan will be prepared. It will include
the development program of the water resources in stages and will present
all essential data acquired during the studies, including the inventory
of ground and surface water resources.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Population to be Supplied with Water, 1977-82* and Unit Costs
Population in Thousands                                                   Cost Estimates in 1976 Prices
Type of Water Supply Installation (1975-80)
Shallow Well          Borehole                Dam              Other             Cost
Village    Popu-                Popu-              Popu-                Popu-               To-
Population   lation        Cost  lation        Cost  lation         Cost  lation       Cost   tal   Per
Served with  Served        Mil-  Served        Mil-  Served        Mil-  Served        Mil-   Mil-  Per-
Water SUDV1Y                lion                lion                 lion               lion   lion  son
District          1977   1982            No.  T Sh _ _ No.  T Sh                 No.  T Sh           No. T Sh   T Sh  T Sh
Tabo¶ra           46.0   79.0    20.0   100  1.80   8.0       4   1.60    5.0    2   2.75       -    -    -       6.15 186
Urambo            47.0   64.0    10.0    50  1.00   6,0       3   1.2      -      -    -       1.0   1   0.30    2.50 147
Nzega             43.0  121.0    54.0   270  4.90  14.0       7   2.80   10.0    1   5.50       -    -    -      13.20 169
Igunga            23.0  52,0    10,0    50  1.00   4.0        2   1.0    15.0    2   8.25                        10.25 354
Total       159.0  316.0    94.0   470  8.70  32,0    16   6.6    30.0    5   16.5    1.0   1   0.30   32.10 205
. , _ =    __=_             _                                            =  .= 
Total Funds which would be made available for the construction of rural water supplies in the period 1977-82 are:
(a)  Water supply component                               T Sh 22.1 million
(b) Allocation from Government development budget
(estimated T Sh 2.0 million yearly)                  T Sh 10.0 million
Total                                      T Sh 32.1 million
SOURCE:  Bank Staff Estimates                                                                                             4 



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Waer Supplies - Estimate of Annual Operation and Maintenance Expenses
Cost Estimates in 1976 Prices
Type of Water Supply Installation
Shallow Well            Borehole                   Dam                  Other
Cost                   Cost                   Cost                  Cost             Expenses
Served  per            Served  per            Served  per            Served  per                    Per
1000   Per-  Cost      1000   Per-  Cost    1000   Per-  Cost    1000   Per-  Cost   Total   Per-
Per-   son   1000      Per-   son   1000    Per-   son   1000    Per-   son   1000    1000   son
Tabora Region              sons   TSh  T Sh        sons   T Sh  T Sh    sons   T Sh  T Sh    sons   T Sh  T Sh   T Sh    T Sh
Served in 1977
159,000 persons           27.0   3      81.0      35.5   8    284.0    59.0  12    708.0    37.5  10    375.0 1,448.0 9.10
Increase 1977-82
157,000 persons           94.0   3    282.0       32.0   8    256.0    30.0  12    360.0         1.0  10      10.0   908.0 5.78
Total 1982
316,000 persons          121.0   3    363.0       67.5   8    540.0    89.0  12  1,068.0    38.5  10    385.0 2,356.0 7.45
Increase 1982-90
333,000 persons          115.0   3    345.0       65.0   8    520.0   133.0  12  1,596.0    20.0  10    200.0 2,661.0 7.99
Total 1990
649,000 persons          236.0   3    708.0    132.5   8   1,060.0  222.0  12  2,664.0    58.5  10    585.0 5,017.0 7.73
NOTE:  The unit costs represent the amounts required for the full year water systems operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement adequate to reasonable professional standards.
SOURCE: MWEN and Bank Staff Estimates



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tentative Time Schedule for Water Supply Component
Activity                         1976/77      1977/78          1978/79         1979/80         1980/81         1981/82
evalua-
consultant                   tion
investigation and
Water Master Plan               Belection                    report
design
Water  Supplies:                planning          and
Planning and Design                            tendering
Water Supplies:                                                  material and
Material and Equipment                                           equipment on
Procurement                                                     delivery
Water Supplies:                                ongoing            construction of                construction of
Construction and                             construction         shallow wells                  designed schemes
Equipment Installation                     and improve-
ment
___                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  m
SOURCE:  Bank Staff Estimates                                                                                                3



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabora: Projection of Village Population without Water Supply
Population in Thousands
1975                                 1980                                    1990
In Villages                         In Villages                                In Villages
Without                             Without                                    Without
Water                               Water                             T 1 Water
District     Total   Rural   Total   Water         Total   Rural  Total   Water         Total      Rural      Total S
Total  %                            Total  x                                   Total  %
Tabora      200.17  155.03  151.73  111.0  73  233.77  176.20  172.0  110.0  64    321.27    244.53    240.0  105.0  44
Urambo      128.03  123.02  112.54   71.0  63  152.06  146.10  135.0   83.0  61    214.48    206.06    192.0   80.0  42
Nzega       253.95  244.61  229.92  192.0  83  295.50  284.40  275.0  190.0  69    401.96    386.86    375.0  180.0  48
Igunga      170.67  169.82  136.63  119.0  86  195.95  195.60  178.0  137.0  77    262.03    260.00    235.0  104.0  44
Total  752.82  692.48  636.82  493.0  77  877.28  802.30  760.0  520.0  68  1,199.74  1,097.45  1,042.0  469.0  45
NOTE:  The assumption that 45% of population in 1990 will not get water from water supplies is based on the idea that the
funds for the construction will be limited but, at the same time, the number of persons not supplied in 1980 should
be maintained or decreased.
SOURCE:  Bank Staff Estimates
14



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabora: Estimate of Capital Cost for Rural Water Supplies in Period 1980-1990
(Assumption of 55% of Village Population Supplied with Water)
Population in Thousands                                                              Cost Estimates in 1976 Prices
Village                            Type of Water Installation (1980-90)
Population           Shallow Well            Borehole               Dam                 Other            Cost
Served with                       Cost                Cost                 Cost                 Cost   Total  Per
Water Supply       Popu-           Mil-  Popu-         Mil-  Popu-          Mil-  Popu-          Mil-   Mil-   Per-
1990      lation          lion  lation         lion  lation        lion  lation         lion   lion   son
District       1980   Total  %    Served    No.  T Sh  Served  No.  T Sh  Served  No.  T Sh  Served  No.  T Sh   T Sh   T Sh
Tabora          62.0  135.0  56      20.0    200   3.5   20.0   14    5.5    33.0   -   16.5    -           -    -        25.5  350
Urambo          52.0  112.0  58      30.0    300   5.5   10.0    7    3.0    10.0   -    5.0   10.0    -    5.5    19.0  310
Nzega           85.0  195.0  52      60.0    600  11.0   30.0   20    8.0    20.0   -   10.0    -                 -       29.0  260
Igunga         41.0  131.0  56        5.0      50   1.0    5.0    4    1.5    70.0   -   35.0   10.0    -    5.5    43.0  480
Total     240.0  573.0  55    115.0  1,115  21.0   65.0   45   18.0   133.0   -   66.5   20.0                11.0   116.5  350
_   .   =                                =      _     ~      ~~ =         -_  
SOURCE:   Bank Staff Estimates                                                                                                  1|
coo






ANNEX 5
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads Component
A.   Road Transport Requirements ...............................   Para. 1
B.   Present Road Conditions ......... ...........................   Para. 6
The Road Network .......... ..........................   Para. 7
Traffic .       ....................................  Para. 9
Road Maintenance Organization ..............................   Para. 13
C.   Project Approach ..................... .. .............. ... ... .    ara. 16
Technical Assistance .............            ............   Para. 17
Organization Proposed ........... .......................  Para. 20
Road Maintenance .......... ............ . ..........   Para. 21
Road Improvement ..................................   Para. 28
Network Road Betterment .................................   Para. 29
Access Road Sub-component .........................   Para. 33
D.   Economic Evaluation ...      ......... .................. .  .Para. 36
Benefits .     ......................  .....               .    Para. 36
Distribution of Benefits ..............................   Para. 40
E.   Costs and Implementation ..............................   Para. 46
Appendix 1:    Tabora Region: Organization of Road Services,
and Road Conditions.
Chart WB 16309: Tabora Region Roads Organization, 1975.
Table 1:  Comworks Personnel and Equipment Resources, 1975
Table 2:  Road Maintenance and Improvement Budget
Table 3:  Network Road Condition
Table 4:  Access Roads Condition
Appendix 2:    Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Cooperation Personnel
For Road Maintenance & Improvement
Appendix 3:    Road Component Local Staff and Equipment Cost
Appendix 4:    Road Design Standard
Figures:  Roadway Cross Sections
Appendix 5:    Road Maintenance and Betterment Capacities
Appendix 6:    Road Betterment Unit Development
Table 1:  Provisional List of Priorities for Betterment Work
Table 2:  Access Roads Unit:  Typical Deployment
Appendix 7:    Roads Component:  Benefits
Appendix 8:    Roads Component Implementation Schedule






ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads Component 1/
A. Road Transport Requirements
1.        An efficient road network is essential to Tanzania which relies
on roads to connect its widely scattered rural population with markets,
health and education facilities, and other Government services. Despite
the Government's efforts over the past decade to upgrade the network,
only about 10% of the roads provide reliable, all weather service; most
are little more than earth tracks, impassable during the rainy season.
Proper maintenance of the network is essential if access to rural areas
is to be assured and previous investments are to be safeguarded.
2.        Since 1970, when the then Ministry of Communications and Works
(Comworks) took over responsibility for a large number of inadequately
maintained rural roads, maintenance of the entire network has deteriorated.
In 1971, the Government commissioned a highway maintenance and organization
study (USAID-financed) which made recommendations on equipment, staffing
and organization designed to restore maintenance of the network to an
adequate level.
3.        A major requirement for roads in Tabora Region is to support
agricultural production. Although most produce exported from the Region
moves by rail, the road network is the fundamental means of transport
within the Region. Adequate roads are needed to assure the efficient
evacuation of crops to market centers and railheads, and to support
timely delivery of agricultural inputs to the villages.
1/  NOTE:  This Annex was prepared following the IDA appraisal mission.
It sets out a feasible approach to improving network and access
roads in Tabora Region. It does not, however, attempt to lay down
a program for either maintenance or reconstruction, and although such
a program (comprising a reasonable mix of these activities and con-
sistent with the equipment to be financed) has been assumed for the
calculation of benefits, this is not proposed as binding. The nature
of the actual work schedule will be decided in consultation with the
relevant Regional authorities and Project management by the Tech-
nical Cooperation team provided under the United Kingdom Overseas
Development Programme from which this component is to be financed.
The cost estimates are based on UK procurement.



ANTEX 5
Page 2
4.        In addition to this role, roads in Tabora Region must also support
administrative communications, social services, and general commerce. Effi-
cient road links between Regional, District, and Ward headquarters are crucial
in the implementation of Government programs. People must be linked with
social services not necessarily available on the village level -- secondary
schools, hospitals, rural training centers, etc. Finally, general goods trade
and distribution of local manufactures relies on dependable road transport.
5.        The present road network in Tabora does not meet these basic require-
ments. Proposed improvements are based on a two-pronged approach to strengthen
routine maintenance and to reconstruct bad spots. Improvements in maintenance
will be brought about through technical and managerial assistance, training,
and provision of workshop equipment. Road reconstruction will be carried out
with labor-intensive betterment units to improve village access roads to
all-season standard, supported by a capital-intensive betterment unit which
will reconstruct sections of network roads. Equipment will be interchangeable
between the units according to season and priority needs.
B. Present Road Conditions
6.        There are two major problems with the road network in Tabora
Region:
(a) Several network roads 1/ and many village access
roads 2/ are impassable at various times during
the rainy season (which extends from November
through April), due to inadequate drainage, poor
road construction materials and poor maintenance.
(b) The existing surfaces of most roads are so rough,
due to deficient maintenance, that much potential
traffic is discouraged and that all actual traffic
is faced with extremely high vehicle operating costs.
The Road Network
7.        There are presently some 2,300 km of network roads in Tabora
Region. These generally radiate outward from Tabora Town, the most
important roads being the links north to Nzega and west to Kaliua.
The road network is densest in Nzega and Igunga Districts, where population
1/   Network roads are defined as trunk roads, regional roads, local main
roads, and district roads. These are generally roads connecting towns
and larger villages in the Region.
2/   An access road is defined as the road or track leading from a network
road to a specific village. These roads can be identified with single,
or at most, two to three villages; there is usually only one access
road per village.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
density is highest. The network roads are mainly of 7.0 meter and 4.0
meter widths. They vary in condition from gravel (murram) roads to poorly-
drained earth or sand tracks. The extent of these network roads is illus-
trated in Map IBRD 12307.
8.        Village access roads in Tabora Region, totaling about 1,320 km
in length, were identified by consultants as linking (in 1974) some 327
villages with network roads. These access roads vary in length up to
about 10 km, with an average of 4 km; they are mainly non-engineered
earth tracks. Of the village surveyed, some 63% (approximately 75,000
rural families) did not enjoy all-season access. Village access roads
are also identified in Map, IBRD 12307.
Traffic
9.        Road traffic in Tabora Region is predominantly local, rather
than through-traffic. Traffic counts in July 1974 1/ established that
on the Singida-Shinyanga trunk road passing through Nzega, through
traffic amounted to about 35% of total traffic. On the other roads
in Tabora Region, however, through traffic is much lower due to the poor
condition of roads leading to other regions. In Tabora and Urambo Dis-
tricts, local (intra-regional) traffic amounted to more than 99.9% of
total traffic.
10.       The vehicle mix is constant throughout the Region:  light
vehicles (mostly Land Rovers and vans), 42%; trucks, 34%; and buses,
24%. The average vehicle capacities are 5 seats per light vehicle,
7.6 tons per truck, and 63 seats per bus. The purpose of trips is
81% government business and 19% commercial for light vehicles; and
81% commercial and 19% government business for trucks. These data
are reflected in the ownership of vehicles:
Owner        Private
Driver       Company       Cooperative   Government
Light vehicles   10%            15%              9%            75%
Trucks            40%           29%             12%            19%
11.       Traffic levels range from 106 vehicles per day (during the
1974 dry season) on the Tabora-Nzega road, to 49 between Tabora and
Tumbi, 44 from Tabora to Sikonge, and 21 on the road to Ulyankulu.
1/   Unless otherwise stated, all data in this section are taken from
BROKONSULT A/B, A Feasibility Study of the Development Potential
and Feeder Road Improvements in the Tabora Region, Appendix 3:
Traffic and Engineering, 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Many of the network roads carry traffic volumes as low as 20 vehicles
per day; village access roads are even more lightly traveled, but no
traffic counts are available.
12.       Traffic growth rates are not available for Tabora Region,
as no reliable data exist for either agricultural production or vehicle
registrations. On a national basis, the following are annual growth
rates for the vehicle fleet (%):
1966-70          1970-72
Light vehicles             9.4               2.1
Trucks                    10.8              4.6
Buses                     10.3               4.6
The recent decline in growth of vehicle registrations reflects the re-
strictions of Tanzania's import controls, and may not be indicative of
future traffic growth.
Road Maintenance Organization
13.       Road maintenance in Tabora Region is presently carried out
by the four Districts, under the supervision of the Regional Engineer.
The Central Ministry of Works (Comworks) in Dar es Salaam is financially
responsible for trunk road maintenance and improvement, but this respon-
sibility is delegated to the Region by means of a grant of funds per
kilometer of trunk road. The maintenance and improvement of all roads
in the Region is thus carried out by the Region itself.
14.       The present organization for road maintenance and improvement
in Tabora Region is shown in Appendix 1, Chart WB 16309 and the present
road personnel and equipment available in the Region are listed in
Appendix 1, Table 1 which shows both the shortage of qualified staff
and the totally inadequate inventory of equipment. In the past several
years, staff at all levels have been reduced by budget cuts which are
shown in Appendix 1, Table 2. Cutbacks in road expenditures have hastened
road deterioration in Tabora Region. No new road maintenance equipment
has been added in recent years (the two motorgraders currently operating
in the Region are both 15-20 years old); spare parts inventories in the
Nzega and Tabora workshops are enough only for the most routine repair
needs but engines sent to the Morogoro workshop may take months to be
serviced, if they are returned at all. At present, only 60% of network
roads receive any maintenance, and due to the lack of equipment and
trained personnel, much of this is largely ineffective.
15.       Training has been inadequate and most Tabora roads personnel
are underqualified for their positions. The Tabora Region Comworks
organization does not include a single graduate engineer; while even



ANNEX 5
Page 5
more serious is the lack of properly trained technicians and supervisory
personnel. This situation may be improved as graduates become available
from either the Dar es Salaam Technical College or the Comworks Morogoro
Training Center.
C. Project Approach
16.       The basic strategy proposed to counter the trend of road deterio-
ration in Tabora is to make available to the Region an infusion of techni-
cal assistance and road equipment sufficient to meet present maintenance
commitments with capacity also for essential betterment works. Technical
assistance will be provided to support (a) the planning and implementation of
a road maintenance and improvement program, (b) the training of counterpart
staff, and (c) the strengthening of maintenance equipment workshops. Road
maintenance equipment will be provided to enable (a) blading, regraveling,
and reconstruction of critical stretches of network roads, (b) provision of
and maintenance of all-season road access to all villages in the Region,
and (c) improved road maintenance supported by adequate equipment repair shops
and soils testing facilities. The following section discusses the forms of
technical assistance to be provided; next the approach to strengthening road
maintenance is presented; and finally the betterment unit concept for improve-
ment of network and access roads is described.
Technical Assistance
17.       Personnel.  To assure the successful implementation of the
road component, technical assistance will be required. Draft terms of
reference for these personnel are presented in Appendix 2; their positions
and functions are briefly as follows:
(a) Roads Engineer. An experienced engineer who will
assist the Regional Engineer and take overall
responsibility for the roads component, including
direction of procurement, road maintenance planning,
and betterment unit deployment.
(b) Accountant. To supervise accounting within the component
and to set up and operate a system of unit cost accounting
for works control.
(c) Workshop Mechanic. An experienced shop mechanic who
will assist the Regional Engineer in properly organizing,
refitting, and directing the road equipment workshop
activities.
(d) Two Roads Inspectors. Initially to direct the operations
of the betterment units, and train counterparts in the
techniques of road construction management.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(e) Field Mechanic. An experienced heavy equipment mechanic
who will direct repair operations in the field.
18.       Training.  Recruiting and training suitable counterpart supervisory
and technical personnel is crucial to continuation of the component. There
are three ways of obtaining these personnel: (a) Ministry of Works, Dar es
Salaam, can provide trained people; (b) Tabora can supply suitable candidates
to the Ministry of Works for training, either in Dar es Salaam or at Morogoro;
or (c) the project technical assistance staff in Tabora can train the required
personnel on the job. At present, method (c) must be relied upon to a great
extent, and this points out the importance of the training role required of
the technical assistance specialists.
19.       On-the-job-training carried out by technical assistance personnel
in Tabora will focus upon the following major training areas:
(a) Engineering Management. Planning and execution of
effective road maintenance programs and the
organization of road betterment units.
(b)  Workshop Management.  Practical aspects of organizing
and operating a mechanical workshop.
(c) Soils Testing. Techniques of soils testing.
(d) Construction Unit Supervision. Planning, organizing,
technical, and supervisory aspects of directing road
reconstruction work. This training will be carried
out in the field, specializing in either labor-intensive
or equipment-intensive operations.
(e) Field Maintenance. Field training with the goal of
assuring continuous operation of road construction
equipment.
Organization Proposed
20.       Maintenance Organization and Planning.  Under the control of
the Regional Engineer, road works in Tabora Region would be divided into
network road and access road sections. The network road section will
be charged with the planning and supervision of routine network road
maintenance and reconstruction of bad spots. The execution of network
road work will be carried out under the responsibility of the District
Engineers, as at present. Access roads will be constructed by labor-
intensive methods with the assistance of three Access Road units organized
under the Village access road section. Chart WB 16562 in Appendix 9
illustrates the proposed roads organization for Tabora Region.



ANNEX 5
Page 7
Road Maintenance
21.       Maintenance Organization and Planning. For the maintenance task,
lack of adequate maintenance equipment and personnel and, perhaps most
serious, lack of sufficient managerial capability and maintenance planning are
the chief problems. A major technical assistance effort will be required to
strengthen maintenance management. Given that the Project will also improve
the equipment available, it is essential that workable maintenance schedules
be developed, and maintenance planned on a Regional basis by the maintenance
section. Execution of routine network road maintenance activities will
then be carried out by each District, within the framework of a regional
plan, which will enable efficient allocation of scarce equipment, and ensure
uniform maintenance standards in Tabora Region.
22.       Maintenance of village access roads will be carried out differently.
Once an access road has been reconstructed, the village itself will be re-
sponsible for its maintenance. Instruction in routine maintenance techniques
will be provided by the betterment unit, and each village will be provided,
every six years, with a set of tools, including wheelbarrows, earth pans,
shoveis, and compacting rammers. Additional blading of village access roads
will be carried out, when possible, by graders, but primary responsibility for
routine maintenance of these roads would rest with the villagers themselves,
organized by the Village Council exercising its powers under the Villages and
Ujamaa Villages Act of 1975.
23.       Maintenance Equipment.  The equipment provided under the Project,
and the existing construction and maintenance equipment would be used inter-
changeably, for both maintenance and reconstruction. The Roads Engineer would
be permitted some flexibility in determining the final mix of equipment to
purchase, depending upon priorities at the time.
24.       The principal mechanical operations associated with maintenance will
be grading, mainly at the end of the wet season, and brushing. Other routine
maintenance operations are: clearing alongside the road, filling potholes,
and repairing bridges and culverts -- work better done manually.
25.       Equipment Workshops.  Presently, there is a rather extensive
equipment yard and workshop complex in Tabora and a smaller one in Nzega.
The existing facilities are of poor quality, however, and appear to be
inefficiently managed. Due to lack of skills and equipment, certain repair
jobs which should be accomplished in Tabora are sent to the Morogoro Work-
shop, with a resulting penalty of equipment downtime running into several
months. Inadequate road equipment maintenance and repair appears to be
a major factor contributing to the overall deterioration of the road net-
work.
26.       The upgrading of the Tabora and Nzega Workshops will be carried
out under the guidance of the Workshop Mechanic. His task will be to
reorganize workshop operations in an efficient manner; to establish routine



ANNEX 5
Page 8
procedures; to provide necessary training; and to specify and procure necessary
workshop equipment. Each workshop would have a range of boring, welding and
training equipment; however, the Workshop Mechanic in consultation with the
Roads Engineer will have considerable latitude in specifying the final equip-
ment list, based upon a careful inventory of existing equipment and an estimate
of the types of repairs which can practically be carried out in Tabora and
Nzega.
27.       Soils Testing.  Simple equipment for performing basic soils tests
will be financed under the project. At present, all soil samples must be sent
to Dar es Salaam for analysis, which often results in very lengthy delays.
Given the road standards contemplated here, basic soil information should be
available in a timely fashion. This can be supplemented, if necessary, by
more detailed analyses from Dar es Salaam.
Road Improvement
28.       Road improvement or betterment consists of reconstructing sections
of existing roads which are currently unmaintainable and largely impassable
during the wet season. Improvement is thus an essential part of road mainte-
nance, and is required to transform the Tabora road network into an all-weather
system. It is expected that this program will have a si-nificant effect on
improving communications in the Region, and will pro.;ide basic all-season
access to the 63% of villages presently isolatod during the rainy season. The
technology, staffing and operational requirements for network road betterment
and access road betterment differ, and are, therefore, treated separately
below.
29. Network Road Betterment
(a) Technology. A capital-intensive rc.d bettermert unit
is proposed to carry out the required improvements on
network roads in Tabora Region. The size and composi-
tion of this unit, would be based on experience with
similar units in other Regions of Tanzania, and is also a
function of the indivisibility of equipment, in that a
certain minimum unit is required to permit the proper
balance between various items of equipment. The alterna-
tive of employing a labor-intensive technology is not
attractive for this particular task for several reasons.
First, it would be more difficult to obtain the required
labor for network roads, which do not run directly to most
villages, than for access roads. Second, the relatively
high minimum wage in Tanzania (US$1.80 per day) and the
required night-out allowance (US$1.90 per day) which would
have to be paid if labor could not be obtained locally,
make labor-intensive methods noncompetitive with machine-
intensive techniques. Finally, the cost and administrative
difficulty of housing, feeding, and moving such a large
workforce makes extensive use of labor less attractive for
improvement of network roads than in the case of access
roads.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
(b) Personnel. The Network Road Betterment Unit would consist
of supervisors, equipment operators to handle the heavy
equipment, and laborers for clearing, grubbing, culvert
and drainage work. The unit would be self-sufficient,
travelling with its own accommodation. Technical assis-
tance would be provided in the field by a Roads Inspector,
and the work would be under the general supervision of the
Roads Engineer and the Regional Engineer.
(c) Organization. The position of the Network Roads Section
within the Tabora Comworks organization is shown in Annex
9, Chart WB 16562. The Officer-in-Charge of the Unit
will report directly to the Regional Engineer, since the
Unit will serve all four Districts. The personnel within
the Unit will be organized into teams for the execution
of various tasks.
(d) Operation. The Network Road Betterment Unit has been
designed to reconstruct annually approximately 75 km
of 4.0 meter width roads to a suitable gravel standard. 1/
This consists of excavating murram lateritic material,
hauling it to the road site, spreading and compacting
the murram, and grading the surface. Since all work
will be done on existing roads, where the horizontal
alignment is generally satisfactory, bush clearance
is not a major problem. Earthworks will only be necessary
in certain low areas where drainage is inadequate.
The full capacity of the unit is not expected to be
reached until after an initial year of operations, during
which staff will be trained and procedures refined.
Details of unit construction capacity assumptions are
given in Appendix 5.
30.       Provisional priorities for Network Road Betterment are shown in
Appendix 7: this would be modified in the light of changing Regional condi-
tions. Timely procurement of equipment and technical personnel would be
important to achieve effective operations. Workshop strengthening parti-
cularly must be accomplished early on to permit minimum downtime of road-
building equipment.
31.       The specific roads to be improved would be selected on the basis
of economic considerations. Since there are over 2,000 km of network roads
in Tabora (excluding trunk roads), it is not feasible to direct the efforts
of a single Betterment Unit toward improvement of every kilometer. Instead,
the improvement program would be aimed at network road "bad spots," some
1/   Design standards are shown in Appendix 4.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
560 km of which have been identified by :cnsultants (sca Appendix 1 Table
3). These bad spots are existing road segments which are either completely
impassable or practically so during portion,  2i thc _-in; season (November to
May). By concentrating on these bad spots, the limited capacity of the
Betterment Unit will be employed to greatest advantage. It has been assumed
that some 266 km of bad spots could be improved during the five-year Phase I
period and the entire 394 km completed by year eight. Other network roads
will also receive greater levels of maintenance since existing equipment will
be better utilized.
32.       A possible sequence of improvement activity has been set out
in Appendix 6, Table 2. This sequence is based on (a) the relative priority
indicated by the Consultants' economic rate of return for each road section,
and (b) the need to minimize the travelling distance from one section to
another. Based on these criteria, the schedule of operations begins by
looping through Igunga and Nzega Districts, then proceeds eastward to Tura,
southward to Rungwa, and westward to Ussinge. This schedule is illustrative;
the engineer in charge may alter it in accordance with field conditions.
33. Access Road Sub-component
(a) Technology. In contrast to the network road betterment,
access road work in Tabora lends itself to labor-intensive
methods. Such a technology is well-suited to the task
of the three Access Road Betterment Units, which is to
improve village access roads to a standard permitting all-
season transit. A simple technology is most appropriate.
Because, first these roads are to be of low standard and
support very low levels of traffic (less than 10 vehicles
per day (vpd)); second, the modest 3.0-meter design standard
and low traffic levels make simple construction techniques
attractive; third, the village can supply labor during
the dry season to work on its own access road (This labor
input could be organized by the Village Council on a daily
or weekly basis. Since access roads are short (usually
less than 10 km long), there is no requirement for transpor-
tation or temporary housing and feeding). Responsibility
for village access road maintenance has recently been
delegated to the village itself as a matter of government
policy and the Village Council given powers to encourage
such communal activity. Under these conditions, it is
economically and politically advantageous to utilize
road betterment techniques based on a high labor input.
(b)  Personnel.  The personnel for each Access Road Betterment
Unit would comprise foremen, equipment operators, mechanics
and drivers. In addition, technical assistance, in the
form of a Road Inspector, will be supplied to direct the
access road betterment program. Planning and coordination
of the work schedules for the three units will be carried
out by the Road Engineer.



ANNEX 5
Page 11
(c) Organization. One of the major findings of World Bank-
sponsored research on labor-capital substitution in civil
works projects has been that the quality of supervision
and method of organization is critical in carrying out
labor-intensive operations. 1/ For this reason, the main
function of the 25-man permanent core of each unit will be
to supervise and train village labor in techniques of road
construction and maintenance. Access road foremen will
supervise each major work component - earthwork; murram
excavation, hauling, and spreading; and drainage and land
clearing - and will train counterpart village-appointed
headmen. These headmen will be responsible for routine
maintenance of the village road after reconstruction is
complete, and will be provided with appropriate tools.
In addition, betterment unit staff will be provided in
such specialty positions as survey assistant, culvert
mason, and tractor driver so that the unit functions
smoothly. Although each team of an Access Road Better-
ment Unit will spend only between one and four weeks
working on a given village road, the impetus provided
by reconstruction of the road, training of village
personnel, and provision of necessary tools is expected
to result in improved levels of self-help village road
maintenance by the villagers themselves.
(d) Operation. Each Access Road Betterment Unit is designed
with an annual reconstruction capacity of about 32 km of
village roads. These roads will be improved from their
present dry-season, earth standard to an all-season
3.0 meter width gravel standard (see Appendix 4 for
design standards). Villagers will do earthwork, murram
excavation and spreading, drainage improvement and bush
clearance by hand, under the supervision and guidance
of the 25-man permanent team. The detailed organization
of these operations is spelled out in Appendix 6,
Mechanized equipment will be used only for hauling
murram pit to the road side (generally less than 5 km)
and for compaction. These operations will utilize
agricultural tractors towing tipper trailers, water
trailers, and compactors. This operation provides
flexibility and low capital costs while taking
advantage of the self-help village labor supply
available during the dry season.
1/   Labor-Capital Substitution Study, IBRD Technical Memoranda,
1974 and 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 12
34.       The access roads needing improvement are shown by ward in Appendix
1. There are some 413 km of bad spots (impassable during the rainy season)
listed, spread among 206 villages presently without all-season access. It is
estimated that each of the three units can improve 1.25 km of roads per week
during the 26-week dry season -- a timing which will not interfere with
village agricultural activities. The permanent team will be assigned to work
on District roads (the lowest level of network roads) during the rainy season.
35.       At this rate, with the first Access Road Betterment Unit com-
mencing in year 2 and the two other Units starting in year 3, it has been
assumed that some 272 km of bad spots would be reconstructed during the
five-year Phase I period. This phasing would allow transfer of trained
personnel from the first unit to the other two and would facilitate super-
vision by the Road Inspector. Since units are assumed to work at only half
capacity during their first year of operation, the full 96 km annual capacity
of the three units would not be reached until year 4. All access road bad
spots currently identified within Tabora Region could be reconstructed by
year 7. The allocation of betterment units within the Region would be deter-
mined by the Regional Engineer.
D. Economic Evaluation
Benefits
36.       Benefits were calculated on the basis of the work program assumed
above. The possible changes in the ratio of maintenance to reconstruction
work, made in the light of experience, are unlikely to seriously alter the
picture. For the analysis of network roads, benefits were calculated in terms
of vehicle operating cost savings. These were computed on the basis of (a)
improving the present bad spots to a normal gravel standard, and (b) incremen-
tal improvement from routine road maintenance. Only the normal growth of
traffic has been considered, starting from detailed traffic counts carried out
in Tabora Region in 1974. So-called "generated" traffic has not been included.
This treatment of benefits is conservative and well-founded. Without these
improvements, there would be little sense in upgrading the village access roads.
37.       The treatment of village access road benefits is less traditional.
The difficulty lies in quantifying the beneficial impact of all-season access
upon village production and social structures. As no traffic counts are
available at the village level in Tabora, the simple vehicle operating cost
savings method cannot be applied. In any case, this method alone will not
properly quantify the development benefits accruing to such a road investment.l/
All-season access to a village means that many productive, administrative,
commercial, and social inputs can be supplied all through the year; and that
1/   See The Economic Analysis of Rural Road Projects by Carnemark, Biderman,
and Bovet, (Staff Working Paper, 1976) for a thorough discussion of
appropriate economic methodologies in the analysis of rural road projects.



ANNEX 5
Page 13
farm output can be effectively marketed year-round. The resulting impact is
just beginning to be studied and assessed in recent research programs. 1/
38.       As a conservative approximation of the economic benefits flowing
from improvement to all-season standard of village access roads, the following
methodology has been applied:
(a) Vehicle operating cost savings. Based on marketed tonnage
of agricultural goods, an estimate of transport cost savings
is derived. This represents normal dry season transport
savings due to improved road quality.
(b) Agricultural production benefits. The benefit due to assured
year-round provision of agricultural inputs (see, fertilizers,
etc) and extension advice is estimated at 2% of the net value of
production. (Consultants have estimated this benefit as ranging
from 20% (in the case of maize, paddy, groundnuts and cotton) to
30% (for tobacco) of net production value.) 2/ The village
extension agent requires the support of outside extension agents
during the wet season to ensure the effective use of inputs, and
input delivery will typically continue throughout the year.
(c) Agricultural marketing benefits. The benefit due to decreased
crop spoilage and increased quality of produce, made possible
by reliable road access, is conservatively estimated as 1%
of the net value of marketed production. (This compares to
consultant's estimates of 20% of crop value in the case of
tobacco, to 10% for paddy, to no savings for maize.) 3/ Over
half the tobacco crop is picked during the rainy season, and
quality (hence value) deteriorates sharply unless the crop
is moved rapidly to re-drying centers. Paddy also suffers
if it must be stored damp rather than transported to commer-
cial centers.
39.       This approach to analysis has the advantage of focusing on the
important categories of benefits involved in a rural road project. The
details of benefit computations are provided in Appendix 8. Although
quantification of the agricultural production savings is not precise
due to the lack of research data, the methodology is rational and
estimates are intuitively reasonable. Social benefits, such as improved
access to health facilities, schools, and administrative centers, also
important, are not quantified. Analysis of village access roads is
carried out for each of six agro-economic zones in Tabora Region:
since village size and agricultural production are similar within each
zone, this is an adequate means of assessing project benefits.
1/   See, as an example, Socio-Economic Impact Studies of Rural Access
Roads, Ministry of Works, Kenya, 1975.
2/   Brokonsult AB Report, App. 4, p. 7.
3/   Brokonsult AB Report, App. 4, p. 10.



ANNEX 5
Page 14
Distribution of Benefits
40.       It is necessary to examine the intricacies of local production and
transport systems to determine in what measure the farmers of Tabora
Region will share in the benefits of improved roads. To analyze the dis-
tribution of benefits from the roads component, access roads must be treated
separately from network roads. Access road improvement to all-season stan-
dard can have direct impact on crop productivity and marketing by provision
of basic communications during the rainy season. Network road improvements
primarily result in a transport cost savings. The distribution of these
project benefits follows different paths.
41.       Network Road Benefits.  Vehicle operating cost savings accrue
initially to vehicle owners. Trucks in Tabora Region are predominantly
local, with 31% owned by government (parastatals and cooperatives), 29%
owned by private firms, and 40% owned by small owner-operators. In the
case of government vehicles, it is likely that savings will remain
with the government agency involved, and will not, in the short-term,
be passed on to either farmers (producers) or consumers. This is
because the organizations involved are monopolistic (e.g., TCA and TAT)
and have no incentive to pass savings on to their suppliers or customers.
In fact, truck tariffs are set on a nationwide basis by the individual
parastatals regardless of the road conditions involved. Tariff schedules
applying in Tabora Region are summarized in the tabulation below:
ROAD FREIGHT TARIFFS IN TABORA REGION
Rate                             Organization and Comments
TSh. 2.25                        TCA.  Nationwide rate for seed cotton
per cargo ton-mile               transport.
TSh. 1.20                        National Milling Corporation (NMC).  Nation-
per capacity ton-mile            wide rate.
TSh. 1.30                        TARECU.  Regional rate paid to independent
per cargo ton-mile               truckers and internal rate charged for
owned vehicles.
TSh. 10.00/100 kg. and           Nzega Bus Service.  Unregulated tariff.
TSh. 18.00/100 kg.               Flat rate for under 50 miles, second rate
for 100-120 miles.



ANNEX 5
Page 15
42.       These tariffs mean that trucks belonging to TARECU and other
organizations obtain the same revenue regardless of actual operating
costs. Because of this, TARECU trucks are often contracted out for work
on paved roads in Dar es Salaam during the rainy season when Tabora roads
are bad and truck operating costs consequently high. Since tariffs do
not reflect road conditions and vehicle operating costs, road improvements
do not result in lower trucking rates for local inhabitants. Transport
cost savings in one part of the country will, however, offset higher
costs elsewhere.
43.       Although independent truckers are supposed to be bound by
a regional tariff schedule, and in contracts with a parastatal or
regional cooperative, they are paid the standard rate per kilometer,
regardless of the roads involved, in private dealings it is possible that
bargaining takes place, with some adjustment for the degree of risk or
operating cost involved. Bus passenger tariffs are also fixed nationwide in
Tanzania, at TSh. 0.15 per passenger-mile for trips of under 100 miles.
Again, this rate takes no account of road conditions, despite the fact that
bus operating costs on certain roads in Tabora Region are easily twice as
much as on paved roads elsewhere in Tanzania. This means that profit margins,
incentive, and hence service, are low in Tabora. The fixed rates also imply
that road improvements will not be reflected in lower passenger fares.
Benefits will remain with bus company operators, who are mainly private
individuals or small "cooperatives" of bus owners.
44.       Access Road Benefits.  Village access roads in Tabora are relatively
short, generally 2 to 5 km. The difference in vehicle operating costs over
these short roads before and after improvement is negligible during the dry
season, when, therefore, vehicle operating cost savings in the normal sense
are quite small. The major benefit from village road reconstruction is access
during the rainy season. When an access road becomes impassable for a few
days or weeks, the implicit transport cost skyrockets as usually the produce
must be stored until the weather changes. Access road improvement thus
results not only in increased production due to timely delivery of inputs and
extension advice, but also yields additional market receipts due to less
spoilage and higher quality produce. These benefits of improved transport
service are directly passed to the farmer and his village primary society.
The improvement in transport service to the village is much more important
economically and socially than the minor cost savings computed on the basis of
road transit in the dry season.
45.       For passenger traffic, the same improved service can be expected.
Several villages in Tabora which have requested bus service or loans to
purchase a bus have been denied on the basis of poor access road condition.
Numerous villages are without bus service during the rainy season, as
operators are unwilling to take the risk involved. All-season access would
permit expanded bus service to these villages. Although fares would not be
reduced, the lower risk would induce higher levels of passenger service.



ANNEX 5
Page 16
E. Costs and Implementation
46.       Capital and Recurrent costs are presented in Annex 10, Table 6.
47.       An implementation schedule for the component is at Appendix 8.



ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Appendix 1 - Tabora Region: Organization of Road
Services, and Road Conditions
Contents
Chart WB 16309:  Tabora Region Roads Organization, 1975.
Table 1. Comworks Personnel and Equipment Resources, 1975.
Table 2. Road Maintenance and Improvement Budget.
Table 3. Network Road Condition.
Table 4. Access Road Condition.



TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABORA REGION ROADS ORGANIZATION, 1975
REGIONAL                                              MINISTRY OF WORKS
DEVELOPMENT                                            DAR ES SALAAM
DIRECTOR
L  --      -    --       -   --       -     --      - _                           __        
POSITION FILLED
POSITION UNDER STRENGTH
I      I POSITION VACANT
I    INSPECTOR     I
I MECHAtA                                                     ROADS  
4                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~r--__,                                                   _                                         r-_   _
DISTRICT ENGINEER                              I DISTRICT ENGINEER |                                       DISTRICT ENGINEER                                  DISTRICT ENGINEER I
URAMBO                                           TABORA                                                    NZEGA                                            I IGUNGA           I
WASST INSPECTOR    I  TRANSPORT    I | ASST INSPECTOR I    ASST INSPECTOR    r   TRANSPORT   I  I ASST INSPECTOR
MECHANICAL           OL___FFICER      ROADS         I    MECHANICAL         I   OFFICER     I  I ROADS          I
FOREMAN       ~~FOREMAN         SUB-INSPECTRS                          SUB-INSPECTORS      SUB- INSPECTORI SUE-INSPECTOR I                               FOREMAN             PEAN
FOREENFOREMEN                                              FOREMAN                                                      ME      A SROAN
MECHANCLROADS                        MECHANIALROADS                                              MECHANICAL                            RASMCAIA                                    OD
WORKSHOP            ROADS              WORKSHOP           TRANS PORT           ROADS  |          | WORKSHOP          3RANSPORT             ROADS  ||WORKSHOP                       ROADS
MECHANICS          HEADMEN              MECHANICS          ROAD               HEADMEN |          |MECHANICS |       |ROAD      |        |HEADMAN ||MECHANICS |                  |HEADMAN|
LAEORERS                               EOUIPMENT  ,        LASORERS |         |                  | EOUIPMENT          LABORERS                                LAORERS
WolId BdnP 16309



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Table 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tabora Region: Organization of Road Services and Road Conditions
The present position regarding staffing levels and organization,
equipment, and network and access road conditions is summarized in the
following Tables and Chart:
Table 1: Comworks Personnel and Equipment Resources, 1975
(Excluding building and airport personnel)
A.   Personnel (present strength)
Tabora Region:                                Nzega District:
I   Senior Inspector (Roads)                  I   Assistant Inspector (Mech.)
1  Assistant Inspector (Mech.)               10   Mechanics
20   Garage assistants
Tabora District:                                22   Drivers
20   Headmen (Roads)
2   Sub-inspectors (Mech.)                  115   Laborers (Roads)
I   Foreman (Mech.)
40   Mechanics                               Urambo District:
80   Garage assistants
24   Drivers                                   I  Foreman (Roads)
1   Sub-inspector (Roads)                     1   Foreman (Mech.)
1   Foreman (Roads)                       10-20   Laborers (Roads)
15   Headmen (Roads)
85   Laborers (Roads)                        Igunga District:
B.   Equipment (Serviceable)                          1   Foreman (Roads)
1   Foreman (Mech.)
2   Motorgraders  5 Tractors              10-20   Laborers (Roads)
10   Trucks         I Water tanker
1   Dozer          1 Pickup truck
1  Roller          3 Land Rovers
Source: BRONKONSULT A/B Report, Comworks Tabora, and mission estimates



ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Table 2
Table 2: Tabora Region - Road Maintenance
and Improvement Budget 1/ (TSh '000)
Fiscal             Maintenance                     Improvement
Year        Trunk Roads   Other Roads         Trunk Roads    Other Roads       Total 2/
1972/73          812.5          901.0             250.0           409.7       2373.2
1973/74         1022.5         1354.4            1002.0          3124.0       6502.9
1974/75          622.2         1350.0             400.0           600.0       3172.2
1975/76          246.4          400.0 3/          300.0           400.0       1346.4
Sources:  BROKNOSULT A/B Report and Comworks Tabora
1/   Exclusive of permanent staff wage expense.
2/   In addition, the Tanzania Cotton Authority contributes TShs. 250,000 annually
for maintenance of cotton roads in Nzega and Igunga Districts.
3/   Half of this appropriation was transferred to wage accounts to cover severance
pay for discharged workers.



ANNEX 5
Appendix I
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
Table 3: Network Road Condition
A.   Summary of network road bad spots.
Road Category                     Total Length                  Bad Spots
(km)                        (km)
Trunk                                310                            -
Local Main                           634                          165
Regional                              71                            5
District                           1,228                          386
Total                         1,955                          556
B.   Local main road bad spots.
Section                           Total Length                  Bad Spots
(km)                        (km)
Tabora - Sikonge                      75                            5
Sikonge - Rungwa                     193                           80
Tabora - Urambo                       87                           17
Urambo - Kaliua                       34                            3
Tabora - Mambali                      56                           12
Tabora - Kigwa                        37                            6
Itobo - Bukene                        17                            -
Simbo - Tabora/Puge Rd.               50                           23
Simbo - Ziba                          48                           14
Ziba- Chomachankola                   28                            5
Puge - Ndala                           9                            -
Sub-Total                       634                          165
C.   Regional road bad spots.
Section                           Total Length                  Bad Spots
(km)                       (km)
Ipole - Koga (Ugalla River)           71                            5
Sub-Total                        71                           5
D.   District road bad spots.
Section                           Total Length                 Bad Spots
(km)                       (km)
Choma - Igurubi                       49                           30
Igurubi - Igunga                      42                           36
Tabora - Iseramagazi (Ulyankulu)    87                              8
Tabora - Igalula                      34                           12
Itobo - Moabangwa                     25                            5
Moabangwa - Choma                     23                            8
Ibologero - Igurubi                   42                           19
Kigwa - Kisengi - Itigi              132                           20
Igalula - Kigwa                       18                            3



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Table 3 and 4
Table 3: Network Road Condition
Section                           Total Length                  Bad Spots
(km)                         (km)
Sikonge - Igigwa - Igalula            64                            10
Pangale - Igigwa                       14                            1
Choma - Shinyanga Bridge               14                           14
Ussinge - Kaliua                       75                           15
Ukombi - Kaliua                       66                            25
Usagari - Mambama                     29                             2
Bukene - Mambali                      50                            40
Mibono - Sikonge                       14                            0
Igalula - Goweko                      22                            6
Kigwa - Tura                         102                            16
Kisengi - Loya                        44                             3
Uyowa - Iseramagazi                   28                             0
Mambali - Bukumbi                      21                            0
South of Puge - Mirambo/Itobo         35                             2
Simbo - Lugobo                        55                            11
Nkinga - Sungwisi                      10                            2
Igurubi - Mwanyagula                  34                           34
Mwanyagula - Igunga                   38                            38
Mbutu - Skamaliwa                     26                            26
Bukene - Bulunde                      14                             0
Bulunde - Nzega                       21                             0
Sub-Total                     1,228                          386
Table 4: Access Road Condition
Total    Villages w/out  Length
No.      All-Season      Bad Spots
Zone      Node           Ward           Villages      Access           Km
WESTERN   Ulyankulu      Ulyankulu          6             2            2.5
Ibiri             8             4            4.9
Ussinge        Ussinge           3             3           10.0
Kaliua         Kaliua           13             6            8.5
Urambo         Urambo           13             7            7.7
Ussoke         Ussoke           10             7           12.0
Ndono             8             7           11.8
SOUTHERN  Sikonge        Sikonge            5             1            1.0
Tutuo             8             5           12.0
Ipole         Mibono             2             2           12.1
Chabutwa          3             0            2.0
CENTRAL   Tabora         Mabama             5             5           10.3
Lulanguru         8             5           10.0
Kalunde           4             1            0.5
Misha             7             6           18.0
Itetemiya         8             5            3.5
Mtendeni          7             5            0.8



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
Total    Villages w/out  Length
No.      All-Season      Bad Spots
Zone      Node           Ward           Villages      Access          Km
NORTHWEST Bukumbi        Bukumbi           5             4           18.0
Mambali       Mambali            4             2           18.0
Bukene        Bukene             3             2           3.0
Karitu            4             2            6.2
Isanzu            4             2           0.6
Kahama ya
Nhalanda        3             3           9.0
Uduka             5             2            2.0
Itobo         Itobo              6             2           3.0
Kasela            3             1            2.0
Mwamala           5             3            2.5
Mwangoye          6             6            1.4
Igusulu           5             3           12.0
CENTRAL
EAST      Igalula        Imalakaseko       8             8            9.4
Kisengi       Kisengi            5             5           3.0
Upuge         Upuge              9             4           5.6
Puge          Puge               3             2           3.5
Nkinziwa          3             2            6.0
Magengati         8             3            3.1
Nzega         Utwigu             6             3            7.4
Nyasa             4             0            0
Miguwa            4             2            8.0
Mbogwe            3             3            5.5
Lusu              4             4            6.5
Nata              4             2            5.0
Nzega-Ndogo       2             1            1.0
Ndala         Ndala              7             3           9.0
Tongi             5             5           10.5
Nikinga       Mwisi              5             4           19.6
Sungwisi          3             1            2.0
Ulaya             4             2            6.0
Ziba           Ziba              5             2           6.5
Ndembezi          5             4           14.3
Nyendekwa         5             2            2.0
Simbo         Simbo              7             4          11.5
Chabutwa          3             1            0.6
Itumba            4             4            1.0
NORTHEAST Choma          Choma              5            4            8.5
Mwashiku          4             3            4.4
Igunga        Igunga             9             3          15.5
Mbutu             8             8           19.0
Kining'inila      3             3            9.0
Igurubi        Igurubi           5             5            7.0
Kinungu           6             6            7.4
TOTAL REGION                             327           206          413.1
TOTAL LENGTH OF ACCESS ROADS                                      1,320.2 km



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference For Technical Cooperation Personnel
For Road Maintenance & Improvement
I.   OBJECTIVE
The purpose of this technical cooperation is to ensure effective im-
plementation of the project, including the organizing and directing of road
maintenance and improvement works and the training of counterpart personnel
within the context of the IDA-assisted Project for Tabora Region.
II. SCOPE OF THE TECHNICAL SERVICES
Six people will be employed and assigned to assist the Tabora
Regional Engineer for a period of 2 1/2 - 3 years. They will advise and
provide support in the areas of equipment procurement, management of road
maintenance and betterment activities, supervision of road betterment units,
management of equipment workshops and supervision of equipment repairs in the
field. The team will be responsible for training counterparts to carry out
these same duties effectively, and assisting with training local staff con-
cerned with road maintenance and improvement in Tabora.
At present, the Project is expected to cover five years, from
1977 to 1982. The key personnel (Senior Roads Engineer and Workshop Mechanic)
will be expected to arrive in Tabora not later than June, 1977, and the
remaining experts at varying times but not later than December, 1977. At the
end of 3 years, the further need for technical personnel would be evaluated and
further assistance may be offered.
III. INDIVIDUAL JOB DESCRIPTIONS
A.   Roads Engineer
Duties:
Will report to the Regional Development Director, Tabora,
through the Project Coordinator of the Tabora Rural Development Project.
Will be assigned to the Regional Engineer to work within the
Regional Comworks organization, to advise and assist on all aspects
of the roads component; will also provide liaison with the Regional
Planning Unit concerning the roads component. Will assist with road
equipment procurement, maintenance planning, and betterment unit deploy-
ment. Will also train counterparts in road maintenance and construction
procedures, and will supervise all other roads component technical
assistance personnel.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
Qualifications:
Should be a qualified Professional Civil Engineer with 15
years experience in road planning, design, construction and maintenance,
specifically including gravel and earth roads; preferably not less than
10 years experience should have been in operational and managerial
aspects of road maintenance and construction in a public highway/roads
department, preferably in an LDC.
Must be conversant with unit costing and similar management
systems and have suitable experience in equipment usage and control.
Must be able to communicate ideas easily.
Location:
Will be stationed in Tabora.
B.   Workshop Mechanical Inspector
Duties:
Will report to the Roads Engineer.
Will assist the Roads Engineer and the Regional Engineer in
properly organizing, refitting, and directing the road equipment
workshops in Tabora and Nzega.
Will train counterparts in the field of mechanical workshop
management.
Qualifications:
Should be qualified in the maintenance and repair of heavy
equipment and vehicles with a total of 10 years experience, at
least 3 of which should have been in a post of responsible
charge of a workshop. Government experience desirable but not
essential.
Prior knowledge of Swahili useful or should be acquired on
the job.
Location:
Will be stationed in Tabora, with some travel to Nzega.
C.   Roads Inspectors (two)
Duties:
Will report to the Roads Engineer.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
Under the guidance of Roads Engineer and Regional Engineer,
will initially direct operations of the maintenance and better-
ment units in the field, and will train counterparts in the
techniques of road construction and maintenance management.
Qualifications:
Should be a qualified road construction inspector or
superintendent, with a total of 10 years heavy construction
experience, at least 5 of which should have been in a responsible
position with a road construction unit. Road maintenance
experience also desirable.
Must learn rapidly to communicate effectively in Swahili.
Location:
Will be based in Tabora, but travelling with betterment
and maintenance units throughout the Region 6 - 9 months per
year.
D.   Field Mechanic
Duties:
Will report to the Roads Engineer, collaborating closely
with the Workshop Mechanic.
Will direct equipment repair and maintenance activities
in the field, working with the road betterment units. Will
train counterparts in the techniques of preventive maintenance
and routine repairs.
Qualifications:
Should be qualified in the maintenance and repair of heavy
equipment and vehicles with a total of 5 years experience.
Technical training in automotive mechanics is essential.
Must be willing to learn Swahili on the job.
Location:
Will be stationed in Tabora, with substantial periods of
field work.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 4
E.   Accountant
Duties:
Will report to the Roads Engineer and liaise with the Tabora
Rural Development Project Financial Controller.
Will assist the Regional Engineer's accounting staff in account-
ing for expenditure under the project. Will devise and implement
accounting procedures which will enable accurate unit costings
of the various road maintenance and betterment functions to be
obtained and will supply these to the Roads Engineer for cost
control and operational improvement purposes.
Qualifications:
10 years experience of Government accounting systems including
at least 2 years experience of unit cost accounting.
Location:
Tabora.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads Component Local Staff and Equipment Cost 1/
A.   Plant and Transport
_                _
Station Wagons          1        @    4,000            4,000
Land Rovers             9        @    3,500           31,500
Tippers                10        @    7,000           70,000
L.W.B.                  2        @    6,200           12,400
Boswer                  1        @    7,500            7,500
Loader-Wheeled          1        @    9,500            9,500
Dozer 140 HP            2        @   45,000           90,000
Roller Towed            2        @    3,500            7,000
Grader Powered          2        @   28,000           56,000
Grader Towed            2        @    1,300            2,600
Tipping Trailer        18        @      650           11,700
Tractors 75 HP         21        @    5,000          105,000
Water Trailers          3        @    1,300            3,900
Water Pumps             3        @      500            1,500
Caravans                2        @    5,000           10,000
422,600
Spares                                                42,400
Freight and Insurance                                 69,000
Total equipment & spares:                534,000
1/   To be provided under the UK Overseas Development Programme.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 2
B.   Incremental Local Staff 1/
(Costs per month of 26 working days).
6 Foremen                                                    234
5 Plant operator                                             195
44 Drivers                                                  1,487
8 Tradesmen                                                  277
50 Labourers                                                1,444
3 Clerk/Storekeepers                                         103
2 Survey Assistants                                           69
6 Mechanics                                                  207
4 Headmen                                                    127
4,143
Say £4,200 per month for 51 months =                          214,200
Allowances                                                     20,000
Total local staff costs                     234,200
Say £235,000
1/   Over current establishment.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 3
C.   Operating Costs and Stores
Diesel                                                   Litres
12 trucks x 4.25 yrs x 2000 hrs x 10 litres              1,020,000
2  graders x 4.25 yrs x 1800 hrs x 20 litres    =          306,000
2  dozers x 4.25 yrs x 1800 hrs x 20 litres                306,000
1 loader x 4.25 yrs x 1800 hrs x 20 litres                 153,000
21 tractors x 4.25 yrs x 1800 hrs x 10 litres   =        1,606,500
1 bowser x 4.25 yrs x 1800 hrs x 10 litres        =         77,000
3,468,500
Petrol
10 Land Rovers x 4.5 yrs x 3000 hrs x 10 litres =        1,350,000
Costs (General)                                             E
3,468,500 litres diesel @ 2/10                             520,000
1,350,000 litres petrol @ 3/30                             318,000
Lubricants                                                   10,000
Cement 1,000 tons @ E40                                     40,000
Timber                                                       5,000
Culverts                                                     20,000
Temporary Camps                                              10,000
General Stores                                               10,000
Workshop improvements and equipment                          50,000
Soils equipment                                               1,000
Equipment spares after year 3                                75,000
Total General Costs                   E 1,059,000



ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Design Standard
A.   Road alignment
In general, the alignment of network roads in the Region is satis-
factory, considering the terrain. Horizontal and vertical radii dimensions
correspond to design speeds of 80-100 km/hour, quite an acceptable standard.
It is proposed, therefore, to follow the existing alignment of network roads.
Village access roads presently vary a great deal in terms of align-
ment standard. It is proposed that horizontal alignments be revised where
necessary to take advantage of the topography, and that design speeds of
40-50 km/hour should be employed.
B.  Carriageway
Figures A and B show the proposed cross-sections for network and
village access roads. Network roads are designed with a 4.0 meter carriage-
way, and a 15 cm murram wearing course. Traffic levels of up to 100 vehicles
per day can be accommodated; a passing bay is to be provided every 500 meters.
Village access roads are planned with a 3.0 meter carriageway and
a 10 cm murram wearing course. Traffic levels of up to 20 vehicles per day
can be handled without passing bays.
C.   Earthworks and Drainage
The murram wearing course for both types of roads is to be laid
directly upon a base of compacted earth taken from side borrow pits. Bull-
dozers will be used to cut side drains and use the fill for the roadway
base. Earthworks in way of existing alignments will be increased where
necessary (e.g., in mbugas) to provide 10 cm of earthworks above flood
level. Cast concrete culverts, 600 mm. diameter, are to be placed as re-
quired.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 4
Figures
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roadway Cross Sections
0o.7
fof 2 < _ __0_t10 21T2-r2' 
_                -TOTAL WIDTH 12 4 M
A. Network road (4.0 meter).
O F     : '  X 3 C __              -  75_       1 
,r, -71g,  _ 1    /   -t4t-_ 4y#7   s S    _--2~..-?>    _ _ _  _ 
B.  Access-road 7(3.0 7 neter).
B. Access road (3.0 maeter).



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Maintenance and Betterment Capacities
A.   Network Road Equipment
1.        The annual improvement capacity of the network road betterment
unit is set by the lowest capacity of any essential piece of equipment in
the process. The following summarizes the improvement capacity of the
major equipment items: tipper trucks, bulldozers, front-end loader, and
motorgraders.
Network Road Equipment: Annual Unit Capacities
(a) Tipper Trucks (7-ton truck)
Haul distance                                      8 km 3
Truck load                                         3.5 m 3
Truck capacity                                     4.67 m /hour
Annual betterment capacity                         7.8 km/year
(b) Bulldozer (140 hp)
Productivity                                       68 bank m3/ hour
Gravel excavation                                  113 km/year
Terracing   )  simultaneously                      75 km/year
Embankments )                                      34 km/year
(c) Front-End Loader (wheeled 100 hp, 2
cu. yard bucket)
Productivity                                       45 bank m /hour
Load tipper trucks                                equiv. of 75 km/year
(compatible with tipper truck availability)
(d) Motorgraders (125 hp)
Improvement, bad spots                            416/km/year
Routine maintenance (average 4 passess,           800 km/year
3 times a year; assumes
35 vpd)



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5
Page 2
2.        It is considered that the assumptions involved (i.e., 1,000 oper-
ating hours per year and appropriate productivity factors) will ensure suc-
cessful operation once initial start-up problems have been solved.
B.   Access Road Equipment
3.        The capacity of each access road betterment unit is estimated at
1.25 km per week, or 32 km per 26-week "dry season" working year. Opera-
tions involved in village access road reconstruction are: earthworks, mur-
ram excavation and loading, murram hauling, murram spreading, compacting,
and culverting. The manpower requirements and assumptions underlying the
capacity calculation are given below:
Access Road Capacity
(a) Earthworks (low spots only)
20 men capacity at 4.0 m /manday                   0.625 km/week
(b) Culverting (1.6 culverts/km)
4 men capacity                                     2 culverts/week
(c) Murram excavation and loading
excavation at 4.0 m /man day                       20 men
trailer loading                                    20 men
(d) Murram handing (5 km distance)
trailer load                                       2.5 J3
6 trailers (with 3 agricultural tractors)          75 m /day
capacity for handling                              1.25 km/week
(e) Murram spreading
15 men at 12 m /man day                            1.25 km/week
(f) Compacting
1,000 gal. water trailer followed by
five or six passes of towed roller.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 6
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Betterment Unit Development
A. Network Road Betterment Units
1.        Network road betterment equipment will initially be assembled in
Tabora. The composition of the units and the development sequence will be
finalized by the Regional Engineer and the Roads Engineer, who will draw
up an annual program in consultation with the RDD and DDD's. Table I
shows the priorities for work which should start with roads in Nzega and
Igunga Districts, thus directly supporting productive components of the Pro-
ject.
B. Access Road Betterment Units
2.        Development of the access road betterment units will be determined
by the Regional Engineer and Roads Engineer. The sequence of activities
during reconstruction of village access roads can be divided into four phases:
(a) Planning, organizing, and surveying;
(b) Culverting, earthworks, drainage, and clearing;
(c) Murram excavation, hauling, and spreading;
(d) Surface compaction.
3.        These phases must be carried out in sequence, with sufficient lead
time, and can be ongoing at several locations. That is, the planning team
can be working on access road A. Meanwhile, the earthworks and culverting
team is at work on road B, where the first team has already finished its
work. On road C, the gravelling operation is going on; and on road D, the
compaction team is at work. Thus, at any one time, roughly four village
access roads will be undergoing various phases of reconstruction. Since
each access road section is fairly short (2 km of bad spots average), the
entire unit will not be too widely disbursed. The pickup trucks and motor-
cycles will permit adequate communications between teams and will allow the
entire unit to return to the unit camp at night. Of course, the importance
of careful planning and coordination cannot be overemphasized.
4.        The sequence of operations at a typical moment for the Access
Roads Unit is illustrated in Table 2.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 6
Table 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1: Provisional List of Priorities for Betterment Work
Road Section                              Total Length            Bad Spots
(km)                  (km)
Tabora/Puge Road - Simbo                        50                   23
Simbo - Ziba                                    48                   14
Ziba - Igunga                                   47                    0
Igunga - Igurubi                                42                   36
Igurubi - Choma                                 49                   30
Choma - Itobo                                   48                   13
Itobo - Bukene                                  17                    0
Bukene - Mambali                                50                   40
Mambali - Tabora                                56                   12
Tabora - Igalula                                34                   12
Igalula - Kigwa                                 18                    3
Kigwa - Kisengi - Tura - Itigi                 132                   20
Itigi - Kigwa                                  132                   -
Kigwa - Tabora                                  37                    6
Tabora - Sikonge                                75                    5
Sikonge - Rungwa                              193                    80
Total             1,028                  294



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Access Roads Unit:  Typical Deployment
TEAM                     A                    B                      C                     D                      TOTAL
FUNCTIONS               Planning road se-    Bush clearing         Murram excavation    Watering                Village Access Road
quence              Culverting            Murram loading        Compaction              Betterment
Organizing village   Earthworks            Murram hauling
input               Drainage              Murram spreading
Surveying road
alignment
Scheduling work
RESOURCES (Weekly)
(A) Manpower
(i) Permanent      Executive Engineer   Sub-Inspector          Asst. Exec. Engr.    Foreman                 26-man permanent unit
(flexible)            (flexible)            (flexible)          Tractor Drivers (2)
Trainee               Foreman               Foremen (2)           Mechanic
Survey Assistant      Trainee               Tractor Drivers (3)
Chainmen (2)          Masons (2)            Mechanic
Driver                Carpenter/Black-      Clerk
smith               Driver
Storekeeper
(ii) Village
input         Village Chairman      Bush clearing (10)   Excavation (20)        Assistance (5)         107 men (average) village
(consultation)      Earthworks (20)       Loading (20)                                  input
Roads Committee (5)  Culverting (12)        Spreading (15)
(B) Equipment          Pickup Truck          Culvert Molds         Ag. Tractors (3)      Ag. Tractors (2)       Equipment for unit
Motorcycles (2)       Tipping Trailers      Water Trailer
(6)     Towed Compactor
Pickup Truck          Water pumps (3)
Motorcycles (2)
(C) Supplies           Surveying bquip-      Cement, Sand,         Tools, fuel            Water, fuel           Tools, fuel, food, water,
ment                  stone                                                             camp accomnodation
Tools
OUTPUT (weekly)         1-5 km                2 culverts            1.25 ko murram        2-5 km compaction    1.25 Im of village access
1.25 km avg. earth-   surfacing                                    road improved from "bad
works and drainage                                                spot" condition to all-
Minor bush clear-                                                  season, 3-meter murram
ance                                                              standard.
3 E
April 16, 1976                      D



ANNEX 5
Appendix 7
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads Component: Benefits
A. Network Road Benefits
The computation of benefits for network road maintenance and im-
provement follows the road user cost savings method. The computation assumed
a particular mix of routine maintenance work and reconstruction which is
feasible with the equipment and personnel to be made available, but which,
however, may be varied by the Roads Engineer and his staff in agreement with
Regional authorities and according to changing local priorities. To that
extent, the estimates are purely indicative of levels of return. The essen-
tial data for applying the user cost savings method are: initial traffic
levels by vehicle type; vehicle cost savings; traffic growth rate; and kilo-
meters of road improved or better-maintained per year. The basic assumptions
used are given below for network road improvement; foregone maintenance; and
incremental routine maintenance. The final benefit streams are given in Annex
10.
1.   Network Road Improvement.
(a) Initial Traffic Levels.
Consultants' July 1974 traffic count data were adjusted to
obtain annualized traffic levels (AADT). For thirteen road sections
included in Appendix 1, Table 3, these traffic levels were weighted by
the kilometers of bad spots to obtain an average base year traffic level
of 18.8 vehicles per day. Composition by vehicle type, from consultants'
data, is as follows:
trucks                34%
buses                 24%
light vehicles        42%
100%
(b) Vehicle cost savings.
The basic source used was Highway Design Standards Study:
Phase II (TRRL/IBRD Kenya Study), by S. R. Agarwal and C.A. Harral,
IBRD, October 6, 1975. This is a very recent and thorough study un-
dertaken in conditions not dissimilar from those in Tabora Region.
Vehicle, fuel, and maintenance costs were based on present costs in
Tabora, and vehicle operating cost savings were calculated to be:



ANNEX 5
Appendix 7
Page 2
Category                 Without Project          With Project        Savings
(TShs/v-km)          (TShs/v-km)         (TShs/v-km)
truck                         2.553                  1.755             0.798
bus                            2.280                 1.704             0.576
light vehicle                  1.673                 1.105             0.568
Roughness assumption:         10,000 mm/km           4,000 mm/km
These values were then increased by 50% to account for ex-
tremely high transport costs during the wet season, when bad spots are
impassable.l/ The weighted average vehicle cost savings thus obtained
was TShs. 0.972 per vehicle-kilometer.
(c) Traffic growth rate.
All vehicle categories were assumed to have an annual growth
rate of 5%.
(d) Benefit stream for road improvement
The network road betterment unit was assumed to improve
37.5 km in year 2, and 75 km each year thereafter through year 6;
then declining in capacity to zero by year 9. The cumulative dis-
tance improved, taken in the year following reconstruction, was mul-
tiplied by the cost savings per kilometer to obtain the benefit
stream. The savings per kilometer was computed based on the TShs 0.972
savings per vehicle-kilometer, multiplied by the annual traffic level (in-
creasing by 5% p.a. from the 1974 level of 18.8 vehicles per day). The
benefit stream is as follows:
Benefit/km                             Benefit stream
Year         '000 TShs.        Cumulative km          '000 TShs.
1            8.073                     0                    0
2            8.477                     0                    0
3            8.900                  37.5                333.8
4            9.346                 112.5              1,051.4
5            9.813                 187.5              1,839.9
6           10.303                 262.5              2,704.5
7           10.819                 337.5              3,651.4
8           11.360                 375.0              4,260.0
9           11.927                 393.8              4,696.9
10  on       12.524                 393.8              4,932.0
1/   If this assumption were dropped, the overall IER for the Roads component
would fall by about 2%.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 7
Page 3
2.   Foregone Maintenance.
Since maintenance of reconstructed roads is included as a cost,
it is necessary to compute the present level of maintenance foregone as
a negacive cost or benefit. This was computed by costing out the equipment
and personnel listed in Appendix 1, Table 1. Equipment costs were taken
as one-half the operating plus capital costs of new equipment. It was then
assumed that half of the equipment and half the personnel should be counted
as maintenance (rather than improvement), as this has been the ratio in
recent years. Based on these assumptions, a foregone maintenance cost of
TShs. 910/km/year was computed, and applied against the schedule of kilometers
shown in para. 1(d) above.
3.   Incremental Routine Maintenance.
In addition to maintaining the "bad spot" sections after recon-
struction, the Project equipment is assumed to maintain other sections of
road. This mainly involves routine blading by graders.
(a) Initial Traffic Levels.
Average traffic levels on network roads as a whole are
higher than the 18.8 vehicles per day over the "bad spot" sections,
since bad sections are mainly on smaller roads. A base-year traffic of
30.0 vpd has been assumed.
(b) Vehicle Cost Savings.
Following the TRRL/IBRD Kenya Study data, dry-road vehicle
operating cost savings were computed as noted in para. 1(b); the
weighted average vehicle cost savings obtained was TShs. 0.213 per
vehicle-kilometer. Roughness assumptions were 6,000 mm/km without
the project, and 4,000 mm/km with the project.
(c) Traffic growth rate.
Five percent annual traffic growth was assumed.
(d) Benefit stream for incremental road maintenance
Compared to available grader capacity, routine maintenance
benefits have been conservatively estimated as applying to a maximum of
only 200 km. Multiplying the cost savings per kilometer, based on the
above assumptions, by the maintenance schedule shown below, yields the
following benefit stream:



ANNEX 5
Appendix 7
Page 4
Benefit/km                                    Benefit stream
Year       TShs.         Incremental km Maintained       TShs. '000
1         2,831                       0                      0
2         2,973                       0                       0
3         3,121                       0                      0
4         3,277                      50                  163.9
5         3,441                     100                  344.1
6         3,613                     150                  542.0
7         3,794                     200                  758.8
8         3,984                     200                  796.8
9         4,183                     200                  836.6
10  on     4,392                     200                  878.4
B. Access Road Benefits
Access road benefits are assumed to arise from a combination of
vehicle operating cost savings; agricultural production benefits from all-
season access for inputs and services; and reductions in crop spoilage and
increased crop quality from more reliable access. The estimated savings
per village with an improved access road over one without, based on current
(1976) traffic, crop areas, yields and values, for villages in different
areas of Tabora, are calculated as follows (TSh/village/year):
Vehicle 1/        All-Season 2/   Crop Spoilage 3/    Total
Zone               Cost Savings    Inputs & Access         Savings         Benefits
Western                 595              26,350              8,800           35,745
Southern                740              17,025              4,630           22,395
Central                  85               7,675              1,300            9,060
North-west              330               8,755              1,480           10,565
Central East            220               8,800              1,610           10,630
North-east              595              16,275              5,560           22,430
Region                -                 -                weighted avg.  17,930
1/   Benefit computed as the difference between dry-weather operating costs of
roads with 10,000 mm/km roughness and extreme geometry (without-project)
and 6,000 mm/km roughness and average geometry (with-project). Data
from TRRL/IBRD Kenya Study.
2/   Benefit computed as 2% of total net value of production.
3/   Benefit computed as 1% of net value of marketed production.
It is further assumed that traffic, agricultural production and
marketed tonnage will grow at 5% a year in the Project period. Accordingly,
the savings figures have been enhanced, and have then been applied to vil-
lages on the following schedule:



ANNEX 5
Appendix 7
Page 5
Villages with              Total Benefits
Year                 Improved Access               (TSh'000)
1                       0                            0
2                       0                             0
3                       8                           16.6
4                      32                           64.6
5                      80                          183.1
6                     128                          307.7
7                    176                           444.2
8                     224                          593.6
9                    224                           623.3
10                     224                          654.4



ANNEX 5
Appendix 8
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads Component Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITY                                                             DATE
Proposed credit approval date                                      Apr 1977
UK grant approval                                                  June 1977
Staff recruitment, equipment ordered and shipped                   June/Sept 1977
Tentative credit effectiveness date                                Aug 1977
Arrival of key tech. assistance personnel                          Sept/Oct 1977
Arrival of other tech. assistance                                  Dec 1977/Mar 78
Arrival of equipment on site                                       Mar 1978
Review of Project component for continuance of                     Dec 1979
technical assistance
Completion of Phase                                                Sept 1982






ANNEX 6
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fuelwood Production
A. Introduction
Project Perspective                                            Para. 1
Alternative Energy Sources                                     Para. 3
Wood fuel resources                                            Para. 5
B. The Problem
Domestic demand                                                Para. 9
Requirements for curing tobacco                                Para. 10
Previous attempts to solve the problem                         Para. 13
C. The Fuelwood Production Component
Objectives                                                     Para. 15
Organization and Method                                        Para. 16
Training                                                       Para. 21
Organization of Nurseries                                      Para. 24
Monitoring Indices                                             Para. 27
Expected Problems                                              Para. 28
D. Support Policies
The Village Act                                                Para. 29
Marketing Forest Produce                                       Para. 30
Research                                                       Para. 31
Appendix 1:  Areas of Forest in the Tabora Block
(From Schultz Inventory, 1973)
Appendix 2:  Growth Rates in Simbo and Urumwa Trial Plots
Appendix 3:  Estimates of Village Wood Demand and Supply
Appendix 4:  Organization of Fuelwood Planting
Appendix 5:  Recommended Procedure for Measuring Fuel
Consumption in Tobacco Curing Barns






ANNEX 6
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fuelwood Production
A. Introduction
Project Perspective
1.        The Tabora Region lies ecologically in the woodland zone (miombo) of
Tanzania. Human settlement has been restricted historically by the incidence
of Tsetse, and the largest area of gazetted forest reserve in Tanzania lies
within the Region.
2.         The forest is thus largely intact except near settlement and
particularly in rural areas where tobacco has been grown. However, several
of these areas, particularly in Tabora, Urambo and Nzega districts are now
experiencing wood fuel shortages both for domestic use and for tobacco curing.
The present proposals are for a pilot attempt to replace the disappearing
miombo woodland with fast growing plantations organized on a village basis
covering a few groups of villages. Its potential use is especially for
tobacco curing.
Alternative Energy Sources
3.         The sources of energy available in the Tabora Region include oil,
coal, solar energy, and wood fuel/charcoal. Oil is essentially imported and
transported by rail from Dar es Salaam. Except in the towns, its use as a
domestic fuel is limited and its use in tobacco curing is negligible. It
has been the subject of a number of price rises in the last three years and
the current price of kerosene, TSh 1.33 per liter ex pump, makes it an
unlikely competitor with wood. Coal is mined near Mbeya and is transported
by road. It is of low grade, and is also expensive -- a delivered price was
quoted as TSh 410 per ton. Tabora would seem ideally situated to use solar
energy, having 266 non-rainy days recorded. It has been used with success as
a supplementary energy source for tobacco curing in the U.S.A. and its
extension to Eastern Africa holds great hope and should be investigated, but
problems of heat storage at night limit the scope of solar energy at present.
Charcoal is used domestically, but not for tobacco curing -- its use is
confined mainly to towns. The Forest Division price was TSh 12.00 per bag.
4.         Wood at this stage, remains the most abundant, adaptable and
cheapest fuel, and is likely to continue so in the immediate futures Prices
vary:  the rate for firewood ranges from TSh 7.80/m  to TSh 15.00 m , depend-
ing on source and quality.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Wood fuel resources
5.         Natural Forest.  The forest resources of the Tabora Region have
recently been investigated through the forestry inventory carried out for
the Tanzania Government by C. D. Schultz & Co. (1973). I/ The areas of
production recorded are given in Appendix 1, and are shown on Map IBRD
12516. Data indicate that the volume of wood suitable for fuel and char-
coal 3production in untouched miombo woodland is fairly uniform at about
43 m /ha for all strata sampled, and this is believed to be a reasonable
figure for the neighboring areas too. Of the species occurring in
the miombo forest sampled, 64% by volume consists of Julbernardia
globiflora (30.8%), Brachystegia spiciformis (21.7%), and B. boehmii (11.4%).
Of these, a high proportion (8%, 33% and 39%) was reported to be of veneer
quality, and in addition, significant volumes of fine hardwoods such as
Pterocarpus angolensis and Afrormosia angolensis occur. When forest is
cleared for agriculture, these high value products are often neither marketed
nor marketable, and, it can be assumed therefore, that most of the growing
stock will be burnt when land is cleared and that the yield may be in the
region of 40 m /ha of firewood.
6.        The selective harvesting of natural miombo woodland is possible
for sust5ined production over a long period, but the yield is low, often less
than 2 m /ha/year. Moreover, harvesting is expensive, and distances to con-
sumption centers soon become great. Thus, the management of natural miombo
forest for wood production alone is unattractive. However, there are a number
of important functions served by the miombo woodland, including: prevention
of soil erosion, harmonization of water yield, amenity value, honey and bees-
wax production, and wildlife and flora conservation.
7.        Forest Plantations.  A few trials laid down by the Forest Division
Silviculture research station have indicated that yields of fuel and pole
wood of 20-30 m /ha/year may be obtained from well-managed plantations of
exotic species, with first yields in 5-8 years. The creation of high yield-
ing plantations near to centers of consumption, therefore, has advantages
over exploitation of the forest: shorter haulage distances, higher profits
per unit area, and more uniform produce. It would also relieve pressure on
natural woodland.
8.        Appendix 2 lists volume production figures derived from Forest
Division sources, and mission estimates from Tabora. Enough information
exists to enable positive yield estimates to be made for certain areas. The
major species recommended at present, based on reliable trials, are (in order
of preference):
1/   Indigenous Forest Inventory of five areas of the United Republic of
Tanzania. Vol. 2 of 5 volumes, Tables of Project data June 1973.
C.D. and Co. Ltd., Vancouver, for Government of Tanzania and C.I.D.A.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Eucalyptus tereticornis (including Eucalyptus 'C' from
Zanzibar, 'Mysore hybrid' from India, and Eucalyptus
'12 ABL' from Madagascar)
Eucalyptus citriodora
Eucalyptus camaldulensis (probably best from Katherine
or Lake Albacutya)
Eucalyptus saligna
No other species should be considered for afforestation pending further re-
search. Species which are unacceptably slow in growth in Tabora include
Gmelina arborea (which is so outstandingly successful in moister parts of
West Africa), Azadirachta indica (Neem), and other species of Eucalyptus.
Some improvement may be attainable through research, but management of
plantations can soundly be based on the above species now.
B. The Problem
Domestic demand
9.        Various estimates of consumption for domestic use have been made.
The following apply to rural communities:
Source                             Per capita estimate/yr
(a) FAO (Jongma, pers. comm., 1976)         0.4 m  cooking only
1.5 m  cooking plus local
industrial use
(b) Openshaw, 1970 1/                       2.1 m  (household)
0.2 m3 (non-household)
2.3 m  (total)
(c) Ntemi (Tabora, 1976)                    1.4 - 2.4 m3 2/
For Tabora Region, a domestic fuel consumption of 10 m  has been assumed for
a family of 6 (see Appendix 3) to estimate village needs, though in condi-
tions of severe shortage, this must be expected to fall considerably.
1/   Openshaw, K., 1971.  Tanzania Timber Trends Study, Project Work Document
FO:SF/TAN 15.
2/   Based on an estimate of 1.2 m  per family/month.  The range is for family
sizes from 6-10.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Requirements for curing tobacco
10.       A large number of villages in Tabora and Urambo districts grow
Virginia tobacco, and large quantities of fuelwood are required for3curing
the leaf.  Estimates of fuel requirements vary ensrmously from 53 m  per 450
kg of tobacco cured (Openshaw, 1971) to 1.5 - 3 m in specially-constructed
experimental kilns at the Tumbi research station. The report by Swai and
Yull (1968) 1/ recommended urgent research on the amount of wood used in the
currently-used mud and wattle barns be carried out, but no precise figures
were3found in Tabora. From the information that is available, a figure of
42 m of solid wood per ha of tobacco grown may reasonably be used for
calculation. This can vary considerably with such factors as improved barn
design, on which work has been done in Zambia and elsewhere. Until farmers
become more wealthy, however, it seems unlikely that improvements in barn
design and construction will become widespread. WSth a well-constructed and
well-maintained traditional barn, a figure of 20 m (solid) fuelwood could
be achieved to cure 454 kg (a one-ha crop) of tobacco.
11.       Distances of 16-32 km for the transport of fuelwood were commonly
quoted in the old tobacco growing areas, and costs to the farmer varied with
location. Cutting and loading were by the users, and no forest fees or
royalties are collected.  About 1.5 m  (solid) were reported3cut per man day.
Full costs of transport are estimated to be about TSh 1.75/m /km for stacked
timber3, although TAT charges are subsidized and work out at only about TSh
0.61/m /km. Subsidizing transport may delay the time when wood shortage
for industrial and domestic requirements is felt to be acute, but will not
solve it. 2/
12.       The new complexes, in which fuelwood is still apparently plentiful,
should assess the remaining volumes of wood available to them, and plans
should be drawn up to phase the harvesting of the remaining areas with re-
planting. Indications of how this should be calculated are given below, but
it cannot be emphasized too strongly that in the production of wood fuel,
long-term planning is essential, and that the village authorities must be
involved in it.
1/   "Fuel for curing Virginia tobacco in Tanzania."  Unpubl. report, Forest
Div., Dar es Salaam.
2/   Questions such as whether it pays a tobacco village to plant its own
timber or not, and the benefits or otherwise of transport subsidies
on wood fuel have been tested in a linear programming model (Annex 7).
On reasonable assumptions, it is shown that it benefits an established
village to start a plantation: and that transport subsidy probably
has no production benefits but simply represent an income transfer --
to a relatively well-off group.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Previous attempts to solve the problem
13.       The problem of fuelwood supplies for tobacco curing is not new.
The report by Swai and Yull (1968) records concern in 1962. The report
proposes surveying the remaining areas of miombo woodland within economic
hauling distance; carrying out Soil surveys, in potential planting areas;
collection of information on barn design and efficiency; and preparation of
plans for each tobacco growing area to establish fuelwood supplies. The
report considers three approaches to fuel plantations: one in which indi-
vidual farmers plant their own woodlots; one in which communal woodlots were
organized; and a third in which an independent fuel growing and selling
organization would be set up. Little action has followed, and natural forest
continues to be the main source of fuel (aided by subsidized transport).
The Forest Division has set up a number of nurseries and supplied trees to
farmers and villages, but this attempt at getting farmers to plant their own
woodlots has largely failed.
14.       The reasons for this failure are important to seek if the position
is to be improved. From discussions with Forest Division Officers, Regional
and District planning staff, and with village chairmen and secretaries, the
following emerged:
(a) The trees supplied were often delivered too late for
planting (Village chairman).
(b) Farmers gave priority to cash and food crops and delayed
planting trees until too late in the season (Forest
Division).
(c) Poor maintenance of planted trees (inspection).
(d) Wrong species choice (e.g., Eucalyptus maidenii).
(e) Villagers did not feel involved in the program - to
the point of antagonism to the Forest Division - and
cases were reported of plantations being burnt by
villagers.
C. The Fuelwood Production Component
Objectives
15.       The present proposals are thought to overcome these problems.  They
envisage:
(a) The supply of fuelwood for domestic needs through a
pilot scheme involving a limited number of villages;
(b) The supply of fuelwood for tobacco curing through
similar pilot schemes;



ANNEX 6
Page 6
(c) The establishment of village ownership of woodlots;
(d) The training of village personnel in forestry practice;
(e) The involvement of the new village organization in
planning and managing fuelwood resources.
The forest area survey, and the soils survey in villages, will arise from
other components of the Tabora Rural Development Project, whilst barn design
for fuel saving is already in hand at the Tumbi research center which is
receiving additional help in the Project.
Organization and Method
16.       The steps necessary to implement the pilot component are:
(a) The selection of pilot areas for woodlot development;
(b) The assessment of village requirements of wood, and
plantation area to supply it;
(c) Land capability surveys to determine areas of village
land available for forestry, and their productivity;
(d) The organization of village planting;
(e) Setting up forest training courses for villagers.
17.       Selection of villages for the pilot scheme.  It has been assumed
that the villages will be surrounding the nurseries at Mabama, Urambo and
Puge. The villages provisionally suggested in each District are shown below,
but priorities would be set by the District authorities concerned. A plant-
ing target of 50 ha per year has been assumed for 14 villages, but it may be
preferred to extend the number of villages and reduce the individual targets.l/
Estimates drawn up on the basis of tobacco-growing villages shown below, give
a total area per village of 400 ha after 8 years:
(a) Tabora District: Nursery to supply: MABAMA
Villages: Mabama, Isila, Lololangulu, Itinka, Chese
Average distance to villages: 25 km
No. of families: 2095
Area: 18420 ha
Project planting target: 250 ha/yr for 8 years
1/   The model (Annex 7) suggests a little over 40 ha/yr for a 400 family
village may be optimal.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
(b)  Urambo District:  Nursery to supply:  URAMBO
Average distance to villages: 25 km
No. of families: 2177
Villages: Kimbo, Mungano, Kololeni, Katunguru, Vumilia
Area: 59686 ha
Project planting target: 250/ha/yr for 8 years
(c)  Nzega District:   Nursery to supply:  PUGE
Average distance to villages: 25 km
Villages: 4
No. of families: (Approximately 1200)
Area: n/a
Project planting target: 200/ha/yr for 8 years
These schemes should be started as soon as possible. The existing Forest
Division staff should be adequate for supervision of the nurseries and for
extension.
18.       Planting requirements.  Few of the villages had been surveyed and
registered at the time of appraisal, and the number of families in each is
variable. The distance between each village was reported as being 5-11 km,
and the area per 100 families as about 2025 ha. Each tobacco-growing village
would require about 3.6 ha of fuelwood (the range is 1.8 to 4.3 ha) per
family for domestic and industrial needs, but until land capability surveys
to indicate areas of land to be allocated to tree growing have been carried
out, the amount of land needed cannot be estimated closely. Assistance for
land capability mapping on Regional and village level is included in the
Project. In Nzega District, which tends towards somewhat lower 5ainfall, it
would be reasonable to expect lower wood yields, i.e., 10-12.5 m /ha/yr. A
minimum planting target of 200 ha per year for the villages is, therefore,
suggested. Puge, which is near the main tobacco growing areas of Nzega dis-
trict, could also supply plants to the northern villages of Tabora District.
19.       Organization of planting.  Various alternatives for plantations in
tobacco producing villages were discussed with Regional and District Forest
Division and Tobacco Authority of Tanzania (TAT) staff and village chairmen.
Individual farmers' woodlots were preferred by TAT officers, who felt that
villages would not achieve planting targets: experience with this approach
has not been good, however, (para. 14). Village block plantings were favored



ANNEX 6
Page 8
by others. However, although the Forest Division is competent to carry out
plantation projects, the cost of such projects are high, particularly when
the produce (firewood) is widely regarded as a "free good;" and this would
also mean minimum village participation. Such a centralized approach was,
therefore, rejected.
20.       The technical preference is for woodlots to be planted in one or
a few large blocks within the village area. This approach was favored by two
village chairmen, who knew their areas well, and felt competent to allocate
land. Forest Division Staff, must, of course, be available for advice on
species selection, cultural methods, and phasing of operations and harvesting,
and at least one Assistant Forester and one Field Assistant should be avail-
able for these responsibilities in each forest nursery. The year-by-year
activities involved in organizing village blocks are outlined in Appendix 4.
Agricultural crops - maize would be most suitable - could be planted between
rows of trees in the year of planting, but the spacing of the trees must be
reasonably accurate at 2 x 3m, a width selected to make agri-silviculture, or
the combination of agricultural and forest crops, easier, and great care must
be taken to favor the trees.
Training
21.       Plantation management.  The orientation of villagers towards tree
growing for fuelwood production needs attention. The ownership of the trees
by the village would go some way to supporting the schemes, but training in
the basic technical requirements is also essential. The following would be
an appropriate syllabus, with courses to last about 7 - 10 days:
The need for, and benefits from, forestry
The care of plants in the nursery 1/
Transport of transplants
Protection of planting stock awaiting planting
Land preparation
Methods of laying out spacing
Planting methods
Weeding and cleaning
1/   It has been proposed above that the raising of trees should continue to
be carried out in Forest Division nurseries as the quality and origin
of planting stock is too important to be left to unskilled people.
However, in due course, village nurseries are a possibility.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
Protection from fire, grazing, and termites
Felling and coppicing
Singling of coppice
Use of tools.
22.       Clearly, priority among villages for attending training courses
would have to be determined. Two men from each should be selected, and
courses run in July/August at Farmers Training Centers. The maximum number
of participants should be 20 - 25. Teachers for the courses might best
be the responsible officers for the Region and Districts, rather than spe-
cialized lecturers from Forest Training Schools or the university. A simple
manual with a title such as "Management Guidelines for Village Woodlots"
should be prepared, for issue to course participants (as well as to TANU and
village leaders). This could be based on existing literature 1/ translated
into Swahili, and would form the basis of the course. Assuming one course
was held annually, and that the cost per day per participant were TSh 20, 10
villages would be covered per year at a cost of TSh 1600 plus travelling, or
(say), TSh 2000 per course.
23.       The improved use of tools.  An average length of log for use in a
tobacco barn is about 1 meter.  Assuming that a 450 cut is taken at each end
with an axe, the wastage would appear to be about 10% of the original log
volume. This amounts to a significant addition to the already wasteful use
of fuel in barns, and it is recommended that training courses cover the
selection and use of handtools. One village chairman complained about the
design of the (Chinese) axes currently available, and it is certain that the
pattern could be improved on using local manufacture. The use of bow saws
would also greatly reduce waste and it is recommended that the use of these
tools be also introduced in training course: 75-90 cm (30-36 inch) bow saws
would be ideal. Axes and bow saw frames could be manufactured locally,
possibly as part of the small industry component of the Project (Annex 8).
Organization of Nurseries
24.       The nurseries should be approximately one hectare in extent, with
a good access road right into the nursery area. Three-strand barbed wire
fencing should be erected, but should be supplemented by durable hedges, to
be planted as soon as possible. Nurseries would use well-tried techniques
in use already, that is, germination of seed in a seedbed followed by trans-
planting into polythene sleeves 10 cm flat width by 15 cm long (capacity -
500 ml). Other possible cheaper techniques, such as the use of earth balls,
should be investigated during the project's operation.
1/   See for instance, Wood, P. J. (1966) A guide to growing trees in Sukuma-
land Technical Note (New Series) No. 2 Silvicultural Section, Lushoto,
Tanzania.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
25.       Nurseries are proposed at Mabamaba, Urambo and Puge.  There are
nurseries at the two former places, and cost estimates make allowance for the
possibility of developing these sites. At Mabamba, the existing water sup-
plies are inadequate, and provision has been made for digging a shallow well
and installing a pump and water storage tank. A similar sum has been included
at Puge, but at Urambo, piped water from an existing source is assumed.
Staffing
26.       Forest Division staff already exist in all three project areas
and it is assumed that they will continue in their present capacities.
Inter alia, they will be responsible for continuing extension work to villages
not included in the project. Extra staff proposed are as follows:
Forester (1). This would be a responsible man in overall charge
of the three nurseries. He would be provided with a FWD pick-up,
would be stationed in Tabora, and would be responsible for overall
planning of the disposition of planting areas in villages, and for
organizing the Forest Division's technical assistance. He would
also be required to assess and monitor the progress of the sub-
project.
Assistant Foresters (2). Their responsibilities would be the
organization of seed and plant supplies for the villages, helping
to draw up planting targets, and surveying and mapping planted
areas in collaboration with village officials. They would be
in charge of the nurseries, and would be provided with vehicles
for extension work. However, as all the villages should be less
than 25 km from the nurseries, a relatively low mileage of 10,000
km per year is anticipated.
Field Assistants (3). These personnel would be attached to the
nurseries under the Assistant Foresters and would carry out nursery
and extension duties. They would be provided with bicycles. If
the number of villages per nursery is increased beyond five, more
Field Assistants would be required.
Monitoring Indices
27.       The Forester in charge would be responsible for the continuous
monitoring of the project. This should check village achievement, and
growth rates, as follows:
(a) Number of hectares of plantation established annually
by each village, compared with planting target.
(b) The survival percent and the number of plants planted
per hectare (based on a sample in each village), in
each year's area. A survival rate above 80% should be
the minimum achievement.



ANNEX 6
Page 11
(c) The growth rate achieved in each village. Height is
the most important parameter, and a rule of thumb would
be 2.5 meters per year for the dominant height (the
mean height of the 100 biggest trees per hectare).
About 12.5 meters at age 5-6 would indicate that the
estimated volume production of 15 m /ha/yr was likely
to be achieved, assuming that at least 80% of the
original 1667 trees per hectare were surviving.
Expected Problems
28.       Village woodlots of this kind are somewhat new in Tanzania, and
while the village personnel remain unskilled and unexperienced some diffi-
culties may be expected. Anticipated problems and some suggested solutions,
are outlined below:
(a) Poor selection and demarcation of planting land. Forest
Division Staff should be involved at all stages, and
provide forestry expertise to the village land planning
teams, which would demarcate planting areas and prepare
working maps for village plantation blocks.
(b) Shortage of labor at planting time. Agriculture and
forestry are competitors for labor. It is vital if
these village schemes are to succeed, that village chairmen
and their committees are rigorous in their labor planning.
Responsibility, once the planting stock has been delivered,
is that of the village, and this is one important aspect
to be covered on the training courses. Realistic planting
targets are essential.
(c)  Poor planting techniques and organization.  Accurate spac-
ing is important both for the form and yield of the planted
trees and for agri-silviculture. Frequent appraisals of
what is actually achieved will be needed, and serious
deficiencies such as poor survival, will need the active
participation of village chairmen to put right.
(d) Poor maintenance and weeding. Personnel who are aware of
the standards required for plantation maintenance are
essential, and will be available from the proposed train-
ing courses. Frequent visits and advice from Forest
Division Staff are also important.
(e) Fire risks. Eucalypts are thin-barked and susceptible to
fires. Clean-hoed firelines will be needed in the planta-
tions and work schedule in villages should include provi-
sion for these.



ANNEX 6
Page 12
(f) Grazing damage. Yields will be greatly reduced if grazing
is allowed in young plantations, or immediately after cop-
picing. Fencing is obviously out of the question, and
training and propaganda are most important. In all
matters of protection, the advice and interest of Forest
Division staff, working with the village authorities, are
the key to success.
D. Support Policies
The Village Act
29.       The Village Act (See Annex 1, paras. 35-39) has made several
aspects of village forestry more likely to succeed. In particular, the
village has a title to its whole area, the village chairmen and committee
have power to organize work schedules and to ensure work is done at the
right time, and each village will be self accounting.
Marketing Forest Produce
30.       Possibilities exist for putting forest produce from village areas
on to a marketable basis. Each registered village has powers under the
Village Act to set up funds. Forest produce from village areas - poles,
timber and fuelwood - could be sold either to villagers themselves or to
outside agencies, using the rates in the forest ordinance as a guide, and
could be an important source of financing. There may be a case for allowing
headloads of domestic fuel to be taken free of charge, but industrial fuel-
wood (including that required for tobacco-curing) should be paid for. If the
blocks and land set aside for forestry are managed communally, income from
the natural forests, and later on from the plantations, could be paid into
the village forest fund. Ultimately, a village may wish to employ its own
forest officer, and to set up its own tree nursery, both of which could be
financed through timber sales.
Research
31.       The plantation proposals are based on the results of past research
and trials. The research forester in Tabora is an experienced officer and is
competent to carry out further any trials needed, and no further provision
for research is therefore made. It is suggested that the following topics
require study:
(a) Effect of different spacing on wood yield. Areas set in
villages for research would be administered by the Forest
Division (FD). Plants could be supplied free for these
areas, and the FD would supervise felling and measurement
of the produce or would be retained by the village.



ANNEX 6
Page 13
(b) Selection of new species. Provenance and species perfor-
mance trials are desirable to test new genetic material.
Seed would be obtained through the Silviculturist, Lushoto,
and the plots planted under the direction of FD staff. At
maturity, the trees would be felled, measured, and remain
the property of the village.
(c) Assessment of fuelwood requirements. There is a paucity
of valid information on the actual inputs of fuelwood to
tobacco curing barns under farm conditions. It is recom-
mended that the research Field Assistant in Tabora starts
immediately on a survey, making careful measurements of
barn dimensions, the amount of tobacco cured, and the
time taken. Data to be recorded on fuel are indicated in
Appendix 5. It will be necessary for the researcher to
spend time continuously at the kilns, and it may be pos-
sible for him to cover 2 or 3 at a time. About a week
will be necessary for each cure. As wide a range of barn
sizes and types as possible should be covered -- it is
suggested about 20 barns in each of Tabora, Urambo and
Nzega Districts.
(d) Improvements in nursery work. The stand of nursery work
in the District nurseries visited was high: however, the
cost quoted per plant was also high, probably because of
their small scale of operations. As planting builds up,
nurseries should expand so that each one produces about
500,000 plants per year.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Areas of Forest in the Tabora Block* (From Schultz Inventory, 1973)
'000 ha
Goweko Forest Reserve (FR)                                      28.06
Itulu hills FR                                                 290.61
Mpembapazi FR                                                   48.95
Nyahua mt enga FR                                              459.83
Sikonge FR                                                      34.91
Swangala FR                                                     60.79
Uganda FR                                                      100.80
Ukigwa rubuga FR                                                85.15
Wala FR                                                         79.44
Public land                                                    106.99
Total Product
Total Productive Forest                                      1,289.55
Total "non productive" forest                                   88.89
Total non-forest                                             1,046.97
Total enumerated area, Tabora Block*                         2,425.40
* This area covers only part of Tabora Region.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Growth Rates in Simbo and Urumwa Trial Plots I/
h-
Location                        t    Z      d-   dom      G        V
Plot. No.      Species         yrs   N     cm    m      m2/ha   m3/ha    V/t       I
Urumwa 4   Eucalyptus "C"    6.2   85   10.9   16.1   15.1   121.56   19.6    -
Urumwa 4      "        "       7.3   85   11.6   16.7   17.2   143.62   19.7   22.1
Urumwa 4      "        "       8.3   82   12.5   19.0   18.7   177.65   21.4   34.0
Urumwa 5   E.  citriodora    6.2   90   11        15.6   16.4   127.92   20.6    -
Urumwa 5      "                7.25  90   11.5   16.2   18.4   149.04   20.6   21.1
Simbo 3    E.  camaldulensis 8.25  -    12.6   18.2   21.3   193.83   23.5   44.8
Simbo 3       '        "       6.2   97   10.5   14.6   15.8   115.34   18.6   38,7
Simbo 2    Eucalyptus "C"    7.25  94   13.3   18.3   26.5   242.48   33.44   -
Simbo      Gmelina arborea   7       97    7.7    7.3    8.3    30.3       4.3    -
Urumwa     Azadirachta         4     16    -       4.8    -        -        -      -
indica
1/ Volumes are calculated from V - 0.5G x h-dom. Solid volumes overbark. The
factor of 0.5 is higher than that normally used for timber, but a con-
servative estimate for firewood. In fact, some poles would also be produced.
A reduction of 15% for roads and gaps would be applicable. All the
Eucalyptus species could then be relied on to produce 17-20 m3/ha/yr over
6-8 years.
Note:            t = age in years                 d- = mean diameter, cm
%N = percent survival             h
V = volume of wood/ha, m3         dom = mean height of 100 trees
of greatest diameter per
ha           2
G = basal area/ha, m



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
TANZANIA                               Page 1
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Village Wood Demand And Supply
1. Demand
Assumptions            Village is of 250 families
Tobacco grown at 0.8 ha per family
One ha of tobacco yields 675 kg of cured leaves-/
0.8 ha yields 540 kg leaves
35 m3 wood is required to dry 450 kg (range 20-53)
42 m3 required per 0.8 ha tobacco per year
53 m3 required per hectare tobacco per year
10 m3 required domestically per family per yearl/
2 m3 of poles required per family per year 3/
Therefore               (a)  Annual wood fuel need/family
Tobacco curing                42 m3
Domestic                      10 m3
Poles                          2 m3
54 m
54 m3
(b)  Village requirement.  13500 m3 per year
2. Supply
Plantations of Eucalyptus can yield 12.5 - 30 m3 per hectare per year
depending on site and treatment. A figure of 15 m3/ha/yr should be
easily achieved on an 8-year rotation. Variations in yield affect
the area of plantations needed as follows (areas in ha):
Yield m3/ha/yr      C  12.5      15      20     25      30
Area needed/family
domestic fuel poles    1.0        0.8    0.6    0.5    0.4
Area needed/family
Tobacco fuel only       3.4       2.8    2 1    1.7    1.4
Total area/family       4.3       3.6    2.7    2.2    1.8
Village area domestic 250       200    150    125    100
Village area tobacco
fuel                   850      700    525    425    350
Total village area
of plantation req.  1100       900    675    550    450
1/ Source: General Manager, TAT, Tabora.
2/ 1.5 m3 per caput x 6 persons = 10 m3.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 3
Page 2
3.   Areas of village and average haulage distance for fuelwood from
plantations.
Assumption             250 families with 0.8 tobacco occupy          200 ha
250 families with 2.7 ha food crops occupy  675 ha
875 ha
add 15% for roads, houses, etc.              1000 ha
Woodlot requirement 1100 ha
Add 15% for roads, firebreakers, etc.        1265 ha
Total                                        2265 ha
If 50% of village area is plantable, this gives a total area of 4500 ha. This
represents a circular area of radius 3.8 km approx., and a maximum haulage
distance of say 4-5 could be assumed for produce from village plantations.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Fuelwood Planting
The annual activities involved in organizing fuelwood planting
in village blocks would be:
Year 0 (Preparation):
(i) Village surveyed and registered, the number of families
(NF) assessed, and wood requiremeit calculated.  Phe wood
requirement would be: (NF x 10 m ) f (NT x 35 m )
when NT = area in ha of tobacco grown.
(ii) Existing natural woodland assessed for remaining volume
of fuel and poles (VR). If VR x 8 is less than the
annual wood requirement, further supplies of wood outside
the village must be sought, under advice from Forest
Division Officers.
(iii) The annual planting target determined. The following formula
may be used:
1.25 NF f 2.8 NT
8                  ha
This formula assumes an annual yield of 15 m  from
Eucalyptus plantations on a rotation or annual cutting
cycle of 8 years. In practice, a notional area within the
capability of the village may be selected instead.
(iv) The area so calculated selected and demarcated by the
Village Committees, drawing as required, on the village
planning unit and Forest Divisio5 Staff who may have to
advise on the likelihood of 15 m /year being obtained.
(v) Clearance of land begun.
(vi) The number of plants needed assessed on the basis of
1835 per ha to be planted. This allows for 1667 plants
per ha at a spacing of 2 x 3 m, plus about 10% for
replacements in the first season, and these should be
ordered from the Forest Division nursery a year before
they are required.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 2
(vii) Training courses for 2 men per village organized at
local Farmer's Training Centers (FTC's).
Year 1
(i) Village Chairmen and committees prepare work schedules
for village work teams, depending on whether plantations
are to be communally or individually worked. Workers
must be made available at planting time for trees.
(ii)  Land prepared for planting.
(iii)  Plants delivered by Forest Division transport at a
suitable time for planting, say mid-December. Plants
are stored and watered if necessary.
(iv)  Planting, weeding and tending are organized by Village
authorities.
(v) Year 2 area is selected, demarcated and cleared.
(vi)  Plants for Year 2 ordered from Forest Division.
(vii)  If possible, further villagers are sent on forest
training courses.
Year 2
(i) Tending of Year I planting continues.
(ii) Year 2 plants planted.
(iii) Year 3 area selected, demarcated and cleared.
Year 3 - 7
(i) Planting, maintenance and annual orders continue.
Year 8
(i) Tending of Year 7 planting continues.
Year 9
(i) Year 1 planting is felled by the village and measured
for production, on a sampling basis, by Forest Division
Staff. Coppice regrowth should follow: in the case
of failures, re-planting, as in earlier years, must be
undertaken.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
Page 3
Year 25
(i) Year I planting is felled for the third and last time.
(ii) Area stumped and re-planted, or, new plants, inserted
between old ones in the rows.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 5
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Recommended Procedure for Measuring Fuel Consumption in Tobacco Curing Barns
Type of construction of barn (e.g. mud/wattle; concrete block/ asbestos sheet)
Dimensions of barn (length, breadth, height)
Time and date of commencement of cure
Time and date of completion of cure
Weight of leaves cured
Daily consumption of wood, by species if possible
Length of time since trees were felled, if possible.
Note: Each piece of wood would be measured individually for length and
mid-diameter. The length should as far as possible be the length of the
piece including that part lost through cost-cutting with an axe, thus:
l                                                    l
l                                                    l
I    t                    Diameter (cm)
|1  F                     at mid-point
I                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Length (cm)      _____






ANNEX 7
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fuelwood Production: A Model of the Timber Investment Decision
A.  The Problem                                                     Para. 1
B.  Assumptions                                                     Para. 4
Figure 1: Spatial Configuration
C. The Model
Table 1: Inputs and Outputs of the Major Activities
D. The Solutions
Basic Solutions                                                Para. 8
Table 2: The Base Case
The Timber Alternative                                         Para. 13
Table 3: Base Case
Figure 2: Village Income Over Time With and Without
Timber Investment
E.  Parametric Solutions and Policy Implications                   Para. 16
Table 4:  Timber Investment with respect to
Discount Rate
Table 5:  Timber Investment with respect to
Transport Costs
Table 6:  Average Annual Timber Investment
Table 7:  Forest Depletion Rates
F.  Conclusions                                                    Para. 29






ANNEX 7
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fuelwood Production: A Model of the Timber Investment Decision *
A. The Problem
1.        Tobacco, the principal cash crop in several areas of Tabora Region,
and an important source of foreign exchange earnings, requires fuelwood for
its curing. Heretofore, villagers have obtained this fuelwood from the sur-
rounding natural forest. The depletion of this forest over time has resulted
in increasing costs -- both in money costs and labor input -- for the fuel-
wood input. At some stage, the forest will be depleted to an extent that
tobacco will no longer be profitable, and the villagers will either have to
move, change their cropping patterns, or, as has been suggested, cultivate
their own timber for fuel.
2.        The primary objective of this model is to determine the optimal
timing and scale of the timber investment decision for a typical Tabora
tobacco-producing village. Because a timber cultivation activity interacts
with other village activities and competes for its most important resource --
labor -- analysis of the problem cannot be of a partial nature; all of the
principal activities must be considered simulataneously. Thus several
secondary objectives can be considered as well: the optimal mix of tobacco,
maize, subsistence crops and timber, the time path of village spatial de-
velopment, and the optimal village size given different levels of the ex-
haustible resource, forest.
3.        These questions will be analyzed in the context of a village-
level linear programming model which is both dynamic (comprising thirty
sets of annual activities) and spatially segmented vis-a-vis the forest.
*    The problem was identified by the Tabora Rural Development Project
mission. The model has been prepared, and this Annex drafted, by
G. P. Kutcher of the Bank's Development Research Center in collabora-
tion with John H. Cleave and John H. Duloy. Consultant Peter J. Wood
provided information on the forestry aspects.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
B. Assumptions
4.          The following assumptions, based on information from Tabora,
are included in the model:
(a) The village is isolated along one side of a road
as in figure 1.
Figure 1: Spatial Configuration
annulus 3
annulus 1
/   -/
/
t'i{i~  _I __
road
Depending on the size, age, and intensity of tobacco
cultivation, the forest will have been depleted to
a radius as shown by the semi-circular forest line.
This radius is a variable input parameter to the
1/ Several other spatial configurations could be considered without loss of
generality. E.g., if there were no village opposite this one, the full
annuli would apply and the forest exhaustion rate would be halved; also
or alternatively, neighboring villages on the same size of the road
could place bounds perpendicular to the road on the higher annuli and
thus increase the forest exhaustion rate.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
model, but typically it is about five kilometers. The
remaining uncut forest is segmented into annuli of one
kilometer width following LUschian analysis. Assuming
another village is opposite the one under consideration,
only half of the annuli are relevant.
(b)  The forest has an average standing volume of 40 m /ha.
Thus, if the forest line is five km away, tMe first
annulus will contain 1,299 ha and 131,690 m of wood,
the second, 144,520 m etc.
(c)  At real periods, one man could cut one m  of forest wood
per ten-hour day, or forty days per ha. But a worker
must walk into the forest and would average five km/hour.
Considering annulus 1, bounded by radii of five and six
kilometers, it requires 2.2 hours, on the average, to
walk into and back from the forest, leaving 7.8 hours of
cutting time. Then it would require 51.28 work days to
cut one ha, 54.05 days in annulus 2, etc.
(d) The wsod is trucked from the forest at a cost of TSh 1.31
per m /km. 1/ No other charges, such as forest royalties
or environmental taxes are assumed.
(e) The village comprises 400 families under the monolithic
decision-making of a village council. Each family has
three adult equivalent workers. The maximum number of
work days per month is 25, and the maximum number of work
hours per day is ten. 2/ The demographic size of the
village is assumed to be constant throughout the time
span of the model. Given the scenario of excess land,
sufficient working capital, and available investment
funds, then labor and the forest are the only real con-
straints on village output and income.
(f) Maize and tobacco are the only annual crops treated
explicitly in the model. The subsistence crops cassava,
rice, and groundnuts are fixed in terms of plot sizes and
monthly labor requirements; these resources are simply
adjusted downward to reflect the assumption that sub-
sistence requirements will be met prior to the under-
taking of any other activities.
1/   All monetary data are in 1976 Tanzanian shillings (TSh 1.00 = US$0.12).
2/   See para. 9 below.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
(g) The maize and tobacco activities are straight-
forward annual cropping activities, and their
inputs and output are shown in Table 1. An
additional "maize-after-tobacco" activity is
possible: if maize is grown on a plot which
had tobacco during the previous year, the input
requirements are the same, but the yield is
25% higher due to the tobacco fertilizer
residue.
(h) Tobacco requires 35 m3 of wood per 454 kg of
leaf, or 46.25 m3 per ha of tobacco cultivated.
(This datum is dependent on the available cur-
ing technology; other, more efficient technologies
involving investment in barns are not considered,
nor are technologies involving other types of
fuel). Furthermore, 10 m3 of fuelwood per
family per annum is required for domestic and
construction uses.
(i) The cultivation of plantation timber requires a
cash investment of TSh 349/ha during the first
year for seedlings, and labor as shown in Table
1 for the first two years. Thereafter, no labor
is required except for harvesting. Cultivated
timber yields 120 m3/ha at intervals of eight
years three times during its life cycle. Thus
timber grown in year 1 is coppiced in years
9 and 17, and cut down in year 25. Cutting
labor for cultivated timber is half that of
forest timber (since the trees grow relatively
uniformly in size, are concentrated and softer),
and, of course, the walking time is not applicable.
C. The Model
5.           Since village labor and the standing forest are the only relevant
constraints, the model maximizes the discounted stream of returns to these
factors over a 30-year horizon. Initially, a 10% discount rate has been
used.
6.          In each of the thirty years, there are activities for maize,
tobacco, maize--after-tobacco (linked to the previous year's tobacco area
through a rotation constraint), and timber cultivation. Because there is
flexibility in the months during which timber can be cut, an additional set
of activities distributes the cutting labor to the set of possible months.



Table 1.  Inputs and Outputs of the Major Activities I/
Timber                  Timber
Tobacco                Maize                 (year 1)                 (year 2)
Yield (g/hectare)                                675                    750
Price (TSh)                                      8.4                      .8
2/
Fertilizers and chemicals (TSh)                 2000                     20                   349-
Labor by month                Jan               44.7                  46.67                   10.                       7.
Feb              84.2                  10.
(man days/ha)               Mar              87.3                  13.                       3.
Apr              90.7                  16.67
May              20.5                  18.33                    10.                     10.
Aug                                                              1.                      1.
Sep              37.3                                            7.
Oct              44.7                                            8.
Nov              19.7                  13.33                     9.
Dec              46.4                  33.33
Labor Totals       475.5                 124.                      48.                      18.
1/ Derived from m.P. Collinson, "A Report on the Comparative Economics of Virginia and Aromatic Tobaccos on Family
Farms in Tabora ristrict," mimeo, Western Research Center, Ministry of Agriculture, Tanzania, June, 1965, and
updated 'rom IT77 sources.
2/ This figure is the cost for seedlings delivered to the village.  No other inputs are required.  See text for                X
timber '"output," .                                                                                                           _
-Ij



ANNEX 7
Page 6
7.           The constraint set includes counting rows for village
income, land use, maize and tobacco production, and the monthly
labor constraints, 1/ all on an annual basis. Forest wood avail-
ability is constrained on a segmented basis as described above. A
fuelwood balance requires that the domestic wood demand plus the
tobacco curing wood demand equal the wood supplied either through
forest cutting or cultivated timber harvesting. Rotation constraints
ensure that the area in maize-after-tobacco in year t be no greater
than the area in tobacco in year t-l. Each of the above activities
and constraints apply to all yearly time periods of the model. An
additional set of rows and columns is required to place a value on
the uncut cultivated timber remaining after year 30, the terminal
year of the model. This valuation consists of the discounted mone-
tary transport cost savings that would occur after year 30 when tim-
ber is cultivated. E.g., timber planted in year 7 will permit a
coppicing in year 31 which would save the transport costs otherwise
incurred if forest timber were still relied upon. 2/
D. The Solutions
Basic Solutions
8.           The analysis of the timber cultivation investment decision
requires comparison of solutions with and without the investment al-
ternative, i.e., projection of the path of village development with
and without the timber alternative. Thus the first solution simply
projects the level of each of the activities, by year, and the time
path of forest depletion, given the constraints and the initial
conditions.
9.           For the basis "Without Timber" case the parameters are:
village size               400 families
starting radius            5 km
discount rate              10%
prior year's tobacco       234.05 ha
1/ Contrary to accepted modeling procedures, no family reservation wage
is charged to the objective function. This can be justified on two
grounds: tobacco is sufficiently profitable to preclude non-
employment of village labor, and no closely competitive alternative
employment opportunities exist.
2/ This transport cost savings depends on the distance the villagers
would have had to travel. To determine this distance, the forest
depletion for each year subsequent to 30 was projected with a special
solution of the model without the timber cultivation activities.
To be more precise in estimating the distance-related savings (which
depends on endogenous cutting rates), an iterative procedure could
be used; however, the additional computational cost would not appear
to warrant the minor gains in precision.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
domestic maize demand           650 kg/family/yearl/
domestic wood demand            10 m3/family/year
forest wood transport cost      TSh 1.31/m3/km
average labor use               15 days/month/manh/
and the optimal solution is a cropping pattern of:
tobacco                         234.05 ha
maize-after-tobacco             234.05 ha
maize                           52.17 ha
10.         Annual wood demand, including domestic uses, is 14,825 m3.
Table 2 projects the exhaustion rate of the forest by annulus, given the
5 km starting radius, and shows average walking time, transport costs,
and (undiscourted) village income. Even though, in year thirty, the
walking distance is almost 11 km and nearly half of a day's labor in
cutting timber is devoted to walking, tobacco is still profitable. Maize
production stabilizes at 273 tons/year just slightly above the consumption
requirements of the village.  No maize-for-tobacco substitution takes place
over time as one might expect, possibly because of the subsidized transport
cost on wood. Instead, the villagers find it optimal to retain a constant
cropping pattern and simply absorb the additional walking labor requirements
and higher transport costs. The decline in village income is about 12%
over the 30-year span, and is graphed in Figure 2. This income decline,
when considered with ecological deterioration from the forest exhaustion
(this typical village "consumes" about 400 ha or four km2 per year) clearly
indicates the importance of the timber investment decision.
11.         Validation.  The cropping pattern and income path indicate that
the model closely approximates reality: tobacco production is at the
level of 0.585 ha per family whereas observed levels are between 0.5 and
0.6; the village is just meeting its consumption requirements of maize.
The shadow prices also conform to reality insofar as a market exists for
the resources: the marginal value of wood in the first year is TSh 9.5 m3,
the market price varies between TSh 7.8 and TSh 15/m3 depending on source
and quality.  However, the wood market is sufficiently primitive to pre-
1/ The assumed maximum number of work days per month of 25 (para 4(e) above)
was reached in only two months, April and December, with shadow wage
rates in these months as high as TSh 50/day. If the input data are
correct, it is unlikely that villagers value leisure or non-agricultural
activities so much as to remain idle on the 25th day (as opposed say, to
the 30th day) at this cost. The ten hour day assumption, probably high
for East Africa, proved to be of no consequence: since this applies
only to forest cutting activities, and labor in the possible cutting
months is non-binding, the model implicitly permits free choice between
longer work days and fewer days cutting and shorter work days and more
days spent in the forest.



ANNEX 7
Page 8
Table 2. The Base Case
Solution #1: without timber alternative
Walking
Village                         Average            time              Transport I'
Year        Income         Annulus          Distance         (roundtrip)           costs
being cut         km               hours             TSh/m3
1           816,686            1              5.5               2.2                7.205
2           816,686            1              5.5               2.2                7.205
3           803,234         1 & 2             6.2               2.48               8.12
4           797,112            2              6.5               2.6                8.52
5           797,112            2              6.5               2.6                8.52
6           797,112            2              6.5               2.6                8.52
7           785,617         2 & 3             7.1               2.84               9.30
8           777,538            3              7.5               3.0                9.83
9           777,538            3              7.5               3.0                9.83
10           777,538            3              7.5               3.0                9.83
11           777,538            3              7.5               3.0                9.83
12           777,538            3              7.5               3.0                9.83
13           772,063           3& 4            8.4               3.36              11.00
14           757,964            4              8.5               3.40              11.14
15           757,964            4              8.5               3.40              11.14
16           757,964            4              8.5               3.40              11.14
17           757,964            4              8.5               3.40              11.14
18           757,964            4              8.5               3.40              11.14
19           757,964            4              8.5               3.40              11.14
20           755,399         4 & 5             8.6               3.44              11.27
21           738,390            5              9.5               3.8               12.45
22           738,390            5              9.5               3.8               12.45
23           738,390            5              9.5               3.8               12.45
24           738,390            5              9.5               3.8               12.45
25           738,390            5              9.5               3.8               12.45
26           738,390            5              9.5               3.8               12.45
27           738,390            5              9.5               3.8               12.45
28           735,622         5 & 6            10.2               4.08              13.36
29           718,816            6             10.5               4.20              13.76
30           718,816            6             10.5               4.20              13.76
1/ The subsidized rate of TSh 1.31/m3/km.



ANNEX 7
Page 9
clude village reliance on external sources, nor can a market for excess
village-produced wood be assumed. Finally, the shadow-price on maize pro-
duction is TSh 1.61/kg or about double the regulated market price. However,
the TSh 1.61/kg value is quite close to observed black market prices.
12.          Sensitivity.  The subsidized transport cost of TSh 1.31/km was
parametricized upward to determine the level at which maize-for-tobacco
substitution would begin to take place. However, even at the highest estimated
cost of TSh 2.49/km, no substitution took place, although transport distance
ultimately reached 11.5 kilometers. At this distance, the cost of wood in
transport alone is nearly TSh 30/m3 or about double the maximum market price
of wood. In the absence of drastic tobacco price declines, it appears that
tobacco will remain a most attractive cash crop, and variations in the crop-
ping pattern away from tobacco are not to be expected -- with or without the
timber investment.
The Timber Alternative
13.          Table 3 summarizes the solution when the timber investment al-
ternative, as described above, is introduced and the model is permitted to
freely choose the timing and level of timber planting. Timber planting begins
immediately and remains relatively stable at a level of about forty ha/year. 1/
The objective function, the discounted stream of village net income, rises
from TSh 7.52 million to TSh 7.77 million shillings, or 3%. The difference
is a net benefit, since the investment costs have been included. The new time
path of village income, graphed with the previous solution's in Figure 2,
shows that, in the first seven years, village income is lower (but only by
about 1%), but thereafter, is higher and by a steadily increasing margin.
By the terminal year, income with the timber investment is 26% higher. 2/
14.          The rate of forest exhaustion is, of course, slowed when timber
is planted: by year 30, over 5,000 hectares of forest are "saved" and the
average walking distance is about two km shorter. By year 9, the village is
about 33% self-sufficient in wood, 65% by year 17, and virtually totally
reliant on planted timber by year 26.
15.          This solution, which was based on the best available assumptions
about data, parameters, and village decision-making, appears to solidly support
the timber investment decision. Even with the currently subsidized wood trans-
port cost rate, self-sufficiency in wood is profitable, and has substantial
long-term monetary benefits as well as labor savings.
1/ This level is within the fifty-hectare limit suggested as an upper bound due
to managerial constraints.
2/ This income gain arises primarily from the savings in transport cests, although
the labor savings associated with reduced walking do allow small increases in
tobacco area.



ANNEX 7
Page 10
Table 3. Base Case
Solution #2: with timber alternative
Wood Supplied
Village                                                   From
Year           Income            Annulus            Timber           Cultivated Timber
being cut         planted
(halyr)
1             801,695             1                39                     0%
2             801,422             1                41                     0%
3             787,336          1 & 2               41                     0%
4             781,620             2                41                     0%
5             781,620             2                41                     0%
6             781,620             2                41                     0%
7             768,663           2 & 3              41                     0%
8             761,835             3                41                     0%
9             807,525             3                41                   31%
10             810,324             3                41                    33%
11             810,495             3                41                    33%
12             810,506             3                41                    33%
13             810,506             3                41                    33%
14             810,506             3                 41                   33%
15             807i739           3 & 4               41                   33%
16             797,211             4                41                    33%
17             848,993             4                 41                   64%
18             852,165             4                 41                   65%
19             852,359             4                41                    65%
20             852,371             4                 41                   65%
21             852,372             4                41                    65%
22             852,372             4                 41                   65%
23             851,748             4                42                    65%
24             851,652             4                42                    65%
25             903,411             4                 42                   96%
26             906,577             4                42                    98%
27             906,770             4                42                    98%
28             906,782             4                 42                   98%
29             906,782             4                42                    98%
30             906,782             4                42                    98%



Figure.2.  Village Income Over Time. With and Without Timber Invastment-                   
900,000.
* ..-----... ~-...,....
14  300,000  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  I  .    .                     -II                    2               . .
44 4
1  L--~~~ 1-4~ -   - --4 .
'-1 . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ . ....
1  2   3   4  5   6  7   5  9  10  11  12 13  14  15l11  17  18  19 20 21  22 23  24.  25 26  27 28  2930W
-   144 1                                             Year
b ase casa solutioa  of tiub4Mi0steal              cisc~i     dt, transport coat. TZ* "       3   3i
i4~~~ A'I 



ANNEX 7
Page I2
E. Parametric Solutions and Policy Implications
16.         Certain parameters are critical to the timber decision.
These include the discount rate, assumed in the model to be 10% ;
the transport costs on forest wood, taken TSh 1.31/m3/km; the size
of the village; and the age of the village. The models sensitivity
to these parameters has been explored and some policy implications
of the results are derived.
17.         Discount rate.  The only datum which could not be
validated or sampled was the discount rate, yet justification for
the choice of this parameter is difficult given the myriad of inter-
pretations possible. By taking 10%, it has been assumed that Tanzanian
villagers would be indifferent between one shilling of, (say),
tobacco revenue today vs. 1.1 shillings next year, or between one
shilling of timber seedling expenditure today vs. 1.1 next year.
18.         Although argument is possible over the number taken for
the discount rate, there can be little argument over the acceptable
range: a zero rate on the monetary flows is unquestionably incorrect
and 50% is intuitively unlikely. Table 4 shows the sensitivity of
the timber investment level as the discount rate varies between zero
and 20%. At zero, the village invests at a rate of 125 ha of timber
per year for the first eight years, thus insuring self-sufficiency
after year eight. After year eight, timber investment is zero
until year 23, when it reverts to the 125-ha rate. This pattern
clearly reveals the folly of using a zero discount rate: in year 23,
timber begins to yield benefits beyond the time horizon of the model,
and these benefits are valued the same as in the initial year -- i.e.,
a shilling in transport costs saved even in year 50 is worth the
same as a shilling saved in year 1.
19.         The solution for a discount rate of 5% appears to be a
rough compromise between the solutions for 0% and our assumed norm,
10%. Again, timber investment begins immediately but at a less
intense level; by year 10, investment is at the steady level of 41
ha per year and the intense investment to obtain the terminal benefits
is not as radical as at zero.
20.         At a 15% discount rate, the solution is virtually the same
as at 10%, but at 20%, timber investment drops out altogether. This
solution, perhaps reflecting a "devil-may-care-for-tomorrow" time
preference, simply exhausts the forest as rapidly as possible, since
the highest benefits are obtained in the early years (village income,
which is TSh 816,686 in the first year, falls to TSh 4,312, or by 99%,
when adjusted by the 20% discount rate in year 30). It is concluded
then, that a non-extreme choice of a discount rate in the range of
10 - 15% avoids radical or inexplicable behavior on the part of the
model, and is justifiable.



ANNEX 7
Page 13
Table 4. Timber Investment with respect to Discount Rate
(transport cost = TSh 1.31 m3/km)
(units = hectares)
Year                         Discount Rate
0%        5%         10%        15%         20%
1            125         94        39,        39           -0-
2                        85        41         41
3
14
6S{
7                        81
8                        80         1
9            -0-         32                    1
10                       141
12
13
114            1
'5            -0-
16
17
18
19
20~~~~~~~-0
2121                                1,1
23            125         83
214
25
26
28
30                       12 ,/                  A/ 



ANNEX 7
Page 14
21.         Transport costs.  The second crucial parameter tested is
the transport cost for forest wood.  The rate of TSh 1.31 m3/km assumed
thus far is subsidized to a certain, though not quantifiable, degree.
The technology involves tractors towing trailers. If all costs ex-
cept fuel are subsidized, the rate is TSh 0.31 m3/km. The full
operating cost including driver's wages and capital recovery has
been estimated to be TSh 1.74 m3/km, although an alternative
estimate goes as high as TSh 2.49 m3/km at full cost. This wide
range suggests not only that the transport cost for forest timber is
a critical element to the analysis, but also that it offers scope
as a policy tool if the government wished to encourage timber in-
vestment for ecological or other reasons. Table 5 shows how the
level of timber investment varies with transport cost rate. At the
full subsidy rate (at which payment is for fuel only) of TSh 0.31 m3/km,
no timber investment occurs, and forest wood is relied upon through-
out the 30 year time horizon. Village income per year only drops
by 2.6% (undiscounted). But if the subsidy is halved to yield a
net transport cost of TSh 0.81 m3/km, timber investment does occur,
and at a rate almost as high as that under the current subsidy rate.
This remarkable result indicates that a reduction of subsidies will
not only reduce governmental expenditures, but induce investment
wnich will ultimately increase village income (tobacco production,
and thus foreign exchange earnings, remain unchanged). At the TSh
1.74 m3/km (unsubsidized) rate, timber investment is marginally
higher than at TSh 1.31 m3/km and at the highest rate of TSh 2.49
m3/km investment is at its maximum intensity to reach self-sufficiency
in the shortest time.
22.         Table 6 shows the relative intensities of timber investment
over the matrix of discotnt rate and transport cost rates discussed
in paras. 17-21 above, with the timber intensity defined as the average
number of hectares planted over the 30-year span. At the minimum,
this table illustrates that the model behaves in an a priori pre-
dictable fashion, i.e., timber investment is more intense the higher
the transport cost, and less intense the higher the discount rate.
But it also indicates that the investment decision -- at the level to
achieve self-sufficiency without deep cuts into current income -- is
markedly stable vis-a-vis reasonable discount and transport rates.
23.         It is apparent that a complete removal of transport cost
subsidies, when the timber investment alternative is possible, would
not only reduce government expenditures, whilst leaving foreign ex-
change earnings from tobacco untouched, but would also induce the
ecologically-favorable timber investment as well. In fact, these
solutions show that the current subsidy scheme is simply, and totally,
an income transfer with no production benefits and unless straight
income transfer to the rural population is the goal, is unwarranted.
Even this goal is not achieved if the source of the subsidy is the
same population, being taxed through lowered produce prices.



ANNEX 7
Page 15
Table 5. Timber Investment with Respect to Transport Costs
(discount rate = 10%)
(units = hectares)
Transport rate (TSh/m3/km)
Year          0.31        0.81        1.31        1.74         2.49
1            -0-          39          39          50         125
2                         41          41          43
3
4
6                                                  1
7                                                 h2
8
293k                                                          1
10                                                            123
11
12
13
14
16
17                                                             39
18                                                             4
19
20
21
22                                                            -0-
23                                     4 2                     41
25                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~84
26                                                  )82
27
281
290                                                           123



ANNEX 7
Page 16
Table 6. Average Annual Timber Investment
(hectares)
discount rate
TSh/m3       0%        5%        10%        15%        20%       25%
0.31        41                  -0-   _               0-
0,*81                            4
transport     1.31        67         58         41        41         -0-
cost
rate                                           _
1.74                             43                  (41)
2.49      125                    59                   41    1 -0-
3.25                             _(41Y
*  From about year 23 onwards only.  The model also suggests timber
investment would take place, starting about year 29, with a transport
cost of TSh 3.00/m3/km if the discount rate were as high as 25%. This
rate seems extreme, however, and, especially with unsubsidized
transportation, an immediate start on investment can be expected.



ANNEX 7
Page 17
24.         If it were necessary to maintain some form of subsidy, it
could be preferable to shift to the timber planting activity in the
interests of promoting long-run village development.
25.         Apart from removing the wood transport subsidy and direct
support of planting activity, the government has an additional instru-
ment with which to induce timber investment: a royalty or environ-
mental surcharge on forest cutting. A simulation of the application
of such a royalty at the rate of TSh 140/ha (the legal statute) is
of interest. Compared with the base case (Table 3) when this tax was
applied to all forest timber cutting (the law does not differentiate
forest by location), timber plantings increased only marginally (by
twelve ha in year 1, and by 2.5 ha for the next five years) while
the total area of forest felled dropped by only 435 ha (8%). The in-
come losses due to the taxes were, however, substantial: income
dropped by 15% in the first year the tax was imposed, and continued
to be lower than the non-tax situation until year 24, when total
village wood self-sufficiency was obtained. Given the rigidity of
the village's labor constraints, there thus appears little the
government can do to hasten timber investment substantially beyond
the rates shown in Table 3; royalties or taxes and subsidies, are
largely income transfers.
26.         Village size.  The size of the village is also a parameter
for which the magnitude of the timber investment level is important,
and not easily predictable. Ceteris paribus wood requirements should
be proportional to the number of families: domestic wood demand de-
pends proportionally on the number of families, and tobacco wood
demand depends directly on tobacco cultivation which, of course,
depends directly on labor availability. However, a smaller (larger)
village size, given a constant forest distance and density will make
forest wood less (more) a relative constraint and thus more than
proportionally decrease (increase) the intensity of timber investment.
In a solution to the model with a village size of 300 (25% smaller),
however, the departure from proportionality was insignificant:
timber investment timing remained the same but at a level that was
also very close to a 25% decrease. This solution and the base case
indicate that a fairly safe rule of thumb is to suggest 0.1 ha of
timber investment per year for each family in the village, regardless
of the size of the village at least around the average size likely
to be found.
27.         Village age.  The age of the village is another certain
influence on the timber decision, although the model, in its current
form, is not fully capable of quantifying the influence, because it
does not focus on the dynamics of village development. It considers
a village about ten years old which has reached an assumed steady-
state size of 400 families and about 230 ha of tobacco and has depleted
the forest to an estimated radius of 5 km, and thus avoids many ques-
tions such as the growth path of the number of families (and thus labor
availability), labor requirements for village establishment (land



ANNEX 7
Page 18
clearing, house and barn building, infrastructure construction), the
much more difficult land-working conditions in the early years, and
wood requirements for construction. To estimate the optimal timing
and scale of timber investment for a new village would require these
and other data, and a much more detailed model.
28.         It can be conjectured, though, that a new village located
in virgin forest will have on the one hand, sufficient forest wood
available and, on the other hand, such scarcity of labor, and
(probably) shortage of investment funds, to preclude undertaking tim-
ber investment in the first few years. Table 7, however, shows how
rapidly the first few annuli of forest will be depleted to a distance
where transport costs and walking time become important.
Table 7. Forest Depletion Rates
Annulus           Average distance            Wood Supp 1          Wood Supply
(km)                     (m3)          (number of years)
1                      .5                     6,283                .42
2                     1.5                   18,850                1.27
3                     2.5                    31,416               2.11
4                     3.5                    43,982               2.96
5                     4.5                    56,549               3.80
6                     5.5                   69,115                4.65
The number of years of village wood supply is based on the model's
equilibrium level of 14,825 m3 demand per year. This demand would
be lowered in the early years if tobacco cultivation is lower and/or
the number of families is smaller, but will be offset by higher de-
mand for construction purposes. Nevertheless, it appears that within
two years, the forest will have been depleted to an approximate radius
of two km.
F. Conclusions
29.         The behavior of the model appears reasonable on several
counts: The initial "without-timber-alternative" solution closely
simulates the observed cropping patterns and marginal valuations of
the key resources and outputs, and the dynamic, "with-timber-alternative"
version behaves in a predictable manner with respect to the key para-
meters. The solution is quite stable within limits of the crucial
parameters, the discount rate and the transport cost rate, implying
that an investment program of about 41 ha of timber should be under-
taken immediately by a "typical" Tanzanian tobacco-producing village
which has been established for at least ten years. This level is with-
in the resource (labor) means of the village, and without harsh early
income losses, will permit village self-sufficiency in wood in due
course. This result can be obtained even under the current transport
cost subsidy scheme, implying that this subsidy is unwarranted, unless



ANNEX 7
Page 19
straight income transfers to rural villagers is a goal. If ecological
considerations are brought into play, a tax on forest depletion would
not decrease tobacco production, but only encourage faster wood self-
sufficiency.






ANNEX 8
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Preparation of
a Regional Land-Use and Capability Master Plan
A.  Background                                                 Para. 1
B.  Objectives                                                 Para. 3
C.  Strategy                                                   Para. 6
D.  Relationship to other projects and organizations           Para. 12
E.  Scope of Services                                          Para. 14
F.  Staff and Costs                                            Para. 20
Appendix 1: Implementation and Staffing Schedules and
Disbursement Schedule                            Page 1
Proposed Staffing Schedule                       Page 2
Disbursements of costs                           Page 3






ANNEX 8
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land-Use Planning 1/
Terms of Reference for Preparation of
a Regional Land-Use and Capability Master Plan
A. Background
1.        The Tabora Rural Development Project is conceived as the five-year
phase of a longer term program to realize the potential of the Region. The
Project specifically aims at improving the planning capacity of the regional
government; strengthen the infrastructural base by providing capacity to
improve and maintain network and feeder roads and village water supply to
facilitate increased market production; and to establish, on a pilot basis,
methods of increasing crop and livestock production in selected villages.
Direct assistance to planning future investments is being provided by a Water
Master Plan, a small-tsetse-habitat survey, and Land-Use and Land Capability
Mapping.
2.        Tabora Region totals some 70,000 km , 9% of the land area of
Tanzania, and lies between 40 and 60 S of the equator at an elevation
mainly between 1000 m and 1500 m. Precipitation is 800-1000 mm, falling
mainly from November through April: from June through September the average
monthly rainfall is only 2mm. Some 2000 hours of sunshine a year are recorded
at Tabora town. The population of the Region is estimated at 780,000: some
50,000 in Tabora town and the rest living in about 350 villages concentrated
in the NE Districts or along transport routes, so that probably over 2/3 of
the Region is uninhabited largely due to tsetse fly infestation.
B. Objectives
3.        The objectives of the component are to provide a sound basis for
agricultural development planning in Tabora Region. To achieve this, several
levels of mapping are envisaged together with a strong training component.
The multi-level mapping is necessary to provide material appropriate to
different levels of organization in the rural development planning process.
1/   This component would be carried out by the Land Resources Division (LRD)
of the UK Ministry of Overseas Development under a UK Overseas Develop-
ment Grant. The Annex has been prepared in collaboration with LRD.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
The training component is necessary because the 2Project period is in-
sufficient to complete, for the whole 70,000 km , such a program and
must provide for continuing land planning thereafter to accommodate
future socio-economic and technological approaches to land-use.
4.        The mapping component seeks to provide for:
(a) The requirements of the Tabora Rural Development
Project;
(b) The requirements of other specific development
programs with components within the Region,
notably the national maize and tobacco projects;
(c) The Regional rural/agricultural development
program, notably in terms of village land-use
planning, re-settlement, and livestock improvement;
(d) The ongoing requirements of extension and research.
5.        The training component seeks to provide for the creation of
permanent teams operating at District levels to deal with village level
land-use planning. These will be supported by a unit at Regional level
to supervise progress and standards of survey and to provide specialized
pedological and ecological services which are not within the capacity of
the land planning teams.
C. Strategy
6.        The mapping component will be supported by data collection and
analysis embodied in reports. This will cover soils; vegetation; current
land-use and agricultural practice and land capability classification.
7.        Three levels of mapping are planned:
(a) A reconnaissance survey of the whole region at
1/250,000 appropriate for Regional planning and
policy decision-taking. It is intended that this
will receive priority in order to provide an early
basis for rural development. It is at this level
that vegetation and current land-use will be included
to support current examination of the scope for live-
stock and resettlement within the Regional programs.
The scale has been selected as offering the best
available compromise between the number of map
sheets necessary to cover the Region and adequate
presentation of physical detail.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(b) An intermediate scale of 1/50,000. This work will be
designed to emphasize those environmental qualities
most significant to village site selection in terms
of the quantity and quality of land necessary to
establish viable village units. The urgency with which
this program is required in this Region depends upon the
extent to which the reconnaissance survey, given
adequate inputs, can fulfill the need. In the interests
of speed and simplicity for planning purposes, there are
strong arguments for using only two levels of mapping if
they will suffice. It is therefore proposed not to start
this program until the adequacy of the reconnaissance
mapping for site selection purposes can be established.
If required, this level of mapping will be undertaken first
for those areas offering scope for expansion, as distinct
from intensification of agriculture. The scale has been
chosen to ensure adequate representation of detail and
because complete topographic cover at this scale will shortly
be available.
(c) Detailed surveys at 1/10,000 scale to facilitate land
planning of individual village units. This program
will be dealt with on a village and not a map sheet basis,
i.e. each map will cover one village land area. It will
probably be necessary to base the mapping on photo-
mosaics and hence will be dependent upon new aerial
photography at about that scale. This program is the
most crucial to developing good land usage and providing
a basis for increasing productivity. It should therefore
be started as early as possible, contingent upon progress
with the 1/250,000 mapping which will influence the
assignment of mapping priorities. The emphasis will be
upon mapping a land capability classification rather
than individual environmental parameters.
8.        In this program of land resource mapping, emphasis is on simplicity,
for two reasons:
(a) It must be useable, and therefore readily understood, by
all levels of staff with agricultural certificate training
and upwards;
(b) It must evolve a methodology of mapping readily and
reliably undertaken by such staff after the withdrawal
of the expatriate staff. To this end, emphasis at the
intermediate and detailed scales of work is put more
on the evolution of appropriate methodology, the
establishment of suitable classifications, and the
training of staff to undertake this work, than upon



ANNEX 8
Page 4
the coverage of a specific area of mapping. Further,
it would not be possible for all such mapping that
may be required to be completed in the Project period.
Therefore, a continuation program for this work would
be drawn up in collaboration with the Regional
Authorities.
9.        In the training component, the strategy will be aimed at
establishing one land planning team of 3 trained staff (2 certificated
and one diplomate team leader) to each District. These will be super-
vised by a unit comprising 2 graduates and a drawing office at Regional
level. One graduate will be a pedological specialist and the other a
specialist in farm and soil conservation planning.
10.       This component will relate with the British aid project aimed
at increasing the output from Nyegezi College of staff trained in land
planning techniques, and improving the standard of this training to pro-
vide diploma level facilities. The agricultural (soil science option)
graduates from Morogoro will provide a suitable source. Tentatively it is
suggested that these graduates will undertake one year in the field with the
project team, followed by one year overseas on a suitable course, to be
followed by a final year putting their training into practice within the
Project and the program outlined above. The capacity for providing such
training and experience could, if desired, exceed the 2 proposed for Tabora
Region.
11.       The numbers of staff for Tabora Region proposed above are in-
tended to strike a balance between the urgent need for this work; the
quality of such work in the long term; and the capacity of the Tanzanian
service to absorb and support them on a career basis without overloading
recurrent budgets and facilities.
D. Relationship to other projects and organizations
12.       In undertaking this program, it will be vital to collaborate with
others operating in this field to ensure the orderly evolution of methods,
systems of classification, and program of mapping and training relating to
wider national needs.
13.       In this context, particular attention is drawn to the roles of the
following organizations:
The National Soils Service (Mlingano). To coordinate soils
classification and ensure the orderly storage of all
relevant soils data.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
The Bureau of Resource and Land-Use Planning (Bralup).
To establish an agreed approach to regional mapping for
development purposes, especially in the use of remote
sensing imagery.
Kilimo. To establish training standards, career frame-
work and work programs for certificate, diploma and graduate
staff engaged in soil and land-use surveys and land planning.
E. Scope of Services
14.       Regional mapping:  The Regional maps at 1:250,000 will be based
primarily upon interpretation of satellite and existing air photographic
imagery, supported by ground reconnaissance. These maps will present a
qualitative evaluation of the physical environment in terms relevant to
regional planning proposals and supported by an analysis of land-use based
upon the most recent available photography. The estimated field time for this
program is 18 months.
15.       Site selection mapping.  Site selection mapping using existing
1:50,000 topographic maps as base maps will be initiated as soon as the
1:250,000 mapping has progressed sufficiently to permit agreement on the
requirement for such work (see Section C, para. 7(b)). As it is envisaged that
this program ultimately will extend to cover most of the Region, the present
component will be limited to establishing procedures and classification by
undertaking a small number of sheets, beyond which the training program is
expected to provide a permanent team capable of undertaking this work. The
first priority under this component will be to establish the criteria relevant
to village site selection and determine the principal crops on which the agri-
cultural pattern is based. This work will include the delineation of ward
boundaries on the 1:50,000 mapping, based on local enquiry. The soils com-
ponent will be based upon the minimum acceptable field sampling density
consistent with establishing the basic distribution of major soil groupings
affecting village site selection and crop zonation. This will be supported
by sufficient semi-detailed check strips to illustrate the characteristics of
major soil groupings identified.
16.       Land Planning Mapping:  After initiation of the site selection
program, land planning mapping (at 1:10,000 or such other scale as may be
agreed in the light of evidence as being most appropriate to requirement) will
be commenced to provide the basis for village settlement and related agricul-
tural management. This work will be extended on an ad hoc basis according
to local priorities within the limits of the field program and will provide
for a continuation by fully trained local land planning teams.
17.       The work under paras. 14, 15, and 16 above will include the develop-
ment of a land classification system related to local environmental conditions



ANNEX 8
Page 6
and applicable to all scales of operation. Such a system, should take account
of other comparable work in Tanzania in order to contribute to the evolution
of a natural system of land classification, and would be supported by a table
of equivalence to other recognized systems.
18.  (i)  Reporting to Project management will be phased, within field
operations, either on a map sheet or administrative or
ecological unit basis as may be deemed most appropriate
after initial field appraisal and local discussion, and
may be supplemented by progress reports as deemed
necessary by the Project;
(ii) Preliminary draft maps will be prepared in small numbers
for ongoing use by the Regional Project, pending final
map production.
(iii) Progress will be continuously reviewed by the Project
Secretariat within which the Land Planning component
will be organized. The objective should be to facilitate
flexibility of approach and allow changes of emphasis
where necessary in the light of results.
19.       Final reporting will include the revised land classification
system, with an economic interpretation of possible farming systems related
to the land classification. It will also include proposals for costed
field trials in support of the economic evaluation, and submit programs
for the site selection and village land planning survey. Such final reports
will be presented within 6 months of the completion of field work.
F. Staff and Costs
20.       Staff.  The basic team will comprise:
Team Leader
Soil Scientists (3)
Agriculturalist
Land-Use Planner
Agricultural Economist
Training Officer
Short term consultants will include a Forest Ecologist and a Grassland
Ecologist, and others will be called in as required. Provision is made



ANNEX 8
Page 7
for a total consultancy time of 18 months. Staff will be supported by
an Administrative Officer, Cartographer, and a Mechanic, and the team
will be answerable to the Regional Authorities through the Project
Coordinator.
21.       Analytical work will be undertaken by the LRD laboratory in
England but the National Soils Laboratory at Mlingano will receive a
proportion of samples in order to establish correlation of results
between laboratories.
22.       Costs.  These are anticipated as follows for a 3-year program,
with certain costs (e.g. printing carrying over into a 4th financial year).
E Stg        US$
(a)  Air photos, mosaics                         35 000       60 000
(b) Salaries and allowances including
consultancies                           409 000      695 000
(c)  Equipment                                   50 000       85 000
(d)  Vehicles                                    70 000      119 000
(e)  Report and Map production                   15 000       25 500
(f)  Accommodation (construction/renting)        80 000      136 000
(g)  Operating and logistics costs               50 000       85 000
(h)  Local staff*                                48 000       81 600
Total base cost  757 000    1287 100
(i) Contingencies
Physical                                    75 700      128 710
Price                                      146 470      249 000
Total             979 170    1664 810
*    Includes cost for labourers and other locally recruited staff including
a mechanic.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAJ. DEVFLOPNENT PROJECT
Land-Use Planning
Implementation and Staffing Schedules and Disbursement Schedule
1.              The operations of the LRD team undertaking the Land-Use Planning
component is illustrated in the following diagram:
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3        Year 4       Year 5
Preliminary Organi-
zation
Regional Mapping,
1/250,000
(Report on comple-
tion)
Site Selection                                     x
Mapping, 1/50,000
(Reporting every
6 months to mid
4th year, then
every 3 months)
Land-Use (Farm                Team 1
level) Planning,
1/10,000                    Team 2
(Reporting every
2 months)                   Team 3
Team 4
Training
x  The necessity for this work will be decided on completion of the Regional Mapping.
It is assumed presently that if needed, it will concern the areas of less priority
than those requiring 1/10,000 mapping.
2.               The proposed Staffing Schedule is shown in the following diagram:



ANNEX 8
Appendix 2
Proposed Staffing Schedule
Year 1    Year 2       Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
Team leader                    -   -         -
Soil Sci. 1
Soil Sci. 2
Soil Sci. 3
Agriculturist
Land-Use Planner
Agric. Econ.
Forest Ecologist
Grass Ecologist
Training Officer
Admin. Officer                  -              .-                -
Cartographer          _ _
No. in field in
each quarter
0  2 9 8  1110 9    710 999  7  7-2  2 2  2    2
provisional leave periods
preparatory work in UK
3.           Disbursements of costs are expected to be as follows:



ANNEX 8
Appendix 3
|ear1      Year 2   | Year 3    Year 4        Year 5     Total
Item                US$d  TSh  US$   TSh  US$  TSh  US$   TSh   US$  TSh  US$ TSh-
'000       '000       '000       '000        '000       '000
|Air photos                   17           43        -          -            68         128
141        357         -           -        561       1059
Salaries & Allowances       139          243        229         85    7
(Expatriates)                    1154       2017       1901         697        477      6246
Salaries & Allowances        35           61         61         61           6T        219
(Counterparts)                    295        505        505         505        505      2315
Equipment                     51          25          9                       8
423        208         75          _          70       776
Vehicles                      80          15         24                      235       144
664        125        199          _        210       1198
,Report & Map Production      -             5         15   1 42  15           8 6666        299
.Accomodation*               136           -         -          -                         b
1129         -          -           -          -       1129
Operating'& logistics         17           26        26         25          I7         I    -
costs                  _          141         216       216         210        141        924
Local Staff                1_4            27         27         28      -   28          124
116        224        224         232        232      1028
Total                        489         445        391        206         272        1803
4063       3694       3245        1710      2262      14974
Physical ContinTgncies       49           45         39         18          27         178
___________________________         406        374        324         150        226      1480
Price     Contingenc'ies S    59          73        103         74         127         436
_____ ____    ________           492         610       856         614       1060      3632
Tota1         Sg7s 563                              533                    426        2417
TSh _                 4961        4678      4425        2474       3548      20086
*Assumes provi±sicn of 6 wooden prefabricated units.



ANNEX 9
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization, Monitoring and Evaluation
A.  Project Organization                                         Para. 1
Chart, WB 16562: Project Organization and
Regional Organization
B.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation                            Para. 6
Purpose                                                      Para. 6
Definitions                                                  Para. 7
Monitoring and Evaluation in the Project                     Para. 8
Responsibilities                                             Para. 9
Methodology                                                  Para. 10
Timing, Reporting and Work-Schedule                          Para. 14
Staffing and Costs                                           Para. 16
Variation                                                    Para. 17
Appendix 1: Project Headquarters Staff
Qualifications and Terms of Reference
Appendix 2: Monitoring and Evaluation: Work Schedule
Appendix 3: Implementation Schedule






ANNEX 9
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization, Monitoring, and Evaluation
A. Project Organization
1.        The Project is designed to supplement and complement ongoing
developments in Tabora Region, and to strengthen the Regional authorities'
capacity, not only to undertake current Project and Project-related
activities, but also to plan for and handle future investments whether
made through a second-phase Region-wide Project or by the incorporation of
components of national projects within Tabora.
2.        The Project organization is therefore designed to fit in with
and use the existing Regional organization. This is shown in Chart,
WB 16562, below.
3.        Control of the Project and the planning which will arise from
it will be by the Regional Planning Office, headed by the Regional Planning
Officer (RPO). The RPO has responsibilities which extend beyond the Project,
and his office would therefore be strengthened by the recruitment of a Pro-
ject Coordinator (PC); who would be the chief executive of the Project; a
Financial Controller (PFC); and an Evaluation Officer (PEO); each with
support staff. One of the two latter would be designated Deputy Project
Coordinator. This team would be responsible for coordinating Project
activities, for procurement, and for financial and Project staff control.
In view of the difficulties of communications with Dar es Salaam and to
reduce unwanted absences from the Region of the Project management, a
Project Expeditor would be recruited and posted to Dar es Salaam to assist
in procurement and coordination between Ministries, Parastatals and other
organizations concerned with the Project. Outline qualifications and
Terms of Reference for the PC, PFC and PEO are given in Appendix 1. At
completion of the Project, the duties of the PC and PEO would be absorbed
by the Regional Planning Office, the latter probably heading a new unit,
and those of the PFC by the Regional Financial Officer.
4.        A Project Planning Unit, headed by the RPO, with the Project
Coordinator as secretary, would meet regularly to plan Project activities
and ensure coordination between Project components and their integration
with non-Project operations. The unit would be drawn from the following,
with other staff coopted as the need arose:






l ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ m0
- r                    - - - 
. 122                              1  ,  20
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ZCo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o
-   -   -   -     -   -   -   - -   -   ---  
I                                    mu~~I   .
I                                                                     N~~~~~~nJ
LN7I J    12 51






ANNEX 9
Page 3
*Regional Planning Officer (RPO) ........ (Chairman)
Project Coordinator (PC) ...... ......... (Secretary)
Evaluation Officer (PEO)
Financial Controller (PFC)
*Regional Water Engineer (RWE)
*Regional Engineer (RE)
Senior Roads Engineer (PRE)
*Regional Natural Resources Officer (RNRO)
Forest Officer (PFO)
*Regional Agricultural Development Officer (RADO)
Agricultural Planning Officer (PAP)
*Regional Livestock Development Officer (RLDO)
Livestock Specialist (PLS)
Head, Land-Use Planning Team (PLP)
Of these, the six Regional staff (marked *) are also members of the
Regional Development Committee, to which the Project Coordinator and
other Project staff would be invited as needed to ensure full integration
of Project and other Regional development planning.
5.        Project execution would generally be through the existing
Regional and/or District Organization as appropriate to the component,
with the technical assistance and guidance of Project - provided person-
nel. Details are given in the relevant Annexes. Project funds would
be channelled to the appropriate functional manager or Project component
head who would be responsible for maintaining separate, fully supported,
accounts of use of Project funds under the supervision of the Financial
Controller.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
B. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Purpose
6.        The information on which this Project is based is, in many
areas, inadequate in quantity and quality. The Project is also being
established at a time of major changes in the organization of the rural
sector in Tanzania, and involves use of untried institutions and systems.
Moreover, the major purpose of the Project is to provide a capacity for
the Region to carry out a further series of Projects or Programs, based on
infrastructure, organizations, and information established in this Project.
To these ends, provision is made in the Project for staff, equipment and
funds to ensure that Project progress and impact can be assessed, both to
provide ongoing guidance to the National and Regional policy makers, Project
management, and others concerned in running a Project which, by its nature,
must be flexible; and to supplement the major planning components within the
Pro4ect -- the Land Use/Capability Plan and the Water Master Plan -- to
provide a solid basis for future investments.
Definitions
7.        "Monitoring" and "Evaluation" are expressions frequently used
loosely or interchangeably.  For clariLy Lhey are here given specific meanings,
related to their separate objectives, and in particular, their end-use.
Monitoring is the continuous assembly and analysis of information:
(a) which will facilitate operational decisions by Project
management at all levels, and provide a warning of
departures from schedules and targets;
(b)  which is requi,red f-or normal Bank supervision; and
(c) which will keep departments of Government and other agencies
(including bilateral aid agencies) informed of Project
progress.
Evaluation is a continual process defined as the assembly and analysis of data
on the Project required:
(a)  to confirm or establish the Project-base-line;
(b) for preparation of a second phase project or Regional
components of national projects;
(c) to enable informed consideration of policy changes
within the Project; and
(d) to assist post-Project evaluation.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Both monitoring and evaluation require appropriate and timely reporting
of analyzed results, and it is clear that there may be some grey area
between the two: that evaluation is a further, deeper stage in the
collection and analysis of monitoring data.
Monitoring and Evaluation in the Project
8.        Monitoring will be the first priority of the Project Evaluation
Unit (PEU). It embraces the reporting of physical progress of the Project:
for example, kilometers of roads constructed and maintained, reported by
category; the number of water sources installed or buildings erected; plans
agreed and drawn up; nurseries established; areas of crop or trees estab-
lished; numbers of stall units set up; inputs used; and farmers reached
in extension or training. Reports will also be made on intermediate
stages of development, including procurement of Project materials, and on
expenditures made. Analysis in these reports should relate material
consumption to construction and breakdowns of unit costs as measures of
Project efficiency. Monitoring will further embrace recording of the
efficiency of non-Project services which bear on Project performance,
and the recording and analysis of readily observable and quantifiable
changes which may be attributable to the Project. 1/ Such changes will
normally have to be of a "stock" nature -- e.g. counts of cattle, improved
housing, areas cultivated -- unless there is a routine and reliable check
on "flows" -- such as non-consumable produce sold to a monopsonist, school
attendance, or results of health checks at clinics, etc. Other "flow"
data measuring Project changes -- incomes, expenditures, crop yields,
consumption, labor use -- are extremely difficult and costly to collect
and analyze, and should, when needed, be obtained in more detailed evalua-
tions 2/ of the Project impact which, in particular, aim to reveal how
the Project is making itself felt, looking beyond the immediate changes,
and analyzing if and how this performance could be improved upon.
1/   A distinction is sometimes made between Project "inputs" and "outputs,"
being respectively the immediate Project investments and activities, and
their immediate result; and between Project "effects" and Project "impact,"
being respectively the 1st and 2nd order of Project-induced changes.
Thus increased water consumption or adoption of a new crop might be
'effects,' and the consequent improved health or enhanced incomes the
'impact.' Under this classification, monitoring would measure inputs and
outputs (essentially a reporting function) and some effects. However,
some 'effects' such as crop yield changes are not readily measurable and
require difficult and detailed study which is more properly the task of
evaluation. Generally the line between the categories is a grey one, and
the important point is that there is recognized to be a hierarchy of
results.
2/   Or avoided by use of appropriate proxy variables.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Responsibilities
9,        The tasks of monitoring and evaluation should be alloted to dif-
fereiut Project entities as may be appropriate to the type of information to
be assembled and analyzed. Recording of physical progress will rest with the
functional managers who will normally report directly to the Project Coordina-
tor. Project expenditures, progress on procurements, and stores situations
will be the responsibility of the Financial Controller, to whom functional
managers responsible for Project expenditures will report. Other data on
physical progress, on operations of non-Project entities, and on selected
stock variables used as measures of Project effects, will fall within the
direct purview of the Project Evaluation Officer (PEO). All other evalua-
tion of Project effects and impact, and clarification or development of
baseline data, will be by ad hoc "special studies," funded by the Project, and
carried out by the University of Dar es Salaam (in particular, the Economics
Research Bureau), or individual specialists or consultants, under direction of
the PEO. The PEO will have responsibility for controlling, and supervising
the adequacy of all monitoring and evaluation activity in accordance withi the
requirements of Project Management, the Bank, co-financers, and Government.
This should not, however, require the channeling of routine reporting and
accounting data through PEO. The relationship between the components of
monitoring and evaluation and responsibility for them may be summarized
diagramatically:
Tasks                    Classification           Responsibility
Report on inputs;
Report on output (physical
progress);                         MONITORING              Functional Units
Account of expenditures;
stores; AUA-
Readily rmeasured Project
processes and effects;
Veriflcation of underlying                                   Project Evaluation
assumpt i  ns;                                                    Unit
EVALUATION
Analysis of Project
processes;
Impact of Project components;
Verification of assumptions;                               Special Studies by
Analysis experience for            EX-POST EVALUATION       Consultants, the
future planning.                                          Economic Research Bureau
(ERB) and others.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
Methodology
10.       The methodology for collecting, analyzing and presenting monitoring
and evaluation data will be the responsibility of the PEO. This will vary
according to item. Only broad guidelines can be offered here, but IDA
expertise can be made available at Project effectiveness to assist in select-
ing appropriate techniques. The following are pointers:
(a) The purpose and end-users of any information requirement
should be clearly and precisely defined in advance; the
approach to collection, analysis and reporting should
reflect these as well as resource constraints;
(b) Timeliness is all important. Monitoring data must be
available on time and with sufficient frequency to assist
management in running the Project; key base-line data
should be assembled before the Project impact is felt;
and studies in anticipation of 2nd phase developments
will usually need to be completed, analyzed, and reported
within 3 1/2 years of Project effectiveness if they are
to be useful in designing later investments;
(c) The imaginative use of proxies to minimize the need for
collection of "flow" data, and correct specification of
minimum sample sizes where sampling is an appropriate
approach, are essential for resource conservation;
(d) Analysis and reporting are the difficult parts of monitoring
and evaluation: the resources available -- in quantity and
quality -- for these tasks will govern the amount of collec-
tion attempted and the approach to collection;
(e) Simplicity which does not imply superficiality should be the
key note.
11.       In developing the overall design of data collection for either
monitoring or evaluation, the PEO should review the following elements:
(a) specification of the objectives of the information
collection, including identification of the end-
users;
(b) the study design or approach to information collection
proposed;
(c) the questions to be posed to obtain the necessary data,
and which would be included in a questionnaire, or be
used as the basis for informal questioning or for
observation. This should include questions to test
the internal consistency of answers;



ANNEX 9
Page 8
(d) the sampling design, suited in size and procedures to
local conditions and the resources available;
(e) the pre-testing procedures including the approach and
timing;
(f) the organization of fieldwork including recruitment and
training of enumerators, transport and other support
services, and supervision;
(g) data management including checking, coding and tabulation
procedures, and processes for dealing with missing data;
(h) method of analysis;
(i) level of analysis required;
(j) reporting of study results including forms of presentation
appropriate to each decision-making end-user, and
corrective actions to be taken.
12.       These elements in fact interact and the choice of overall design
will be an iterative process in which the design should be reviewed con-
tinuously against the study objectives. For example, logistic and other
field conditions may influence the study design, question list, and
sampling; the data management and analysis resources will certainly influence
the design elements, and indeed, because these activities most frequently
are bottlenecks, it should be general practice to consider constraints on
analysis capacity and reporting requirements before settling the design of
data collection. This circularity is demonstrated in the following diagram:
Available Data;
On-Going Reporting,       )
Monitoring or Evaluation )                 jectives of Collection
Reporting Require      >                           2  Study Design
Level of                          /                           Frame of Questions
Analysis                                           -   
Methods of                          4 /                      Sample Design
Analysis
/X  Pre-Testing of
Data Management    7                               Methodology
Systems
Field Work and
Logistics



ANNEX 9
Page 9
13.       Available data gathering techniques range from recording the per-
ceptions on Project actions and influences of formal committees or informal
groups drawn from the target population; the use of enumerators for case
studies or indepth interviews without attempting to establish statistical
validity; through to systematic quantitative information-gathering techniques
within valid sample frames, including wide-ranging opinion surveys of greater
or lesser depth, or surveys with repeat visits at intervals appropriate to
the subjects' recall capacity, and over a period sufficient to capture change
over time.
Timing, Reporting and Work-Schedule
14.       It follows from its objectives that at least the basic Project
Evaluation Unit should be on-site by Project effectiveness and that continuity
in it should be maintained throughout the Project development. Reporting of
monitoring data to management should probably be monthly and at the least
every quarter, and every second quarter to supervision missions, whilst
progress on evaluation studies, although continuously assessed by the Evalua-
tion Officer, could be done annually.
15.       A tentative work-schedule is at Appendix 2.
Staffing and Costs
16.       The Project Evaluation Unit will be headed by a qualified social
scientist, preferably an agricultural economist, with experience of field
work in Africa. Provision is made for international recruitment to this
post for the initial 3 years and for 18 months overlap with a Tanzanian
counterpart to ensure continuity (see para. 14). The PEO will be supported
by a staff of qualified Research Assistants and Senior Enumerators.  The
Research Assistants will organize field work, analyze data and draft summary
reports, and will run training courses for enumerators who will be recruited
locally on a short-term basis and will operate under the supervision of the
Senior Enumerators. Provision is also made for necessary transport and equip-
ment, and for a fund from which special studies will be financed. Details are
given in Annex 10, Table 2.
Variation
17.       As the number of Regional and National projects in Tanzania with
an agricultural and rural development focus increases, the individual project
capabilities in monitoring and evaluation should be reviewed, and an attempt
should be made to centralize and unify the evaluation process and provide
a national capability for quality control and guidance on data gathering
and analysis (This will particularly apply to the Evaluation function, it
being anticipated that monitoring, as a management tool, will normally
remain within the Project organization). The organization of monitoring
and evaluation and the functional division of responsibilities in the
Tabora Project will be reviewed and modified as necessary when such a
reorganization takes place.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page I
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Headquarters Staff
Qualifications and Terms of Reference
Project Coordinator:
Duties - The chief executive officer of the Project, responsible
to the Regional Planning Ofifcer (RPO) for ensuring the smooth running of the
Project; the coordination of the operations of the various functional depart-
ments concerned; the procurement of materials and inputs, and recruitment of
staff; and ensuring the provision of local funds. He 1/ will advise the RPO,
and through him the Regional Development Director, on policy matters effecting
the Project; will ensure timely availability of data required for supervision
of the Project by the Association and bilateral donor(s); and will do all such
things as may be needed to implement the Project efficiently.
Terms of service - The Project Coordinator will be recruited for a
tour of duty of 30-36 months excluding leave earned at a rate to be agreed,
under a contract which will commence not later than Project effectiveness
and which is expected to be renewed for a similar period. The incumbent
will be posted to Tabora town, and will be provided with appropriate housing
and duty transport. Remuneration, travel and allowances will be agreed on
a personal basis, subject to the approval of the Association.
Qualifications - The Project Coordinator will have proven experience
in Project management, preferably in Africa, of a type relevant to the Tabora
Project. The incumbent will probably be between 35 and 45 years of age, and
will probt;,bly have a University degree or diploma. A good knowledge of
English is essential and ability in Swahili would be advantageous. However,
drive, i½magination, organizational and logistical ability, and management
will be the overriding requirements, and will require the approval of the
Association.
Project Financial Controller:
Duties - Responsible to the Project Coordinator for all matters
concerninig the procurement of materials, reimbursements, local Project
funding, and Project expenditures, and for the proper documentation and
accounting for all such transactions including the maintenance of books
of accounts by the Project and by functional managers acting as spending
1/ The use of tlte masculine form in this Annex should in all cases be
taken to include the feminine form.



ANNEX 9
Appendix I
Page 2
departments, and adequate records of stores by all Project entities. He
will advise the Project Coordinator of all policy and other matters effect-
ing the accounting of funds and materials, and be responsible for the super-
vision and control of his staff.
Terms of service - The Financial Controller will be recruited for
a tour of duty of 30-36 months excluding leave earned at a rate to be agreed,
under a contract which will commence not later than Project effectiveness
and which may be renewed for a similar period. The incumbent will be posted
to Tabora town, and will be provided with appropriate housing. Renumeration,
travel and allowances will be agreed on a personal basis, and approved by
the Association.
Qualifications - The Financial Controller will hold an inter-
nationally recognized qualification in accounting and have not less than
5 years practical experience of a type directly relevant to the Project.
This should preferably include stores control. Familiarity with Bank Group
procurement procedures and experience in Africa would be advantageous. The
qualifications and experience of the Financial Controller selected will
have been approved by the Association.
Project Evaluation Officer:
Duties - Responsible for the organization of collection, analysis
and reporting of monitoring information for Project management, and for
similarly preparing evalaution data on Project impact including as necessary,
the design and supervision of studies undertaken by consultants or other
non-Project entities. If an expatriate, to train a Tanzanian counterpart.
Terms of service - Recruited for a tour of duty of 36 months with
residence in Tabora town, on salary, allowance and leave conditions, com-
mensurate with qualifications and experience, negotiable with the incumbent
and approved by Association. It is anticipated that the PEO will hand over
his responsibilities to a qualified Tanzanian counterpart who would have
satisfactorily worked alongside him for a period of not less than 18 months
by the handover: but alternatively a second 36 month contract could be
negotiated. Housing and duty transport would be provided.
Qualifications - The Project Evaluation Officer would probably
hold a higher degree in one of the social sciences, and would have had field
experience of the collection and analysis of data. Preferences would be given
to candidates with experience with smallholders in Africa and to those with
agricultural economics or economics and statistical training at post grad-
uate diploma, MA, or PhD level. He would be imaginative and capable of
working with staff at all levels, and the appointment would be subject to
the approval of the Association.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation: Work Schedule
1.        Details of the Project Evaluation Unit's work schedule will be
worked out in agreement between the Regional Planning Officer, the Project
Coordinator, and the Project Evaluation Officer, with assistance, as needed,
by the Association. The following suggests major components of the tasks.
The work load will be allocated by PEO between functional managers, the
Evaluation Unit, and special studies carried out under his direction and
general supervision.  The major task of the PEO will, however, be to ensure
adequate, timely, monitoring data is available to Project management.
Familiarization, recruitment and training
2.        Recruitment of the PEO is expected to be completed by 1st July
1977. He should immediately assist in recruitment of his Research Assistant
and Senior Enumerators, and would spend the first 2 months on familiarization
with Tabora Region and work going on in Kigoma and Mwanza/Shinyanga Regions,
and setting up staff training.
Base-line survey
3.        In the 3 months, August - October, a base-line survey of the
selected Project villages and a sampling of villages not included in the
Project should be designed and carried out: this should include, but need
not be limited to:
a census of families by age, sex, and occupation.
This should establish the relationship between
households, families, and the farming unit;
a sample census of land holdings, cropping patterns,
livestock, tools and implements;
a sample census of farm/household dwellings, storage,
and domestic hardware;
a questionnaire survey of marketing, and labor and
input use and sources;
a village survey on water; access; storage; retail shop;
school, health and other social service facilities;
and village organization.



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 2
Monitoring
4.        This will comprise:
(a) Reporting on critical phases (ordering, design, shipping,
delivery, etc.) by component, of inputs:
Building construction - houses, workshops;
Installation of weighbridges and dips;
Procurement of vehicles, road equipment,
planning equipment, other stores;
Procurement of farm inputs, tree seeds, road and water-
supply materials;
Staff recruitment:
Training programs;
Nursery establishment;
Discussions with village committees;
Trials establishment.
Contracts with consultants;
(b) Reporting physical achievements, outputs:
Kilometers of roads constructed or reconstructed,
by class;
Kilometers of road maintained, and/or improved;
Provision of village storage;
Area covered by Land-Use Plan, by stage;
Area covered by Water Master Plan, by stage;



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 3
Attendance at staff or farmer training sessions;
Farmer contacts, numbers of adopters (households);
Village plans completed;
Area covered by Tsetse survey;
Tree seedlings delivered, area of plantation
developed, survival rates, growth rates;
Credit granted, recovered;
Input delivery levels;
Water point maintenance completed and reports on
status;
Expenditures by component;
Provision of counterpart funds;
Vehicle mileages; days off-road;
Trials completed.
Evaluation
5.        Included in the in-depth measurement of Project effects will be:
Areas under crops and their changes;
Adoption of improved practices by farmers;
Trial results and their analysis;
Farmers crop yields and their changes;
Cattle dippings by number and tick counts;
Offtake numbers, weight;
Liveweight gains;
Changes in road useage (vpd);



ANNEX 9
Appendix 2
Page 4
6.        Evaluation will also be required to assess the validity of implicit
and explicit assumptions within the Project and exogenous factors influencing
performance:
Input and Output prices;
Market availability;
Equipment capacities and down-time;
Labor productivity;
Farmer reaction and response;
Weather conditions;
Political influences including effectiveness of
the village, cooperative and parastatal organizations.
7.        A start would also be made, largely by use of proxies and indicators,
in measuring Project impacts which will be the main concern of ex-post evalua-
tion;
Farmer incomes and expenditure patterns and changes;
Nutritional status changes;
Soil condition changes;
Farmers' attitudes;
Ecological impact of the Project;
Availability of planning data and planning and
implementation capacity in post-Project period.
8.   The unit will provide the expertise to assist Government in the prep-
aration of a project completion report, in consultation with the Association,
within 6 months of the completion of disbursements under the Project. The
report will review the implementation of the Project and its impact on the
Region.






ANNEX 9
Appendi. 3
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1976                1977                 1978               1979                1980                1981                 1982                1983
II~~~~~~~~~~                                                            I ~~'  ~   1 1I   6 7         o I 
A. ADVANCE CONTRACTING
.   SIrAOO 4. App . _, El                                               -       !          '          ..i..                               SECu b   r>o F R  *ETARIA TSTEFFI
VhICLSmANOEUPET-                                                                    (NB 2-U MONTHS HOTEL OS OTHER ACCOMEDATION NEEDED POD EH        iTSAF
WATER MASTER PLAN                                   I.OA PA  PEAAIO                                    AIDA
B. PHOJECT-PERIOD CONTRACT NG
OTHER VEHICLES& E'UIPMENT                               ......
STODE CONSTRUCTION
INPLT OHDERO                                                                                      .-   ..1                -1
VET CENTER
DIP CONSTRULCTION
WATER SUPPLY MATERIALS                          L
HOADS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUKI
FROAD EQUIPMENT (UK)                                                                                                                                          PREPARATION OF |DC MENT| ==._.......-5-4   |  |  |  lPATI ODCE
LAND OSE PLANNING ILHDI                                                                                                                                       PLANNING OP EXECUTION
MORILISATION                              I                                                                                                   ADVERTISING
FIREVEWE OP BIDSIAPPLICATION
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IP I /NG/COND [STRCTINi
PERIOD
C DNTRECTION COMPLETION/
DE LIV ERY
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
CI COMIPNENT IMPLEMINTEATION
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PRODUCTION VILLAGES (121
Cool
LIVESTOCK DEEVELOPMENT
VILLAGE DEVELEPMENT
NZEGAIIUENGA 16_
M10MH0 ZONE P6E 0                                                                                                                                         r
FATTENING PROGRAM
TOETUE SURVEY                                         <
TSETDD CLEDARANCE......
WVATER SGPPLY
PLANNING AND DESIGN
UCT10ON
DESIGNED SCHEMES CONSTERUCTIEN
HOADS
NETWORK ROADSPEAATN
HETTERMENT                                [                                                                                                                            PERATION .....
INCREMENTAL MAINTENANCE                                           0..RATION
ACC ESS HOADS                             I'.....
FUELWOODUDEVELOPMFNT                                     o 
NURSERY DEVELOPMENT                                   '
VILLAGE BLOCK DEVELOPMENT                                                                 ..-
CANT UJSE PLANNING
REGIONAL MAPPING                                                                        .-.    
VILA AEAITE MAPPING
AN.-USC PLANT, REPORTSI
TRAIN ING
MONITORING&A EVALUETION                                                         .         .        
PEO,CC1 PERIOD
World B-k --(URRU






ANNEX 10
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Table 1  -  Summary by Component
Table 2  -  Project Secretariat
Table 3  -  Agricultural Development Component - Costs
Table 4  -  Livestock
4a - Tsetse Survey and Control
4b - Regional Livestock Development Services
Table 5  -  Water Supply
Table 6  -  Cost Estimates
Table 7  -  Forestry
Table 8  -  Summary by Type of Investment
Table 9  -  Vehicle Costs (excluding Roads)
Table 10 -  Equipment Costs (excluding Roads component)
Table 11 -  Buildings & Civil Works
Table 12 -  Technical Assistance Cost
Table 13 -  Local Salaries
Table 14 -  Vehicles & Equipment Costs:  Roads Component



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Summary by Component
(TSh'OO)
Foreign Exchange
Component                         Reference         Year 1            2             3             4             5           Total          %          Amount
TOTAL PROJECT SECRETARIAT
Implementation 'Unit            Table 2           5,202          1,210          1,210         1,210         1,210          10,042        61          6,078
Evaluation Unit                 Table 2           1,308          1,061            994         1.011           994           5,368        57          3,047
Sub-Total                               6.510          2.271          2 204         2 221         2.204          15,410        59          9.125
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT           Table 3          2,905           2,343         3,862         5,784          7,598         22,482        75         16,853
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT              Table 4          3,378           2,758         3,358         3,631          2,307         15,432        46          7,11.2
TOTAL WATER SUPPLY
Water Master Plan                Table 5          5,000           5,500           -             -              -           10,500        76          7,980
Water Planning & Design          Table 5            828             707           643            573           220          2,971         67         2,003
Water Construction               Table 5          2,569         12,440          4,886         6,258         5.902          32,054                   21,366
Sub-Total                               8,397         18,647          5,529         6,831         6.122          45,525        69         31_349
ROADS                              Table 6         10,444           5,698         5,236         4,410         3,374          29,162        69         20,154
FORESTRY                           Table 7            333             246           243           374           244           1,440        40            574
LAND-USE PLANNING                  Annex 8
App. 1           4,063          3,694          3,245         1,710         2,262          14,974        75         11,230
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                   36,030         35,657         23,677        24,950        24,111         144,425        67         96,397
Contingencies:
Physical                        Tables 2-8        3,515          3,328          2,163         2,356         2,151          13,513        71          9,639
Price                           Tables 2-8        4,900          6,351          6,341         8,847        10,643          37,082        69         25,700
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                44.445         45,336         32,181        36,153        36_905         195,020        6a        131,736
o->.
o t,
10



ANNEX tO
Table 2
TANZANI
TA PRA RURoL DEVcLOprENT PROJECT
ProiRc  Secretariatr1  2   3   4   5      Tot1         oeign
Reference            Veer 1       2           3           4            5          Total       Exchange    For2g1 Exhage M       onn
h           TSh'000      Ui$'000
A.  TMPLBMETATION UNIT
Capital Cost
Radio & Teleco,nication aquirent   Table 10                       15          -           -        -              _           150          85            128             15
Four-Wheel Drive                          Table 9                 124 1/      -            -           -           -           124          85            105             13
Technical Assistance                      Table 12              1,020       1,020       1,020        1,020       1,020       5,100          75          3,823            461
Hoe.ing 2/                                Table 11              3 848          , _                                -          3 848          43          1,658            200
Sob-Total                                                 5,142        1.020       1.020       1.020       1.020       9 222                       5,716           689
Operating Cotts
Vehicle running & maintenance                                      40           80          80          80          80         360          75            270             32
Building maintenance                                              -             70          70          70          70         280          20             56              7
Office maintenance                                                 20           40          40          40          40         180          20             36              4
Sub-Total                                                     60         190         190         190         190          820                       362             43
TOTAL IMPLEMENTATION UNIT                                         5,202       1,210        1,210       1,210       1,210      10,042                      6,078            732
B. EVALUATION UNIT
Capital cost
Poor-Wheel Drive                          Table 9                  62 1/       62 1/       -           -           -           124          85            105              13
Office Equipnent                          Table 10                 75           25         -           _           _           100          75             75              9
Rousing                                   Table 11                338          -           -           -           -           338          40            135             16
Bicyclee                                  Table 9                   6         -            _                                      6         85               5             0.6
Motorcycles                               Table 9                  17          -           -            17         -             34         85             29              4
Technica1 Aseistance (PEO)                Table 12                350         350          350          5          350       1.750          75         1t313             158
Sub-Tota1                                                   848          437         350         367         350       2.352                      1,662            200,6
Operating Coate
Counterpeet PEO                           Tlble 13                -            20           40          40          40         140
Reeearch Annietant 3/                     Table 13                 13.5        18           18          18          18          85.5        -
Senior Ecuneretora 3/                     Table 13                 40,5        54           54          54          54         256.5
Statietical Assistant,                    Table 13                 27          36          36           36          36         171
Enuneratore 3/                            Table 13                 67.5        90           90          90          90         427.5 
Clerke                                    Table 13                 13.5         18          18          18          18          85.5 
Dtivera                                   Table 13                  8            8           8           8           8          40
Special Studies Fund                      Table 8                 250         250         250          250         250       1,250          75            940           113
Vehicle running 1 maintenance                                      40          80           80          80          80         360          75            270             33
Outside anelysis                          Table 8                 -             50          50          50          50         200          -             175             22
Sub-Tota1                                                   460          624         644         644         644       3,016                      1,385            168
TOTAL EVALUATION UNIT                                             1,308       1,061          994       1,011         994       5,368                      3,047            368
TOTAL NEAD0UARTERS (Base C00t)                                    6,510       2,271        2,204       2,221       2,204      15,410                      9,125          1,100
CONTINGENCIES
phyeical                                                          607         232         225          226         225       1,515                      1,012            122
Price                                                             898         348          541         750         966       3,503                      2,080            251
TOTAL COST                                                        8,015       2.851       2.920        3_197       229        20.428                     122171,
I/ Includes space parts.
2/Includes 6 unite shich vould be financed under Credit for technicol staff to be hired for the Roads conponent.   Also includes furniture end applionces.
3/ Including field lloances - 20% for Research Assistants and 507, for Senior and other enuneratos.



EANZANIA
ZANORI  RURAL DEVELPM ENT PR(I'ECT
Air folM total ThwrlVs1oRLs omoszle  z <fil
_Year 31 _          Year 2               Y_ _vear 3            Year 4               Year 5                                     P. E.          F. E.
'Ir  ts C-t     No.      Coat        Na.     CGSe         Na.      Cost       Nlo,      Cet          Na.     Coat         Tatel                   A--tL           Am-car
CAPITAL COST                                                 (C.Sh¾)                 S' 00              T.Sh'0(0            G.3r  00             2.0, '000            T.Sh '000    T.Sh'000       F.E.Y      T.9h. '000       US$ '000
Na.        idians
30      Village Coop-stere  25 a2)                                    700/mn2         6        210         6        210         6       210          6       21()         6       210          1,050        20           210              25
2      Grade B HRuse (75 a                                         1,050/a2          2        158                                  -         -          -          -             -               158       20            32               4
Vehicles & Equipents
3      FPer Wheel Driv-                                           56,000             3        162                  -           -       -            1.       54          -       -               216       85           184              22
1      FPe Whbeel Deive (lang I-ae)                               86,000             1         86         -        -           -       -                    -            -       -                86       85            73               9
30      Bicyalea                                                      60(l            4          2         6          4         8         '         1!         7          -       -                18       85             15              2
Tumbi-lab Equipment                                            -             -      1,000         -        -           -       -                                  _      _             1,008       85           850             102
Spare ParIs for Vehicles + Eqaipaear                                                  188                      _                  1                    9                  _              199       85            169              20
Sub-TTtal                                                     1,806                  215                 216                  280                  210          T2727 127                 533 
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries and Allewances
4      Expatriate Staff                                          350,000/year        4      1,050         4      1,400         C    1,400           4    1,400           4    1,400            8, 6so      75         4,988               01
2      Field Officer                                              15,000/year        2         23         2         30         2        30          2        30          2        30             143       -             -
25      Assistant Field Officer                                     9,000/year        2         14         4         54         4        90                   90                   90             338
4      Driver                                                      6,000/year        -        -           4         24         4        24          4        24           4        24             96
Allowa.nes, overtime at 10% (all except
Yapatriate Staff)                                       5                    9                   9                   14                    14             51       -             _
Maintenance of Building @ 2% p.a.                                                       7                    12                 16                    20                   24              79       20            16               2
Maintenance of Equip-ent @ 10% p.a.                                                                         IO                  100                  100                  100             400       75           300              37
Vehicle operating cost @ 1.6/Ice  (20,000 3cm/annum
per vehicle)                                        -                  128         -       128                  128                  160             544       50           272              33
Sub-Tota1                                                     1,099                1.757               1,797                1,806                1,842           8,301                   1,576             673
FARM INPUTS .
Cotton                                                                        -       -            -        142         -       709          -    1,418           -    2,127           4,396        85         3,736             450
Paddy                                                                                 _            _         72         -       359                  718          -    1,076           2,225        85         1,891             228
Sorghum                                                                      -        -            -       107          -      526           -   1,052            -    1,578           3,263        85         2,774             334
Groundnuts                                                                   -         _           -        50          -       253          -       510          -       765           1.580       85         1_343             162
Sub-Total                                                                            371               1,849                3,698                5,546          11,464         -        9,744           1,174
Total                                                         2,905                2,34:3              3,862                5,784                7,598          .2,8'49        75       16,853          2,031
Physical Contingescies                                                                340                   293                 444                  639                  724          2,440                   1,806             218
Price Contingencies                                                                   34L                   330                 911                1_946                3,368          e,896        74         5,103           _15
Grand Total                                                                          5,86                2,966                  _17              _8.369                11,690         31,828        74        23,762           2_864
I/ Based on Table 9, 10, 11, 12 of Anne. 2
PF!



ANNEX 10
Table 4
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock
(TSh'000)
Foreign
Exchange Foreign Exchange Amount
Reference                     year l          2            3           4        5        Total          %       TSh'000    USS000
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings& Civil Works
Office A Stores                           Table 11                           64.0         -           -            -        -          64.0       40         25.6        3.1
Veterinary Centres                        Table 11                           99.0         75.0        75.0         _        _         249.0        20        50.0        6.0
Field Housing                             Table 11                           80.0         80.0        80.0         -        -         240.0       20         48.0        5.8
Temporarv field housing                   Table 11                           60.0         -           -            -        -          60.0       20         12.0        1.4
Housing, Grade A 1/                       Table 1l                          838.0         -           -            -        _         838.0       40       335.0        40.0
Dipa                                      Table 11                          195.0       195.0        195.0        -                   585.0       20       117.0        14.1
Sub-Total                                                         1.336.0        350.0       350.0         -        -       2,036.0                 587.6       70.4
Vehicle
Trucks (7 ton!                            Table 9                           258.0         -          129.0       258.0      _         645.0       85        548.3       66.1
Tractors 75 hp                            Table 9                            86.0                     -            86.0               172.0        85       146.2       17.6
Trailers                                  Table 9                            22.0         -           22.0         22.0     -          66.0        85        56.1        6.8
Water Boisers                             Table 9                            60.0         -           60.0         -        -         120.0        85       102.0       12.3
Mobile Veterinary Unit                    Table 9                            86.0                     -            -        86.0      172.0        85       146.2       17.6
Four-.heel drive                          Table 9                           270.0         -           54.0        324.0     -         648.0       85        550.8       66.4
Motorcycles                               Table 9                             17.2        17.2        17.2         17.2    17.2        86.0        85        73.1        8.8
Spare Parts                               Table 9                           120.0          2.6        42.3        106.0    15.4       286.3       85        243.4       29.3
Sub-Total                                                           919.2         19.8       324.5        813.2   118.6   2.195.3                1,866.1       224.9
Equioment
office equipmeet & furniture              Table 10                           38.0         21.0         6.0         -        -          65.0        75        48.8        5.9
Laboratory Equipment                      Table 10                           98.0         15.0        15.0         -                  128.0        75        96.0       11.7
Camping Equipment                        Table 10                            20.0         -           -            -        -          20.0       75         15.0        1.8
Sprayers                                 Table 10                            -            20.0        20.0         -        -          40.0       75        30.0         3.6
Protective Clothing                      Table 10                            -             6.0        -            -        -           6.0       85          5.1        0.6
Welghbridges                              Table 10                          240.0        240.0          _          _        _         480.0        85       408.0       49.1
Sub-Total                                                           396.0        302.0        41.0         -        -         739.0                 602.9        02.7
Village Development                                                               -          190.0        630.0       780.0   410.0   2,010.0          10       201.0        24.2
Incremental W                                                                                200.0         80.0       200.0   290.0        770.0       -
Technical Assistance                          Table 12                           350.0       700.0        700.0       700.0   350.0   2,800,0          75    2,100.0         253.0
TOTAL CAPITAL COST                                                             3.001.2    1.761.8    2.125.5    2,493.2 1_168.6  10.550.3                     5,375.6       645.2
RECURRENT COSTS
Salaries aed Wages                       Table 13                           150.0        297.0       440.0        440.0   440.0   1,767.0          -         -
Allo-ances                               Table 19                             47.0        96.0       122.0        122.0   122.0       509.0        -         -           -
Vehicle Operating Costs                                                     150.0        274.0       340.0        340.0   340.0   1,444.0          75    1,083.0        130.5
Buildiog Maintenance                                                          -           22.0        25.0         28.0    28.0       103.0        20        21.0         2.5
Equipment Maintenance                                                         -           22.0        26.0         26.0    26.0       100.0        75        75.0         9.0
Maintenance of Dams & Stock
Handling Facilities                                                                     51.0        82.0        82.0    82.0        297.0       -          -
Vaccines, Drugs, etc.                    Table 8                              31.0        70.2       100.0        100.0   100.0       401,2        85       341.0   ~ 41,
Sub-Total                                                           377.0        833.0    1.135.0    1.138,0 1.138,0   4.621.2                   1.520.0        183.0
TRAINING
Post Graduate                                                                 -           65.0        -            -        -          65.0        90        58.5          7.0
Technical                                                                     -           32.5        32.5         -                   65.0        90        58.5          7.0
Senior Staff                                                                  '           65.0        65.0         -        _         130.0        90       117.0        14.1
Sub-Total                                                             -          162.5         97.5        -        _         260.0                 234.0         28.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                               3,378.2    2,757,5      3,358,0    3.631,2 2,306,6  15,431.5                   7.129.6        856.3
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                                                    350.0        252.0       315.0        325.0   170.0   1,412.0                   820.0        99 0
Price                                                                       463.0        430.0       762.0    1,057.0   803.0   3,515.0                  1,815.0        219.0
TOTAL COST                                                                     4.191.2    3.439.5    4.435.o    5,013.2 3              20.358.5               9 764 6    1,174.3
1/ Includes furniture & equipment.






49NEX 10
Tabl. 4a
h-i-  -I                                                                                                                                                                     29. 0~~~~~~~~-00.101   00'020>
Ott  >0  2000                             5002                  .0        Coss         -                       .ooO ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oso0           2055191 0000A00%,~~~~~~~~~~~~ mIonco-.. 24
"K' 201 10>00                                                                                                                                                                             0  1000.006   00Cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17  .
>0- oo                                                                             -  -   -  -   12   Cl                                                                              .1 .6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.  -
-  15.1  -  00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
11.0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~       ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~C                                                11.1C
00000000000050t.                                                                                                           -        -             -             '00                       0'        15          00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j C 
' 0-0t                                                    2 .0            -           -                                                                                                  -65                                                              .0
-i      0. .--                                       6,,C.0                                                  .C20                                  .                                8-                            '.100                                         60.8
14-o                                                                                                                                                                                                                     120-t.0'1 1"00  '30- -    10.210.
oO0Oooo.0                                       C'.r                        Og~~~~~~~~-  -54-                       -                         2                                -                          02                        0          -.C       OO.
~~~~ 1. I                                              2.0~~~~~~~~~~~-                   .-                                        s       ,.0        1.
1.  n-slIer.  0-soles  000  22.0       1           oO.0          -           -                        .'..0         -           0           -         -                           'o'.0                              001         6.C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1--1.   U0.0 
*  0000'       0.00         '0.0             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 51371                                                                                            5.
0. 0000,.                                                                      00.2                                                co.6                      2.2                  -                                                            _____P.__    ,.
NA-T.t~~~~~~~~~~~~l           170.~~~~~~~~~~~         3~~~~~~,                                                                 17~~~~C                       22.                       2        1C
If        -o.l                                                              000                                              '070                                                                          4.
13:0   9-                                                                                            2~~~~~~~~~~~~0.0063.000.                              CT
00510 rOPOTo!. 10920                                              000 '.0                                              225.~~~~~~~~~IM   ,~, 7  1  7 04_2   7.4-                                      .0
roo-booal  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~402.                                           1463r..0                                           28                    02.0                         '08.011.
3                                                               7~~~~~~  .0  0           '                                       .                                                          03.
0  roOlgo-                                                                                                                                            r              6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~09.0
0  '   '.0                    o,              C         ~~~~~~                               ~    ~ ~~               ~~          ~~~~~~~~4r  4'  -    0 07.0
T ,,7--                                k,,.             7            0    ~      150                         C          1              '         0. 0  04               0         'C4C         -              00.0                                           5.
1.ltat"allnoon-o                       0'~~~~~~~~P.   -             -            0.0          -           ,12           -7o -                                :         7 -                     -             100.0
0 '5'OOlsOoootttoogn.'~~~~~~~~~iq                                                                                                                        3-                      C7'
hood   001's          0.0 020. 1.0                  -           02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~li.0  -  C              -             2          -           o         -         6.                           4.0                      C                   210.o
6  000''.0   ooCoo'05  1    p.O             0             -            0.0        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,1   7O 5 8.                        -       102.          -          5. ~         -0100.0
9-1                                                                I D.                                    1176~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 .0.
-2 I0                                       1.0           22 T000           -          -- t  T. z    10,-             i   fi- -          2.           -           ..l-                2o -, 
erlrlool    .-  -  0..                                             3 o            0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -   -                        -                                             20~~~~~tT ~   -   I  1
006   02010-      0  1-                            IO                                                                 0-  A---                                                                                            03:T0.0 12
001.00 lOoso,                                                            0,020.00           '        nSl.5                  2 075.5~t I ~t-fr,,  -0.80. fol                                                               0In                            0.
'or'oldooonrl'oO   oo..,15.Ooooro.ooon-000100000000oaOCraboo,ro.o00o0010ss0s0r.Oloo0                          OIlUs s0-00
7'  0 00'O  500 o,,0s~. 005 -0 .              -t                                  -     l lo0-5   011,,r






81011700 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~1
-oo      1 rOcc80EA   aJa
I'Oss.r-..0sgaraftor  2  A8>Aa  "iA La         eoro0BsO
c-t,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'J   ' ra.a.n'la
roil       ear                      earl                     'arrO                ar                  .tal          mrs       ~      j            an3s4
4,I                                                      .           90                                   -          --4                                              2050                    52I
'at- 'a''                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~                            ~         ~~~~ ~~~828.0  3900  .                                                  1.328.                                 4 - -  7
4     *Y1  2-I                                                                  1112'0                                                                                                                     1314 12172                            4
000    a            a~~~~~~,.    -          -             -          -  1700                            -          -                        1                '7      11072       171
traaas                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                     ~        ~~~           ~          ~ ~~67.0a  ..0  38 8- 7.8  1 .0  142.0  -7- 
515. 2                   28.2                     20. 2                   8 18.                28.                     "0.01.0                    888.8        8 7.0
trasi I 08008 loss                                                    ½330a..                    08540                    41.5                    513.                 88.2                     8.0.o                   1,100          158.4
a  'OaataaoFa'r.'.t'oa"pa'e''.a  00      0a0'           1          87'~~~~~~11D0  1    ~     .'                       5                     0            -                                 300 .16                  '1"        141.0
F'aO   Fllceas                              1~~           ~          ~~~~~        ~     ~ ~~~~40  3r40  .  G9.   2     60;           .68                              'r                       3216. 0 
I  A~~~~, i,1,1                                       3           11.0~~~~~~~lt  3         7a)           3             0                               1          0r7         s            122. 0
8A.                   0 6.0         0          36.           6         0603 3712.                                                                -         a
a aOtaOaa                             a            4           4~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                ~~~~~~0. 0  4  ' .1  a 01 0  '  'I 1.24
I-Tate'                                                38.8                  121.0                     101.0                   1'l 2                02 .                       8~~~~ 6.0  80.8          aa          -
trarali'lrrlaaraa             '1.12   l0aOsaOaaOee. ~f7.8-:.                                                            40                                           .                          67.0
0 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0                                                                                      4O                                                                                     -  4   i
aOaa                                      p.            l.''"''                                                                     l                        1                    .a5l                                 5              84..
'.84.4  362.8                   812 0              j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,        133.0
.30840  pFo a                 350'??'                 0~~~        ~      ~~~~~~~~~~33a  0503-        3381.8R
12 0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5a                                                   Z                                                                                                3
"taft              -                           1          65.7          1         K22.2          -           -           .          a          a       a                           03..'            00~~~E5df  110       10'4
F1"rl 1112.                                                   8183.2.                 ~~~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~~       ~      ~~~~~           ~           ~~1L668.  1110.2  1248.2  503.2  9,.1.0  3L17.;  0,.i0.
1/ Fr-id5aaf ~ia8ar---t of  aa12atar-'  and ot                  -sdo  a               fsaata  'asiBt-e  at  Ia~'I f0 ..r ... a8dd finld asrrsp          ra
0'.Iellrsinrot'3-etea''al-rf-t-l--  fis--
4'3   ao8ntasatasaaaaa
421otraoFaat   ltrt8    '                       2lraaa,at0a    as 
0' OE br ara   a a  t  ta            a  a   t.i   l t   81  t1.  ld    aar   s  r      a    l r     0. all     slaaeRoa,        a a    a.,o 'a .      e 81   O aat t     b






TAN2ANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPffENT FROJECT
Water Supply
Cost Estimate
(TSh  000)
Foreign
Exchange     FriaEnbseAso
Reference              Year 1            2               3               4               5              Total                       TSh'000          U0$xa 0o
A. WATER MASTER PLAN                                                       5,000,0         5,500.0           -                -               _            10,500.0           76          7,980.0          961.4
B. P LANNING AND DESIGI
Vehicles                                        Table 9                  248.0           186.3           62.1             62.1            _               558.5           85            474.7           57.2
Sorvey & Field Equipment                        Table 10                 100.0            -              -                -                               100.0           75             75.0            9.0
Office Fqnfpsent & Furpiture                    Table 10                  so.0            -               -               -               -                5050 70                       37.5            4.5
office Extension                                Table 11                  50.0            -               -               -               -                50.0           20             10.0            1.2
capatriate Salaries & Allowances                Table 12                 341.0           391.0          451.0            3t1.0            90.0          1,654.0           75          1,241.0          149.5
Local Salaries & Allowances                     Table 13                  19,0            80.0           80.0             80.0            80.0            339.0                          -              -
Vehicle Operatilg Cost                                                    20.0            50.0           50.0             51).0           500             220.0           75            165.0           19.9
Sub-Total                                                    828.0            707.3          643.1            573.1           220.0          2,971.5           68         2.003.2           241.3
C. WATER SUPPLY CONS7TROCTION
Vehicles & Equipment                            Table 9                1,841.5         1,607.2           62.1             62.1            -             3,572.9           85          3,037.0          365.9
Construccion & Materials                        Table 31                 290.0         8,600.0        2,432.6          3,868.4         3,859.0         19,050.0           85         16,200.0        1,951.8
Lahbo                                           Table 13                 100.0         1,400.0        1,500.0          1,500.0         1,500.0          6,000.0           .              .               -
Eapatniate Salaries & Allowances                Table 12                 146.0           325.0          383.0            319.0            35.0          1,208.0           75            906.0          109.2
Other LoanI Salaries & Allosances               Table 13                  61.0           133.0           133.0           133.0           133.0            593.0           -              -               -
Vehicle & Equip*ent Opersting Cost                                       130,0           375.0          375.0            375.0           373.0          2,630.            75          1.222.5          147.3
Sub-Total                                                   2,568.5        12.440.2        4.885.7          6,257.5         5,902.0         32,053.9           48        21,365.5         2.574.2
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                       8,396.5        18,647.5        5,528.8          6,830.6         6,122.0         45,525.4           56         31,348.7        3,776.9
CONTINGENCTES
Phy5icsl                                                                 846.0         1,741.0          433.0            547.0           457.0          4,024.0           60          2,843.0          342.5
Price                                                                    964.0         3,643.0        1,592.0          3,020.0         3,555.0         12,774.0           56          9,625.0        1,159,6
TOTAL COST                                                            102024.03.5                      7553.8         1039.6          10.134.0         62323.4                       43.816.7   5.279.0
_  _ _  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F






TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads Component
Cost Estimates
(TSh'000)
Foreign
Exchange    Foreign Exchange Amount
Year 1      2         3         4         5       Total          7           TSh'000         US$'000
CAPITAL COSTS
Equipment & Spares           7,476       -         -                            7,476       85              6,356           766
Technical Assistance         1,036    1,428    1,106         -         -          570       75              2,678           323
Total Capital Costs          8,512    1,428    1,106         -         -       11,046                       9,034         1,089
RECURRENT COSTS
Operating Costs              1,540    3,500    3,360    3,640    2,786    14,826            75             11,120         1,340
Local Staff Salaries
& Allowances                 392       770       770       770       588      3,290       -                 -             -
Total Recurrent Costs        1,932    4,270    4,130    4,410    3,374    18,116                           11,120         1,340
TOTAL BASE COSTS              10,444    5,698    5,236    4,410    3,374    29,162            69             20,154          2,428
Physical Contingencies         940       427       413       441       340      2,561       -               1,714            207
Price Contingencies          1,708    1,666    1,974    2,142    1,890          9,380-                      6,500            783
TOTAL COSTS                   13,092    7,7        7623 6,_993    5 604    41,103                            28,368          32418
* The housing items will not be financed under the U.K. Development Assistance Grant.
I-.t'



TANZANIA
TAFORA RFJRAL DhVEL(LESAENT PPOJTE(7T
Forestry
TSh'000
Year     Year      Year      Year      Year      Tital    Foreign        Foreign Exchange Amount
1         2         3        4         5                  Exchange        TSh'000      IJS$'000
Capital Costs
Civil Works
Land Preparation                       0.5        -         -         -         -         0.5
Nursery Store                          1.5        -         -         -        -          1.5                        -             -
Wall Construction                       5.0       -         -         -         -          5.0        40             2.0           0.2
Tank                                   2.0                  -                             2.0          -
Sub-total                         9.0       -         -         -         -          9.0        22             2.0           0.2
Vehicles
Four-wheel Driv,                      54.o       -          -       54.o       -        108.0         85            91.8          11.1
Light Pick-up Truck                   96.o        -         -       32,0       -        128.0         85           109.0          13.1
Motorcycles                           17.2        -         -       17.2        -         3L,4        85            29.3           3.5
Bicycles                                1.7       -         -        1.7        -          3 .4       85              3.0           .3
Spares Parts                          25.0       -         -        25.0       -         5o.0                       42.5           5.1
Sub-total                       193.9       -                 129.9       -        323.8        '5           275.6          33.1
Equipment
Fencing and Nursery Material           2.7       -          -        -         -          2            ---                         -
Water Pump and Engine                 23.0        -                                       2.          85            19.6           2.4
Sub-total                        25.7       -                   - _                 25.7        76             19.6          2.4
Total Capital Costs                       228.f            -            129.9       -        358.5        83            297.2         35.7
Recurrent Costs
Salaries and Allowances                 43.o      85.0      8s.0o     8s.0      87.o       383.0         -              -            -
Fertilizer and Seeds                      0.5       1.0        .0       1.0       1.0        4.5        85              3.8          0.s
Polythene tulbes                          0.7       1.0       J.5        .'       1.5         .7                -                    -
Equipment Maintenance                     -         0.*       7.2       7.2       7.2       ?8.8        75            21.6           2.6
Incremental Field Labor Co)sts          25.0       7(.0         o 1.0  74        74.0                    -              -            -
Vehicle Operationl                       3s5.0       70 71~(            5. C     75.C      335.0        75            251.2         30.3
Total Recurrent Costs                     I0L.2    245.7   ?23,7    243.0    2.3.7   1,081.0              26            276.6         23.4
Total Base Costs                          332.8    24'.7    243.7    3734    243.7   1,438.5              40        5 70 .8    i       9.1
Contingencies
Physic al                  .() 3.0                            0        '- 9.0             81.0        71      5      7' 4          7.0
Price                  30                         0  '      7 4     108.0      86.o 3'?.0              54           180.0          01 7
To)tal Co)sa                              392.8    281.7    299.7    539.6    338.7   1 3852.5            44            811.2          97.8



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Summary by Type of Investment
(TSh'000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1        2         3          4          5       Total         X      Amount
Vehicles & Spares             3,222      1,591        454      1,128       118       6,513        85       5,543
Equipment                     2,425        617         41         17        -        3,100        83       2,583
Buildings                     5,949        560        560        210       210       7,489        35       2,635
Technical Assistance          3,257      4,186      4,304     4,170      3,245      19,162        75      14,373
Local Staff & Labor              657     2,528      2,851      2,856     2,856      11,748        -           -
Operation & Maintenance         442      1,386      1,494     1,501      1,538       6,361        64       4,060
Farm Inputs                       31       444      1,952     3,800      5,649      11,876        85      10,089
Other                             -        553        807        980       700       3,040        14         435
Consultant Contract           5,250      5,800        300        300       300      11,950        76       9,095
Construction Material            290     8,600      2,433     3,868      3,859      19,050        85      16,200
Land-Use Plan*                4,063      3,694      3,245      1,710     2,262      14,974        75      11,230
Roads*                       10,444      5,698      5,236     4,410      3,374      29,162        69      20,154
Total Base Costs             36,030    35,657    23,677    24,950    24,111    144,425            67      96,397
Contingencies
Physical                    3,515      3,328      2,163     2,356      2,151      13,513        71       9,639
Price                       4,900      6,351      6,341     8,847    10,643       37,082        69      25,700
Total Project Costs          44,445    45,336    32,181    36,153    36,905    195,020            68    131,736
*  Financed by U.K. Overseas Development Programme.                                                                    1 3
(D X
coH



TANZANIA                                                             ANNEX 10
lable 9
TABORA RURAL DEVELOR5ENT PROJECT
Vehicle Costs (excluding Roads)
(TSh '000)
Unit Cost         Year 1             Year 2           Year 3             Year 4            Year 5             Total
TShs        No.    Cost         No.   Cost        No.   Cost        No.   Cost        No.   Cost
Project Secretariat
Four-wheel Drive                  54,000        3      162.0         4      54.0      -    -            -    -            -    -               216.0
Bicycles                             550       10        5.5         -      -         -    _            -    -            -    _                 5*5
Motorcycles                        8,600        2       17.2         -      -         -    -            2      17.2        -    -               34.4
Spare Parts                                                                  8.0      -    -            -    -            -    -                 8.0
Sub-total                                           184.7               62.0 o                             17.2              -             263.9
Agricultural Development
Four-wheel Drive                  54,000        3      162.0         -      -                                  54.0                            216.0
Four-wheel Drive -                86,000        1       86.0         -      -         -    -            -    -            -    -                86.0
(long wheel base
Bicycles                           5,500        4        2.0         6       4.0      8      5.0       12       7.0       -    -                18.0
Spart Parts                          -                  38.0         -      1.0       -     1.0         -       9.0       -    -                49.0
Sub-total                                           288.o                5.0             6.o               70.0              -             369.0
Livestock Development
Lorries (7 ton)                 129,000         2      258.0         -      -         1   129.0         2    258.0        -    -               645.o
Tractors (75 h.p.)               86,ooo         1       86.o         -      -         -    -            1      86.o       -    -               172.0
Trailers                          22,000        1       22.0         -      -         1    22.0         1      22.0       -    -                66.o
Water Bowser                      60,000        1       60.0         -      -         1    60.o         -    -             -    -              120.0
Mobile Veterinary Unit            86,ooo        1       86.o         -      -         -    _            -    _            1      86.o          172.0
Four-Wheel Drive                 54,000         5      270.0         -     _          1    5L.0         5    270.0        -    -               648.o
Motorcycles                        8,60oD       2       17.2         -      17.2      2    17.2         2      17.2        -     17.2           86.o
Spare Parts                      86,o0o         1      120.^         -      2.6 642.3                         106.0       -      15.4          286.3
Sub-total                                           919.2               19.8           324.5              813.2             118.6        2,195.3
Water Supply
Four-Wheel Drive                 54,000         8      432.0         6    324.0       2    108.0        2    108.0        -    -               972.0
Lorries (10-15 tons)            200,000         5   1,000.0          5  1,000.0       -      _       -           -              -            2,000.0
Tractors (25 h.p.)               43,000         2       86.o         2     86.o       -      -          -    -            _    -               172.0
Spare Parts                                            116.0               94.0             16.2               16.2       -    -               242.4
Sub-total                                        1,634.0             1,504.0            124.2             124.2                          3,386.4
Reafforestation
Four-Wheel Drive                 54,000         1       54.0         -     -          -      -          1      54.0       -    -              108.0
Light Pick-up Trucks             32,000         3       96.o         -      -         -      -          1      32.0       -    -              128.0
Motorcycles                        8,600        2       17.2         -      -         -      -          2      17.2       -    -                34.4
Bicycles                           5,500        3        1.7         -      -         -      -          3       1.7       -    -                 3.4
Spare Parts                                             25.0                -                -                 25.0       -    -                50.0
Sub-total                                           193.9               -                -                129.9             -              323,8
Total Base Costs                                      3,219.8            1,590.8            454.7           1,154.5              118.6       6,538.4
Physical Contingencies                                 322.0              159.0             46.0              115.0              12.0         654.0
Price Contingencies                                    390.0              275.0            121.0             427.0               55.0       1.268.0
TOTAL COSTS                                          3,931.8            2.024.8            621.7           1,696.5              185.6       8.460.4



ANNEX 10
Table 10
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment Coats (excluding Roads component)
(TSh'000)
Unit Cost           Year I               Year 2                Year 3               Year 4                Year 5
TSh           No.       Cost        No.       Cost       No.       Cost       No.        Cost       No.       Cost       Total
PROJECT SECRETARIAT
Radio Communication Equipment            50,000           3          150                                                                                             150
Office Equipment                                                      75                   25                                                                        100
Furniture & Appliances                   29,100          9           262                                                                                             262
Sub-Total                                                 487                    25                   -                    -                    _          512
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Tumbi Lab. Equipment                                              1.150 1!                 -                    -                                          _      1.150
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Lab. Equipment (VIC)                        -            -            68                   -                                         -                    -           68
other Lab. Equipment                     15,000          2            30       1           15       1          15                                                     60
Sprayers                                                                                   20                  20                    -                    -          40
Camping Equipment                       20,000           1            20                   -                   -                     .                                20
Equipment & Furniture                                                 95                   21                   6                                         _         122
Protective Clothing                                                                         6                  -                                          _            6
Weighbridges                             80,000          3           240       3          240                   -                    -                     -         480
Sub-Total                                                 453                   302                  41                   1                               796
WATER SUPPLY
Lorry Cra,e                            250,000           1           250       1          250                                                                       500
Drilling Rig                            50,000           1            50                   -                   -                     _                               50
Concrete Plant                          40,000           1           40                    -                   -                     -                    -          40
Survey & Field Equipment                    -            -          100                              -                    -                               -         100
Office Furniture & Equipment                                          50                                       _                     _                    _           50
Tools                                                                40                    -                                                              _          40
Spare Parts                                                          75                    40                                                                       115
Sub-Total                                                 605                   290                                       -                     -         895
REAFFORESTATION
Fencing & Nursery Material                  _                         3                    -                                                                          3
Water Pump & Engine                                                   23   V               -_                  _                                                     23
Sub-Total                                                  26                                                                                   -          26
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                    2,721                   617                  41                   -                     -       3,379
Physical Contingencies                                              272                   62                    4                   -                    -         338
Price Contingencies                                                 320                  102                   11                   -                    -         433
TOTAL COSTS                                                         3,313                   781                  56                   -                     -      4.150
I/ Including spare parts.



ANNEX 10
TANZANIA                                             Table lLI
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Buildings & Civil Works
Unit    Unit Cost         Year 1           2              3             4              5
M2                     No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost              TOTAL
. IFADQUARTERS
Housing Grade A                              150    390,000         9  3,510.0   -    --                                                      3 __  _    __  _    __  3,510.0
Housing  ,rade R                              75      78,800        4    315.0   -    --         -    --        -    --       -                 315.0
Housing Grade A                                      338,000        1    _3830   -    --         -    -~ -    --              -    --           338.0
Sub-Total                                              4,163.0                                                               4,163.0
AIRMICULTRAL DEVELOPMENT
Sousine Grade P                               75      79,800        2    158.0   -    --         -    --        -    --       _    __           158.0
V'llage Co-op Store                          50      35,000        6    210.0   6    210.0   6    210.0   6    210.0   2    210.0    1,050.0
Sub-Total                                                368.0          210.0         210.0          210.0         210.0    1,208.0
LlT'ESTOCK
Central Offices and StOres I/                            400/m2            64.0   -    --        -    --        -    --       -    --             64.0
ieterinary Tnvestigation Centers I                       400/M2            24.0   -    __        _    __       _    __        _    __            24.0
Veterinary Centers                                    75,000               75.0   1       75.0   1      75.0   -    --        _    __           225.0
Field Housing                                         20,000               80.0   4       80.0   4      80.0   -    __        _    __           240.0
Tenporary Field Housing                                6,ooo               60.0   -    --              _        _    -_       _    __            60.0
Housing Grade A                                      390,000              780.0   -    --        _    __        _    --       _    __            780.0
Cips                                                  65,0oo              195.0   3    195.0   3       195.0   -    --        -    -             585.0
Rars                                                  12,600             --        7     88.2  16    201.6  16    201.6   9    113,4            604.8
Sub-Total                                              1,278.0          438.2         551.6          201.6         113.4    2.'82.8
WATER SUIPPLY
Office Extension                                                           50.0   -               -             -              -                  50.0
Civil Works                                                               290.0       8,600.0        2,433,6       3,868.4        3,859.0   19,050.0
Sub-Total                                                340.0        8,600.0       2,433.6        3,868.4       3,859.0   19,100.0
RPAFFORESTATTON
Lard Preparation                                                            0.5   -    --        -    --        -    --       -    --              0.5
Nursery Store                                                               1.5   -    __        _    __        _    __       -    --             1.5
Well Construction                                                           5.0   -    --        -    --        -    --       -    --             5.0
Water Tank                                                                  2.0   -    --        -    --        -    --       -    --              2.0
Sub-Total                                                   9.0                       ---           -- -                          9.0°
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                          6,158.0       9,248.0        2,845.2       4,280.0        4,182.4    26,713.6
Physical Contingencies                                                    616.0         925.0          285.0         428.0          418.2      2,672.2
Price Contingencies                                                     1,042.0       1,578.0          940.0       1,639.0        2,040,0      7,239.0
TOTAL COSTS                                                               7,816.0      11,751.0        4,070.2       6,347.0        6,640,6    3



ANNEX 10
Table 12
TANZAN
TABORA RURAL DEVEL4OPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Cost
(TSh' 000)
Year 1              Year 2              Year 3              Year 4               Year 5
Unit Cost     No.       Cost       No.      Cost       No.       Cost      No.       Cost       No.      Cost       Total
SECRETARIAT
Project Coordinator                    350,000        1        350        1         350        1         350       1        350       1           350    1,750
Project Evaluation officer             350,000        1        350        1         350        1         350       1         350      1           350    1,750
Financial Analyst                      320,000        1        320        1         320        1         320       1         320      1           320    1,600
Project Expeditor                      350,000        1        350        1         350       1          350       1        350       1           350    1.750
Sub-Total                                      1.370                1.370                1 370              1,370                 1,370    6,850
AGRICULTIIRAL DEVELOPMENT
Agronomists                            350,000        3        788        3       1,050                1,050              1,050                 1,050    4,988
Training Officer                       350,000        1        262        1         350        1         350       1        350       1           350    1,662
Sub-Total                                    1.050                 1.40                 1.400              1.400                 1 400    6,650
LTVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Livestock Production Specialist        350,000        1       175         1         350        1         350       1        350       1           350    1,575
Tsetse Ecologist                       350,000        1       175         1         350        1         350       1        350       1           350    1.575
Sub-Total                                      3.Q                   700                  700                 700                  700    3_150
WATER SUPPLY
Sanitary Engineer                       36,000        2        48         2          72        2          72       2          48      -           -         240
Construction Engineer                   36,000        -         -         1          36        1          36       1          36      -           _         108
Tab. Assistant                          24,000        1         16        1          24        1          24       1          16      -                      80
Technicians                             21,600        6        80         6         129        6         129       6         105      4            58       501
Surveyors                               19,200        4        51         4          77       4           77       4          51      -                     256
Draftsmen                               12,000       10        72        10         120       10         120      10          72      -           -         384
Water Supply Foremen                    24,000        -         -         2          24        2          48       2          24      -           -          96
Well Sinkers                            21,600        -         _         2          43        2           22      -          -                              65
Building Foremen                        24,000        -         -         2          48        2          48       2          24      -           -         120
Drilling Foremen                        24,000                            2          48        2          48       -          24      -           _         120
Airfares, allowances                                          220                    95                  210       -         300      -            67       892
Sub-Total                                      487                   716                  834                 700                  125    2,862
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                              3,257                4,186                4,304               4,170                3,595    19,512
Physical Contingencies                                        490                   627                  646                626                   539     2,928
Price Contingencies                                           412                   722                1.188              1,583                 1.773     5.678
TOTAL COSTS                                                  4159                  5.535                6,138              6 379                 5 907    28.118



ANNEX 10
Table 13
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local Salaries
(TSh '000)
Year 1             Year 2              Year 3              Year 4             Year 5
Unit Cost    No.        Cost      No.      Cost       No.      Cost       No.      Cost      No.       Cost      Total Cost
TSh
PROJECT SECRETARIAT
Project Evaluation Officer         40,000        -          -       1         20         1        40        1        40        1         40              140
Research Assistant                  18,000        1         9       1         18         1        18         1        18       1          18              81
Senior Enumerators                  13,500       4         27       4         54         4        54        4         54       4          54             243
Statistical Assistants               9,000       2         18       2         36         2        36        2         36       2         36              162
Enumerators                          9,000      10        45       10         90        10        90       10         90      10          90             405
Clerks                               9,000       2          9       2         18         2        18        2         18       2          18              81
Driver                               8,000       1          4       1          8         1         8        1          8       1           8              36
Sub-Total                                      112                 244                264                 264                 264           1_148
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Field Officer                       15,000       2         23       2         30         2        30        2         30       2          30             143
Assistant Field Officers             9,000       2         14       6         54        10        90       10         90      10          90             338
Driver                               6,000       -          -       4         24        4         24        4         24       4          24              96
Allowances & Overtime                            -          -       -          9         -         9        -         14       -          14              46
Sub-Total                                       37                 117                153                 158        ;L
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT
Field Officers                     34,000        3        51        3        102        4        136        4        136       4        136              561
Assistant Field Officers             9,000       5         23       5         45         7        63         7        63       7         63              257
Field Assistants                     5,000       5        13        5         25       15         75       15         75      15         75             263
clerical Staff                       9,000       1          5       1          9         2        18        2         18       2         18               68
Drivers                              6,000      11        33       11         66       13         78       13         78      13         78             333
Skilled Labor                        5,000      10         25      10         50        14        70       14         70      14         70              285
Allowances                                       -        47        -         96         -       122        -        122       -        122              509
Sub-TotaL                                      197                 393                562                 562                 562           2276
WATER SUPPLY
Secretary/Clerk                      9,000       3         18       3         27         3        27        3         27       3         27             126
Equipment Operators                 9,000        4        24       4          36        4         36        4        36        4         36             168
Drivers/Skilled Labor               6,000        8        32       20        120       20        120       20       120       20        120             512
Unskilled Labor                                           100       -      1,400         -     1,500        -      1,500       -      1,500           6,000
Allowances                                        -          6      -          30        -         30        -        30       -          30             126
Sub-Total                                      180               1,61713                                1,713              1,713            6,932
REAFFORESTATION
Forester                           25,000        1         13       1         25         1        25         1        25       1         25              113
Assistant Forester                 15,000        2         15       2          30        2        30         2        30       2          30             135
Field Assistant                     5,000        3          8       3         15         3        15        3         15       3         15               68
Allowances                                       -          7       -          15        -        15         -        15       -          15              67
Sub-Total                                      43                  85                  85                 85                  85             383
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                            569              2,452              2,777               2,782               2,782          11,362
Price Contingencies                                       30                 190                365                 520                 670           1,775
TOTAL COSTS                                                 599              2,642              3,142               3,302              3,452           13,137



ANNEX 11
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement of IDA and Canadian Government Funds 1/
IDA Fiscal Year              Disbursement            Cumulative              Balance
and Quarter Ending             in Quarter            Disbursement            of Credit
----________------(US$ 000)
1977/78
December                            -                       -                 12,000
March                              150                      50                 11,950
June                               120                     170                11,830
1978/79
September                          400                     570                11,430
December                           650                   1,220                10,790
March                              550                   1,770                 10,230
June                               500                   2,270                  9,730
1979/80
September                        1,050                   3,320                  8,680
December                         1,050                   4,370                  7,630
March                              650                   5,020                  6,980
June                               620                   5,640                  6,360
1980/81
September                          650                   6,290                  5,710
December                           650                   6,940                  5,060
March                              260                   7,200                  4,800
June                               260                   7,460                  4,540
1981/82
September                          950                   8,410                  3,590
December                           950                   9,360                  2,640
March                              250                   9,610                  2,390
June                               250                   9,860                  2,140
1982/83
September                          850                  10,710                  1,290
December                           850                  11,560                    440
March                              220                  11,780                    220
June                               220                  12,000
1/ This schedule assumes that the Credit would become effective in September 1977.
It takes account of advance preparation of contracts and allows for a 3-
quarter average delay between expenditure and IDA disbursement. The IDA and
Canadian funds would be disbursed by IDA in the ratio of 7:5 for all items
jointly financed by IDA and the Canadian Government.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOFHENT PROJECT
Government Sources sad Application of Fonds 1/
(TSh' O0O)
Year 1       2               3           4            5         6          7         8           9          10        11         12          13          14           15          16        17         18         19          20
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Export Taxes on Cotto,  2/                   -              10          71          169         311        341       408        448         486         535        535        535         535         535         535         535        535        535        535         535
Net Profit frn Cotton                        -              29          214          507        604        702       800        897         975       1,073      1,073      1,073       1,073       1,073       1,073       1,073      1,073      1,073      1,073       1,073
Net Frofit from Paddy                        -              10           68          196         392        471      550        626         705         783        705        783         783         783         783         783        783        783        783         783
F-nnere Repaynect for Input 31                -           173           852       1,703       2,556
Net Frofit fran Livestock 4/                 123           270          306          414         491        557      557        557         557         557        557        557         557         557         557         557        557        557        557         557
Inco. e Tanen                                 65           191          232         242          242       163       163        163         163         163        163        163         163         163         163         163        163        163        163         163
Rectal Benefit on Ho..ee  5/                                                                                518       518       518         518         518        518        518         518         518         518         518        518        518        518         518
IDA and Canadi-n Contributi.nr             9,794       19,256       23,157       17,596      19,090    10,707
ODM (UK) Cuntribution                      9.200        9 700        6,700        8,100       7,800                  -          -           -
Total Sourcea of Fonda                     19,182       29 639        i 31,60     2800 27     31.486    13,459    2,996        3.209       3,404       3,629      3.629      3,629       3.629       3,629       3,629       3.629      3.629      3.629      3.629       3,629
AFFLICATION OF FUNDS
Governaent Subdidy on Inp.ts 6/                                                                           1.410    1,410      1,410       1,410       1,410
Maintenance Coat of Water Supply 7/            60          120          180          240         330        330       330        330         330        330        330        330         330         330          330         330        330       330        330         330
IDA and Canadian Service Ch-rges               73          218          392          524         667        747       747       747         747         747        740        732         725         717         710          702       695        687        680         672
IDA and C.nadian Repay..ntn
Project Secretar-at                        6,258        2,503         2,429       2,447       2,429
Agricultural Development                   3,245         2,642        4,339        6.489       8,403        496       496        496         496        496        496        496         496         496          496         496        496       496        496          496
Livest-ck                                  4,092         3,029        3,672        3,973       2,523      1,223    1,223      1,223       1,223       1,223      1,223      1,223       1,223       1,223       1,223        1,223     1,223      1,223      1,223       1,223
Water Supply                               9,253        20,552        6,098        7,528       6,822        817       817       817          817        817        817        817         817         817          817         817        817       817        817         817
Roada 8/                                  11,384        6,125         5,649       4,851        3,719        700      700        700         700         700        700        700         700         700         700          700       700        700        700         700
F-restry                                     359           255          253          402         253     2_03         30        2 203        203        203        203        203         203         2053        703          2030 23               53 703                203
Total Applications                          34.724        35.444       23.012       26,454      25,146      5,926    5,926      5,926       5,926       5,926      4,509      4,501       4,494       4,486       4,479       4,471      4,464      4,456      4,449       4,441
Government Snrplaa (Deficit)               (15,542)       (5,805)       8,588        2,473       6,340      7,533   (2,930)   (2,717)    (2,522)        2,297        (880)     (872)        (865)       (857)       (850)       (8425      (835)      (827)      (820)       (812)
Accueulated Surplus (Deficit)               (15,542)    (21,347)    (12,759)    (10,286)    (3,946)    3,587            657    (2,060)    (4,582)    (2,285)    3,165    (4,037)    (4,902)    (5,759)            (6,609)    (7,481)   (8,316)   (9,143)   (9,963)   (10,775)
1/ In cacatant 1977 Fricee, Te.an, levies and eapenans are eapected to inflnte at ab-ut the sein rate
2/ Tax is 10% of FOB value of lint cottop
3/ F_neera payment is 100% fnr seeds and 507 fr ather inputn.
4/ Asaures 20% of nales is cat profit.
5/ A.auxer 10% of .on.truction  -oats of all hba... .
bdy  f 507, of cot of inpta, asaed to continue in Froject period, is included in agricultural cets.  Rednced to 25% for fallowtng 5 years and nero after year 10.
Pr F.eaent Gover-amet badget of TSh 3 per .apita for mainten--ce cost of water is arsumed ta continue   The rent would be paid by villagers (apprxiimately TSh 4,00 per capita).
i/ FrPn year 6, tavern all Tabnra networbk rad  and repreeentn difforeace between Project estinate af naintenance cost and average Govern-ent budget allocation from  1972/73 to 1975/76,



ANNEX 13
Page 1
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits and Sensitivity Analysis
1.        Project incremental costs and benefits are summarized in Table 1.
The cost and benefit streams for individual components, excluding the Water
Supply component and the Land-Use Planning component, for which no very mean-
ingful benefits could be calculated, are given in Tables 2 through 5. Costs
and benefits are expressed in constant values based on October 1976 prices,
derived from the cost calculations shown in the tables in Annex 10, and the
production and other benefits detailed in the relevant component Annexes, 2,
3, 5, and 6 with 7.
2.        In these calculations, all tradeable production and Project inputs
have been valued at FOB or CIF as appropriate, adjusted for costs of transport
and handling between Tabora and Dar es Salaam and expressed in local currency
at the official exchange rates; and non-tradeables have been valued at their
domestic market prices adjusted to their border equivalents. The local cost
element of these costs has been deflated by the Standard Conversion Factor
(SCF) for Tanzania as no specific factors are yet available for Tanzania.
The SCF of 0.75 is the ratio of the official exchange rate to an estimated
shadow rate. Unskilled labor has been shadow priced at 40% of the official
rural wage rate: this level is representative of the opportunity cost of
such labor in the Region. Skilled labor has been valued at market prices
adjusted to border price equivalents. Fertilizer prices have been derived
from World Bank commodity forecasts (see Tables 6 and 7). Taxes have been
removed from costs, but physical contingencies are included.
3.        The reference price for cotton is FOB, and prices for paddy and ground-
nuts are CIF, Dar es Salaam equivalents of international prices, projected in
line with World Bank commodity price forecasts to 1980 and thereafter taken at
the 1980 level. Domestic prices at Dar es Salaam have been taken for sorghum
and beef. The relevant base prices are:
Cotton lint:   AR                           TSh 9039 mt
BR                          TSh 5630 mt
Cotton seed                                 TSh  553 mt
Paddyy                                      TSh 2602 mt
Groundnuts                                  TSh 2870 mt
Sorghum                                     TSh 1000 mt
Beef                                        TSh 9900 mt
The value of fuelwood has been taken as the saving of transport costs, unsub-
sidized, on carting miombo wood. For the roads component, constant local
market prices were taken as the basis for benefit calculations (Annex 5,
Appendix 7) -- a conservative approach.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        The internal economic rate of return (IER) on the Project (excluding
the Water Supply component, the Water Master Plan, and the Land-Use survey,
but including all the Project Secretariat costs) is estimated at 17% over 20
years. (If all costs are included, but no benefits are attributed to the
Water and Land-Use Planning components, IER is estimated to be 9%.) The
separate components have also been evaluated. The results, and their sensi-
tivity to variations in costs and benefits, are shown in the following tabu-
lation:
Component                                                    Rate of return
Crop agriculture                                                   18%
With costs 10% greater than estimate                          12%
With costs 20% greater than estimate                           7%
With farm labor priced at the rural wage                      negative
With yields 15% greater than estimate                         26%
With yields 15% lower than estimate                            8%
Livestock (including Tsetse survey)                                20%
With yields 20% lower than estimate                           11%
With yields 20% greater than estimate                         30%
With yields 30% lower than estimate                            7%
With yields 50% lower than estimate                           negative
Fuelwood                                                           40%
With benefits 30% lower tl -  estimate                        35%
Roads Maintenance and Constructio.                                 21%
With all costs 25% greater than ostimate                      16%
With recurrent costs 25% greater ':han estimate               18%
With benefits 50% lower than estimate                          9%
With benefits 25% higher than estimate                        25%
Total (including Project Secretariat)                              17%
With benefits lagged 1 year                                   13%
With benefits lagged 2 years                                  10%
With benefits 25% lower than estimate                          9%
The most sensitive components are crop agriculture and livestock, in which
lower production is a real possibility. Given that these are experimental,
however, the true benefits are not the short-term production benefits used
here to calculate returns, but hard-to-quantify, longer-term, results expected
from the application of the results of the applied research. The roads and



ANNEX 13
Page 3
fuelwood components are noticeably stable. It is unlikely that benefits
would materialize 1 or 2 years later without some compensating delay in
expenditures, and therefore even the one-year delay tested -- which reduces
IER by one-quarter -- is probably a particularly severe test.
5.        Considering that the Project is essentially a pilot one, the es-
timated rates of return are high, and there are benefits which would accrue
to the Project, even in this initial period, which have not been quantified.
A follow-up Project should have a very good IER.



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs/Benefits
(TSh'000)
Years 1      2         3         4         5        6         7         8         9       10-20
PROJECT COSTS
Project Secretariat         6,018    2,239    2,161    2,179    2,161           706       706       706       706       706
Crop Development            1,789    2,488    4,821    7,788   10,687    9,178    9,178    9,178    9,178    9,178
Livestock Development       3,703    3,029    3,446    4,448    2,495    1,411    1,411    1,411    1,411    1,411
Fuelwood Production            357      244       245       3C,3      24v       246       246       184       185       185
Roads                      10,797    5,585    5,140    4,389    3,358    3,090    2,700    2,740    1,175    1,175
Total Project Costs        22,664   13,585   15,813   19,187   18,947   14,631   14,241   14,219   12,655   12,655
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Crop Development                 0      280    1,792    4,463    7,755    9,190   10,475   11,830   13,153   14,536
Livestock Development         803    1,559    2,960    3,120    3,220    3,775    3,300    3,300    3,300    3,300
Fuelwood Production              0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0    4,400    4,400
Roads                            0        0       534    1,963    4.186    6.563    9,159   11,334   12,125   12,712
Total Incremental Benefits    803    1,839    5,286    9,546   15,161   15,528   22,934   26,464   32,978   34,948
Net Benefit (Costs)         (21,861) (11,746) (10,527)  (9,641)  (3,786)  (4,897)   8,693   12,245   20,323   22,293
Rate of Return:  17%



ANNEX 13
Table 2
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Development
Economic Costs/Benefits
(TSh'000)
Years 1          2         3         4         5           6         7      8            9       10-20
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings
Village Coop-Stores               160       160       160       160        160
Grade B Housing                   125        -         -         -         --
Vehicles & Spare Parts            278         5         6        67         -
Technical Assistance              985    1,315    1,315    1,315         1,315
Physical Contingencies            205       214       214       220        214
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                 1,753    1,694    1,695    1,762         1,689
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS I/
Salaries & Allowances              31        88       155       120        120       300       300       300       300       300
Building Maintenance                5        11        12        16         20        20        20        20        20        20
Vehicle Operating Costs            -        125       125       125        155       155       155       155       155       155
Inputs                             -        375    1,890    3,815        5,778    5,778   _5,78    5,778    5,778    5,778
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                  36       599    2,142    4,076        6,073    t,253        2       6,253    6,253    6,253
Incremental Farm Labor                  0       195       975    1,950       2,925    2,925    2,925    2,925    2,925    2,925
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  1,789    2,488    4,812    7,788    10,687    9,178    9,178    9,178    9,178    9,178
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT
Paddy                               0        62       420    1,251       2,503    3,003    3,504    4,003    4,505    5,000
Sorghum                             0        26       194       569      1,187    1,470    1,753    2,001    2,258    2,601
Cotton                              0        78       590    1,395       2,397    2,881    3,218    3,654    4,050    4,427
Groundnuts                          0       114       5RR    1,24R       l,rPR    1,gr8    2,000    2,172    2,340    2,508
Total Incremental Benefit               0       280    1,792    4,463        7,755    9,190   10,475   11,830   13,153   14,536
Net Incremental Benefit            (1,789)  (2,208)  (3,020)  (3,325)   (2,932)           12    1,297    2,652    3,975    5,358
1/ Includes Physical Contingencies.
Rate of Return: 18%



ANNEX 13
Table 3
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Livestock Development
Economic Costs/Benefits
(TSh'000)
Years 1        2        3        4        5        6      7-20
CAPITAL COSTS
Buildings & Civil Works
Office & Stores                    54
Veterinary Centers                 79       60       60       -        -
Housing 1/                        830       60       60       -        -
Dips                              164      164      164       -        -
Vehicles & Spare Parts              884        19     312      783      114
Equipment
Office & laboratory
equipment                       128       34       19       -        -
Camping equipment                  19       -        -        -
Spravers & protective
clothing                         -        25       19                -
Weighbridges                      231      231       -        -        -
Village Development                   -      147      487   1,24o       318
Technical Assistance                328      656      656      656      328
Other Costs                           -      200        80     200      290
Physical Contingencies              297      158      164      176       60
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                 3,014             2,021   3,063   1,110
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS 2/
Wages, Salaries &
allowances                      150      295      422      422      422      422      422
Vehicle Operating Costs           155      284      350      355      355      155      155
Building maintenance               -        20       22       24       24       24       24
Equipment maintenance              -        23       26       26       26       26       26
Dips, Dams & Stock handling
facilities                       -        22       36       36       36      36       36
Vaccines, drugs, etc.              49       93      132      132      132      132      132
Training                           -       175       72       -        -        -        -
Incremental Labour                335      340      365      390      390      390     390
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                  689   1,252   1,425   1,385   1,385   1,185   1,185
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 3,703   3,006   3,446   4,448   2,495   1,411   1,411
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT                   803   1,559   2,960   3,120   3,220   3,775   3,300
Net Incremental Benefit            (2,900) (1,447)    (486) (1,328)       725   2,364   1,889
1/  Includes two Grade A Housing, furniture and equipment, and temporary field housing.
2/ Includes Physical Contingencies.
Rate of Return: 20%



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forestry Component
Economic Costs/Benefits
(TSh'000)
Years  1          2          3          4          5           6          7           8         9-20
CAPITAL COSTS
Civil Works                         8         -           -          -
Vehicles & Spare Parts           205           -          -        138          -
Equipment                         24           -          -          -         -                -          -
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS                 237          -          -        138          -          -          -           -           -
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Salaries & Allowances             32         64         64          64         64         64         64          64         64
Inputs                              1          2          2          2          2          -          -           _          _
Equipment Maintenance               7          7          7          7          7          7          7            7          7
Vehicle Operating Cost            36          78         78         78         78         78         78          78          78
Field Labour                      20          60         60         60         60          -          -           _           _
Farm Labour                       24          33         34         34         35         35         36          36          89
Total Operating Costs            120         244        245        245        246        184        185         185         238
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 357        244        245        383        246        184        185         185         238
Incremental Benefits                  0          0          0          0          0          0          0            0     4,400
Net Incremental Benefits           (357)      (244)      (245)      (383)      (246)      (184)      (185)       (185)    4,162
Rate of Return: 41%



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Roads Component
Economic Costs/Benefits
(TSh'000)
Year 1       2         3         4         5         6         7        8          9      10-20
CAPITAL COSTS
Equipment & Spare Parts  7,915          -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Technical Assistance         971      1,340    1,040                  -         -         -         -         -         -
Total Capital Costs        8,886      1,340    1,040
RECURRENT COSTS
Operating Costs            1,588      3,610    3,465    3,754    2,873    2,560    2,125    2,125             850       850
Local Staff Salaries         323        635       635       635       485       530       575       615       325       325
Total Operating Costs    1,911        4,245    4,100    4,389    3,358    3,090    2,700    2,740    1,175    1,175
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         10,797      5,585    5,140    4,389    3,358    3,090    2,700    2,740    1,175    1,175
INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Network Roads                   0          0      368    1,317    2,355    3,486    4,717    5,398    5,892    6,168
Access Roads                    0          0      166       646    1,831    3,077    4,442    5,936    6,233    6,544
Total Incremental Benefits        0          0      534    1,963    4,186    6,563    9,159   11,334   12,125   12,712
Net Benefits (Costs)       (10,797)    (5,585)  (4,606)  (2,426)        828    3,473    6,459    8,594   10,950    11,537
Rate of Return:  20%
(DX



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAI, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast Financial Prices for Imported Fertilizer
Based on IBJ) Constant D)ollar lorecasts
IBRD 1976                                                                                  Total
Constant                                                                                  Cost
Dollar Price           Sea            Total.       Total          Port          Local       in 1976
Year _       _     orecasJ!           Freight         cif Cost    (Lf Cost    Ilandling    Transport    Prices
------------     (US$ per Ton)-      -     ----------    ----------------------(TShs. per Ton)---------
Triple Superphos hate
1976                 115                 40             155          1286           110           460          1856
1977                 122                 40             162          1345           110           460          1915
1978                 128                 40             168          1394           110           460          1964
1979                 134                 40             178          1477           110          460           2047
1980                 146                 40             186          1544           110          460           2114
1981                 152                 40             192          1594           110           460          2164
Sulphate of Ammonia
1976                  68                 40             108           896           110          410           .416
1977                  76                 40             110           913           110           410          1710
1978                  79                 40             119           988           11.0          410          1785
1979                  83                 40             123          1021           110          410           1818
1980                  83                 40             123          1021           110          410           18]8
1981                  84                 40             124          1029           110          410           1826
]/     Based on Junie 1976 Commodity Forecast.
fD 



TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast Economic Prices for Fertilizer I/
Port           Local         Economic
Total Cost          Total Cost        Handling       Transport        Farmgate
Year                  cif                   cif           Charges           Costs            Price
(uS$ per ton)         -------------------(TSh per ton)--------------------
Triple Superphosphate
1976                   155                  1,286             82             415             1,783
1977                   162                  1,345             82             415             1,842
1978                   168                 ,1,394             82             415             1,891
1979                   178                  1,477             82             415             1,974
1980                   186                  1,544             82             415             2,041
1981                   192                  1,594             82             415             2,091
Sulphate of Ammonia
1976                     96                    797            82             370             1,249
1977                   110                    913             82             370             1,365
1978                   119                    988             82             370             1,440
1979                   123                  1,021             82             370             1,473
1980                   123                  1,021             82             370             1,473
1981                   124                  1,029             82             370             1,481
1/ Based on the Financial Costs in Table 6.
HL1



IBRD 12307
: kO   Th 5  4J  7' t"55                                              50 oo d>no                                                                                                 OCTOB ER 1976
1.,.                                 op!r~~~~~~~~~~~~f     doro, ,oor   by 
8~~~~~N                         IS EW¶: 2                                                                         8                         i t\                           .'
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W,I k~ l ft1UP -
T r u,n k ro o d s                                                    \      /                             S h ,.u/ g a
4   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
--       D sr c   rorudsa                               -       ,-   \                                                      4>_
DiTabora                                                                               /               t               /
Regio n                              o
Rungwe ~ ~      ~       ~       ~       Kloees                                                >Kiud 
TANZAN I A
oMboy.Luob
ZAtc%   ~ ~~~k,Mt.~r
h¶AS WI ~~~~~~~~
Trunk roads~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kn
Access roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
TANZANI                                                                       ibono~~~~~~~~~~I 
Tabora Rural DevelopmentK,lueter,\Projunct
ADMIN)STRATIVE DIVISIONS-ROADS-POP0ULATI0O6
Trunk roads ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    I        ~       --..       LoRnw
Railways                                                              N~~~~~~,Is 






IBRD 12308R
"~rv Vl~yvw%     The h tclarka M-e.  lb,. 'n dcc -tO                                                                                                                          NOVEMBER 1976
Tabora~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tI ntdcn,ttn Deelpmn Pojectc                                /y ek-e¢                                   //                                                 ; 1
-- Trunkt roads                 MojorV crops                                                                         <            C<gtM                 T Shiy/,)
ia*e  ca mainTroads  Tb.1cc c                                                                                  rL-,       |                t   \            >Bk
Riv~~~~ae                       r          MtwGroudts8\g 
I To b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ v a                                    B                                    iba~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Ddm
-00        Isrhyets roana Mmaj z          Other cropso
_________ Local main roads ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                              ig
District boundaries                                                                                                                                                          ,        
--  Regional boandary                                                0        20       40       60       80       100i                                                              \
Kilometers                                        iS0Ktn    \                                 < 
Agro-economnic zone boundaries                                                                                                       I                                  N 04   0    _\TQRU'tgW
North-East                      Western                       Mlcden   
North - West                    Central
Centrral- Eastern               Souather n






IBRD 12309
-  92   oq A;'; \ r -; w    J\'" ' ;!' ' 0HAi'ffi' O'L ' '5; r t jott   Jhc bOlilid7riN rho- -n Ahis -rp do -  |                    OCTOBER 1978
,,p#y  d-    -ctpu~,o by the
e S wotrda* a ndzrs,gfilira j                                                                       To ShinyonQog\
sh'.yo,,go  Moshi                                                                                   TBkb
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Shnago2\  -jl J ]
gomo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hm
Mogoo A/            R ES                                            R                                               zeg                           I
V                ~~~~~~~TANZAN IA                 13                                                                                                                                       Dodo'tolt
~~~~~~~~~~ A)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ig
t5.dA<.    0V1  i]¢)/                                      t  t                                   <           9            /   D     o    d   o     T D
TANZANIA                          ,,1o/b '    ,B,                                                                   °/Mibono    -N
Tabora  Rural Development Project                    To Mpondo                                 sg                /                                                                    . 'UI
LIVESTOCK AND  TSETSE INFESTED AREAS , .  
: '','Livestock population-esch dot 500 head                                                                                                                                  |
Tsetse infested-55 %/ of land area                                                ~_                               \               o/  
Division boundariesL     f,
U     Division centers                                                                                                                              //
-Trunkroads               \___                                                                              ^                             \k/
_____Local mnain rouds                                                                                           \N                        
---District rosds                                                                                                      1                1                    ,K
Railways                                                                                                    I
Rivers                                         0       20     40       b0      80      1Oo o  h
_____TDistrict boundary                                                   Kiloetefs t eod 5 ofladr
__ --  Regional boundary                                  o            20           40           60                    I                              \  I
M,il es                                   I                                
Trunk roads ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ >.oRnw






__________________________________________________                                                                                               IBRD   12516~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD   251
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h h °et <tade *hn  ti=le -, etrwoapdcntt                                                                                                                 NOV EMBER 1976
/ f            Shinyo w   {   M   0t   /                                                                       ToBuKol o T-Buk /
N N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NGA
R.         KA RITU~         FO     eST              ITUL U HI ng
. RR                              FORST  RESERVE
\  \  g   NORES UGAdZA    t  IU                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~nyau    
__________ Local main roads ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      omblio
\ o / ~~~~~~~~~~~~FORtS FSFRF/9Tur I"/
Railways                                                                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~anul 
>    <ORtST  RESFRVE   z--      <                     ,XESE        RF e/V    Y8U 
r- Diorstrt bousdares                                  ,,          ,     t,t0                                                   KituNGda rl
Fregironl ondy                              0\ 20                   40          6
ZAbi Mi main roods 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ,-GW , Railwoy
Mlles                                           \4_To '°ungwr~~~~~~~~~~~lkng



