OPY r nn               Document of
FILE COPY                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2043-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CREDITS
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
PI'RAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(TABORA)
April 14, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Tanzania Sh =    US$0.12
US$1.00     =    TSh 8.30
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially
valued at a fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to
the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Con-
versions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to TSh 8.30 which is close to the
short-term average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
CCM         -  Chama Cha Mapinduzi
Government  -  Government of Tanzania
MAJI        - Ministry of Water, Energy & Minerals
RWE         -  Regional Water Engineer
TANU        -  Tanganyika African National Union



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON    PROPOSED
CREDITS TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
_______  (TABORA)
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on two proposed
credits to the United Republic of Tanzania totalling the equivalent of
US$12 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Rural Development
project. One credit of US$7.2 million would be made from IDA resources;
a second credit of Can$5.0 million (US$4.8 million equivalent) would be
made from Caradian funds administered by IDA in accordance with the
terms of the recently approved Agreement between the Government of Canada
and the Association. An expected US$5.6 million equivalent grant from
the United Kingdom would also help to finance the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last full economic report on Tanzania (AE-26) was distributed to
the Executive Directors in 1972. While it has been some four years, therefore,
since the last comprehensive economic report was issued, a substantial volume
of economic and sector work has been carried out during this period. An agri-
cultural sector report was issued in December 1974. A three-volume industry
and mining sector report and a special economic study on the fiscal aspects
of Tanzania's recent decentralization of Government were distributed in April
1975. In early 1974, at the Government's invitation, Bank personnel participated
in a special task force which assessed the impact of the increase in petroleum
prices on the Tanzanian economy.: A further analysis of recent economic develop-
ments was contained in the Program Loan President's Report (No. P-1517a-TA of
November 25, 1974), and the Government's progress in implementing policies and
programs designed to close the balance of payments gap was reported in a special
memorandum to the Executive Directors (SecM75-687) in September 1975. In
March 1976, also at the request of the Government, Bank staff assisted a
Government task force in the preparation of a report which analyzed the fiscal
implications of the new targets for universal primary education and universal
rural water supply. These sector reports and special economic studies have
formed the basis for our dialogue on economic policy issues with the Government
and for the development of our program of operations. Finally, a basic economic
mission was conducted in July-August 1976. The basic economic report is
currently under preparation and it will be discussed with the Government in
Spring 1977. The updating report on the Tanzanian economy (Annex V to the
President's Report on a Proposed Program Credit, No. P-1781a-TA dated February 22,
1977) is based on the findings of the basic mission.
This document has a mtrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officia duties. Its contnts may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is virtually unrivaled
in Africa. The TANUI/ party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early
1950s. For the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration of early 1967,
Tanzania has pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the
eradication of absolute poverty, and economic and social transformation.
The fundamental strategy underlying Tanzania's development has emphasized
rural development social ownership of the principal means of production, and
full participation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution. In restructuring the political,
economic and social life of the country the leadership has introduced an
impressive series of far-reaching institutional reforms. The most important
of these measures are well known: most large-scale units in manufacturing,
finance and wholesale trade have been nationalized; the Government has
sharply increased its share of revenue in GDP through progressive taxation;
a significant portion of public expenditure control has been delegated to
the regions and districts; and incomes policy has prevented a further widen-
ing of the urban-rural gap and has narrowed wage differentials within the
formal urban sector. There is also state intervention in market pricing;
prices of capital, labor, land, imports, industrial and agricultural products
and consumer goods are controlled directly and by indirect methods such as
import licensing.
4.        With a per capita income of $170 in 1975, Tanzania is classified as
one of the least developed countries as defined by the United Nations (country
data are provided in Annex I). Between 1967 and 1973 Tanzania's GDP at factor
cost was growing at an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With population growing
at 2.7 percent per annum per capita output was rising at only 1.8 percent
per year on average. Domestic savings reached 18 percent of GDP while gross
investment was sustained at between 20 to 25 percent of GDP, extremely high
rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita income. The growth
rate of GDP was not commensurate with the magnitude of the investment effort,
however, in part because of the high proportion of investment which was
directed into slow-gestation infrastructure and social services projects such
as the transportation links with Zambia, but also because of sluggish growth
in the agricultural sector and stagnant or declining productivity in para-
statal enterprises. During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments
situation was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointing performance of
- TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar political
party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February 1977. The new party is now called
Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



-3-
the export sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than compensated
by increasing capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft
terms. The overall balance of payments was in surplus in most years during
1969-73, resulting in a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to
slightly over $150 million at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost
four months' imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1974
5.        In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic
crisis, caused in part by drought and dramatic import price escalation.
Failure of rains in late 1973 and early 1974 caused major declines in pro-
duction and marketing of the major foodgrains. In response the Government
was compelled during 1974 to import large quantities of grain, particularly
maize, on commercial terms in order to alleviate the hardships inflicted
by drought. Tanzania's main export crops were also affected by the drought,
and the resultant declines in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking
advantage of the commodity price boom during 1974. On the import side,
total cost of merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent between 1973 and
1974, despite a slight decline in volume. As a result of these factors
the trade deficit widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340 million in
1974 while the overall balance of payments moved from a surplus to a deficit
of $140 million.!! Industrial production also stagnated in 1974 due to
shortages of imported raw materials resulting from the growing foreign
exchange constraint, and to interruptions in power and water supplies.
While production declined, domestic demand increased rapidly because of
expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The imbalance between
domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in import
prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
6.        Although the severity and suddenness of the crisis were largely
the result of forces outside Tanzania's control, many of the problems were
foreshadowed by longer-term economic trends which, at least partially, were
subject to Tanzanian control. One important adverse trend was in the com-
position of growth; the rate of growth of material production had been
falling for several years and the overall GDP growth rate had been maintained
only by an acceleration in the growth of services, particularly of public
administration. Much of the slump in agricultural production was due to poor
weather but the average growth rate of agricultural output failed to exceed
the rate of growth of population for the six years prior to the harvest failure
The overall balance of payments gap was financed largely through drawings
from the IMF (gold tranche, first credit tranche and 1974 Oil Facility) and
by a rapid depletion of reserves which fell to $60 million (net) at the
end of 1974, equivalent to only one month's import requirements.



-4-
of 1974. The mass villagization program (paragraph 29 below) inevitably
caused some disruption in agricultural production, in part because of in-
adequate planning and preparation. In the modern sector many enterprises
experienced declining labor productivity which has been attributed to lack
of incentives, poor discipline and ineffective management. Furthermore,
while the ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the 1960s, reaching
a high of 18 percent in 1970, it had declined to 15 percent by 1973. Public
savings were also falling as a share of GDP, mainly due to the slow growth
of parastatal enterprises' surpluses and the rapid increase in government
recurrent expenditures.
The Government's Response to the Economic Crisis
7.        Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized
the Government formulated a comprehensive program of policy actions to bring
the balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace of the
development effort. The principal elements of the program include a re-
allocation of investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures to
raise agricultural output, and constraints on wages and on public and private
consumption. This program was reviewed with the Bank at the time of appraisal
and negotiation of the program loan in late 1974, and approval of that loan
was based on the Bank's agreement with and support for the proposed program.
The Government has, over the past two years, successfully carried out most of
this program, as described below.
8.        From mid-1974 the Government tightened import controls, particularly
for consumer goods and industrial raw materials. Imports were curtailed
drastically and liquor and tobacco imports were banned. Import licensing
was further tightened in 1975, leading to sharp volume declines in imports
of consumer goods, including textiles, and industrial raw materials and
spare parts. In addition, the Government took further politically difficult
steps toslow down the rate of growth of private consumption demand. Retail
prices of basic foodstuffs were raised sharply in late 1974. Indirect taxes
on textiles, beer and cigarettes have been progressively increased since 1975
to absorb excess consumer demand for these items. User charges for water and
electricity have also been raised. An extremely restrictive wage and salary
policy has also been followed since May 1974.
9.        On the production side, the Government has taken a number of steps
to stimulate agricultural production. The share of Government development
expenditure allocated to the agricultural sector has increased from 16 percent
in 1973/74 to 23 percent in 1976/77. During late 1974 and 1975 the Government
urged farmers to grow more food under the campaign "farming as a matter of
life and death." The Government also announced substantial increases in
agricultural producer prices in May and November 1974 and established an
agricultural price review unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. Producer
prices were again increased in 1975 and 1976.



-5-
10.       The Government has also made significant progress during the last
three fiscalyears in reallocating public investment in favor of the directly
productive sectors of agriculture (cited above), industry and mining.L/ This
fundamental restructuring of public investment necessarily means that
relatively less investment resources are available for other sectors, in
particular for primary education and rural water supply. In recognition of
this fact, and also because the recurrent and capital cost requirements of
these targets would be entirely unmanageable even under normal economic cir-
cumstances if they were to be implemented using past methods, the Government
is stressing the need for local self-help, particularly in village school
construction, lower cost delivery systems based on lower design standards,
and cost recovery.
Economic Performance in 1975 and 1976
11.       The major macroeconomic indicators   have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather and the effects of the policy measures
which were introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural production
increased by 6.6 percent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3 percent in
1974, while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with only 2.2 percent in
1974. This was despite the fact that during 1975 production of cotton and
some other cash crops still suffered from disorganization due to villagiza-
tion. In 1976, some of the problems of villagization were being rectified
through "operation correction" and since rains were once again favorable
agricultural production was generally good. Preliminary estimates are that
both agricultural production and total GDP inrreased by about 5 percent in
1976. However, output in the modern sectors Qf industry and construction
has remained at a depressed level, in part due to shortages of building
supplies, raw materials and spare parts occasioned by the severe import
restrictions which have been imposed to conserve scarce foreign exchange.
12.       The goods and services account of the balance of payments continued
to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties, declines
in some agricultural export prices and the continuing need to import food for
part of the year. As a result of these trends the trade deficit increased
from $340 million in 1974 to $400 million in 1975, and even after allowing
for a high level of project-related capital inflows and a huge increase in
grant assistance and concessional food aid, there was a residual deficit of
almost $75 million. Whereas the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost
entirely through a combination of IMF assistance and reserve depletion, the
1975 deficit was met through foreign assistance from a wide variety of
sources, including a $30 million program loan from the World Bank. In 1976
The Bank Group has supported:this effort by significantly increasing the
proportion of our own lending to these sectors over the past three years.
See Part II for details.



-6-
the balance of payments picture improved. The trade deficit declined due
to strong export performance, especially for coffee and cotton, and to a
slight fall in the value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened need
for foodgrain imports and continuing tight restrictions on all other
categories of imports. The overall balance of payments is expected to show
a surplus of about $35 million for the year and net foreign exchange reserves
have increased to $115 million which is equivalent to two month's import
requirements at the 1976 level, a modest improvement over end-1975 but still
an inadequate level. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid
has been given to Tanzania, and the Government's refusal to use higher cost
commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the overall debt service ratio
has remained low -- including a notional 40 percent share of the debt of the
East African Community Corporations it was less than 8 percent in 1975.
Despite Tanzania's impressive overall domestic savings performance, a continued
capital inflow in excess of the foreign exchange component of high priority
projects will also be required.
Major Issues for the Future
13.       Although the general thrust of the Government's policy framework
is correct and those initiatives already undertaken represent a commendable
effort to confront the economic crisis, the Government recognizes that
further adjustments are required to deal with the severe constraints to
growth which still remain. Declining labor productivity, especially in the
parastatal sector and low capacity utilization have contributed to the slow
growth of material production. The emergence of underutilized capacity is
largely due to the shortage of foreign exchange for spare parts and materials
and can only be alleviated in the short run by increased external aid providing
quick-disbursing, freely-usable foreign exchange. In this connection a Program
Credit of $15 million was recently approved by the Executive Directors. The
longer-term problem of low labor productivity and parastatal inefficiency
is, however, more complex. Although the Government is now fully conscious
of these issues it has so far only been able to initiate steps to deal with
these issues. Another major problem which has become apparent in recent
months is the difficulty the Treasury is having in keeping expenditure within
budgeted limits and avoiding over commitment. The Treasury, however is begin-
ning to take steps to institute controls and there are hopeful signs that
expenditure priorities are being sorted out. In addition, the Government is
searching for new delivery systems for social services and is taking self-
help and cost recovery more seriously. Reflecting this Bank technical
assistance was requested earlier this year to look at the universal primary
education and the fiscal implications of universal rural water supply. Another
problem area which was highlighted by the economic crisis is the poor per-
formance of exports. Since the economic crisis the Government's attitude
has changed and some measures to stimulate exports have been taken. Further
efforts, however, are required over the medium and long-term.



-7-
East African Community (EAC)
14.       The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for
far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years, the EAC had set up institutions,
policies, and procedures for operating the common market and the large infra-
structure services, and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been
followed, however, by a period of tension and mutual suspicion concerning
the distribution of net benefits derived from the Community. The infra-
structure services were hampered by restrictive tariff policies; services
declined, and Partner States subventions were required for the Railways from
time to time to keep the services running. The poor performance of the
common services in transport and communications also impaired trade and
general movement of goods within the countries, affecting the general economic
development program. These difficulties were aggravated by the severe budgetary
and balance of payments constraints faced by all three Partner States in the
past few years. As a consequence, there has been a continuous diminution in
the authority of the Community institutions. Failure to agree on
arrangements for transfer of funds between the Regional Offices and
the service Headquarters have often paralyzed the operation of the
Headquarters, affected their morale and on a number of occasions led
to delays in meeting their external obligations.
15.       In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental poli-
tical and economic differences had so affected the working of the Community
that a review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission was appointed
for this purpose in November 1975 but adjourned sine die in November 1976
without being able to make agreed recommendations regarding the future
structure of the EAC. Meanwhile, although no dejure action has been taken,
further deterioration in Community relationships has led to a further dis-
mantling of the Corporations. The Railways Headquarters has in effect been
disbanded and the nationals working in the Headquarters have joined their
respective Reginnal Offices. Recently, the East African Airways Corporation
(EAA) collapsed in part due to the lack of effective mechanism for interstate
transfer of funds. The Headquarters of the East African Harbours Corporation
has existed in name only for at least a year with the ports authorities in
Mombasa and Dar es Salaam functioning autonomously. The East African Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation has so far functioned with a semblance of
Headquarters responsibilities but is now fast delegating its headquarters
functions to its regional offices. The respective regional branches provide
the service, and domestic development programs in this sector are not likely
to be impaired.
16.       The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have
affected the Bank's lending to the Community. Because of failure to meet
debt service obligations, the Bank suspended disbursements last year for



-8-
about a month. Except for a second line of credit to the EADB in March
1976, the other corporations have received no new loans from the Bank since
1973. The Bank has continued to disburse on its five ongoing loans to the
Corporations and as of March 31, 1977, $37.9 million remain to be disbursed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.   Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 26 IDA credits, 12 Bank loans and two
Third Window laansamounting to $456.8 million have so far been approved for
Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling
$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of the common
services and development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and
Uganda through their association in the East African Community. The only
IFC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, were made to
the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. Annex II contains summary statements of
Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African Community organi-
zations as of    March 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and credits
made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of the 23 Tanza-
nian  projects    approved since then all but seven were for directly pro-
ductive projects. In general the infrastructure projects which have been
approved in recent years have been designed to support specific directly
productive activities. For example, the Urban Water Supply Project (Loan
No. 1354-TA) approved in January 1977, will support the recently approved
Industrial Complex Project in Morogoro. The directly productive projects are
supporting both the agricultural and industrial sectors, including the Kigoma
Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA), the National Maize
Project (Credit No. 606-TA), the Fisheries Development Project (Credit No.
658-TA), the Tanzania Investment Bank Project (Loan No. 1172-TA), the Mwanza
Textile Project (Loan No. 1128-TA), and the Morogoro Industrial Complex Pro-
ject. The first Bank Group assisted project in the forestry sector, the Sao
Rill FQrestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), was recently approved.
19.       It is intended that future Bank projects should continue to focus on the
directly productive sectors and in this connection projects in an advanced stage
of preparation include a Rural Development Project in Mwanza and Shinyanga
Regions, a National Agricultural Development Project, a Second Cashewnut



-9-
Processing Project, a third line of credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank and a
second Textile Project. A Pulp and Paper Project which will be based, in part,
on the raw material to be provided by the recently approved Forestry Project
(Loan No. 1307-TA) is expected to be appraised in the field later this year.
A Trucking Project, which will focus on a particular development bottleneck
which has become apparent in recent years,is currently being appraised. In
keeping with the Bank's recent strategy, economic and social infrastructure
projects are expected to become increasingly selective. In this connection, a
proposed Second Urban Project has been recently appraised and projects in the
highway and rural education sectors will be identified later this year.
PART III - THE RURAL AND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
20.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest
single sector in the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is
derived from the sector of which 50 percent constitutes subsistence
production. Agricultural exports,which account for 80 percent of total
exports, include mainly sisal, cotton, cashewnuts and coffee. About 94
percent of the population live in rural areas and 90 percent of the
economically active people are engaged in agriculture.
21.       Most production is from smallholdings using family labor.
Large-scale agriculture is represented by a small number of private
estates and some state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, wheat, rice
and livestock. Estate production had diminished in importance and the
state farm program remains small. Tanzania's national herd, the second
largest in Africa, is grazed extensively over the 40 percent of the
country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is largely managed
along traditional lines. There is limited use of oxen for cultivation,
mainly in the western cotton areas. Major food crops in Tanzania are
maize, millet, sorghum, paddy, potatotes, cassava, bananas and beans.
These are produced predominantly by smallholders who use most of their
production for subsistence. Agricultural output has stagnated in recent
years. Food crop production failed to keep pace with the expanding
population, and Tanzania became increasingly dependent on imports of
maize, rice and wheat. The deteriorating food balance position was
seriously aggravated by the poor, drought affected harvests of 1973,
and 1974. Nonetheless, as a result of improved weather and the effects
of policy changes (paragraph 22), agricultural production increased in
the last two years.
Agricultural Development Strategy
22.       The Government recognizes that agriculture will continue to be
the main source of employment and has been trying to devise a strategy
which will bring about improvement in output, incomes and the living
conditions of the agricultural population. The major aim is to make



- 10 -
significant progress towards socialist organization of rural activity,
based on village cooperatives and maximization of the use of labor. State
farms fill a need for large-scale production units, but the approach to
mechanization is cautious.
23.       Until recently priority was given to the expansion of selected
export activities including cotton, livestock, flue-cured tobacco, and
cahsewnuts as well as import substitution activities such as sugar and
dairy production. However, within an overall policy framework of according
greater emphasis to the productivity of the agriculture sector and as a
response to the drought and food crisis of 1974 the Government has given
highest priority to self-sufficiency in food production. The Government
and TANU Party have mounted a massive effort to mobilize peasants to grow
more food under the campaign slogan "farming as a matter of life and death",
and the Government is now directing much attention to pricing policy.
Producer prices have been increased significantly in the last three years.
Although there is some evidence that the inadequate supply of mass consumer
goods in the rural areas has limited farmer response to higher producer
prices, the increases in these prices since 1974 appear to have at least
been partially responsible for the increases in 1975 and 1976 agricultural
outputs. This new approach to pricing policy, supported by the formation
of a permanent Agricultural Price Review Commission constitutes a major
rationalization of production incentives in agriculture.
24.       In its attempt to boost food production, the Government
initiated a Maize Program in 1973. Under the program, production inputs
were provided free since most participating farmers had only very limited
financial resources and all previous attempts to institute a credit
system for small-scale food crop production had failed. Support for a
subsidy scheme was a major recommendation of the Bank Agriculture Sector
Report on Tanzania issued in December 1974. Although the Government had
increased the producer price of maize considerably, it was concluded that
additional financial incentives were required if traditional farmers were
to be encouraged to adopt new input packages in the initial stages.
Furthermore, given the manpower and institutional constraints in Tanzania,
it was not considered possible to assist a significant number of farmers,
and hence obtain a large production response, if inputs were provided
through institutional credit. For these reasons, the National Maize Project
(Credit No. 606-TA) approved in December, 1975 to support the Government
maize program,made provision for subsidization of production inputs. Under
the proposed Project, inputs would be similarly subsidized.
25.        In order to ensure that subsidized inputs were not wasted or
extravagantly used by participating farmers, the Government fixed the
level of subsidies for the 1975/76 cropping season at 75 percent of total
cost rather than at 100 percent as was the case in the previous two years.



- 11 -
The level of subsidy was reduced to 50 percent in the 1976/77 cropping
season. Although this requirement for cash payment means that some
farmers will inevitably be excluded, this procedure is considered essential
to ensure the efficient use of fertilizers. In addition, while continued
subsidization of certain farm inputs remains justified, subsidy levels and
methods of cost recovery have to be reviewed with the objective of gradually
reducing the cost to the Treasury and eventually eliminating the subsidies.
The recent increase in the cash payments required by farmers for part of the
cost of inputs therefore represents a step in that direction. The Government
intends to review the level of subsidies each year with a view to gradually
phasing them out as farmers realize the potential of the new input packages
and their incomes grow.
26.       In the light of the critical economic difficulties facing the
country, and in an attempt to generate quick production response, the
Government is placing greater emphasis on production rather than social
aspects of new rural development projects. Provisions for infrastructure
in these projects are encouraged to the extent that they have production
impact. Emphasis is also being shifted from single crop to more broadly
based rural development schemes. In line with this, the last agriculture
sector report (paragraph 2 above) called for the National Agricultural
Development Program (NADP) which will concentrate on selected areas of
high agricultural potential and on the provision of essential inputs for
raising production. The Government is also attempting to alleviate con-
straints which are inhibiting the distribution of production inputs and
the marketing of crops. In 1975, it abolished the Regional Co-operative
Unions which had in general been very inefficient and made crop authorities
or parastatals responsible for collection of crops. It is too early to
judge whether this policy will result in significant production response.
However, there is evidence that the move was poorly planned and implemented
in a too hurried fashion.
27.      Project implementation has been a continuing problem in the
agriculture and rural development sector in Tanzania. The Government is
focusing considerable attention on this problem area and has generally
responded well to advice on improving implementation. A special project
implementation unit has been established within the Ministry of Agriculture
and a substantial amount of technical assistance is now being utilized in
the sector. However, in spite of these efforts the overall implementation
performance in the sector remains mixed.
Rural Organization
28.       In order to improve the implementation of and local involvement
in rural development projects, the Government decentralized the administra-
tive structure in 1972. The Regions and districts now have a high degree
Or autonomy in their administration, as well as primary responsibility in



- 12 -
promoting and coordinating development activities within their juris-
dictions. The Central Ministries in Dar es Salaam have the principal
function of providing technical advice and services, including research and
staff training to regions. The regional political head is the Regional
Commissioner who has the rank of Cabinet Minister and is also the regional
Party (TANU)I/ secretary. The head of the regional civil service is the
Regional Development Director (RDD) who has the equivalent rank of a
Principal Secretary in a Central Ministry. He is assisted by a Regional
Planning Officer (RPO) and the heads of the 10 regional functional depart-
ments. At the district level, there is a similar structure under the Area
Cumuibbiuner wno is aiso tne 'arty District Secretary.
29.       The Arusha Declaration of 1967 identified the Ujamaa village
as a means of effecting self-reliance and community approach to develop-
ment. However, emphasis has shifted to the formation of planned or
development villages as an intermediate step towards full ujamaa (collec-
tive) status. The pace of villagization was rapidly increased in 1974
and it is estimated that about 75 percent of the rural population now live
in registered villages. In these villages, "block farming" with individual
families retaining rights to the produce from the land which they work is
being emphasized. Under the Villages and Ujamaa Villages (Registration,
Designation and Administration) Act of 1975 ("the Village Act"), the
elected village council has been given substantial powers to direct and
control development, and the village now provides the basic framework for
agricultural production and marketing. Each council owns all heavy
agricultural machinery and other capital goods, and can borrow and establish
a capital fund for development purposes. The Government believes that only
by concentrating the rural population into villages can the social and
economic services which it regards as the necessary prerequisite for
meaningful development be efficiently provided.   Because of its essentially
long term focus, it is still too early to assess the villagization effort.
However, one immediate result is that several of the larger villages in
some areas are experiencing oressure on land and the introduction of
intensive agriculture threatens to lead to early exhaustion of
cultivated soils. The Bank is discussing the 1;roblem with the Government
particularly in relation to the Geita Project (Credit No. 454-TA). One
possible solution to the problem of land pressure may be the formation
of satellite villages.
Previous Rural Development Projects
The Kigoma Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA) approved
in November 20, 1974 was the first IDA supported comprehensive rural develop-
ment project in Tanzania. The project consists of investments in village
social infrastructure such as water supply, education and health facilities,
1/ Now CCM paragraph 3 above.



- 13 -
as well as loans for agricultural inputs, transport and storage facilities.
Technical assistance to support the regional planning and implementation
structure is also being provided. After two of the scheduled five years
of operations, disbursements on this project were under 30% of appraisal
expectations, with delays particularly attributed to bottlenecks in the
delivery of critical supplies and inputs, and to the central Government's
and region's limited implementation capacity, especially in the water supply
sector. Initial farmer participation rates in agriculture were high and
more recently, there has been impressive progress with construction of
village infrastructure and with villagers' self-help contributions and the
project is clearly making a positive impact in the region. However, res-
ponses to the project's agricultural packages remain uncertain and proposed
village-level trials have not yet begun. Little progress has been made with
the smaller project components, including feeder roads and livestock develop-
ment; agricultural credit recovery is running at only 35% of loans; and no
audit of project accounts has yet taken place. In the face of these problems,
it is proposed to cQnsolidate implementation in FY78 on the 50 (out of a
target of 135) villages so far incorporated in the project and it is expected
that the Association's heavy supervision input will be continued. Although
it is now apparent-that the initial implementation schedule was too optimistic
and that project implementation has been mixed, villagers response to the
project has been positive and implementation now appears to be picking up.
31.       The proposed Tabora Project would be the second rural development
project in Tanzania. To the extent that the Kigoma and Tabora regions are
similar, the design of the Tabora Project was influenced by experiences from
the Kigoma Project. The Kigoma Project brings out the crucial need for a
pilot period in the development of technical packages at the village level,
and a gradual build-up of project implementation. These requirements were
considered in the design of the Tabora Project. The Kigoma Project also
brings out the crucial need for strong, imaginative management and in-depth
technical expertise and for this reason considerable technical assistance
is proposed in the Tabora Project. However, because of the complexities
of agriculture and rural development projects, it must be expected that
implementation problems will continue to be a fact of life. Preparation
of a third rural development project for the Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions
is presently being finalized and plans to prepare a fourth rural development
project in the Mara Region are being developed.
Tabora Region
32.       Tabora Region, the location for the proposed rural development
Project, is the largest region in the country and covers 70,000 km2 or
9 percent of the land area of mainland Tanzania (map attached). The Region
has four districts viz Nzega, Igunga, Tabora and Urambo Districts. It has
a population of about 780,000 or about 5 percent of the Tanzanian population.
The town of Tabora, the regional center, has a population of 50,000 and is
on the central railway from Dar es Salaam to Kigoma, at its junction with



- 14 -
the Mwanza line. Rainfall in the region is markedly seasonal, mainly
falling between November and May, and reduces progressively in total from
about 1,000 mm a year in the west of the region to under 700 mm in the east,
where rainfall reliability is also significantly lower. The major economic
activity of the region is smallholder farming, in which some 91 percent of
the population is engaged. Agriculture, agro-industries, livestock, forestry
and fishing account for nearly 90 percent of the gross marketed product of
the region, valued at US$27 million. The average per capita income of
US$75 per head is below the national average. Tabora is responsible for
55 percent of the national production of tobacco, 30 percent of harvested
groundnuts, 20 percent of paddy, 17 percent of cotton and 11 percent of maize.
However, the production of maize, paddy, groundnuts and sorghum has been
declining and the region has recently been importing maize, meat and rice.
The region also has one million livestock, about 7 percent of the national
herd. These are under traditional grazing. With 55 percent of the land
area tsetse infested, the herd is concentrated in the tsetse fly-free northeast.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.      The Tabora Rural Development Project arose from a request by
Government following preparation of the Tanzania Kigoma Rural Development
Project (Credit No. 508-TA), and was prepared by the Government with the
assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission in East Africa. The proposed
Project will initiate a 5-year region-wide rural development program of
high priority activities. It will supplement and complement ongoing develop-
ments in the region, some of which are IDA funded, and develop the capacity
of the region to handle further developments. Negotiations for the proposed
credit were held in Washington in March 1977. The Tanzanian delegation was
headed by Mr. George Neema, Principal Secretary, Prime Minister's Office.
34.      An appraisal report entitled Tabora Rural Development Project,
No. 1360-TA, dated April 8, 1977   is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. A Credit and Project Summary is provided as Annex III
to this report. The Project comprises:
(a) pilot approaches to intensified crop and livestock
production in about 42 newly-formed villages not
already included in other programs, principally
in the Nzega and Igunga Districts.
(b) provision of capacity to carry out an immediate
low-cost water supply program, Region-wide, and
funding for a Water Master Plan;
(c) provision of equipment and workshops to increase
capacity to maintain and improve access and network
roads throughout the Region;



- 15 -
(d)  a pilot reafforestation program based on villages
in the old established tobacco areas, primarily
in Tabora and Urambo Districts;
(e) production of a Land Use/Capability map which,
with the Water Master Plan, a tsetse survey, and
strengthening of the village planning team, would
provide a framework for further investments in
the Region;
(f) provision of specialist personnel and equipment
to strengthen the capacity of the Region to implement
the Project, monitor progress and evaluate impact,
and assist in the formulation and planning of
further developments in the Region.
Crop Development
35.       The crop development program in some 30 selected villages in the
Nzega and Igunga Districts would seek to (a) establish means of increasing
production (principally from higher yields) of cotton, paddy, sorghum and
groundnuts by the provision of inputs and improving agricultural extension
and related services, and (b) carry out crop demonstrations-cum-trial under
farmers' field conditions using improved, largely extensive, practices
derived from other agro-economic zones in order to provide a basis for
extending the program to other villages in the Region . Provisions would
be made for a mobile extension van and village storage facilities, and the
Project would also provide personnel and laboratory equipment for the
newly completed tobacco research center at Tumbi. This project component
is expected to directly affect some 6,000 smallholder families. The choice
of the Nzega and Igunga Districts for the crop development component was
made because the two districts are relatively densely populated and have so far
received little attention for agricultural development except for a minor
component of the Bank Group-financed Second Livestock Project (Credit No.
382-TA).
Livestock Development
36.       Under the livestock component an attempt would be made to introduce
sedentary and commercial production practices in approximately six villages
in the tsetse-free Nzega and Igunga Districts, and in about six more villages
probably from those included in crop development, a pilot stall fattening
enterprise would be introduced. In approximately six additional villages
in the Miombo forest areas with light tsetse infestation the project would



- 16 -
introduce livestock production with appropriate protection. This project
component would affect about 3,500 - 4,500 families. It would provide
appropriate transport facilities, veterinary centers, dips and other
capital investments including weigh-bridges. It would also make provision
for livestock development planning and a limited tsetse survey and control
program.
Water Supply Program
37.       The low-cost water supply program would probably supply 140,000 -
160,000 persons in approximately 75 - 100 villages. The design and con-
struction capacity of departments under the Regional Water Engineer would
be strengthened by providing professinnal manpower, transport, equipment
and other facilities. Priority in water supply development would be given
to shallow wells pumped by handpumps, or failing that, to boreholes with
handpumps or engines. The Association would be consulted before commit-
ment or construction of any major water scheme estimated to cost in excess
of $125,000 equivalent (Section 3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Selection of the villages would be by the Regional Administration and on
the basis of cost, production impact, need and, in order to help
ensure   commitment of villagers to the proper operation and maintenance
of the water supply systems, on the willingness of the villages to contri-
bute in cash or in kind to the construction and maintenance of the water
supply facilities (Section 3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement). From
time to time the Government would consult and review with the Association
on the selection process and the selection criteria being used (Section
3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement). The water supply program
would be developed on the basis of existing knowledge of water resources.
In order to provide the foundation for longer-term water supply development,
however, a Water Master Plan for the Region would be conducted under the
Project.
Reafforestation
38.t      This component is to establish a pilot program in which villages
would establish and manage plantations, under the supervision of the
Forest Division of the Regional Natural Resources Office, to supply
fuelwood for tobacco   curing  and  domestic use.   Except for full
ujamaa villages, individual families would cultivate their own areas
in these plantations. Three nurseries would be established or expanded
under the Project and would grow and deliver seedlings to some 15 estab-
lished tobacco villages for planting about 50 ha per village a year.
The success of the reafforestation program vould be critically dependent
on the elimination of present incentives that encourage farmers to exploit
natural forest rather than establish fuelwood plantations. In particular,



- 17 -
the present policy of subsidizing fuelwood transport for some tobacco
growers encourages natural forest exploitation and discourages fuelwood
plantation. The Government has, therefore, agreed to eliminate the trans-
port cost subsidies on fuelwood for tobacco curing on or before June 30,
1982 (Section 3.08, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Roads
39.       The Project would provide for both improved routine road main-
tenance of the region's network (or main) roads, and reconstruction of the
network and village access roads. For the network roads, priority would
be given to maintenance. The Project would provide equipment, technical
and managerial assistance, training and workshop equipment. Network road
reconstruction would concentrate on the repair and upgrading of identified
bad spots which are presently largely impassable in bad weather and would
be by a single unit which can reconstruct about 75 km of road
a year. Access roads reconstruction would be three units employing labor-
intensive technology capable of improving 400 km of access roads for 200
villages during the project period.
Land-Use Planning
40.        The Project includes provision for preparation of a land-use
and land-capability master plan for the Tabora Region. Provision is also
made for enlarging and strengthening the Village Planning Unit of the
Regional Agricultural Development Officer in order for the Unit to assist
village councils and village production and marketing committees to provide
contoured village layouts and production plans.
Proj-ect Implementation
41.       Project implementation will be through the existing Regional
administration with the Regional Development Director having overall
responsibility for the Project. The Regional Agricultural Development
Officer, the Livestock Development Officer, the Natural Resources Officer
(Forest Division), the Regional Road Engineer and the Regional Water
Engineer (RWE) would have responsibility for implementing the relevant
parts of the Project. The Water Master Plan would be carried out by
consultants under the supervision of the RWE. The Land-Use Plan would
be carried out by the Land Resources Division of ODM (UK).
42.       Provision has been made for a Project Coordinator who would be
appointed in the Regional Planning Office.   He would coordinate the
activities of functional managers in the Regional and District organi-
zation involved in the Project. The Project Coordinator would be supported
by a Financial Controller who', in cooperation with the reeional authorities,



- 18 -
would manage and control Project funds and be responsible for procurement
activities. The Project Coordinator would also be supported by an Evaluation
Officer who would monitor the Project and ensure that the lessons of ex-
perience from Project implementation are identified. It would be a condition
of Credit effectiveness that these personnel had been appointed (Section 6.01(e),
draft Development Credit Agreement). The qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment of successful candidates for the positions would
be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02, draft Development Credit
Agreement). Additionally, provision has been made for a Project Expeditor
(who would be established under the Prime Minister's Office) to assist in the
procurement and dispatch of Project materials and provide liaison between the
Project and concerned functional ministries and parastatals in Dar es Salaam.
He would serve a similar function for the Kigoma Rural Development Project
(Credit No. 508-TA). The Project Expeditor would be appointed in consultation
with the Association (Section 3.02(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Because of the complexity of the Project, and in an attempt to ensure success-
ful implementation, provision has also been made to recruit nine other senior
personnel internationally to provide technical support to the crop, livestock
and water supply components of the Project. The Government has agreed to
recruit these personnel by March 1, 1978 (Section 3.03,draft Development
Credit Agreement). Although it is expected that qualified Tanzanians would
be available for some of these positions, the bulk are expected to be
recruited abroad and sufficient funds have been included in the Project. In
the event that suitably qualified Tanzanians are available and/or the Govern-
ment is able to secure bilateral technical assistance for some of these
positions, savings from the proposed credit would be cancelled unless the
Association agrees to reallocate these funds (Paragraph 6 of Schedule 1,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.      The village would be the basic development unit of much of the
Project and it is the intention to secure the fullest participation of
the villages (through their committees established under the Village Act)
in planning and implementation of Project components. The accounts of each
village receiving assistance under the Project would be audited by the
Government each fiscal year and the audited accounts would be furnished to
the Association upon request (Section 3.07, draft Development Credit Agreement).
To assess Project implementation and impact, the Government would, in con-
sultation with the Association, prepare a report evaluating the Project and
submit it to the Association within six months from the completion of dis-
bursements of Project funds (Section 4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Cost and Financing
44.        The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$23.5 million
net of identifiable taxes. The est ntated foreign exchange component is
US$15.9 million, or 68 percent of total cost. Physical contingencies of 10
percent were included on all Project costs except expatriate staff costs
where 15 percent was added because of large variances depending on source and
specialization. Price contingencies totaling 26 percent of baseline cost were
included, based on the appraisal mission's best judgment of future price changes
in Tanzania. Details of Project costs are included in Annex III.



-19-
45.       The proposed IDA credit of US$7.2 million together with the
proposed IDA administered credit of Can$5,0 million (US$4.8 million) would
finance 51 percent of project cost. The two credits would cover the foreign
exchange cost and $1.4 million of the local cost of the project components
supported by the two credits.         The IDA administered credit would be
in accordance with the terms of an agreement between the Government of
Canada and the Association which was approved by the Board on April 12,
1977 and pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association acting as administrator on behalf
of the Government of Canada. A US$5.6 million equivalent grant from the
United Kingdom overseas Development Programme to the Government would
finance 24 percent of the project cost. It would be applied to the
Roads and Land-Use Planning components, and would cover 76 percent of
the costs of these components. A condition of IDA credit effectiveness
would be the fulfilment of all conditions for initial disbursement of the
U.K. grant and the effectiveness of the IDA administered credit, (Section 6.01(a)
and (b), draft Development Credit Agreement). A special condition of effective-
ness of the IDA administered credit would be the effectiveness of the IDA credit.
The Government would contribute the equivalent of US$5.26 million or 22
percent of the project cost. The Government has agteed to make timely
and adequate annual provisions of funds to the project on the basis of
annual budgets prepared by the project management and approved by the
Regional Development Director (Section 3.01 and 3,02(a), draft Development
Credit Agreement). The participating villages in Tabora Region would
finance the remaining 3 percent of the project cost (US$0.64 million)
representing payment for incremental farm inputs. The villagers would also
provide unpaid labor for the access roads and re-afforestation component,
which is not costed and contribute in cash or kind to the water supply compo-
nent. In order to ensure that project-financed goods and works are kept in
good condition, the Government has agreed to continue to make available
adequate funds for their efficient operation and maintenance after the project
period (Section 4.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
46.       Procurement for vehicles, equipment, materials and production inputs
financed by the IDA and IDA administered credit would be bulked as far as
practicable and order of US$100,000 or more would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
In the evaluation of bids, local manufacturers would be allowed a pre-
ference of 15 percent or the existing rate of duty, whichever is lower.
Orders below US$100,000  are   unlikely to attract international interest
and would be handled in accordance with the Government's applicable
procedures which are satisfactory (Section B.1, Schedule 3, draft Development
Credit Agreement). Civil works (other than for water supply and those
financed by the U.K.) would be executed by contractors selected
following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines (Section A, Schedule 3, draft Development Credit Agreement)."> In
the evaluation of bids for civil works, local contractors would have a 7-1/2



- 20 -
percent preference margin.    Civil works contracts of less than US$100,000
would also be made in accordance with the Borrower's applicable procurement
procedures (Section B.1 Schedule 3, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Construction of the water supplies may be by force account (Section B.2,
Schedule 3, draft Development Credit Agreement). Technical assistance
personnel and consultants (other than those financed by the U.K.) are
expected to be recruited internationally. For the U. K. financed compo-
nents, procurement and recruitment of technical assistance personnel would
be in accordance with the U. K.'s guidelines.
Disbursement
47.       For those Project items financed by the IDA and IDA administered
credits,      the Association would disburse 50 percent of total
expenditures for civil works; 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures
and 85 percent of local expenditures for purchase of vehicles, equipment,
materials and spare parts; 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 85
percent of local expenditures for incremental cost of seasonal inputs; and
100 percent of foreign expenditures and 75 percent of local cost of
technical assistance and consulting services (other than those financed by
the U.K.). The IDA and IDA administered credits would be disbursed in the ratio
of 7:5. Disbursements from the U.K. grant would be administered directly
by the U.K.   In order to expedite project implementation by the opening
of the 1977/78 crop season retroactive financing of up to US$200,000 is
recommended.
Benefits
48.       The greatest potential of the Project is the development of the
capacity of the Region to handle further investments, and the acquisition
of knowledge in the application of improved practices by farmers in North-
east Tabora to enable replication elsewhere in the area. The overall rate of
return of the Project excluding the water supply and master plan and land-
use planning components (36 percent of Project cost) is estimated at 17
percent.  The rates of return for the individual Project components are
estimated at 18 percent for crop agriculture (16 percent of Project cost),
20 percent for livestock development (11 percent of Project cost:), 21 per-
cent for road maintenance (20 percent of Project cost), and 40 percent for
fuelwood plantation (1 percent of Project cost).    The Project would increase
production of cotton, groundnuts, paddy, sorghum and beef. The direct pro-
duction benefits would be partly for consumption by the participating farmers
and would partly go to increase their cash income. About 6,000 and 3,000
farmers are expected to benefit from the crop and livestock components
of the Project, respectively. It is estimated that average per capita
incomes on Project farms would at least double from the present US$40 a year
level in five years. The total incremental output resulting from the Project
is small because of its essentially pilot nature. The road component would
provide savings in vehicle operating costs on existing traffic and agricultural
production benefits from assured year-round provision of inputs and services
and decreased crop spoilage. Unquantified benefits likely to arise from
the roads component include savings on induced traffic, and improved access
to social and administrative facilities. The water supply component would
provide improved supplies to 140,000 - 160,000 rural people by 1981, bringing
the proportion of Tabora's rural population supplied with water (now at 23
percent) to nearly one third. Furthermore, and perhaps more importantly,



- 21 -
the provision of adequate water is expected to help stabilize villages and
thus encourage longer-term agricultural investment and production in the
villages. The Project is expected to generate positive ecological effects.
Risks
49.       The Project faces a number of risks.  Since several of the
components are pilot in nature there are risks that production expectations
will not be attained due to the uncertain reaction of traditional farmers
to modern inputs and new production methods. Lack of experience in imple-
menting comprehensive development programs may also be an inhibiting
factor. Therefore, a substantial amount of technical assistance including
coordination and evaluation expertise would be provided to the regional
authorities. Additional uncertainty arises due to the limited experience
to date with operation of the new village system. Village grouping could
lead to serious soil depletion and erosion and difficulties in economically
securing fuelwood for curing tobacco. The monitoring and evaluation components
will-be particularly important in dealing with these sources of uncertainty
and potential problems. In view of the multi-sectoral rature of the Project,
and the flexible nature of several components, the Project will require close
supervision, especially in the start-up period.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Development Credit Agreement
between the United Republic of Tanzania and the Association as administrator
on behalf of the Government of Canada, the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of
a resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
51.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex IV. Special conditions of effectiveness for the IDA credit include
fulfillment of all conditions for initial disbursement of the U.K. grant,
effectiveness of the IDA administered credit (Section 6.01(a) and (b), draft
Development Credit Agreement), and the appointment of the.Project Coordinator,
Financial Controller, Project Expeditor and Evaluation Officer (Section 6.01(c)
draft Development Credit Agreement). A special condition of effectiveness of
the IDA administered credit would be the effectiveness of the IDA credit.



-22-
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association and that the IDA administered
credit would comply with the criteria established by the recently approved
agreement between the Government of Canada and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credits.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 14, 1977



Page 1 Of 4 pagea
tAKLE 3*
TANZANIA             -SOCIAL IU@tCATORS gAlA SNEET
LAMD AREA (ThOU KN2t
.............. ;                      ~~~~TANZANIA                           REFERtENCE COUNTRtIES (1970)
TDTAL       9'5. 1                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.         1. 960                               1970    ESTIMATE           KENYA           KOREA,, RIP. OP MALAYSIA-
G,MP PER CAP ITA (USS)                       70.0 j.                  7.                  4.          7.          4.
P'OPULATION ARM VITAL STAtISTICS
POPULATION IMIDTYR. MILLION)               9.6 18 i.9 Ai            14.7 /8            11.2         31 .4      -1.
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                          10.0        14.0         16.Q                19.0       319.0         32.0
PEN SQUARE RNM.   AORIC. LAND            23.0 /a     23.0          ...                          1320.0        291.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH NATE PER THOUSAND           51.5         50.5        50.2                49.0         35.0        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RtATE PER THOUSAND           27.1        23.0        20.1                17.0         11.4        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE 0/THOU)          190.0       160.0 / A4.557.7                                           46.7 A
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)           36.7        41.8        44.5                             5.          5.
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                              S . 2        3. 2                3. 4        2. 6         2.6 /a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)26
TITAL                                    2.1 I/a     3. 0 /a      t.7 /a              1.1          2.3         26
URBAN                                     5.0         5.6         5.7                 6.5          6.436
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)               4.6         *. 0        6.8                  9.9        tIC         27.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                          12.5 La, k  44. 4 /        ..46.41                       42. 1        44.7 /a
15 TO 64 TEARS                           55.5 eak   33.0 /         ..4.0                         54.6         52.1 7
45 TEARS AND OVER                        2.0 /ab      2. 6 /       ..3.46                         3.:3         3.227.
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        G.M' 49_    0.  /b       I. 1.                           08          0.   a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCT RATIO                   1.  8j      1. 2 4t      ..                 1.1/.        1416/
FAMILY PLANNIHG-
ACCEPTORS (CUMLILATIVyE. THOU)            .            ..                             66.1          .        222.2 /a
USERS (1 OF MARRIED WOMEN)......                                                                  42.0         8.07a
EMPLOYVENY
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            4 900.0     560.0 /ajj 6300.0 /b             5 100.08    10400       2900.0I
LABOR FORCE ON AGRICULTURE (Z)             960L        91.0 Za8/8    ..                900         ' 0.  a       30  : 
UNEMPLOYED (Z OF LABOR FORCE)                ...-..                                                  5.0         6.0ab
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE IN4COME REC)D BY-
HIGHEST   51 OF   HOUSUOiOLDS              ..        33.5          ..                2.2/d        17.1        28. 3
HIGHEST 201 OF    HOUSEHOLDS               ..       63. 3          .52.6 &                        44.5       56.0
LOWEST   201 OF   HOUSEHOLDS              ..          2.3          ..3.9                   d       7.          3. 5
LOWEST   401 OF   HOUSEHOLDS              ?. .a                    ..                1.?          17.7        11.2
OISTRIOUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
Z OWNED BT TOP 101 OF OWNERS                 ......                                                28.0
1 OWNED MY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS......                                                                 2.0
HEALTH AN) NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               20000.0 /g421Z5?0.0/a    21450.0 Lb           78 30./     2210.  /8.          /a
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            89OO.O` 4:gh4890.0/     I10    /A17008                  14. /         000/.
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED              530.0 /ad   70./8           .                 iD.)      1920. 0      270.0 /a.
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALORIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)            69.0        73.0         9.0t/o 10.                     13.0         94. 0f d
PROTEIN (GRARS PER DAY)                  20          4.           3.0/               710         6.
-OF WHICH ANINAL AND PULSE            22.01a      2 3.0          .                 29. 0       0 9.0       20.    aLt
DEATH RANTE C/THOU) AGES 1-4                 -            ..                              ..                     5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO 
PRIMARY SCHOOL                         -24.0t       36.0/        43.0                64.o.Lt    104.0        8./
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         2.:04.      3.0          3.00                9.0        41.0        34. 0 /.a.
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                113.0       1 3. 0      1 3. 0               1 3.0       12.0        13S.0/a
VOCArIONAL ENRO-LMENT
(Z OF SECONDARY)                        23:.0       to.0/d,        .                  2.0/8      16.0         3.o /a
ADULT LITERACY RATE Cl)                    17.0                    49.0/b              3 0.0       87.0        77.0 /8
HOUSI1MG
P'ERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 1.Ia.                      ..                            2.?         2. 3
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUTL.
PIPED WATER (Z)                                     3.01q.0.                                          d      6.
ACCESS TO ELECtRICITY                         .        3   0/j       -..                           BOLZ          50
(Z OF ALL OWEJ.LINGS)......                                                                      50.0        43J.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                        ---                      *-                             0.0        30.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             2.0         11.0        16.0                48.0       126.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              3.0Aj        3.0         3. 0                9.0         2.0         2.01
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)               13.0 I      31.0 /a     37.0 /a             68.0       307.0        382.7
NEWSPRINT (MG/YR PER CAP)                   0.01                    010.3.404
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 4 pages
NCOrES
nls otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yearbewn 1959 and 1961, for 197f between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recan.t fatfeate between
1973 and 1975
a-  a,_,laysiahas basnee lattad asa     bje.ctIn tuntry hao--s its popolatfon Is tesparable feats. and fts            snt         eonn      Is sa-r-1 steps ahead
of ransanla
TANiZANIA             196f0   I   Mainland TanoanLa,     lb   1957, Afti.an populatIon,     In    .tda of pep.latlon onder 15 and 65 and east to tota      labor
fote  d  1962     7   1961-63,     _I   956, Eane.lbar:   ,jj  1963,   /b   Intludfng nidwi-e   and anic    wth midwifery
qulfotoa*registered, not all practIinig in the country,       /i  6-12 and 13-18 years of age r-apett-ly.
1970     Ia  ialelnd Ta..nisnl      lb  1967,   Ic   HouSehelda     I d  1965;   Ia   Urban osly.    /f  7-13 and 14-19 years of age
MOST RECENT RSTIKATE       I   Mainland Tanasnis,     lb   1972'   It   1969-71 averge,      /d  7-13 and 14-19 yeare of age -ep-ttlv1y
anENY                1970      /a  ggiatered only,     /b   Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 and ovr to labot forte age 15-59 yeats;           It  Labor forte
age 15-59.years.    Id  Urban households,     /n   Regietared, cot all pro,tlcing in tbe country,       /f   5-IS years of age
La  Ttal stonry      includes tsather tangat tbe third leve.
KORE, RE. OF    1970     /   As parcentage of enPInysn.t      lb   Registered.    Ic  Riagistorod, sat all practicleg in tha county.        Id  Piped watar
Inside.
MALAYSIA             1970     /s   ..a, Malaysia,    lb  Registered applic..cto for work,     It  Goven,net only:      /d   1964-66;   Ia   12-18 years of age.
7?f 1967, La Piped water inside.
R9, August 19, 1976
DEFINMTORS OP SOCIAL INDRICATORS
Total Ar- Total  kuft    rs   ae         ln a2 n)slu             ae                       Poalstion ter nursing preron - Population divded by noober of practl-
T.t.1    I..      .fc      e    -  cinig                                                    tlnr.  .   ntn  g n   an  female graduor  sres  "trained" or "certified" nurses.
Ani.-Most recent   etimate of ngric1tara1 area used tnpvrarily or pain-                and sullayprsnelwt              traIIge.meine
va-1y for craps, pascre, market         kiblthen gardens or 10 lie fallow.              Population nor bosptolta had - Population divided by nuobr of honpita1
beds ailable in publit and priv-ts gnere         and epecilalled hospItal
TS1P Pot t5 Rit fIll) -GIPpe      tapra  "nlmte     st correni market prices,               and rehbibtarion tent ersl.. Isldes nursing hone        and eatsblslnh.ents
te lae  y at   toneraa     rto     s  ol    R     tls(97-5bai)                      for custodial ad prevetive tare.
1960, 19/f and 1975 data.                                                               Prce        aayo     clries fI of rasiltonects)         - Cpoted fron
Ponolat ion oed vital statIst Its                                    va.pits per day. avaIlble soppl lee tapelse     dc.aalprednuion,
Popolclan old-y. olion). - A0 of Ily fIrtL'     If not available,                     inporta less espocte, and changs     is stock, net aupplilas  -orlde
averageof twoend-yea  necimte, 1960, 197  end 191daa                               ania   feed, seeds, qmantitlen    -ed in food processing and ic..e
in diutribution; raqoirenetc were astimated by PAO base.d on phyai-
ologlca1 nee ds for norml activty end health considering envro-
Paalaprce- dtstlry-peraauf     c a    - Old-year population per square kilo-                nental tonpacarore, body    siRhta, age and sac distributions of popo-
otter flIt bectaree) of local~~~~~~ aras                                           talon, and aloIng 1% for wasta at h.-.bnh            leel
Poonlalia densIty- e  quare k= of aeric. land - Capored as above for                 Per ..pit. sanely of eeel      eeepr day) -         rteecnntof per
agiclurlladony,cpiaee                                                                             upl    offood per ~day; net supply of fnod Is defined a
above, rqieon         for all coutries established hy 0100 Ecaon-ic
Via tsaistica                                                                           Research Servite   pravide for a m.inte   alawanca of 60 rson of teca1
frdbrh rare Pcr thousand. vraaioAl-.           live births pe r thous-an                protniehper day,ad20 gron       efanimal and pulse protein, of hbIth 10
of mid-year populaIoni, Icc-year at    -=tueerugBe. endIng io 1960 ond                    gron   ebauld hab   ia     rtec     h      tandrda are lower than, thesa,.
17,adfv-year averge ending in 1975 for none reecre-         cntait.               of 75 gras ef     totalp1ro.tein andt73 grau    faia       rta    a   s   vr
Cinds death raic par thoosad, averageAnnual deaths par thousan.d of old-                    age   nt the w-rId, preposed by PAO in tb. Tbird World Fod Surv-y
yea   pPu1atillc; ic-year aritheeatic ave-gan ending In 1960 and 1970 and               Per capit proteI supy fro          anma and poIse    - Proteic supply of food
fieyeravrg     encding in 1931 for oot Irecent as Wmte.                             dale      ro    nnLa ad pla        in gramspr day
tcfa- -ortifly rate f/thou) - A7coo       deatha of infants under one year                Rstb rare f/thou) ages 1-4 - Actual deaths par thesaod In aga group 1-4
of age per thousand live brtht.                                                           years, to children in this age grccp, soggestad as an indcator of oaR-
Itfero.pecta..cY-a birth (yin) - Averge somber of ye.ar of Ilfe remain-                     entritcin.
fag at birt h, usual,ly fv-yaa averages endi.g in 1960, 1970 ad 1975
fvr developIng  -outri-a                                                                Edaustion
Crvas r-erdu-tion rate-Overage nbhr of Ive. daughters              oa     ilAlae nrlen                          aI      rnr ecjjl        -Ecroleen      of. aI   gsa
hear inhacolr         eroduciv     perd If she     pepslence   pre...ot age-              peteaee         piaye       o-aepplto,             nlldec  hbildren age
apecifl forcilcy rate; etoaly fIveYea  aegsetlg In960                           6-11 years hut adjasted for different legtc        fprinaryadocacoo;
1977 ovA 1975 for developIng countrIes,                                                   for coutries with univarsa      eduction, enrell1ant nay anteed 100%
acu~latIon growt rate f%      - total - Conpo..ed a...cal grouch rates of old-              slnccesme   pupilo are baby or bh-       thr official school age.
Tsrppuainfor 1950-60, 1960-70 a-d 1970.75.                                     Adiosted entatlloan1t.ratia- secodar schooll - Conpoted00oe, errond-
PaoaiaouchraeC)- crbac - Conputed like growth rat            of   tal                 -ry edoctinrqra         atlen      le   Year  of approved prmay       otrot-
papulatice; diffzeret d.flciioc      of orhbc   rea   a   affeccaa                        doe, poId.sgnrl.vctoa                 ot teacher training i-strution for
hiil    of dat  amongconnirl.                                                             pupils of 12 to 17 years cf age; correapondenva taras        are g..nerelly
irhan eanulation ft of total;1 - Ratio of orhan tc total pep latiton,                       occlded.
differevt deficitions of orhs areas mey affect vonparability        f data               er.fohoispoie                frtadscn            ees          va    er off
Aga t-rac lure    . (e te) -Children (0-14 years), working aga (15-64 years),             or toupletely noclod.d.                                     -     .pt.l
and retired (65 yeasad over) Ba percentages of mid-year popolation.                      V          eaioa  ..r.l n 1 C"  cf secodar) v oatlt-1 inaritsti... include
gas d.e.edency ratio       aI   fpplio          n     5ad6       n   vrt                   -technical   industr'ialo    ete    rrn       hich operate independently
chose odfage   15thogh      4.                                                            oandpeproes or       f,ncondary institutios
iconalc dnasdeecv rrla - RatI  of popoltlon under 15 and 65 and over           Adult litsrc rate C        - Literate adots (ale1       read and write) a
cc the 'lb,r forte in age group af 15-64 yer-                                             percentage of total adlt Ppslation aged 15 yeats and over.
Pally clansing - acte2tara cnuaiv          thou; - Cwclative nahbr of
accepicra of birth toctrol device     under ou.spicas of natIonalfonily                 H... Ing
Planing progro    since inception.                                                      Persons nert ca     (urban) - Overage nober of person per te         in  occupied
bely len   in     sr o       ffmarieddwne)        Parc   tage~ ci malrried..               conventionalI duIin.gs in urban areas; dwellings enclodeno-rae
cant of child-bearing age (5-A  years) wh  one hItch-con trol deice             tructorsa asd un-cpied pa rts.
to all married wone in sn       age groop.                                              Occunied dwlino wt       ctindwcri)-Occupied conventionaltdwell-
ings in urban and meal area      without inside orotside     pipd aser
Emclovmset         ,   d)- .o-ielyfactlities as percentage of all oneupied dwellings.
Toa lb r forte(boad        -Eonlal         active parsons, including                 Acces in elcricity 'I,          aldwlins       - Convelctiona   dwellings with
aened force   sod onsoplayed hot eocloding housewIves, students, etc.;                    electocity inlvn         oreea        ete      f total dwellings in nrbo
deiIt-n cvri... countries are cot caparehla.                                           sad meal1 aren..
Labr forc in ORritolture (T) - Agriccltora1 labor focce (in farmIng,                      Rural dwll.ings1 connected In electricity(.         Caputed as abnve for ruts1
forstr,hstig end fishing) as percentage of teta1 labor force.                        delng       ny
linmelvedf%  f lborfore)  - eployed are na ally defined an peron
aaaeabl.enad willing to tabs A Jab, out of a Job on a given day,,Cnata
remained out ofaob, and seeking work foe a specified         JiinnRdorearr                               prtoues             i   ypso      e   vr_frrdobod
period nor .neeeding one weak; nay anot be cauparable betwee      cosntries               cass-t geera       pulicpe      thuad        opulatIon;    f. eco .di.nbtat-
doe te different definitions ef unoployad and oorc          f data, .,g. ,                lic..ensd, greceliv-rs in countries and in years when registration of
onPloy,et office staltitics.... saPle soves       tspulsry unapleynset                     rad    seswsin affect; dots get recen.t yeurs nay not be conparable
lasorante.                                                          sints~~~~~~~~~~~~ noel..  countries abolished licensing.
Passensar an( t1'.,houhear        -.Pssnn " ;cars captien notr etcrs seat-
inton  diatribclon-     P-rconcaga ef private Inc-       (bath is cash and                   la  ls   tha   eigh   asn;scue            noats        ere      n
hind) racaived by rinbet 5%. riohest 20%, poorest 20%, and poar.eo                        milIftary rehicies..u.                        1%    .en
40% of households.                                                                      Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Anueml consaption oi Industrial          caster-
cia1, public and private electricIty in kilowatt hours per capita;
Diltriboto e%,f land    -ernhia'-Pere   tsgee   of lend owecd by wealIth-                   gene.rally baaed on pr:duction data, without allowance for-Icsi
ins t 1% endpareat 10% of lend        nrs.                                                grids hat allowing far imports ad ..Pnrt. of electricity.               i
N.ewprint (kg/" per can) -Per caPita a---I centoptle            in bilegro
gelt ndanriio                                                                                etimated fra d-stit production plus net imports ef newsprint.
Poultion ear phy  icise - Papulatian dieidad by mashr of practieleg
physiicns qualified fins a     edical echeol at weiv-rity level.



ECONOMIC DEIEIl        DATA                                              Page 3 of 4 pages
(Amounta in millions of U.. dolLars)
Actual                        Projected              1967-   1973 -    1975 -   1975 -    1973     1975    1980
1973      19f74:   1975        1976      1977    1960      IC)72    197.5     1977      l980 
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                                                __
At 1973               Prices & Exchange Rat6s        Ave~rage Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of CDY
Gross Domestic Product           186-6.4'  191 7.6  1966.7      2065.1   2168.3   2510.1        6.0     2.7       5.0       5.0    100.0    102.0    101.0
Gains from Terms of Trade ()___            -20.5    --38.4       +19.7     -5.0    -24.9                                                     -2.0     -1.0
G,ross Domestic Income           1866.4   1897-.1   1 928.3     2084.8  -2-163.3  -2-8-         5.0      1.6      5.9       5.2    100.0    100.0    100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                545.1    508.4     474.6      427.4     464.1    549.1        7.4    -6.7      -1.1       3.0     29.2     24.6     22.1
Exports       (import capacity) 417.2      304.1     275.5       328.2    324.1    436.8        2.7   -18.7       8.5       9.7     22.4     14.3     17.6
Resource Gap                      127.9    204.3     199.1       T99.2    140.0    E 12.3                                            6.9     10.3      4.5
Consumption Expenditures         1588.8   1654.2    1669.1      1719.0   1829.1   2062.5        5.5     2.5       4.7       4.3     85.1     86.6     83.0
Investment       (incl. stocks) 405.5      4.47.2    458.3      465.0     474.2    535.0        9.7     6.3       1.7      3.1      21.7     23.8    21.5
Domestic Savings                  277.6    242.9     259.2       365.8    334.2    422.7        2.5    -3.3      13.5      10.3     14.9     13.4     17.0
National Savings                  27 1. 3  269.5     309.7       402.1    375.1    447.5        3.2     6.8      10.0       7 .6    14.5     16.1     18.0
MERCHANDISE TRA.DE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                           As Percent of Total
1973     1974    1975-
Imports
Capital goods                   116.0    149.6     199.8                         309.4                                            23.9     20.8     27.3
Tntermediate goods (mLfuels) 180.7       228.7     213.7                         455.9                                            37.2     31.8    29.2
Fuels and related materials      41.8     74.8      87.8                         156.2                                             8.6     10.4     12.0
of which:   Petroleum        (41.8)    (74.8)    (87.8)                       (156.2)                                           (8.6)   (10.4)  (12.0)
Consumption goods               147.2    266.0     230.5                         279.5                                           ..-3fl.  ...2...  J.L.5.
Total Merch. Imnports (cif)    4973T     7=~       731.9      6'92.1    835.0   1200.9                                           100.0    100.0   100.0
Exports
Prrmary products ~=l fuels) 261.3        304.9     259.4                         581.6                                            7 9. 7   80.1    79.0
Fuels and related materials      12.5     18.3      18.1                          36.0                                             3.8      4.8      5.5
of which:   Petroleum        (12.5)    (18.3)    (18.1)                        (36.0)                                           (3.8)    (4.8)    (5.5)
Manufactured goods               54.1     57.5      50.9                         132.9                                            16.5        L 
Total Merch. Excports (fob)      M7T     397T      3T2NT4      43-T-3   48.I50510.                                                        I0.      100.0
Tourism and Border   Tranle      ..         .
Merchandise Trade Indices                      Average 1973 - -10
Export Price Index             100.0     145.5    142.0       189.1     187.9   218.6
Import Price Index             100.0     159.0    168.4       178.6     195.3   239.7
Terms of Trade Index           100.0      91.5     84.3       105.9      96.2     91.2
Exports Volume Index           100.0      79.8     70.5        70.7      77.9   104.3
VALUJE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1973 -    Prices and Excharnge Rates           Average AnnuaLl Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
1967-72   1973-75  1975-80          1973    1975     1980
AgricuLlture                   645.1     624.1    666.7       700.0     724.5   808.4            2.6      1.5       3. 9          39.4    38.1l   356.-2
Industry and Mining            306.2     306.2    299.2       314.2     329.9   395.3           5.0      -1.2       5.7           18.7    17.1     17.7
Serv-ice                       686.1     742.8    783.9       823.f     874.7  1029.5           6.1       6.8       5.6          _.A_9   ..4-.   ..AL.1
Total                         1637.4    1673.1   1749.78     1837.2    1929.1  2233.2           4.5       3.2       5.0          100.0    100.0   100.0
__________________                                   ____                                                                 AsPercen_of_tD
PUBLIC FINAN~CE                   FY 73     FY 74    FY 75       FY 76                                                                 As Percent of GDP__
(Cen-tral Government)                                                                                                                1973     1974    1975
Current Receipts              2284      3022     3900        3994                                                                 20.1    2-1.8    21-.2
CuLrrent Expenditures         2066      2695     3991        3630                                                                 18.1    21.1     20.5
Budgetary Savings             2T18      3T27-     -91        -3-                                                                 2T.1      0.T7     1.-4
Other Public Sector            564       754        ...                                                                            3.9     4.7
Pablic Sector Investment       956      1642     2352        2309                                                                  9.9    12.6     12.5
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                    Actual        Prelim.    Est.
As % Total Current Expend.             FY1972  FY1974     FY1975    FY1976
Education                               T"T       =~7       TST.     Y7T
Other SocialI Services                   14.5    15.5       12.2      14.4
Agriculture                               8.9    12.1       13.3       7.0
Other Economic Services                 12.4     12.2       10.3      9.2
Administration and Defense              36.2     35.1       30.9     31.9
Other                                    10.3     7.9       18.3     20.4
Total Current Expenditures             100.0    100.0      10.      100.0io-
SELECTED INDICATORS                                1965-      1973-     1975-   1975-
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             1972       1975      1977    1978
Average ICOR                                        TT        T         - rT    77
Import Elasticity                                   1.6      -2.5      -0.2      0.6
?.brginal Domestic Savings Rate                     0.1      -0.2       0.4      0.3
Marginal National Savings Rate                      0.2        0.6      0.3      0.2
LABOR FORCE AND                        Total Labor Force                                      Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                 In Millions            of Total                            In U.S.Dollars      'Pe-rcent of Aver~ge
1971               1911                                     1971                    1971
Agriculture                            5.3                 91                                      98                      43
Industry                               0.1                 2                                     1590                     694
Service                                0.4                  7                                    2170                     948
Total                                  5~.8              100o=9                                                            0
not applicable         - nil or negligilF-e
not available         -- less than half the
smallest unit shown                                                                                                  EA CPIA
February 1977



Page 4 Of 4 Pages
BAL.ANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEFT
-tamounts in millimsa of U.S. dol rar at current pr-ices)7
Avg. Annual
Actual                         Estimated                       Projected                                               arowth Rate
1973        1974         1975                1976         19 77       1978         1979        1980                                1973-198
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENJTS
Expiorts (mnci. NFS)                          417.2       465.9       461.0                576.0         621.7      809.8       915.2        1029.6                                 13.8
Import    L1cl. NFS)                          545.1       779.1       794.2                750.1         890.2     1035.3      1158.5        1294.1                                 13.1
RsucBaante ~X-M)                       -12-7 .9    .3'S13.2    -333.2               fl7UT          2i5       -nrr        -n     =7      S39                                   10.9
Tnterest (net)                                 -3.9         0          -2.1                -15.8         -17.9      -21.3       -28.1         -36.6                                 38.0
Direct Invesusnent Income                      -7.4        -4.0         -7.3                -3.8          -3.6       -5.0        -5.0          -5.0 
Workers' Remittance                               -           -            -                   -             -          -            -            - 
CTetTransfer   ne)5.0                                  45.3        93.0                 83.3         100.0      100.0       100.0         100.0                                 55.0
BalaEinconCuriiiUitolunts                    -134.2      -2 71. 9    -249.6              -110.4        _-190.0-    -151.8      -17-6.4       -206.16.
Private Direct Investsnxrt                      9.9         6.3          5.6                 6.0           6.0        6.0         6.0           6.0
Official Capital GIrants
Public MALT Loans
Disbursements                                98.7       138.0-1'    229.4-2!              8.8          234.4      282.9       328.7         364.7                                 21.0
-RZgV s  __                       -16.4       -14.1       -15.0                -21.6         -23.2      -23.9       -25.8        -34.2                                  10.5
NtDsusesants                              82.3       123.9       214.4               flTT           fr          Er5r-      302.9         330.5                                 22.0
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements
-Rpernts
ActuEl                    Estimated
Capital TransactionB n.e.i.                    72.6        56.92'/     20.42'               -3.9                                       1.972     1273      1974       1975        1976
Change in Net Reserves                        -30.6        84.8          9.2               -58.9        DEFT ANDeBTSEVICE
P;ub.lic  etOt      Disbursed 359.91     460.2     611.1     7$7.5       787.5
CDRANT AND LOAN 0MTMITENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like                   58.5         65.8        96.8               123.7          Interest on Public Debt       6.6       8.2        8.6      11.2        12.8
Repayments on Public Debt     29.1      16.4      14.1       15.0        21.6
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                         Total Public Debt Service    35.7      24.7       22.7      26.2        34.5
IBRD                               ~    ~   ~~~~~~- 65.0  30.0                             Other Debt Service (net)         ..
IDA                                          22.6        61.2         10.0                             Total Debt Serv-ice (net)        ..
Other                                         1.8          7.1         7.1
Other Multilateral                              -            --Buirden en Export Earnings()
Governments                                  82.8        127.1        91.3
Suppliers                                       -            -           -                              Public Debt Service           9.0        5.9       4.9       5.7         6.0
Financial Institutions                          -            --Total Debt Service..                                                               .
Bonds                                           -            -FDS054Direct Invest. Inc.                                              10.1        7.7'      5.7       7.3'        6.6
Public Loans n.e.i.                             -            -           -
Total. Public !MALT                           TOan  17.1   26 04       138.4                            Average Terms of PubliLc Debt
EXTERNAL DB                                    Actual Debt Outstanding on Da. 31. 1975                      Int. as % Prior Year DDAD      2.3       2.3        1.9       1.8         1.6
Disbursed OnlyPercent                                Amort. as % Prior Tear Dyy,D  10.2       4.6       3.1        2.5         2.7
World Bank                                          60.4
IDA                                                60.8                     10.3                       IBRD Debt Out. & Disbuirsed
Other Multilateral                                  19 0                     2.4'                            as % Public Debt 04D        6.7       7.1       6.7       10.2        10.1
Governments                                        557.6                    70.8                         'as % Public Debt Service4' 3.3           8.9      12.5       18.4        20.4
surnllerv                                           23.8                     3.0
Financial Institutions                              12.3                     1.6                        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                                4.2                     0.5                         "as 9 Public Debt O&Dd         13.7      12.5      10.4       10.3        12.0
P'ublic Debts n.e.i                                  9.4                     1 2                            as 9 Public Debt Service11   1.2       1.7       2.9        2.8         2.6
Total Public M&LT Debt                             TO7-100.0
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                   e  staff estirmate                  l/  Includes drawis8 on Arab Fund for Africa (97.1 m)
..not available -earteynil or negligible                                                                2   licludes bilateral and multilateral program assistance
not avinlabledi  totala~                                       -   less than half the                3/I Includes uae of IMF' reaources
but included in total                             ~~~~~~~~~~smallest unit shown    4/  TEED and IDA debt aervice as 7. of public debt aervice
ZA CPI,A
February 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF      MARCH 31, 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.      Year    Borrower    Purpose                             Bank-" IDAY   Undisbursed
Four loans and eight credits fully disbursed                     70.2   57.0
586-TA   1969    Tanzania    Roads                                7.0             1.4
217-TA   1970        "       Tobacco                                     9.0      0.4
232-TA   1970        "       Education                                   3.3      0.7
265-TA   1972        "       Roads                                       6.5      0.8
287-TA   1972                Smallholder Tea                            10.8      3.2
371-TA   1973                Education                                  10.2      8.8
382-TA   1973                Livestock                                  18.5      8.6
454-TA   1974                Cotton                                     17.5     14.7
460-TA   1974                Tanzania Investment Bank                    6.0      1.9
1014-TA   1974                Cashewnut                           21.0            11.6
495-TA   1975                Sites and Services                          8.5      4.5
507-TA   1975                Highway Maintenance                        10.2      8,0
508-TA   1975                Rural Development                          10.0      8.9
1041-TA   1975        "       Sugar                                9.0             4,8
580-TA   1975                Dairy                                      10.0      8.7
1128-TA   1975                Textile                             15.0            12.3
1172-TA   1975                Tanzania Investment Bank            15.0            11.3
601-TA   1976                Technical Assistance                        6.0      6.0
606-TA   1976                National Maize Program                     18.0     16.3
607-TA   1976                Education                                  11.0     10.7
1306-T TA 1976                Power                               30.0            30.0
1307-TA   1976                Forestry                             7.0             6.9
652-TA   1976                Fisheries                                   9.0      8.9
658-TA   1976                Tobacco Processing                          8.0      8.0
1354-TA   1976        "       Urban Water Supply                  15.0            15.0
688-TA" 1976                 Program Credit                             15.0     15.0
Total                                            189.2  244.6     227.4
of which has been repaid                         2.1    4.8
187.1 239.4
Amount sold                    0.1
of which has been repaid     0.1
Total now outstanding-3/                         187.1  239.4
Total undisbursed                                 93.3  134.1
1/ A Program Credit of $15.0 million and a Third Window Loan of US$11.5 million and a
Bank Loan of US$11.5 million for the Morogoro Industrial Complex Project were arproved
by the Executive Directors on March 15 and March 29, 1977, respectively. The Program
Credit and the Industrial Complex Project are not yet effective.
2/ Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $2.3 is undistursed.
3/  Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF     MARCH 31, 1977
(US$ million)
Amount less cancelleation
No.      Year    Borrower     Purpose                     Bank          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                93.4
638-EA   1969    EAHC        Harbours                     35.0              1.7
674-EA   1970    EARC         Railways                    42.4              9.2
865-EA   1972    EAHC         Harbours                    26.5              5.5
914-EA   1973    EAPTC       Telecommunications           32.5              6.7
1204-EA   1976    EADB        Development Finance          15.0             14.8
Total                                           244.8             37.9
of which has been repaid                       37.1
Total now outstanding                           207.7
Amount sold                     24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4             0
Total now held by Bank2'                        207.7
Total undisbursed                                37.9
1/   $8,481.87 remains undisbursed in the 1970 Loan 675-EA to the East
African Post and Telecommunications Corporation.
2/   Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 1, 1977)
There are currently 24 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1_ 1971; Closing Date - December 30l 1977
Project infrastructure investments are 95% complete, all 15
complexes and 114 villages are established and water development has
improved with 54 villages having permanent water supplies, 50 temporary
water and the remaining 10 are being surveyed for water. Only 314 km
of roads have been established compared with appraisal estimates of
1,104 km. The reduced road construction program is however considered
sufficient for present production. A total of 10,700 farmers, about
70% of appraisal target have been recruited and total production of wet
leaf from the project is estimated to have increased from 675,000 kg in
1974-75 to about 1.2 million kg in 1975-76.   Measures to enforce minimum
tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to increased
tobacco production. However, yields per hectare and quality of leaf
have been below anticipated levels. Improvements are required to
strengthen the extension and cooperative services.
Credit No. 287-TA - SmalLholder Tea Project: $10.8
million credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
After initial serious management problems the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of senior
staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improve-
ment in the control over the field activities. A recent supervision mission
-----------------------------------
These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the actions being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13
estimated that 5,734 hectares had been planted by the end of 1975/76
season, i.e. 69% of the target of 8,300 ha which should have been
achieved by June 1974. Yields are lower than expected due to competi-
tion from coffee and/or maize in some areas and lack of labor and poor
soil conditions elsewhere. This may adversely affect the viability
of TTA which is already seriously overstaffed and depends on factory
profits for its revenue. TTA has prepared an initiaL proposal for a
second phase project but before proceeding considerable examination
of existing problems will be needed.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Project implementation has been extremely slow and disbursements
thus far have been a fraction of the appraisal forecast. This reflects
the size and complexity of the project and delays encountered in recruiting
staff and concluding contracts for the construction of abattoirs and supply
of heavy earth moving machinery. Project implementation is expected to
pick up momentum now that scme of these prQbLemn have been resolved.     However,
a number of post-appraisal developments such as marked reduction in the
world market price of bully beaf and meat products, escalation of project
costs, the availability of adequate beef supplies, delays in project imple-
mentation and the weak financial position of the implementing organization
have adversely affected viability of the project. Because of this an
indepth review is being undertaken by the Bank staff and consultants.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness - April 5,
1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
This project continues to face severe operational difficulties
although progress has been made during the year in the consolidation of
scattered holdings into village block farm areas. There have been continu-
ing difficulties in effectively using technical assistance and in properly
integrating project management with the regional authorities. More important,
recent analysis of research data by RMEA and the Bank-financed project pre-
paration team in Mwanza has raised questions about the technical package
originally recommended for this project. This matter is presently under
close examination by the Government and the Bank and various options are
being considered. A Bank technical review mission is scheduled to visit
Tanzania in March.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 2e 1974; Closing Date - December 31 41981
The project has been progressing satisfactorily with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two
months. The Cashewnut Authority's take-over of the industry and consoli-
dation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its Finance and Accounting
Department needs strengthening to speed up the establishment of meaningful
financiaL and physical control over the Authority's activities. Recruit-
ment of senior staff at departmental head level needs to be intensified
in order to develop capacity for growth resulting from the project's con-
struction of five additional cashewnut processing factories.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20L 1974; Closing Date - December 31    1980
The rate of construction of most village infrastructure during
the past six months has been impressive. The vilLagers' self-help con-
tribution is extremely positive, and the organization of Government
services has considerably improved, although the supply of critical
materials still presents a bottleneck. The construction of classrooms
and godowns are going on very well but performance on health facilities
and on water supply systems is disappointing, the latter due to limited
implementation capacity of the Regional Water Engineer's Office. Agricul-
tural performance is mixed. Last year's crop seems to show sizeable in-
creases in the regional production but yield levels are low. Moreover,
farmer commitment to the present season's crop seems     mixed    with late
planting and limited interest in procuring inputs. Proposed Government
programs of vilLage-Level trials and improved agricultural extension have
not yet begun. Delivery of part of the present season's inputs has been
delayed by the unavailability of train wagons in Dar es Salaam. Marketing
of last season's crops proceeded cgenerally satisfactorily, although problems
of cash advances continue to arise and credit payment is only about 35%.
Training of village bookkeepers and extension workers is going according
to schedule. Little progress has yet been made on the minor project com-
ponents of fisheries, feeder roads and livestock. The baseline survey for
project evaluation is virtually completed and promises interesting results.



ANNEX II
Page 6 o i3
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Estate and outgrower development continues satisfactorily and
ahead of schedule. Project management is confident that all clearing
and planting could be completed one year earlier than forecast. The new
factory was opened by the President of Tanzania on August 3, 1976 and
commenced milling on September 10, 1976. Initial teething problems
have hampered output and attempts are being made to sort these out.
The housing construction program has improved and completion will only
be slightly behind target. There continues to be difficulties in the
provision of adequate project funds from the Government and the lack of
a clear policy for cane growing by estate, outgrowers, and ujamaa vilLages
is likely to affect future supplies.
Credit No. 580-TA Dairy Development Project: $10.0 million
Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - November 28,
1975; Closing Date - April 30? 1981
Progress on the development of the Large farms has been generally
satisfactory although they are facing difficulties owing to a lack of ade-
quate working capital. The Government and Project entities are currently
exploring ways to deal with this problem. Sub-projects for the ujamaa
component are presently being identified. The Dairy processing component
is in general progressing well.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit o' January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
12Z96-Closing_Date - June 30L 1980
Although the National Maize Oroject has had a satisfactory start it
is now beset by a number of problems. The deficiencies of support services,
the lack of extension field staff, shortages of transportation and the in-
stability of regional supervisory staff are limiting the effective and systematic
transmission of innovations to farmers. Contribution of farmers to the financing
of project inputs for the 1975/76 season have been disappointing but do re-
present, however, a significant improvement over the previous year's performance.
Deficiencies in coordination between the central ministry responsible for the
overall project and the regional authorities in charge of local implementation
have caused difficulties but the Government is taking specific steps to address
these issues. The recent disbandment of cooperative unions has created a
serious gap in the maize marketing system which the National Maize Corporation
(NMC) has difficulties to fill.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 13
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao HiLL Forestry Project: $8.0 million
Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress achieved during the 1975/76 planting season was satis-
factory. For the next year's planting program -- the first project year --
it is envisaged that 2,000 ha would be planted compared with 1,500 ha in
the appraisal estimate. The Project Director, the Silviculturalist/Forest
Economist and Financial Controller have been recruited. The Roads/MechanicaL
Engineer is still not recruited. The fire hazard in the area is particularly
serious this year as the dry period started two months earlier than normaL.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries DeveLopment Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12_ 1976; Closing Date - December 31_ 1981
So far, project implementation is satisfactory particularly the
components under the direct management of the Ministry of Natural Resources.
However, Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO) is experiencing difficulty
in reaching agreements with the District Development Corporations for the
establishment of the commercial fishing centers. The DDCs appear to be
reluctant to enter into joint ventures as minority shareholders with
TAFICO. As a result of the delay in project approval, there has been some
delay in project implementation. The project Coordinating Committee
therefore proposed a new implementation schedule to the November/December
1976 supervision mission which was endorsed by all parties involved.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -February 15,
1977_ CLosin. Date - December 31 1981 .
This project was declared effective on February 15, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
The Closing Date for this project has been extended 12 months
to December 31, 1977 to provide ample time for its completion. All
civil works,furniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil
works are about 80% complete and are expected to be completed before
the current Closing Date. Ineffective project unit management, currently
under-staffed because of budgetary problems and shortage of qualified
personnel, has limited follow-up activities and delayed correction of
deficiencies. A number of changes in programs and management of the
institutions involved in this project have been discussed with the
Government.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 million
Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - July 2,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Estimates of project cost overruns are now reduced to about
25% over appraisal estimates as a result of curtailments of the project
(deletion of three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated
bids on civil works. Out of 18 project institutions, construction works
have started on 10 sites. Disbursements are only 15% of appraisal
estimates. Time lost in design and tendering is being made up, but
project completion is likely to be about 12 months behind schedule. A
medical health consultant has given impetus to the lagging medical
health components of the project. The experimental self-help construction
project item (eight Community Education Centers) requires special attention
in future to help overcome problems of supply, distribution and control of
building materials and supervision of construction standards. Disbursements
are not a good criterion of the progress of implementation, which is now
satisfactory.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
A good start has been made with respect to the Village Management
Technicians (VMT) Training Program. All five Rural Training Centers have
been rehabilitated and instructional staff trained. VMT courses commenced



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13
at three of the five Centers. Budgetary constraints are likely to impose
a reduction in the level of training activity in the coming year. The
Project Executive is adequately staffed. Also, the program has been
handicapped by slow procurement of vehicles and equipment and delays in the
construction of houwing. Planning and tendering for schools in the secondary
schools component is progressing well.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:-      $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971, Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closing Date - December 31 1978
Project implementation has been slow and the Closing Date of the
project has been postponed twice. The new construction work on the Mikindani-
Mingoyo section of the Mtwara-Mingoyo road was virtually completed in
December 1976. However, apart from preliminary material investigations and
testing, no work has commenced on the repair, improvement and resealing of
the road from Mtwara to Mikindani; it is anticipated that the work will
be undertaken in the first half of 1977.    The progress of the Geita and
Mara Betterment and Maintenance Units is still below expectations as both
Units continue to be hampered by breakdowns of equipment, delays in getting
spare parts and shortages of cement. We have received one of the two ore-
investment studies financed under the project. Project completion is now
estimated by the end of 1978.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Project components are behind schedule but progress is now picking
up. A contract has been signed with ORT of Geneva for 21 technical experts
but this was far Later than originaLLy pLanned. Progress on the construction
of workshops, offices and road camps has been slow. The first lot of equip-
ment procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures has
1/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. When the project was completed, surplus funds of US$1.9
million were allocated to the Third Highway Project in 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
begun arriving in Tanzania. The problem of ensuring adequate local resources
for project implementation has been focused on and discussed with the Govern-
ment by the recent supervision mission. The consultant's report on the road
transport industry was taken into consideration in the recent appraisal of a
proposed project to assist the trucking industry in Tanzania.
URMB_S_CIQB
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 31 19742 Closing Date - December 314 1978
The project is proceeding well. The construction work on all seven
sites are expected to be completed on schedule. Other components of the
project is progressing satisfactorily. Because of the inconsistency of the
Credit documents with the subsequently passed Land Rent and Services Act,
some modification of the documents is necessary. Proposed changes have been
forwarded by the Government to the Association for review.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
loan of January 29, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
gtQsig__X__r_Qh_31.._125_ ----------------------------------
This Loan was declared effective on March 2, 1977.
INDUSTRIAL_SECIOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this Loan are proceeding quickly. Sub-projects
totalLing $9.5 million have been approved for disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13
Loan 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - JuLy 1, 1979
The project is progressing extremely well and project execution
is on schedule. Tenders for the bulk of the plant and machinery have
been evaluated and contracts placed with suppliers. Contracts for civil
works have been concluded. The cost of the project is currently well within
appraisal estimates. A study by consultants to examine the feasibility
of establishing a textile plant to produce cotton-polyester blend material
is underway.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0 million
Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - September 14,
1976i Closing Date - June 30, 1980
After some delays, the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) selected
TATA Consultino Engineers to provide personnel to implement the project.
The contract was signed in the middle of October and the personnel arrived
in late 1976. TIB has taken preliminary steps to market the facilities
under the project to parastatals and Government agencies. Considering
the limited publicity given, the response is encouragino. However, many
potential users have not responded yet and a more intensive and extensive
effort is necessary. The studies for improving efficiency or existing
investments and the implementation of the training program had not
commenced at the time of the last supervision mission.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 milLion Loan of August 12, 1976; bate of Effectiveness -
March 1L 1977; Closing Date - December 31 1981
This loan was declared effective on March 1. 1977. Contractor's
offers for all major works have been received and the main civil engineering
bids indicate there may be significant cost overruns.



ANNEX II
Page12 of 13
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently 5 projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of
consultants to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial
issues. Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed
their asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have
submitted a report on decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
l973- Closing Date - June 30_ 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976
to December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All Loan
funds are committed under contract, which have been awarded. Some
smaller project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA will
have to be deleted. Cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and the credit has been
increased accordingly from Can. $26.0 million to Can. $33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo through-
put has declined considerably. General cargo through-put has increased
above appraisaL forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA have been completed and are being used. Cargo
handling productivity here has improved with increasing through-put.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
Ju_e-Zz-12Z62iialosinq_Date - March 31, 1980         -------
This Loan was declared effective on June 7, 1976. Six sub-
projects have so far been received from the EADB of which three have
already been approved for a commitment of $2.2 million against this
Loan; the remaining projects are under review.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of effectiveness -
-Se2tember-129 1973   Cl2sin.g_Date_- December 314 1979
All major works other than microwave of UHF/VHF system cons-
truction have now been completed despite initial delzys caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of the
headquarters. Because of the long time lead required for the microwave
equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-1979.
The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed to December 31, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:           United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:             (a)  IDA Credit of US$7.2 million
(b) IDA Administered Credit of Can$5.0 million
(US$4.8 million equivalent)
TERMS:              (a)  Standard IDA terms
(b) Standard IDA terms
PROJECT             The Project would be implemented over a 5-year period
DESCRIPTION:        and consists of (1) inputs and improved extension
services for crops and livestock in approximately 42
villages; (2) low-cost water supply program and
funding for Water Master Plan; (3) improvement of
access and network roads and strengthening of mainte-
nance capacity; (4) reafforestation programs for 15
selected villages; (5) production of land use and land
capability plan; and (6) technical assistance.
COST ESTIMATES:     The estimated total cost of the Project is about
TSh 195.0 million (US$23.5 million). Foreign
exchange costs would be equivalent to about US$15.9
million (68 percent). The cost estimates are
detailed below:
US$ Million (Equivalent)
Local      Foreign      Total
Crop Development                     0.7         2.0         2.7
Livestock Development                1.0         0.8         1.'8
Water Master Plan                    0.3         1.0         1.3
Water Supply Design & Construction   1.4         2.8         4.2
Road Maintenance & Improvement       1.1         2.4         3.5
Forestry                             0.1         0.1         0.2
Land Use Planning                    0.4         1.4         1.8
Project Implementation &
Evaluation                       0.8          1.1         1.9
Base Cost Estimates                  5.8        11.6        17.4
Contingencies - Physical             0.4         1.2         1.6
Price               1.4          3.1         4.5
Total Cost of Project                7.6        15.9        23.5



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
FINANCING PLAN:    The project would be financed as follows:
US$ Million          %
IDA Credit                   7.20              31
IDA Administered Credit      4.80              20
ODM (U.K.)                    5.60             24
Government                    5.26             22
Villagers                     0.64              3
23.50            100
ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:
(US$ million)
Fiscal             Annual                      Cumulative
Year        IDA IDA Admin-    Total      IDA IDA Admin-   Total
istered                     istered
1978       0.1      0.1      0.2        0.1      0.1      0.2
1979       1.2      0.9       2.1       1.3      1.0      2.3
1980       2.0      1.3       3.3       3.3      2.3      5.6
1981       1.2      0.7      1.9        4.4      3.0      7.5
1982       1.5      0.9       2.4       5.9      4.Q      9.9
1983       1.2      0.9       2.1       7.2      4.8     12.0
PROCUREMENT        For the components financed from the procceds of the
ARRANGEMENTS:       IDA and IDA administered credit, procurement for
vehicles and spare parts (US$1.0 million); tools, laboratory,
office and radio equipment (US$0.5 million); materials for
water supplies (US$2.5 million); and production inputs
(US$1.9 million) would be bulked as far as possible and
orders of US$100,000 or more would be procured through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. In the evaluation of bids, local manu-
facturers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent or the
existing rate of duty, whichever is lower. Housing, workshop
and stores construction and some civil works (US$1.2 million)
would be done by contractors selected following international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
In the evaluation of bids for civil works, local contractors
would have 7-1/2 percent preference margin. The design and
construction of water supplies (US$2.5 million) is expected
to be carried out by force account. For the U.K. financed
components, procurement would be in accordance with the U.K.'s
guidelines.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
CONSULTANTS AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:     The Water Master Plan (US$1.4 million) is expected
to be carried out by consultants under the IDA
and IDA administered credit. No consul-
tants have yet been engaged. In addition 58 man-
years of senior technical assistance at an average
cost of $38,000 per man-year are included in the
Project. Furthermore, the roads and Land-Use/
Capability components would be carried out under
U.K. technical assistance.
RATE OF RETURN:          The overall rate of return is 17 percent.
APPRAISAL REPORT:        Report No. 1360-TA, dated April 8, 1977, entitled
"Appraisal of Tabora Rural Development Project."
MAP:                      IDA Map No. 12307



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
TABORA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          18 months
(b)  Preparation by:                         Government with assistance of
Resident Mission, East Africa
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:           June 1973
(d)  First Bank mission:                     Junie 1973
(e)  Appraisal mission departure:            November 3, 1975
(f)  Follow-up mission:                      February 27, 1976
(g)  Negotiations:                           March 1977
(h)  Planned date of Effectiveness:          September 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
The project will require close supervision, especially in the start up
period in view of the multisectoral nature of the project and the flexi-
ble nature of several components.
III- (a) Special conditions of the IDA credit
(1) A special condition of credit effectiveness is the fulfillment of all
conditions for initial disbursement of the U.K. grant and the effective-
ness of the IDA administered credit.(Paragraph 45)
(2) It is a special condition of credit effectiveness that the Project
Coordinator, Financial Controller, Evaluation Officer and Project
Expeditor would have been appointed. (Paragraph 42)
(3) The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
of successful candidates for Project Coordinator, Financial Controller
and Evaluation Officer shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(Paragraph 42 )
(4) The Project Expeditor would be appointed in consultation with the
Association.   (Paragraph  42)
(5) The Government shall recruit nine other technical personnel on or
before March 1, 1978.   (Paragraph 42)



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(6) The Association would be consulted before commitment on construction
of any major water scheme estimated to cost in excess of $125,000
equivalent. (Paragraph 37)
(7) Selection of villages for the water supply program would be on the basis
of least cost, production impact, need, and the willingness of the villages
to contribute in cash or kind to the construction and maintenance of the
water supply facilities. From time to time the Government would consult
and review with the Association on the selection process and selection
criteria being used. (Paragraph 37)
(8) In order to ensure that project-financed goods and works are kept in good
order, the Government has agreed to make available adequate funds for
the upkeep of roads and water supply facilities and the repair and
running of project-provided equipment after the project period.
(Paragraph 45)
(9) In the event more suitably qualified Tanzanians than expected are
available to fill some of the positions in the IDA and the Canadian
Government financed technical assistance portion, and/or the Government
is able to secure bilateral technical assistance for some of these
positions, any resulting savings from IDA's and the Canadian Government's
allocation for technical assistance would, except the Association would
otherwise agree, be cancelled. (Paragraph 42)
(10) In order to end the present incentive for exploiting the natural
forests, the Government has agreed to eliminate the transport subsidies
on fuelwood for tobacco curing on or before June 30, 1982. (Paragraph 38)
(11) The Government would audit the accounts of villages participating in
the Project each year and these audits would be available to the Asso-
ciation on request. (Paragraph 42)
III. (b)   Special Conditions of the IDA Administered Credit
(1)   A special condition of effectiveness of the IDA administered credit would
be the effectiveness of the IDA credit.



IBRD 12307
20         T, 3         -2  40   ho-o ,n 5h.p d'                                               OCTOBER 1976
A 4zC,lY end K E N Y A          ndreme ,  sr Icep,aoCe
C _KENYAt :,AM*,n/  o.  r   pp  X J          <   ,,b,, To Sninyon.5,-
i~ ~~~h                                                 T.8k.b
TAonu N AN 
Trn or  I / 
Region gn                       |3                                  /
M...~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~. SALAAM  kLflU
Access roazds                          |/ , 
-.-s---Railways                                 w__        \/
-.------Rivers                                      \N          
PopuiaJted areas                                      1   1/
ri i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.4ltrc                                                                              Doudoy  II  
Regional boundary     0   20  40  60  80  100             \  
K,Ion,eters          |       L)^6sC  _ I
0     20    40    60                        1 TRnw
MMtos
IaLA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>.T~nw
Mp..d.                        ono~~~~~~~~~~~~~I..- 



