CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 703 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Tabora Rural Development Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 11, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1977, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has requested the Government of the United
Kingdom and Northern Ireland to assist in financing Parts C and
E of the Project by providing funds from the United Kingdom-
Tanzania Grant No. 1, 1975, and from technical cooperation funds
(hereinafter collectively referred to as the UK grant); and
(C) by agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower
and the Association as Administrator on behalf of the Government
of Canada (hereinafter called the Canadian Credit Agreement), the
Government of Canada has agreed to make available a credit
(hereinafter called the Canadian Credit) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount of five million Canadian dollars
(Canadian $5,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions therein set forth;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million two hundred thousand dollars
($7,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1987, and ending March
15, 2027, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount,
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, engineering, financial and technical
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ (a) in Tabora Region
the tollowing experts, each of whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall have been discussed
and agreed with the Association prior to appointment of said
experts: (i) a Project Coordinator to coordinate the activities of
functional managers and prepare in cooperation with the Regional
authorities annual budgets for the Project; (ii) a Financial
Controller to manage and control in cooperation with the Regional
authorities Project funds and to be responsible for procurement
activities; and (iii) an Evaluation Officer to be responsible in
cooperation with the Regional authorities for coordinating,
collecting and analyzing relevant data and for monitoring progress
of the Project; (b) in Dar es Salaam in consultation with the
Association, a Project Expeditor to provide, with respect to this
Project and the Kigoma Rural Development Project (Development


﻿- 7 -
Credit Agreement No. 508-TA (Kigoma Rural Development Project)
between the Borrower and the Association dated August 21, 1974),
liaison between Project staff and Ministries and parastatals in
Dar es Salaam and to assist in procurement and dispatch of Project
equipment and materials; and (c) a team of consultants, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
are acceptable to the Association, to prepare, in cooperation with
the Regional authorities, a Water Master Plan for Tabora Region.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall have recruited, on or before
March 1, 1978 or such later date as the Association may agree, the
following experts, a planner/agronomist, an extension training
officer, a livestock development specialist, a tsetse ecologist,
two drilling foremen, two sanicary engineers and a construction
engineer.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 8 -
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall (a) select the villages to
be included -;n Part B of the Project on the basis, inter alia,
of least cost, production impact, need and the villages willingness
to contribute, in cash or kind, to the construction and maintenance
of the water supply facilities included in Part B of the Project,
(b) consult with the Association before commitment or construction
of any major water supply scheme estimated to cost in excess of
$125,000 equivalent, and (c) from time to time, review and consult
with the Association on the selection process and the selection
criteria being used.
Section 3107. The Borrower (i) shall cause to be audited,
by auditors acceptable to the Association, for each fiscal year
the accounts of each village receiving assistance under, or
participating in, the Project, and (ii) shall furnish to the
Association, upon its request, the reports of such audits by said
auditors as well as such other information relating thereto as the
Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.08. With respect to Part D of the Project, the
Borrower shall ensure that no transport subsidies on fuelwood
for tobacco curing shall be given effect after June 30, 1982.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Tabora Region administration
to keep separate accounts relating to the Project, and with respect
to each fiscal year ending with the fiscal year in which the
Closing Date shall occur, the Borrower shall cause the Tabora
Region administration to: (i) have said Project accounts for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its accounts for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the Project accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿-11 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause all plant, equipment,
vehicles, properties and facilities included in the Project to
be operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate financial,
engineering and agricultural practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall provide promptly as needed
the funds required to ensure the continued and efficient operation
and maintenance of the goods and works supplied or constructed
under the Project.
Section 4.04. Within six months of the Closing Date, the
Borrower shall prepare, in consultation with the Association,
and submit to the Association, a report evaluating the Project.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Villages and Ujamaa Villages (Registration,
Designation and Administration) Act, 1975, No. 21 of 1975 shall
have been amended, suspended, waived or repealed so as materially
and adversely to affect the carrying out of the Project; and
(b) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the UK grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, provided that the provisions of this
subsection shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such agreement;
and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has obtained the UK grant, and all
conditions for the initial disbursement thereof, if any, (except
for the effectiveness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) all conditions to the effectiveness of the Canadian
Credit Agreement (except for the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been fulfilled; and
(c) the Project Coordinator, Financial Controller,
Evaluation Officer and Project Expeditor referred to in Section
3.02 shall each have been appointed.
Section 6.02. The date September 8, 1977 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agrec-ment,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                    440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signel in their respective names in the
city of Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day
and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ E. Mtei
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
and the Canadian Credit
1.   The table below sets forth with respect to Parts A, B, D and
F only of the Project the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and the Canadian Credit, the
allocation of the amount of the Credit and the Canadian Credit, to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to
be financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount  of    the Canadian
the Credit       Credit
Allocated       Allocated
(Expressed     (Expressed         % of
in  Dollar    in  Canadian    Expenditures
Category        Equivalent)     Dollars)      to be Financed
(1) Civil Works         400,000          200,000   50%
(2) Vehicles,         2,600,000       1,900,000    100% of foreign
equipment,                                    expenditures and
materials                                     85% of local ex-
and spare                                     penditures
parts
(3) Incremental         800,000          600,000   100% of foreign
cost of sea-                                  expenditures and
sonal inputs                                  85% of local ex-
including                                     penditures
fertilizers,
insecticides
and sprayers
(4) Technical         2,000,000       1,500,000    100% of foreign
assistance                                    expenditures and
and consul-                                   75% of local ex-
ting ser-                                    expenditures
vices


﻿- 17 -
Amount of
Amount of     the Canadian
the Credit       Credit
Allocated       Allocated
(Expressed     (Expressed         % of
in Dollar     in  Canadian    Expenditures
Category        Equivalent)     Dollars)     to be Financed
(5) Unallocated       1,400,000         800,000
TOTAL     7,200,000       5,000,000


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means .xpenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) "incremental cost of seasonal inputs" means the cost of
purchasing and delivering, to the villages included in Part A of
the Project, in any of the crop production years beginning in
1977/8, such additional quantities and types of seasonal
agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers, insecticides and
sprayers, as shall exceed the quantities of such inputs purchased
and delivered to such villages in the previous year, such additional
quantities to be determined in consultation with the Tabora
Regional Development Director and with the Project Coordinator
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement


﻿- 19 -
or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals with respect to Categories (1), (2) and (4), in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000, may be
made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that
date but after January 1, 1977.
5.   Each request for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall
be accompanied by a certificate issued by the Borrower, in such
form as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
by which the Borrower certifies that the withdrawal is requested
on account of an expenditure required for Part A, B, D or F of the
Project, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of said request as the
Association shall reasonably request, whether before or after the
Association shall have permitted any withdrawal so requested.


﻿- 20 -
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category except, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, proceeds which are allocated
to Category (4) and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the


﻿- 21 -
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to support
development in its Tabora Region by encouraging agricultural
production, by improving infrastructure, by establishing farm
support services and by strengthening the implementing and
planning capacity of the Region. The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Crop and Livestock Development
1.   A program in approximately 30 villages in Nzega and
Igunga Districts for developing and applying
techniques designed to increase production of
crops, including principally, cotton, paddy,
sorghum and groundnuts, by using inputs, improving
agricultural extension and related services and
conducting crop demonstrations and trials.
2.   Provision of equipment for the tobacco research
station at Tumbi.
3.   A program in approximately 12 villages, for
developing and applying techniques designed to
improve livestock production. This program would
finance (a) the introduction of controlled grazing
management in some of these villages, and (b) the


﻿- 23 -
production of livestock in the other villages which
face light tsetse challenge. It would include
provision of necessary transport, some veterinary
centers, dips and other capital expenditures,
a limited tsetse survey and establishment of a
tsetse control program. In addition, stall
fattening would be introduced, as appropriate, in
about 6 villages included in either this component
or in the crop component, described in Part A.1
hereof.
Part B:   Water Supply
1.   Construction for approximately 75-100 villages of
low-cost water supply systems and simple water
supply installations.
2.   Preparation of a Regional Water Master Plan for
Tabora Region.
Part C:   Road Maintenance and Reconstruction
Maintain and reconstruct as appropriate access and
network roads in Tabora Region including the provision
of technical assistance, equipment and workshops. This
would provide, inter alia, support for the directly
productive parts of the Project and strengthen the
planning and implementation capacity of the Region.


﻿- 24 -
Part D:   Forestry
Establishment and management of plantations in selected
villages to supply fuelwood for tobacco processing
and domestic use, including establishment and expansion
of nurseries and nursery staff; and establishment of a
village training program.
Part E:   Land-Use Planning
Preparation of a land-use and land-capability master
plan for Tabora Region, and enlarging and strengthening
the Regional Village Planning Unit.
Part F:   Project Implementation and Evaluation
Provision of specialist personnel, housing, equipment
and supplies 'o strengthen the Region's capacity to
implement the Project, monitor and evaluate its effect,
and assist in the formulation of further developments in
the Region.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1982.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000 may be awarded in accordance with the Borrower's
applicable procurement procedures.
2.   Design and construction of water supply systems may be
carried out by force account.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods pursuant to paragraph A hereof: (i) bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for
domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other


﻿- 26 -
import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on
domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost
to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Tanzania may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a
bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Tanzania equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.


﻿- 27 -
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Tanzania.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bids
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount
of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods
offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price
of such goods if such customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such
price. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from


﻿- 28 -
group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2%
to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide,
as part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group
of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:


﻿- 29 -
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such
modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together
with a statement of their qualifications and, where applicable,
of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part D
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant
for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be furnished
by the Borrower to the Association for its comments before the
applicants Pre notified of the Borrower's'decision, and the
Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 30 -
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:,
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to
the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 31 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the praceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


