Report No. 827a-GH                                                           FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Ashanti Region Cocoa Project
Ghana
November 18, 1975
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1     ^     .1538
ei.       US$0.8667
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ton     =    2,240 lb  - 1,016 metric ton
1 acre         0.405 hectares
1 mile    =    1.609 kilometers
ABBREVIATIONS
AIB     S   Agricultural Development Bank
CMB          Cocoa Marketing Board
C14C         Cocoa Marketing Company
CRI          Cocoa Research Institute
ERCP         Eastern Region Cocoa Project
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
GCMA         Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association
GHA          Ghana Highways Authority
ISSER   =    Institute of Statistical, Social and Economic Research
LBA          Licensed Buying Agent
MCA          Ministry of Cocoa Affairs
NRC          National Redemption Committee
PBA          Produce Buying Agency
PU           Project Unit
SRI     a    Soil Research Institute
SSVD    =   Swollen Shoot Virus Disease
FISCAL EAR
July 1 - June 30



GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........................                           i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........ ............                .................
II.  BACKGROUND    ................................                                       2
A.    General  .....................................                             2
B.    Agricultural  Sector  .........................                            3
C.    Cocoa  .......................................                             3
D.    Eastern Region Cocoa Project  ....                   ............           9
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  .................................                               11
A.    Institutions  ................................                            11
Ministry of  Cocoa Affairs  (MCA)  ....               .......         12
Cocoa  Buying and Marketing  ....                ............         12
Cocoa Cooperatives  ........................                          12
Agricultural Development  Bank  (ADB)                 .......         12
B.    Physical  and  Soil Characteristics  ....                 .......         13
Soils,  Climate and Relief  ....                .............         14
Population  ................................                          14
Farming Activities  ........................                          14
Farm  Size  .................................                         15
Labor  .....................................                          15
Land  Tenure  ...............................                         16
iarketing  .................................                          16
Cooperatives ................                                         16
Seed Gardens  ..............................                          16
Services  ..................................                          16
IV.    THE PROJECT            ....................       ..................             17
A.    General Description .......................                               17
B.    Detailed  Features  ...........................                           17
This report is based on a preappraisal report made by Government; by a mission
to Ghana in October and November 1974 comprising Mr. A.R. lhyte (RMWA) and
Mr.  J.  Braudeau  (Consultant);  and a mission  in May  1975 by M'r. P.S. Zuckcerman,
who was responsible for the preparation of this report.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Project Area ..............................                   17
Replanting Schedule .......................                   18
Participating Farmers  .....................                  18
Planting Material             ..........................      19
Buildings           ..................................        19
Training ..................................                   19
Cooperatives  ..............................                  19
Feeder Roads ..............................                   20
Project Monitoring and Evaluation .........                   20
Project Administration  .....           ...............       20
V.    COST ESTIMATES AND PROPOSED FINANCING ....              ........       21
A.    Project Costs .......           ........................         21
B.   Proposed Financing ..........................21
C.    Credit Terms ................................                   24
D.    Procurement .................................                   24
E.    Disbursement .................................                  25
F.    Accounts and Audits .........................                   26
G.    Proposed Project Expansion .....             .............       26
VI.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......................                     27
Project Management  ........................                  27
Cooperatives and Marketing  ....           ............       27
Credit Procedures  .........................                  28
VII.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND
GOVERNMENT REVENUES ..............................                    28
A.    Yields and Production .......................                   28
B.    Markets and Prices ...........................                  29
C.    Farmers Benefits ............................                   30
D.    Government Revenues .........................                   30
VIII.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ........................                   31
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER ....               .........       33
ANNEXES
1.   Regional Production of Cocoa
2.   Prices
Table I   -       Projected Selling Price for Cocoa and
Distribution of Proceeds
Table 2   -       Estimated Economic Tree Producer Price of Cocoa
3.    Project Area Cooperatives



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
4.   Cost Estimates
Table 1   -    Project Costs
Table 2   -    Per Acre Annual Costs
Table 3   -    On-Farm Costs
Table 4   -    Project Administration Staff
Table 5   -    Vehicle Costs
Table 6   -    Equipment Cost
Table 7   -    Recurrent Costs
5.   The World Cocoa Market
6.   Farm Budget
7.   Disbursement Schedule
8.   Financial Implications to Government
Table 1   -    Project Costs to Year 7
Table 2   -    Illustrative Government Cash Flow
Table 3   -    Estimated Government Cash Flow for a 16,000
Acre Planting
Table 4   -    Estimated Government Cash Flow for Proposed
Project and 16,000 Acre Annual Planting Program
9.   Economic Analysis
Table 1   -    Economic Costs and Returns
10.   Terms of Reference - Study on Farm Inputs.
11.   Draft Agreement between Project Unit and Participating Farmer.
12.   Implementation Schedule.
MAP - IBRD 11531R (November 1975)






GHIANA
ASHIANTI REGION COCOA PROiJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        The Government of Ghana has requested Bank assistance to finance
the rehabilitation of the cocoa sector in the Ashanti Region, a follow-on
to the Bank's first involvement in the cocoa sector - the Eastern Region
Cocoa Project (Credit 205-GH). This report is based on data collected by
Government in 1974, and on two bank missions to Ghana in October/November
1974, and MIay 1975.
ii.       Cocoa covers some 3.0-4.5 million acres and accounts tor one-third
of total cultivated land area in Ghana. About one quarter of the total popu-
lation or 2.5 million people are directly involved in cocoa farming. Cocoa
accounted for 62% of foreign exchange earnings on average between 1971-73
and provided about one-third of Government current revenues. This reliance
on cocoa appears to be increasing for in 1966/67 cocoa accounted for only 16%
of Government revenues. Despite its importance, the cocoa sector is presently
in a decline.
iii.      The five primary reasons for the decline and farmers unwillingness
to invest in new cocoa plantings are: (1) Government's policy of low producer
prices that inhibits maximization of production from existing trees, militates
against new investments in cocoa, in particular replanting low yielding over-
aged trees, and encourages smuggling; (2) lack of effective technical assist-
ance to farmers; (3) inadequacy of the farm input delivery system coupled
with an import licensing system that gives no apparent priority to inputs for
the cocoa sector; (4) unfavorable age profile of Ghanaian cocoa trees due
to its excessive component of over-aged trees; and (5) lack of a coherent
overall development plan for the cocoa sector.
iv.       The proposed project would help finance the replanting of 30,000
acres with high yielding hybrid cocoa in the Ashanti Region which was once the
center of Ghana's cocoa sector, but where economic activity is now declining.
Planting of the cocoa would be spread over three years and the proposed Bank
loan would be disbursed in the same period. As cocoa takes about four years
to come into production, an additional four years would be needed to maintain
all 30,000 acres of plantings until they come into bearing, a total of seven
years.
v.        A project to replant 30,000 acres out of three to four and a half
million acres of cocoa is meaningless unless it becomes the initial phase of
a major replanting program extending over many years, and there would be
little justification for the Bank financing it unless it was ready in princi-
ple to lend its support to the later stages of the program. The proposed
three year 'time-slice" operation is thus seen essentially as a part of a
long-term cocoa development program with repeat operations following in
later years, rather than as the financing of a single discrete project.



- ii -
Conditions of making the loan include a number of macro level changes and
studies to help reverse the cocoa sector's decline. The changes include
establishment of an overall development plan for the cocoa sector, and of a
rational and informed pricing policy; improvement in the farm input's distri-
bution system and placing cocoa seed gardens under sound management.
vi.       The proposed project would involve some 10,000 cocoa farm families.
Credit in kind for farm inputs, and in cash for 80% of labor requirements,
would be provided in the first three years of planting. Other elements of
the project involve planning for feeder roads; training of farmers and project
staff; and funding of an independent evaluation of project progress.
vii.      The project would be carried out by a Project Unit (PU) established
in the newly formed Ministry of Cocoa Affairs (MCA). PU would be semi-
autonomous. The Project Manager and Financial Controller, both Ghanaians,
have been appointed.
viii.     Project costs are estimated at US$21.9 million for the 1975/76-
1977/78 three-year planting period made up as follows! US$8.1 million for
farm development; US$2,1 million for vehicles and equipment and operating
costs; US$4.2 million for staff salaries; US$0.5 million for project evalua-
tion and technical assistance; US$0.7 million for general project administra-
tion recurrent costs; and US$6.4 million for physical and price contin-
gencies. The foreign exchange costs would amount to US$5.3 million, about
24% of total expected project cost. The proposed loan of US$14.0 million
would finance 64% of total expected project costs net of taxes and duties
and would cover 100% of the foreign exchange costs and 53% of local costs.
The Bank loan would be made to Government repayable at 8-1/2% interest over
30 years including an eight year grace period for principal. The remainder
of local costs would be financed by Government (36%).
ix.       In the past Bank financing of cocoa projects has often included the
cost of maintaining all plantings up to and including the fifth year of
growth. The proposed US$14.0 million loan represents about 28% of the esti-
mated cost of the traditional full 7-year project or 100% of foreign exchange
costs and 9% of local costs. The additional cost required to maintain all
project plantings till the fifth year of growth would be approximately US$27.7
million of which farmers would contribute US$6.0 million. It is estimated
that of the US$21.7 million required from Government only US$15.0 million would
be additional funds since about 75% of PU staff wo'ald come from MCA where
they would not need to be replaced and would not therefore constitute an
additional expenditure for Government.
x.        International competitive bidding in accordance with IBRD guidelines
would be used for vehicles, and equipment for the feeder road component (US$1.3
million) and spraying machines (US$1.1 million). Insecticides (US$0.9 million)
would be procured by negotiated contract with suppliers. Contracts costing less
than US$5,000 equivalent would be let pursuant to such competitive practices as



- iii -
are appropriate. Goods manufactured in Ghana would enjoy a 15% preference
margin or the applicable level of tariff protection, whichever is lower, for
bid evaluation purposes. Contracts for procurement of goods and services
costing less than US$20,000 equivalent and which cannot be bulked for ICB,
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IBRD. Technical assistance and technical evaluation
services would be provided by consultants selected in accordance with normal
IBRD procedures.
xi.       Proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed over three years
(1975/76-1977/78) and would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs of sprayers,
vehicles and equipment; 100% of foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
or 90% of local costs; 100% of foreign exchange costs of insecticides or 80%
of local costs; 90% of total costs of seedlings, subloans to farmers, and
evaluation studies; and 40% of staff salaries disbursed by PU.
xii.      At maturity, in 1983/84, production from project plantings would
be about 10,000 long tons of dry cocoa, which represents about 2% of Ghana's
present total production or about US$10.8 million in foreign exchange earn-
ings in 1974 prices. Farmers' net incomes per acre would increase by 0 57.9
(US$50.2) during debt repayment and ¢ 127.9 (US$110.9) after debt servicing.
Average return per manday over the 40-year life of the cocoa plantings, taking
into account the benefits from plantain planted as a shade for the young cocoa,
would be ¢ 3.9 (US$3.4) and during debt repayment 0 2.7 (US$2.3). This compares
favorably with an official labor wage rate of 0 2.0 (US$1.7) per manday.
xiii.     The project would provide direct employment for about 800 staff and
10,000 farm families. It would help stem the net out-migration from the area
and reactivate an old cocoa region. Achievement of the sector objectives
would make a start in putting the Ghanaian cocoa industry on the sound footing
that it has lacked in the more recent past, and improve long term prospects
for the Ghanaian economy.
xiv.      On the basis of cost estimates, yields and prices developed in
appraisal, adjusting the value of foreign exchange in terms of cedis upwards
by 30% to take account of the severe quantitative import restrictions needed
to keep Ghana's external receipts and payments in balance at the prevailing
exchange rate, and assuming a project life of 40 years, the economic rate
of return would be 21%.
xv.       The project is suitable for a US$14.0 million Bank loan on the
basis of the assurances and understandings obtained during negotiations.






GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ghana has requested Bank Group assistance to
finance the Ashanti Region Cocoa Project - the first phase of a program to
rehabilitate the cocoa industry of the Ashanti Region. The Ashanti Region
project would be the second Bank Group operation involving cocoa in Ghana,
the first was the Eastern Region Cocoa Project (ERCP) for which an IDA credit
205-GH of US$8.5 million was signed in June 1970. The project would be the
fifth Bank Group operation for agriculture in Ghana. The others are Credit
354-GH for a Sugar Rehabilitation Project signed in January 1973, Credit
500-GH for a Livestock Project signed in July 1974, and Credit 531-GH for
an Oil Palm Project signed in March 1975. The Sugar Project is proceeding
satisfactorily, and the Livestock and Oil Palm Projects are only just begin-
ning. Progress of ERCP is detailed in paras 2.20 through 2.22.
1.02      The proposed project would help finance the replanting 1/ of 30,000
acres of high yielding hybrid varieties of cocoa in the Ashanti Region which
was once the thriving center of Ghana's cocoa growing industry but where
economic activity is now falling in the face of declining cocoa production
and low producer prices for cocoa. Project replanting would be spread over
three years and the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed during this period.
As cocoa takes about four years to come into bearing, an additional four years
would be needed to maintain all 30,000 acres to maturity, a total of seven
years, as the following schedule illustrates:
Additional time required
Bank Loan             to bring all plantings
disbursement period              to maturity
Project Year (PY)           1       2        3        4       5       6      7
Replanting (acres)    4,000   10,000  16,000          -       -      -
Maintenance (acres)              4,000  14,000  30,000 30,000 26,000  16,000
1.03      The rationale for this approach is twofold.  First, inflation in
Ghana currently is running close to 20% per annum; this makes estimating costs
over a seven year period subject to much error, would require the inclusion
in project costs of an inordinately high provision for price contingencies,
and would result, in the case of a seven year disbursement period, in the
tiying up of a very large proportion of the Bank loan for a long period of
1/   Most, but not all of proposed project cocoa plantings would be made on
land on which cocoa had once been grown. To avoid confusion, the term
'replanting' above is used throughout the report.



-2-
time (and the commitment charges paid by Ghana would be correspondingly
heavy). Second, the proposed project is seen as the initial phase of a major
program of replanting extending over many years, rather than as the financing
of a single discrete project and there would be little justification for the
Bank to finance it unless it was ready in principle to lend its support to
the later stages of the program.
1.04      In view of its sector characteristics, some of the loan conditions
would be the study and/or implementation by Government of macro level policy
changes. This should have a widespread impact on the cocoa sector.
1.05      This report is based on a preparation report produced by Government;
by a mission to Ghana in October and November 1974 comprising Mr. A.R. Whyte
(RMWA) and Mr. J. Braudeau (Consultant); and a mission in May 1975 by
Mr. P.S. Zuckerman, who was responsible for the preparation of this report.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ghana has an area of 92,000 sq. miles and a population of about
9.5 million (in 1974) increasing at between 2.6% and 3% per year. Two-thirds
of the population live in the humid southern half of the country, and about
one-third are urban dwellers in centers of more than 5,000 people. GDP was
an average of US$2.28 billion in 1971-72, and increased at the annual rate
of about 2.7% between 1966 and 1972. Per capita GNP, which was about US$300
in 1972, is stagnating.
2.02      The economy is based on the production and export of a limited
number of agricultural and mineral products. Cocoa is the main export com-
modity, generating about 62% of export earnings in 1971-73, and providing
about one-third of Government current revenues. Agriculture, forestry and
fisheries employ about 60% of the population and contribute about 40% of GDP.
Nearly half of the balance is provided by transport and services.
2.03      Ghana's current economic problems are dominated by the need to
reduce the balance of payments deficit and correct the budgetary imbalance.
General neglect of agriculture during most of the 1960s resulted in rapidly
growing imports of food and raw materials for industry. Although the indus-
trial development strategy of the early 1960s broadened the industrial base,
it generally had low domestic value added content and limited employment
potential. It also depended heavily on imported inputs. The imbalance in
external payments resulted in a heavy accumulation of debt (both short and
medium term) and in recurring balance of payments crises. The economic
and social policy of the early 1960s rested on extensive involvement by the
Government in the provision of a wide range of social services, in the setting
up of a large number of state enterprises and in allocating resources through



- 3 -
an extensive system of physical and financial controls. Since the mid 1960s,
there has been a growing imbalance in public finances due to rapid growth of
budget current expenditures, slow growth in budget revenues and also due to
the uneconomic operations of a large number of the Government enterprises.
This imbalance depressed Government development expenditures to an inadequate
level and was also a persistent source of inflationary pressures.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.04      Performance in the agricultural sector since 1960 has been unsatis-
factory.  In the early 1960s, Government intervened in production activities
by investing heavily in large capital intensive state farms, but gave little
help to the private sector, mostly smallholders, who produce more than 90%
of agricultural production. The state farms strategy was almost completely
aband-ied in 1966, but was not replaced by an effective program to help
smallholders increase production and productivity. Consequently, agricul-
tural production generally failed to keep pace with food demand, and Ghana
imports many food and agricultural commodities that it could produce.
2.05      Recently, Government has given the highest priority to increasing
food output, with the objectives of reducing dependence on agricultural im-
ports, raising farm incomes, and slowing the drift of people to the towns.
In pursuit of these objectives Government is allocating a higher proportion
of the national budget to agriculture than in the past; has granted a five-
year tax holiday to farmers and agricultural enterprises; is subsidizing
agricultural credit, insecticides and fertilizers; and is guaranteeing minimum
producer prices and protection from imports for some food crops. There is
some evidence that these measures are having effect, since production, parti-
cularly of maize and rice, has increased significantly, and some food prices
have begun to fall.
C. Cocoa
2.06      Cocoa covers some 3.0-4.5 million acres and accounts for one-
third of total cultivated land area in Ghana. About one quarter of the total
population or 2.5 million people are directly involved in cocoa farming.
Cocoa accounted for 62% of foreign exchange earnings on average between
1971-73 and provided about 33% of Government current revenues. This reliance
on cocoa to fund such a high proportion of the Government's budget appears
to be increasing since in 1966/67 cocoa accounted only for 16% of Government
revenues. However, as described below, the cocoa sector is presently in a
decline. This situation will seriously restrict economic development through
stagnant or falling foreign exchange earnings and fiscal revenues. Such a
prospect is bleak since GDP has already failed to keep pace with population
growth in the last decade. While there is an evident need to diversify the
economy, and Government is pursuing this course, Government experience and



- 4 -
farmer expertise in cocoa production is not being fully exploited and the
cocoa sector is unable to make the much larger contribution to the economy
that its potential permits. Consequently, there is a clear and urgent need
to resuscitate and maintain the cocoa sector.
2.07      Since 1965 when the Cocoa Marketing Board (CMB) (see para 3.01)
was barred by legislation from accumulating reserves, there has been inade-
quate investment in the industry. Export duty is very heavy and CMB, which
is responsible for paying producers and selling cocoa on the world market,
receives a fixed sum set by Government, which, in 1973/74, was inadequate to
cover its costs per ton of cocoa. Profits have been transferred to Government
and the industry and farmers have consequently suffered despite significant
producer price increases since 1971. Whereas real prices of cocoa, after
falling on the average during the early '60s, are almost back to the late
'50s level, Ghanaian cocoa farmers' real incomes have fallen dramatically in
the same period. This is due to the high level of internal inflation in
Ghana relative to the index of international prices used by Bank's Economic
Analysis and Projection Department. Estimates are that farmers' real income
is, for the first half of '70s, on average three quarters of the '60s level
and only one-third of the '50s level.
2.08      Over the past decade cocoa production in Ghana has declined, while
that of other African countries has increased. Ghana's share of world pro-
duction, which rose from 29% during the 1950s to 36% during the first half
of the 1960s, slipped to an estimated 25% in 1974. In volume terms, Ghana's
average annual production declined from about 450,000 long tons during 1960/61-
1964/65 to about 400,000 long tons during 1965/66-1972/73 and was about
350,000 tons in the 1973/74 crop year. Alarmed by this apparent trend of
declining production, the Chairman of the National Redemption Committee (NRC)
announced on May 23, 1974 the establishment of a national cocoa production
committee to look into ways of helping the country to maintain, and if possible,
improve its share of world cocoa production. The committee was specifically
required to consider what could be done about such problems as the large
proportion of old trees with declining yields, widespread pest and disease
infestation, lack of investment in new cocoa farms, and cocoa smuggling to
neighboring countries.
2.09      There appear to be five primary reasons for stagnation in cocoa
production:  (1) the policy of low producer prices that inhibits maximization
of production from existing trees, militates against new investments in
cocoa, particularly replanting low yielding over-aged trees, and encourages
smuggling; (2) lack of effective technical assistance to farmers; (3) inade-
quacy of the farm input delivery system coupled with an import licensing
system that gives no apparent priority to inputs for the cocoa sector;
(4) unfavorable age profile of Ghanaian cocoa trees due to its excessive
component of over-aged trees; and (5) lack of a coherent overall development
plan for the cocoa sector. These constraints are depressing the industry
despite Ghana's comparative advantage in cocoa production in terms of soils,
climate and expertise.



2.10      Because of the drop in real incomes (as compared to the general
price index) (see 2.07), and the substantial real rise in the cost of labor -
which accounts for about 90% of the cost of production at maturity - farmers
have been unwilling to maintain and, at times, harvest their farms and have
done little replanting (see para 2.18). The present price, as discussed in
para 7.06, is clearly inadequate, even under the most favorable conditions, to
provide a satisfactory return to labor employed in cocoa cultivation and
to induce farmers to replant and maintain their cocoa farms satisfactorily.
The price must be increased if production and productivity are to increase
and new investment is to be made in the industry in such critical activities
as replanting. Bearing in mind Government's budgetary difficulties and the
lack of up-to-date data on supply response to price increase, the optimum
producer price for Government and farmers alike cannot be accurately deter-
mined at this time. Consequently, an understanding was reached at negotiations
that Government would, by December 31, 1976, formulate for discussion with
IBRD a producer price policy that took account of the country's needs and the
findings of relevant studies. As it is clear that at present prices farmers
are reluctant to incur the large investment necessary for replanting, a sub-
stantial increase in the producer price would appear to be required. Calcula-
tions in this report of farmer incomes and Government revenues from cocoa are
based on the present producer price of   ¢ 16/60 lb.  With this price farmers
would receive less than 30% of the expected 1/ world market price for 1976.
2.11      The Ghanaian producer price is less than half the price paid in
Nigeria and two-thirds of that paid in Ivory Coast, the two other principal
cocoa producing countries in West Africa, as shown below:
Ghana               Ivory Coast                 Nigeria
O/Load     US$/lb      CFA/kg      US$/lb 14  Naira/ton    US$/lb /5
1970        8.00        0.12        82          0.17         303          0.22
1971        8.00        0.12        85          0.17         310          0.22
1972        9.17        0.13        85          0.17         310          0.22
1973       10.50        0.15        93          0.19         340          0.24
1974       12.00 /1    0.17        110 /2       0.22         450 /3       0.32
Current    16.00        0.23       175          0.35         670          0.48
/1   To July 1974: 0 15 to June 1975
/2   To October
/3   400 January to March - 450 April to August
/4   at CFAF 225 = US$1.00
/5   at Naira 1 = US$1.58.
1/   Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department projected price for
1975/76.



-6-
2.12      A comparison of the daily wage rate for labor in the agricultural
sector - US$1.73 equivalent in Ghana, US$1.33 in Ivory Coast, and US$1.44
in Nigeria (in the case of Nigeria recent salary increases in the public
sector have probably resulted in a slight increase) indicates that the
Ghanaian farmer is at even more of a relative disadvantage than prices
indicate. Labor is the major item in cocoa production costs, and there is
no evidence that labor productivity is higher in Ghana than in either Ivory
Coast or Nigeria.
2.13      In an attempt to cushion the impact of low producer prices, Govern-
ment has subsidized key inputs needed for cocoa farm maintenance, especially
insecticides and sprayers. Below comparable rates in Ghana, Nigeria and Ivory
Coast are shown:
Subsidy Level
Insecticides          Motorized Sprayer
Ghana                 90%                       80%
Ivory Coast            0%                        0%
Nigeria               50%                      100%
However, the benefit to the Ghanaian farmer of such high subsidies is small
since inputs are not readily available for purchasing at the village level,
and thus the benefit of subsidies is more apparent than real.  In 1969/70,
for example, the subsidy paid on insecticides, a principal input, amounted
to only about 10% (equivalent to about US$0.002 per lb of cocoa produced)
of the subsidy that would have been required had all cocoa been sprayed.
Furthermore, since then insecticide consumption has fallen markedly (see
Annex 1, Table 2).
2.14      Assurances were obtained under the Eastern Region Project that IDA
would be informed of any proposed changes in the insecticide, sprayer and
fertilizer subsidy schemes, and that these changes would not be made without
prior discussion with IDA. This agreement applies also to the Ashanti Region
Project, and the benefit of the subsidy scheme would be researched in
the study referred to in para 2.16 which in addition, would pay attention
to the problem of smuggling of subsidised inputs to neighboring countries.
Technical Assistance to Farmers
2.15      Ghana was in the forefront of initiating research into cocoa culti-
vation and through the Cocoa Research Institute of Ghana has developed improved
high yield potential varieties of cocoa and improved techniques for most cocoa
farm operations. The two developments most widely used are improved varieties
and capsid pest control. The advantages of capsid control are well appreciated
throughout the industry but for a variety of reasons described elsewhere in
this report, pest control is practised on only about 10% of the cocoa acreage.
Extension work among cocoa farmers largely has been concerned with promoting



the new varieties and capsid pest control. Little has been done to promote
more complex procedures such as replanting which presents quite formidable
technical problems especially in the provision and management of shade plants
for the young cocoa seedlings. 1/ Existing extension staff generally are not
acquainted with replanting techniques, although these are known and have been
proven in Ghana, for example, under ERCP. Adoption of new techniques by
farmers has been constrained, of course, by the low producer prices of
recent years.
Farm Input Availability
2.16      Sprayers, insecticides, fertilizers and seedlings are distributed
by the Cocoa Division of the Ministry of Cocoa Affairs (MCA) (see para 3.02).
Presently, the Cocoa Division is responsible each year for estimating require-
ments of and making requests for these to the Cocoa Marketing Board (CMB).
CMB is responsible to the Ministry of Cocoa Affairs (see para 3.03). CMB
reviews the estimates and applies for foreign exchange and import licenses
to the Ministry of Finance. Under present financial arrangements CMB meets
the cost of subsidies on inputs. Irn the past, insufficient quantities of
insecticides and sprayers have been made available to farmers. Indeed, supplies
of insecticide reached a peak in 1960 and have been on average, a third less
in the '70s, than they were in the early '60s (see Annex 1, Table 2). Three
principal reasons for the low availability are: (1) no priority is given by
Government in foreign exchange and import license allocations to the inputs
required for the cocoa sector, so that there are long delays and the requests
of CMB are reduced by the Ministry of Finance because of fiscal considerations;
(2) the financial arrangements within MCA whereby CMB, because it carries the
cost of the subsidy on inputs purchased by farmers, cuts the allocations
requested by the Cocoa Division in order to minimize its costs; and (3) the
inefficiency of the input delivery system. The Cocoa Division is hampered
by size and bureaucratic procedures and is not well suited for administrating
input delivery to farmers. Experience elsewhere in West Africa, particularly
in Nigeria, indicates that input distribution systems operate best in the
hands of private entrepreneurs and that such arrangements do not preclude a
Government subsidy system. Because of this, an understanding was reached
that by December 31, 1976 Government would complete a study of the availabi-
lity, the distribution and the financial arrangements for inputs on terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank. Tentative terms of reference for the
study are at Annex 10. In the meantime, an understanding was reached at
negotiations that Government would accord high priority to inputs for the
cocoa sector in the allocation of import licenses and foreign exchange, and
that such inputs would be provided to cocoa farmers on the basis of the Cocoa
Division's estimates.
1/   Most new planting is made under forest growth where the forest trees
provide the shade. In replanting, the amount of shade available from
existing trees is small and plantains and other species have to be
planted to provide the shade needed.



- 8 -
2.17      Domestic supply of new high yielding hybrid seeds of cocoa is
presently limited and seed garden production is sufficient to replant less
than 1% of Ghana's cocoa per year. There is evident need to improve produc-
tion from existing seed gardens through better maintenance and improved
technical practices, and to reconcile future production with future require-
ments. In order to help remedy the situation, Government has given assurances
that it would establish, by June 30, 1976, a separate department responsible
for seed gardens under MCA to be headed by an officer with experience and
qualifications acceptable to IBRD; and that it would carry out an annual study
of the efficiency and adequacy of seed garden production with the assistance
of consultants who would be contracted with by March 31, 1976 and whose
qualifications and experience would be acceptable to IBRD. Assurances were
also obtained that Government would take appropriate action after the comple-
tion of such studies. The cost of six manmonths of consultants' time has been
included in project costs for this purpose.
Old Age of Cocoa
2.18      Low producer prices since the early '60s have brought about neglect
of existing cocoa and little replanting. Cocoa has a life of between 40-60
years. Much of the Ghanaian cocoa was planted in the 1920s and consequently
is reaching the end of its productive life, a process hastened by less than
optimum management. If cocoa is to continue as the mainstay of the economy,
it is necessary to plant continuously to compensate for the aging of older
trees. Such planting can be either the planting of new land with cocoa or
the replanting of old cocoa farms where the cocoa has been or is about to
be abandoned because of low yields. As described in para 2.15 replanting
is technically difficult and little replanting has ever taken place. More
usually a cocoa farmer faced with the problem of declining yields seeks new
forest land where new plantings can be made under forest shade. It is such
new plantings that have bolstered production in recent years. Most new
plantings in the recent past have been made in the west and northwest, in
particular in the Brong-Ahafo and Western Regions. This has led to a shift
in levels of economic activity. In the older cocoa growing areas economic
activity has declined, and in some areas is heavily depressed, whereas in
the newer areas it has increased. These shifts result in substantial costs
to the economy; in the older areas the physical, social and commercial infrast-
ructure is less optimally used than in the past, and in the new areas a demand
for new investment in infrastructure is being created. The older cocoa areas,
by and large, have better climates for cocoa growing than the new and the
present shift in cocoa growing could be slowed and eventually stayed by the
promotion of replanting in the older areas. Spontaneous replanting on a
significant scale is unlikely, however, without the inducement of a higher
producer price for cocoa and establishment of a delivery service for the
package of advise, credit and inputs that the farmer requires.



- 9-
Overall Cocoa Development Plan
2.19      Despite the importance of the cocoa sector to the Ghanaian economy,
very little is recorded about the industry. There is no up-to-date physical
inventory of cocoa farms and there is little exact information on matters such
as how serious the aging problem is, how much replanting has been done, or
the degree of migration of cocoa farmers. Partly because of this lack of
knowledge, no overall development policy and plan for the cocoa sector has
been developed. At this time it is not possible to determine the detailed
scope or the costs of a survey of the cocoa sector adequate to generate the
information needed to formulate policies for the sector. Consequently,
provision has been included in project costs of finance for fifteen manmonths
of consultants' time to design a full-fledged survey of the sector. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that (a) Government will design by
December 31, 1976, in regular consultation with the Bank, a comprehensive
survey of Ghana's cocoa sector adequate to provide the information needed
to prepare policies and plans for the sound development of the cocoa industry
and (b) on the basis of this design the borrower will initiate such a survey
not later than June 30, 1977. Despite the kind of detailed information that
would be generated by the survey, it is clear that Government should promote
a long-term program of replanting; consequently assurances were also obtained
from Government that if the proposed project proceeds satisfactorily Govern-
ment would commit itself to attempting to replant cocoa at a rate of at least
16,000 acres each year subsequent to the completion of project plantings in
1979. This would be a very modest program in view of Ghana's needs and in
all probability the survey would show the need for much larger annual replanting
targets. The costs, benefits and effect on Government's finances of such a
program are discussed in para 7.08. Assurances were also obtained that Govern-
ment would appoint an officer with appropriate status and authority to be
responsible for the rehabilitation effort and that such person's experience
and qualifications would be acceptable to IBRD. Funds for this position, and
for the officer responsible for seed gardens (see para. 2.17) are included in
project costs.
D. Eastern Region Cocoa Project
2.20      The Eastern Region Cocoa Project consisted of the replanting of
36,000 and rehabilitation of 51,000 acres of cocoa through provision of
credit to farmers for the hire of labor and purchase of spraying machines,
pesticides, fertilizer and improved planting materials; training of farmers;
improvement of cocoa marketing techniques; establishment of project administ-
ration; and improvement of about 25 miles of feeder roads. The project was
due to be implemented over the five years 1970/71 to 1974/75.



- 10 -
2.21      Progress to date has been much slower than envisaged with only
14,000 acres replanted and 15,000 acres rehabilitated by the end of the
1973/74 season against a scheduled 27,900 and 51,000 acres respectively.
The principal reason for the poor performance is that the project area is too
constricted in so far as the project calls for 87,000 acres to be replanted
or rehabilitated out of a total area of only 146,000 acres. The assumption
that the required number of owners of cocoa in the project area would be
prepared to participate in the project has proved to be incorrect, and the
problem has been further compounded by the large number of absentee landlords
in the area, and other factors such as the large average size of holdings
in the project area. Project management's reaction to poor farmer response
was, initially, to attempt to meet planting targets at any cost which included
virtually taking over farms and hiring labor to clear, plant and maintain the
farms, often with the owner as a member of the hired labor force. These
practices have been stopped, and project management now accepts the necessity
of extending the project development period by two years and the confines
of the project area itself. The rehabilitation component got off to a poor
start when Government decided to introduce a free Mass Spraying Program in
the period 1971-73. Project farmers proved not to be prepared to incur
expenses in capsid spraying (the major component of rehabilitation) when capsid
spraying was being provided free by Government to other farmers. The Government
service proved generally ineffective and in 1973 free mass spraying was cancLlled
in favor of individual farmer spraying.            1
2.22      Other specific problems that confronted project management include:
a.   Drought of 1973 - The 1973 drought, associated with the
Sahelian drought, caused high seedling mortalities after
planting out, and replantings had to be curtailed in 1974
when seed garden output had to be allocated for replacements.
b.   Insecticides and Sprayers - Procurement problems resulted
in shortage of insecticides and sprayers available to dis-
tribute to farmers participating in the rehabilitation
component of the project.
c.   Funds for Cooperatives - The Ghana Cooperative Marketing
Association failed to provide funds for the timely purchase
of cocoa by member societies formed of project participants.
Consequently, farmers sold their produce to other buyers
thereby circumventing the project's credit repayment
mechanism which is the deduction of repayments from the
proceeds of sales made by participating farmers.
d.   Record Keeping - llhile accounts have been well kept from
inception of the project, farm record keeping (number of
farmers, location and size of farmers, area planted!
rehabilitated, and supplementary loan agreements, etc.)
has been generally inadequate.



- 11 -
e.   Inspection Unit - While the project includes an inspection
unit designed to function as an internal technical audit,
it has lacked expertise, consequently a number of farmers
initially received credit despite their failing to meet
required husbandry criteria.
f.   Project Evaluation - The project did not provide for a
project evaluation unit, which could have provided manage-
ment with a detailed analysis of farmer response. This
could have allowed both project management, Government and
IDA the opportunity to correct deficiencies in the project
design early in its implementation.
The problems caused by the drought, and procurement of sprayers and insecti-
cides have now been overcome. Funds for cocoa buying in future will be
assured through the arrangements detailed in para 6.05. Staff have made
considerable progress on record keeping which is now virtually up-to-date.
As a security, however, assurances were obtained from Government at negotia-
tion's that ERCP records, in particular farmers' loan and supplementary
loan agreements, would be up to date by December 31, 1975. The inspection
unit is now functioning satisfactorily and evaluation of ERCP in the future
will be carried out by the Institute of Statistical, Social and Economic
Research (ISSER). The design of the Ashanti project takes full account
of experience gained in ERCP.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Institutions
3.01      Until 1973, responsibility for the cocoa industry was shared between
the Cocoa Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, which was in charge of
extension services, disease control and training, the CMB, which was respon-
sible for cocoa purchases and marketing, and the Cocoa Research Institute
(CRI) under the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1973, the Cocoa Division was
transferred to CMB which was then responsible, under the Ministry of Trade,
for all of the cocoa industry including the Research Institute. In February
1975 a new Ministry of Cocoa Affairs (MCA) was set up to take over respon-
sibility for the cocoa industry and the above institutions have been transferred
to it. The new organization should ensure the industry the priority and
attention that it deserves.



- 12 -
Ministry of Cocoa Affairs (MCA)
3.02      Tentative organizational plans for MCA indicate that CMB would
revert to its former function of marketing, and that, separate from it, there
would be six divisions in the Ministry under a Director General. The six
divisions would be CRI, Produce Inspection, Manpower and Training, Seed Multi-
plication and Experimental Unit, Cocoa Surveys and SSVD 1/ Control, and Cocoa
Rehabilitation and Replanting. The ERCP and the project management unit of
the proposed project would be semi-autonomous units within the last division
which would have a small staff and be headed by a division director. CiMB
would be responsible to the Commissioner for Cocoa Affairs.
Cocoa Buying and Marketing
3.03      CMB employs Licensed Buying Agents (LBAs) to purchase farmers' cocoa,
the most important of which are the Produce Buying Agency (PBA), itself a sub-
sidiary of CMB, and the Ghana Cooperative Marketing Association Ltd. (GCMA)
which buys from farmers' cooperatives who act as its sub-agents. PBA's share
of purchases has risen from about 40% to 67% over the past four years mainly
at the expense of the smaller LBA's which found themselves unable to provide
funds for cocoa purchases following abolition of the chit system in 1973 with
the statutory requirement that all purchases be paid for in spot cash. GCMA
now buys almost all the remaining 33%. Farmers are paid a minimum price of
4 16 per 60 lb head load out of CMB's fixed revenues per ton and LBAs receive
a fixed allowance from CMB, currently ¢ 58.84 per ton to cover bagging, trans-
port, handling, storage, overheads, and profit. Overseas marketing is carried
out by the Cocoa Marketing Company (CMC), a subsidiary of CMB.
Cocoa Cooperatives
3.04      Cocoa cooperatives in Ghana were first started in 1928 and have
become well established. Annex 5 of Report P43a describes the history, orga-
nization and functions of the cooperatives. Their main role is to purchase
cocoa from members for marketing through GCMA and to ensure repayment of
members' debts by deduction from crop proceeds. The ability of cooperatives
to perform satisfactorily depends mainly on the prompt provision of funds by
GCMA, so that farmers are paid immediately for their produce. Evidence from
ERCP indicates that possibly the biggest drawback of GCIA is its failure to
promptly finance purchases made by its member societies (see para 2.22).
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB)
3.05      ADB is a main source of agricultural credit in Ghana.  When the
Sugar Rehabilitation Project was appraised in 1971 it was recognized that
ADB's performance was unsatisfactory, particularly as evidenced by debt
recovery, and consultants were financed under the Credit to review and improve
1/   Swollen Shoot Virus Disease.



- 13 -
credit management and financial control. The consultants completed their
recommendations at the end of 1973 and implementation began in 1974, financed
through the Oil Palm Project. While the consultants appear to have performed
satisfactorily there is no evidence yet of any improvement in loan recovery.
The percentage of overdue repayments in 1974 (about 50%) was about the same
as in 1972 and there seems little prospect of improving recoveries in the near
future since loans are made with inadequate security and appraisal and little
pressure is brought to bear on defaulters. Consequently, ADB would not be
involved in the proposed project and credit under the project would be dis-
bursed by the project management unit and repayments collected through the
cooperatives or the PBA, as the case may be (see para 6.05).
B. Physical and Soil Characteristics
3.06      The project area (see map) would be the three main cocoa growing
zones of Eastern Ashanti-Mampong, Konongo and Bekwai. Kumasi, the capital
of the region, is the second largest town in Ghana with some 340,000 inhabit-
ants (1970 Census) and lies in the center of the three areas. The total area
is some 1.4 million acres and the present land use of the zones is approximately
as follows:
Hampong      Konongo     Bekwai      Total       %
--A---------------- Acres ---------------------
Cocoa - good              104,000             *           *     104,000    7
Cocoa - moderately
to severely diseased    20,000       136,000      71,000      227,000   16
Cocoa - poor/old            10,000      48,000      35,000       93,000    7
Unfarmed land
(secondary forest
and fallow)            101,000      182,000    180,000       463,000   33
Cultivated land
(arable crops)          103,000      124,00o    186,000       413,000   30
Total Area           405,000      516,000    478,000   1,399,000  100
*    negligible.



- 14 -
Soils, Climate and Relief
3.07      The Ashanti region has been growing cocoa since 1900 and its climate
and soils are well suited to cocoa production. 1/ The Soil Research Institute
(SRI) recently completed a soil survey of the region (from which the land use
data in para 3.06 are taken). The soils of 940,000 acres are classified as
good or very good for cocoa. Rainfall averages vary from 67 in in the south
to 57 in in the north with two well defined rainy seasons--the major from
mid-March to end-July and the minor from September to mid-November. However,
rainfall is somewhat lower in the north eastern section of the Mampong zone
and for this reason this section would be excl8ded 0from the project.  Tempera-
ture and humidity ranges are, respectively, 75 -80 F; and 79-91% (morning)
and 48-70% (afternoon). Topography is generally undulating and altitude
mostly 600-800 feet.
Population
3.08      Konongo is most heavily populated with 400 persons per square mile;
Mampong has about 300, and Bekwai about 200 persons per square mile. The
population is relatively old:
Males           Females
-- over 4 years old --
25-44 years old                 35%               45%
45+   years old                  50%              35%
Women outnumber men both in the labor force and as farm owners.
Farming Activities
3.09      The SRI land use survey (see para 3.07) indicates that, overall,
the land is divided equally among cocoa, food crops and unfarmed land. A
socio-economic study of the project area by the Institute of Statistical,
Social and Economic Research (ISSER), of the University of Ghana, Legon,
indicates significantly different trends in cocoa production between the
three zones. In Bekwai a larger proportion of cocoa farms have been
abandoned than in the other two zones (see table below) and a smaller propor-
tion are in production.  Mampong has the largest proportion of farms in pro-
duction which are past peak production as well as the largest proportion of
young cocoa.
I/   For a general description of cocoa production in Ghana, see Annex 2,
Report No. PA-43a.



- 15 -
Mampong      Konongo     Bekwai
% of all Cocoa Farms:
Young (not yet in production)   9             6            5
In production                    73         75           57
Abandoned (because of low
yields)                       18         19           38
% of Farms in production:
Over 40 years old                42          30           19
Food crops, which occupy about one third of the area, are principally plain-
tain, maize, cassava, and yams. Under traditional cocoa establishment food
crops are planted with young cocoa to give shade to the seedlings; they also
provide an early return on the investment required to start a cocoa farm.
Men are more associated with cocoa production than women who specialize more
in food crop production. Almost three quarters of farm owners in Konongo grow
cocoa as compared with half in Mampong and somewhat less in Bekwai. Only in
Konongo do a significant proportion of farmers - 18% - specialize only in
cocoa production. Most farm owners also have vacant land.
Farm Size
3.10      The 1972 Agricultural Census gives the average cocoa area per
farmer as 22 acres in Ashanti Region. Size distribution is highly skewed
and it is estimated that 40% of the farms are less than five acres; data
indicates that 7% of the acreage produces 35% of the crop and confirms the
presence of substantial acreages of abandoned and low yielding cocoa. The
ISSER report substantiates the census findings as shown below:
Mampong       Konongo       Bekwai
% of all cocoa farms
under five acres                 31           33           41
% of owners with only
one cocoa farm                   42           39            31
% of owners having less
than five acres vacant           39          42             53
Labor
3.11      In the present depressed state of the region farmers cannot afford
to pay competitive wages for labor and presently there are few hired laborers
in the area and most of these are either male cocoa farm "care-takers" who
look after a farm for the owner and take a one-third share of the produce
as payment, or employees of the Cocoa Division. Although there is at present



- 16 -
a dearth of hired labor the supply can be expected to increase if farmers,
as proposed under the project, are enabled to pay competitive wages for labor.
Land Tenure
3.12      ISSER's survey indicates that most farmers in the project area have
permanent possession of their land, having inherited it from the original
developers. The mode of land tenure prevailing will not therefore discourage
owners from investing long term in their farms, and should cause no problems
for the proposed project.
Marketing
3.13      It is estimated by ISSER that in 1973/74, 60% of farmers sold their
cocoa to PBA and 30% to cooperatives. In Mampong the proportion selling to
cooperatives is higher than in the other two zones.
Cooperatives
3.14      Some 28,000 farmers in the project area are members of cooperatives,
principally in Bekwai and Mampong Zones. There are 16 Cooperative Unions
with 486 market Societies in the Ashanti Region of which 8 Unions and 207
Societies are in the project area. Details are at Annex 3. The history of
cocoa marketing cooperatives is detailed in Annex 5 of Report No. PA-43a.
Seed Gardens
3.15      Seed gardens under the proposed organization of MCA (see para 3.02)
would be the responsibility of one of the divisions under the direction and
management of a qualified officer. There are eleven seed gardens now in
production in Ghana and these extend to 485 acres. Of these two are in the
project area - Fumso and Kwadaso (see map). Five (including Fumso) are being
extended and a further eight gardens are being established, of which three are
in the project area -- Jamasi, Juaso and Poano. Maintenance of seed gardens
is poor and production per acre low. Total production in future years is
estimated at about one million pods a year. This should be sufficient to
plant 30,000 acres per year (at 35 pods per acre, including replacements for
the two following years' mortalities).
Services
3.16      The project area is well served by main roads and the railway from
Kumasi to Accra is used for the evacuation of cocoa. There is a reasonable
network of secondary and feeder roads but their condition is generally poor.
3.17      The main centers of Mampong, Konongo and Bekwai, as well as Kumasi,
have adequate health, water supply, electricity and postal services and
higher educational institutions. Banking and credit institutions are, however,
generally lacking as in other rural areas of Ghana.



- 17 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The project would be the first phase of a program to revitalize
the cocoa industry of the Ashanti Region. It would be carried out over three
years 1975/76 to 1977/78. Project management would function with maximum
flexibility in determining replanting locations. To ensure flexibility there
would be no investment in buildings although some could be required in sub-
sequent phases of the replanting program.
4.02      The project would comprise:
(a)  replanting and maintenance during the project period,
of about 30,000 ac of cocoa with high yielding hybrid
varieties through provision of credit to cocoa farmers
in the form of cash for the hire of labor, and farm
inputs in kind;
(b)  training of farmers and project staff in modern cocoa
production techniques and practices;
(c)  provision of equipment for the maintenance of feeder
roads and the planning of future feeder road improvements;
(d)  evaluation of project progress by field survey; and
(e)  establishment of a project administration within the
Ministry of Cocoa Affairs to plan and manage the
project.
B. Detailed Features
Project Area
4.03      To minimize the risk of insufficient qualified and interested
participants viz. ERCP, the project area would be ten times that of ERCP.
Some 30,000 acres (or 7%) would be replanted out of a total of 1.4 million
acres, in comparison with 87,000 acres (or 60%) which were to be replanted or
rehabilitated in an area of only 146,000 acres in ERCP.



- 18 -
Replanting Schedule
4.04      Field development would be as follows:
Calendar Year:            1976      1977       1978      Total
Acres:                    4,000    10,000    16,000    30,000
Location of the development would be decided in the light of farmer response.
Project activities would start in all the three zones (Bekwai, Konongo and
Mampong) because work had already started and restriction to one zone would
adversely affect farmer response. However, initially it would be confined
to the areas of the zones indicated in the map attached to this report
(IBRD 11531R, November 1975). Once potentials of these areas have been
realized, the project unit would expand its activities outward from such
areas. Assurances were obtained to these effects.
Participating Farmers
4.05      It is Government's stated policy to achieve a more equitable dis-
tribution of income and project benefits would be spread as widely as possible
taking into account Government's macro level objectives. To this end, assur-
ances were obtained from Government during negotiating of the proposed loan
that participating farmers would meet the following criteria;
(a)  reside on or near the farm to be replanted and be prepared
to actively work the farm;
(b)  be a member of a cooperative union or a client of PBA to facilitate
credit administration (see para 6.06); and
(c)  have established, to the satisfaction of PU, their proprietary
interest in land to be replanted under the project.
Participants would be eligible for credit to replant up to a maximum of
5 acres in the project period. It was agreed during negotiations that this
acreage limit would be reviewed by the Bank and the government from time to
time. It is not possible to accurately forecast the number of farmers who
would participate in the project. However, if the following realistic dis-
tribution of farmers obtained, viz:
1,500 farmers replanting 5 acres each
2,000          i t        4   " 
3,000          tI         3         It
2,000                     2
1,500     "               1   " 
some 10,000 farmers, each replanting an average of three acres, would benefit
from the project. Farmers would receive credit for each acre replanted of:
0 216.0 in Year 1, ; 4 78.0 in Year 2: and 0 67.0 in Year 3. Credits would be



- 19 -
in cash for 80% of labor costs and in kind for 100% of material costs. Sub-
sidies on insecticides and sprayers would be continued at present levels (see
para 2.13) but cocoa seedlings would be provided at full cost to farmers. An
understanding was reached at negotiations that if the subsidy levels in effect
at October 15, 1975 for insecticides and sprayers are to be reduced, proposals
would be submitted to the Bank for comments before any changes are made.
Planting Material
4.06      Seed requirements for the proposed project together with those for
ERCP are as follows (assuming 30% mortality rate of field plantings in Year 1,
and 15% in Year 2):
1975/76         1976/77         1977/78
New Plantings (seeds)           7.5 million    10.9 million   10.9 million
Replacements (seeds)            2.0 million      3.0 million    4.4 million
9.5 million    13.9 million   15.3 million
Total No. of Pods               270,000         400,000         440,000
To ensure adequate supplies assurances were obtained that the two projects
would have first priority for seed supply from the seed gardens at Bunso and
Apedwa which now supply ERCP, and Fumso and Kwadaso, and any other garden
should supplies from these gardens not be adequate. Total production of the
four above gardens in 1973 was 490,000 pods.
Buildings
4.07      No provision has been made in project costs for building construc-
tion. Where possible, the Project Unit (PU) would be accommodated in
buildings of the Cocoa Division and/or CMB. However, in case this may not
prove possible, the cost for renting office space and rent allowances for
project staff housing have been included in project costs.
Training
4.08      The project would provide funds for short-term training courses
for farmers in up-to-date cultivation practices and the new hybrid varieties,
and also for staff training in management either in Ghana or elsewhere (ERCP
staff have attended three-month courses at the Mananga Agricultural Management
Center in Swaziland run by the Commonwealth Development Corporation and this
has been extremely worthwhile).
Cooperatives
4.09      Since there are already a large number of cooperative societies
in the region (para 3.14) it is unlikely that within the three year project
period new societies would be needed to cater for potential participants who



- 20 -
do not have a conveniently located society. However project staff includes
Cooperative Specialists who would, as necessary, provide support and assist-
ance to existing societies and help establish new societies where required.
Cooperatives would play a key role in project credit operations, and be
co-signers of all loans obtained by their members under the project (para 6.06).
Feeder Roads
4.10      ERCP experience and experience elsewhere in Ghana is that there is
a shortage of equipment to maintain feeder roads. An equipment unit is included
in project costs to be procured and operated by Ghana Highway Authority (GHA)
for the maintenance of feeder roads in the project area. Assurances to this
effect were obtained from Government during loan negotiations. Preliminary
observations are that the density of feeder roads in the project area is adequate
for present production levels. Under the First Highway Project (Credit 438-GH)
Government is undertaking an inventory of all public roads, including feeder
roads, in the country. Under the proposed Second Highway Project a study of
feeder roads would be carried out, relating the density of the feeder road net-
work with the agricultural potential of each definable area of the country. To
supplement this general study, assurances were obtained from Government that
it would cause GHA, in conjunction with PU, to carry out by December 31, 1976, a
detailed survey of feeder road requirements in the project area taking into
account projected levels of future crop production.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      Evaluation of the Ashanti project would be carried out by ISSER or
some other qualified organization under an agreement with MCA. ISSER would be
required to carry out base line surveys of the project area; monitor the impact
and progress of the project including the supply response to any pproducer price
changes; submit a detailed annual assessment of project progress to PU; and make
proposals for beneficial changes in subsequent phases of the Ashanti program.
ISSER would be required to develop data on the comparative advantage of cocoa
growing in Ashanti compared to other food and tree crops through an in-depth
field study which would record farmers' actual practices over the cropping
year. Assurances that an acceptable contract incorporating terms of reference
acceptable to IBRD would be entered into with ISSER or another organization
acceptable to IBRD by February 1, 1976, and that ISSER would continue to monitor
ERCP to completion, were obtained.
Project Administration
4.12      A Project Unit (PU) has been established as a semi-autonomous
unit within the Ministry of Cocoa Affairs (MCA) to administer the project.
PU would be responsible for locating and motivating farmers, assessing their
credit worthiness, supplying credit, liaising with cooperatives and providing
technical advice and supervision. The organization and management of project
operations are discussed in Chapter VI. A detailed schedule of critical
project stages, events and dates has been worked out with Government at
negotiations (Annex 12).



- 21 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND PROPOSED FINANCING
A. Project Costs
5.01      Total expected project costs are 0 25.2 million (US$21.9 million)
including duties and taxes estimated at 0 0.1 million (US$0.1 million). The
foreign exchange component is ¢ 6.1 million (US$5.3 million) or 24% of total
project cost. Costs include a 5% physical contingency on all costs plus a
compounded price contingency factor. 1/ Project costs are detailed at Annex
4 and summarized on page 22.
5.02      Estimates for vehicles, equipment, and farm materials are based on
suppliers' quotations, and those for local staff salaries on Government salary
scales. As in ERCP, imports will be duty-free, and an assurance to that effect
was obtained at negotiations. Hired labor has been costed at the official.
Government wage rate for unskilled labor. Costs are expressed in end-1974
prices.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03      The foreign exchange component of project costs is low since the
cost of employing Ghanaians, which involves no foreign exchange, comprises
more than 50% of project costs. The proposed IBRD loan of US$14.0 million
would cover 64% of total expected project costs, net of taxes and duties,
100% of the foreign exchange cost of US$5.3 million, and 53% of local costs
of 0 19.2 million (US$16.6 million). A summary financing plan is shown on
page 23.
1/                             Labor, Salaries      Equipment, Materials
1975                           18%                        12%
1975/76                        16%                        11%
1976/77                        15%                         9%
1977/78                        13%                         8%
1978/79                        12%                         8%



-22-
Project Costs
________' IOOO---u-$---------US$---------                FE
Local   Foreign   Total    Iocal   Foreign   Total  Component
Farm Development
Hired labor             4,589          -   4,589    3,977          -   3,977      -
Materials                2,613     2,137   4,750    2 265      1 852   4,117      45%
Total              7,202      2,137   9,339    6                   ,094
Project Administration
Investments
Vehicles                   205       818   1,023      178        709     887      80%
Feeder Road Component       40       158     198        35       137     172      80%
Equipment                 269        269     538      233        233     466     50%
Total                51       1,245   1,759      446      1,079   1,525
Project Administration
Operation Costs
Office rent                 91        10     101        79         9      88      10%
Vehicles                   276       338     614       239       293     532      55%
Equipment                   7          7      14        6          6      12     50%
Staff salaries          4,567        240   4,807    3,958        208   4,166     5%
General                   612         68     680      530         59     589     10%
Total              5,553         63   6,216    4,o12       575   5s387
Evaluation                311         34     345      270         29     299     10%
Technical Assistance        -        243     243        -        211     211    100%
Base Cost Estimates    13,580      4,322  17,902   11,770      3,746  15,516      24%
Physical contin-
gencies (5% )           679        216     895      588        188     776     24%
Expected price con-
tingencies (36% )    14,893      1,557   6,450    4,241      1,349   5'590     24%
TOTAL EXPECTED COST
OF PROJECT           19,152      6,095  25,247   16,599      5,283  21,882      24%



- 23 -
GHANA
Ashanti Region Cocoa Project
Summary Financing Plan
IBRD           Government           Total
-------- US$ million --------------
Farm Development                7.2               0.9                8.1
Project Administration
Investments                   1.0               0.5                1.5
Operating Costs               1.7               3.7                5.4
Evaluation and Technical
Assistance                    0.5                 -                0.5
Sub-total                 10.4              5.1               15.5
Unallocated                     3.6               2.8                6.4
Total                     14.0               7.9              21.9
64%              36%               100%
5.04      In the past Bank financing of cocoa projects has often included the
cost of maintaining all plantings up to and including the fifth year of growth.
Reasons for the proposed time-slice approach are discussed in para 1.03.
The proposed US$14.0 million loan represents about 28% of the estimated
cost of the traditional full 7 year project or 100% (shown at Table 1,
Annex 8) of foreign exchange costs and 9% of local costs. Assurances were
obtained from Government that it would provide all necessary funds required
to maintain all project plantings till the fifth year of growth and would
continue the credit scheme on terms and conditions aggreeable to IBRD. The
additional cost would be approximately US$27.7 million. Costs of US$6.0
million would be borne by project farmers; and it is estimated that of the
US$21.7 million required from Government, only US$15 million would be addi-
tional funds since about 75% of PU staff would come from MCA (see para 6.04)
and would not constitute an additional expenditure for Government.
5.05      Government would make block budgetary allocations to cover annual
project costs and funds so earmarked would be made available quarterly in
advance to PU. Similarly, funds for credit to farmers to be administered
by PU for expenditures in the subsequent 3-month period, would be made avail-
able quarterly in advance. Assurances to these effects were obtained at nego-
tiations. In order to maintain project momentum (the project manager was
appointed in February 1975), retroactive financing would be made available for
all expenditures incurred according to Bank procurement guidelines, prior to
loan signing, to a limit of US$0.9 million.



- 24 -
C. Credit Terms
5.06      Farmers would receive credit for the first three years of each
planting. Terms of the loans would be 18 years with both principal and inter-
est payments beginning in the 7th year. Interest, at not less than 8%
would be capitalized over the grace period of 6 years. Farmers' loan recovery
would be completed nine years prior to Government obligations on the proposed
IBRD loan. The interest on farmers' loans would partly accrue as commission
to cooperatives and PBA and partly as additional Government revenues (see para
7.07). The rate of interest to be paid by farmers represents a substantial
subsidy in view of Ghana's current high internal rates of inflation. However,
this is in line with Government's present commitment to subsidize farmers (see
para 2.05) and for cocoa farmers, is some compensation for the low producer
price (see para 2.10). An 8% interest rate represented an increase of 2%
over the level at which ADB was permitted to make loans to farmers. In July
1975, however, ADB's interest rate for farmer loans was increased from 6% to
8.5%, and the proposed project interest rate now approximates other rates for
agricultural lending in Ghana.
5.07      Credit would be channelled by PU through cooperatives or the PBA,
as the case may be, who would be responsible for debt collection. Loans for
up to 80% of hired labor costs would be in the form of cash disbursed directly
to farmers while in kind loans would be provided for planting materials,
insecticides, tools and equipment. Of the 8% interest repayment by the far-
mer, cooperatives or the PBA, would retain 2% (one quarter of the interest
charges) to cover their credit administration costs. Assurances were obtained
on the above arrangements.
D. Procurement
5.08      International competitive bidding in accordance with IBRD guide-
lines would be used for vehicles, and equipment for the feeder road component
(US$1.3 million) and spraying machines (US$1.1 million). Insecticide
(US$0.9 million) would be procured by negotiated contract with suppliers.
Contracts costing less than US$5,000 equivalent would be let pursuant to such
competitive practices as are appropriate. Goods manufactured in Ghana would
enjoy a 15% preference margin or the applicable level of tariff protection,
whichever is lower, for bid evaluation purposes. Technical assistance and
technical evaluation services would be provided by consultants selected in
accordance with normal IBRD procedures. Contracts for procurement of goods
and services costing less than US$20,000 equivalent and which cannot be bulked
for ICB, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IBRD.



- 25 -
E. Disbursement
5.09      The IBRD loan would be disbursed over a three-year (1975/76-1977/78)
period and would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs of sprayers, vehicles
and equipment; 100% of foreign exchange costs of technical assistance or 90%
of local costs; 100% of foreign exchange costs of insecticides or 80% of local
costs; 90% of total costs of seedlings, sub-loans to farmers, and evaluation
studies; and 40% of staff salaries as follows:
US$'000
Category I     Sprayers                       700   100% of foreign exchange
costs
Category II    Seedlings                    1,500   90% of total costs
Category III   Insecticides                   600   100% of foreign exchange
or 80% of local costs
Category IV    Sub-loans to farmers made
by PU for hired labor,
plantain suckers, tools
other than sprayers, and
transport costs             4,400   90% of total costs
Category V     Feeder road component
equipment and vehicles        100   100% of foreign exchange
costs
Category VI    Vehicles and equipment
for Project Unit              900   100% of foreign exchange
costs
Category VII   Staff salaries disbursed
by PU                       1,700   40% of total costs
Category VIII  Evaluation studies             300   90% of total costs
Category IX    Technical assistance           200   100% of foreign exchange
costs or 90% of local costs
Category X     Unallocated                  3,600
14,000



- 26 -
All disbursements for Categories I, III, V, VI, VIII and IX would be made
against full documentation: all disbursements for Categories II, IV and VII
would be made against certificates of expenditure, the documentation for which
would not be submitted to IBRD for review but would be retained by the Borrower
and available for inspection by IBRD during the course of project supervision.
Further, an assurance was obtained during negotiations that the Project
Manager would prepare a planting program each year with related expenditures
to be agreed upon in advance by IBRD, for comparison with certificates of
expenditures. Any funds remaining in the loan account on completion of the
project would be used, as approved by IBRD, for project related expenditures.
F. Accounts and Audits
5.10      PU would keep separate accounts of project expenditures and farmers'
credit which would be audited annually, together with accounts of participating
PBA depots, by an independent auditor mutually acceptable to IBRD and Govern-
ment. The auditing of participating cooperative society accounts would continue
to be the responsibility of the Registrar of Cooperatives. Audited annual
accounts of PU, farmers' credit, the participating cooperatives, and the credit
accounts of PBA would be submitted to IBRD within six months of the close of
each financial year. Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations.
G. Proposed Project Expansion
5.11      Since the project was formulated the Arab Bank for Economic Develop-
ment in Africa (ABEDIA) has expressed interest in principle in participating
in the project. ABEDIA is expected to make US$5.0 million equivalent available,
on terms to be agreed, for additional cocoa development within the framework
of the proposed Bank project. The Ghanaian Government has in principle accepted
this offer.
5.12      Subject to some strengthening at the middle management level of PU
the units activities could be expanded without adversely affecting Bank financed
activities. It is not yet clear whether the ABEDIA funds would be made avail-
able over the same period as the Bank Loan but assuming that this would be the
case the ABEDIA funds are estimated to be sufficient to plant an additional
10,000-12,000 acres and to finance the additional staff and infrastructure
needed for this purpose. The nature of the project does not permit the
isolation of a specific zone or area for investment of ABEDIA funds and it
will be necessary at a later date to agree disbursing and other arrangements
with ABEDIA. However, any expansion permitted by ABEDIA intervention will not
in any way affect implementation of the proposed Bank project.
5.13      ABEDIA is expected to submit proposals to their Board before the
year end and will use the Bank appraisal report as the basis of these.



- 27 -
VI. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
6.01      The project would be implemented by a semi-autonomous project unit
already established within MCA. The Project Manager, who is already in post,
would, under the proposed organizational plan, report to the officer respon-
sible for cocoa rehabilitation who is to be appointed in MCA (see para 2.19).
Assurances were obtained to this effect.
6.02      Overall project management and control would be exercised from
project headquarters to be established near Kumasi. The HQ would be staffed by
a Project Manager and his Deputy, a Financial Controller, Administration
Officer, Project Accountant, Credit Officer, Internal Auditor, Cooperative
Officer, Engineering Superintendent and supporting staff. Assurances were
obtained that the qualifications and experience of the Project Manager and
the Financial Controller, who also has been appointed, would at all times be
acceptable to IBRD and that they would be employed on terms acceptable to IBRD.
6.03      The project area would be divided into three zones and each zone
would be subdivided into four districts. Zonal headquarters would be estab-
lished at Bekwai, Konongo and Effiduasi (see para 4.04 for project phasing).
In estimating staffing requirements, (see Annex 4, Table 4) the unlikely
possibility that it would be necessary to staff all twelve districts to find
sufficient farmers to meet project targets has been assumed. Substantial
cost savings should, however, be possible.
6.04      PU would be adequately staffed to give technical assistance to
farmers, to administer the credit fund, process credit applications, make
loans, supervise debt collection, maintain project accounts and farm records,
liase with cooperatives and PBA and undertake a feeder road study with GHA.
The staffing ratio for technical staff is one field assistant Grade I for 33
farmers, and one farm inspection assistant for 50 farmers; this intensity is
required in case participating farmers are spread thinly over the project area.
However, PU would operate with farmers located as close as possible to each
other to increase staff efficiency and reduce costs. Most staff would be
recruited from MCA which has considerable staff surplus to requirements.
Cooperatives and Marketing
6.05      CMB, which is responsible for cocoa marketing (see para 3.03),
advances in a timely manner funds for cocoa purchases to its licensed buying
agents (LBAs). GCMA, however, generally fails to make funds available to
its sub-agents, the cooperative unions, in time for purchasing members' cocoa.
This is one shortcoming experienced in ERCP (see para 2.22) despite Government
assurances and many representations by IDA in the last three years. It has
led to an erosion of farmer's confidence in the cooperative movement



- 28 -
and a deleterious impact on debt recovery. To overcome this assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations that (a) primary cooperatives
in the Ashanti Project area as well as the area served by the ERCP would be
supplied promptly by the cooperative unions to which they belong, with funds
adequate to purchase cocoa produced by their members, and (b) CNB
will, on the basis of the estimates submitted by the project managers, make
quarterly advances to the respective cooperative unions to ensure timely
supply of funds to the primary cooperatives. Further assurances were obtained
that PBA will take all action required to ensure that its cocoa purchasing
activities do not interfere with the collection of loans guaranteed by the
cooperatives.
Credit Procedures
6.06      Farmers receiving credit would enter into a contract with PU which
the farmers' cooperative or the PBA would also sign as a guarantor. The form
of the contract would be subject to Bank approval and would stipulate that
all produce from trees planted with the aid of the credit would be sold to the
farmer's cooperative and PBA. Assurances to this effect were obtained from
Government during loan negotiations. Farmers' credit would be operated by
PU until such time as ADB (para 3.05) is able to manage it properly. In order
that PU would not have the additional responsibility of investing short-term
undisbursed monies, loan repayments would be repaid to Government immediately
and PU would budget each year for credit funds it requires.
VII. PRODUCTION, M4ARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND
GOVERNMENT REVENUES
A. Yields and Production
7.01      Replantings made under the project would start yielding signifi-
cantly in the fourth year after replanting, and some farms would produce
small amounts in the third year. The build-up in average yields per acre
is expected to be Year 4: 100 lbs; Year 5: 300 lbs; Year 6: 400 lbs; and
Year 7: 750 lbs of dry cocoa beans. For project calculations yields are
assumed to remain stable after Year 7. These yields are realistic in view
of achieved yields of 1,200 lbs and more per acre under Ghanaian conditions.
Project production is estimated, using the forgoing yields, at 22.5 million
lbs (10,000 long tons) by 1983/84.
7.02      An important source of farm income in the early years of the
replanted farms would be derived from plantains which would be planted to
give temporary shade for the young cocoa. With 340 planted to the acre the
yield is assumed to be 300 bunches in Years 2 and 3 and 150 in Year 4.
Thereafter the shade cast by the cocoa itself would prevent any form of
intercropping. Some income from cocoa yams, also planted as shade, would be
obtained in these early years but is not expected to be significant.



- 29 -
B. Markets and Prices
7.03      World cocoa production tends to be highly cyclical.  In the mid-40s
there was excess demand and prices were relatively high. By the end of the
'50s, however, the situation had reversed itself. Continuing low prices
through the '60s discouraged investment programs and low yielding farms were
abandoned and prices have since risen considerably in the situation of excess
demand over supply. The high price in the recent past has been partly a
consequence of poor growing conditions in West Africa over the last three
years, an effect associated with the Sahelian drought. Cocoa prices rose
from an average of 64.6 US cents/lb in 1973 to 98.2 US cents/lb in 1974 but
have since fallen to 75.3 US cents during the first 3 quarters of 1975. The
Bank projects that cocoa demand and supply will grow at around 3% annually,
and that the price for dry cocoa beans in 1985, in current terms, will be 116
US cents/lb. This is equivalent, in 1974 terms, to 51 US cents/lb and has
been used as a basis to calculate the project's economic benefits.
7.04      Ghana is a founder (1972) member of the International Cocoa Agree-
ment. The Agreement's main objectives are stabilization of prices and export
earnings in the interests of both consumers and producers. The main features
are (i) annual export quotas for producers, (ii) maintenance of a buffer stock
of up to 250,000 tons of cocoa, and (iii) a current price range of 29-1/2 to
38-1/2 US cents per pound outside of which the buffer stock would be manipu-
lated to either depress or increase prices. The agreement has been inoperative
since its inception because cocoa prices have consistently remained above
maximum indicator price preventing the acquisition of buffer stocks. The
Agreement has recently been renegotiated raising the price range to 39-55 US
cents per pound for the first three quota years, 1976-77 - 78/79.
7.05      The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) considers the long-term
market outlook for cocoa to be favorable for the expansion of cocoa production
and endorses the proposed project. The demand for cocoa is price-inelastic
within the historically relevant price range. However, the Bank's Development
Policy Staff drew attention, in their recent 1974 review of the world cocoa
market, 1/ to the fact that unusually high prices can lead to substitution.
Therefore, while a certain level of price rise may be beneficial to producers,
too large an increase could reduce demand, perhaps long-term.
1/   The World Cocoa Market - Review and Outlook for Bank Lending,
February 1974.



- 30 -
C. Farmers' Benefits
7.06      The paucity of information on farmers' incomes, other than from
cocoa planting, precludes any meaningful comparison of total farm incomes
with and without the project. However, the model farm budget for one acre
of cocoa with plaintain planted as shade, indicates that the participating
farmers would increase their net incomes by ¢ 57.9 per acre during debt
repayment and by ¢ 127.9 per acre from year 19 on. Income would be highest
during years 2 and 3 when plaintain production peaks. This would provide
some compensation to farmers for incurring the 0 359.1 per acre of debt
that they would need for replanting in the first three years. Average return
per manday over the 40-year life of the cocoa plantings, taking into account
the benefits from plaintain, would be 0 3.9 and during debt repayment ¢ 2.7.
On the assumption that 80% of labor is hired, the average return per manday
for the farmer's labor over the project life would be 0 12.4 and ¢ 7.1 during
debt servicing. While this would appear a considerable premium over the
¢ 2.0 per day paid to hired laborers, the producer price would have to be
¢ 24 before the income from replanted cocoa of the average participating
farmer (with 3 acres of cocoa) during debt servicing equalled that of a
hired laborer. Similarly, his income after debt servicing would equal that
of a hired laborer when the producer price was raised to ¢ 20 per head load.
However, while it is evident that the advantage of the hired laborer is
offset by the income the farmer receives from other production activities
such as food crop farming and other cocoa farms, it is some measure of how
low the producer price is that it is only after nineteen years that the income
a farmer would receive from 3-1/2 acres of well-maintained high yielding cocoa
would equal that of a hired laborer. The returns under different producer
price regimes are shown below:
Income per Acre
Producer Price                            After Debt           Average
¢/60 lbs                During          Servicing        Post Maturity
16                    57.9             127.9               103.2
18                    82.9             152.9               128.2
21                   120.4             190.4               165.7
24                   157.9             227.9               203.2
27                   195.4             265.4               240.7
A producer price increase (see para 2.10) appears to be an essential start to
making cocoa growing more attractive to Ghanaian farmers.
D. Government Revenues
7.07      Government would earn substantial cash revenues from the project.
The illustrative Government cash flow, expressed in constant terms, shown
at Annex 8, Table 2, indicates that taking into account export duties on



- 31 -
cocoa, taxes on project expenditures, farmers loan repayments, and deducting
project costs and debt service on the Bank loan, there would be a cash
surplus from year 8 and a cumulative cash surplus from year 14. During
servicing of the IBRD loan average annual net Government revenue emanating
from the project would be about ¢ 2.8 million, and after debt servicing
¢ 3.1 million per year in constant prices. 1/
7.08      An approximate estimate of the cash flow for a program of replant-
ing 16,000 acres each year is shown at Annex 8, Table 4; it includes the
project as its first phase. The cash flow--in constant 1974 prices and at
the present producer price of ¢ 16/60 lb--shows that an annual surplus would
be generated by 1986/87 and a cumulative surplus by 1992/93 the 19th year
of the program. Thereafter the cumulative balance would rapidly increase
and more than ¢ 500 million would be accumulated in the following 15 years.
The program would require a maximum net expenditure in any year of about
¢ 13 million and a cumulative expenditure of about 0 80 million spread over
12 years. The project cash flow illustrates how expedient it would be for
Government to initiate and maintain a replanting program. Financing the
required ¢ 80 million, of which about 0 30 million would be needed over the
next five years should not be excessively difficult. Indeed the cocoa
industry itself could finance the cost were it to have recourse to the full
market value of its production. In the event that Government increases
the price by ¢ 2/60/lb to ¢ 18/60/lb it would be little different. An annual
surplus would be generated one year later, the cumulative surplus two years
later and a cumulative balance of over ¢ 500 million would be reached 3 years
later.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project's direct benefit would be the cocoa production that
it generates, some 10,000 long tons of dry beans annually with a gross foreign
exchange value of US$10.8 million. Indirect benefits would be the improvement
in living standards of some 10,000 cocoa farm families. The project would
have a significant impact on the level of economic activity through its
multiplier effects.
1/   Assuming present producer price of ¢ 16/60 lbs.  In the event that
Government increases the price to ¢ 18/60 lbs, there would still be
a cash surplus from year eight, and the cumulative cash surplus would
be delayed till the fifteenth year. During debt servicing of the IBRD
loan average the annual net Government revenue emanating from the project
would be about ¢ 2.1 million and after debt servicing ¢ 2.4 million per
year, in constant prices.



- 32 -
8.02      The economic rate of return of the project is 21%.  This takes into
account all costs of bringing project planting into production and providing
agricultural extension and other support services to participating farmers
throughout the life of the project, which is taken as 40 years. Yields of
750 lbs dry beans per acre of cocoa are assumed to be maintained from year
7 through to year 40. Plantain is expected to yield 300 bunches in Years 2
and 3 and 150 bunches in Year 4. The price of plantain bunches is assumed
to drop by a half from present levels when project production begins. In
calculating the economic costs and benefits of the project, the value of
foreign exchange in terms of cedis has been adjusted upwards by 30% to take
account of the severe quantitative import restrictions needed to keep Ghana's
external receipts and payments in balance at the prevailing exchange rate.
Family and hired labor are costed at the official wage rate of ¢ 2/manday
as labor is in short supply in the project area (see para 3.11). Further
details are at Annex 9.
8.03      At the official exchange rate the rate of return for the project
is 16.5%. As is usual where project benefits occur after a long development
period, the rate of return is relatively insensitive to changes in costs
and benefits. Details are at Annex 9.
8.04      Comparison of the relative profitability of planting different
crops in a similar region to the proposed project area indicates that cocoa,
when planted with shade crops, has a higher internal rate of return 1/ than
the other major crops grown in the area--maize, cassava, cocoa yams, yams,
and oil palm.
8.05      The project would provide direct employment for about 800 staff
members of the Ministry of Cocoa Affairs -- most of whom are not now gain-
fully employed -- and 10,000 farm families, involving some 70,000 persons
in all, in an area where economic activity has been declining. It would
help stem the out-migration from the area and revive what was once a thriving
center of economic activity. Through its stabilizing efforts the project
should result in the improved use of existing infrastructure and in savings
in the infrastructure required for new cocoa planting areas.
8.06      The project would help put the Ghanaian cocoa industry on the sound
footing that it has lacked in the past. An inventory would be made of the
sector, an overall development plan formulated, a rational pricing policy
established, bottlenecks in the distribution of farm inputs removed, and the
seed gardens placed under sound management. All this should do much to resus-
citate the sector which is the backbone of the Ghanaian economy.
1/   ROURKE, B.E. Relative Profitability of Cocoa and Alternative Crops in
Eastern Region, Ghana. in Economics of Cocoa Production and Marketing.
Edited by Kotey R.A., C. Okali and B.E. Rourke. ISSER.



- 33 -
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER
9.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) Government would establish, by June 30, 1976, a separate
department responsible for seed gardens within MCA to be
headed by a fully qualified officer and that it would
contract with consultants acceptable to IBRD by March
31, 1976, to help study and make recommendations on seed
gardens production and that it would promptly, after the
completion of such studies, take appropriate action
(para 2.17);
(b) Government, in regular consultation with the Bank, would
design a survey of the cocoa sector by December 31, 1976;
and would cause the survey to be initiated by June 30, 1977.
In the interim Government would attempt to replant cocoa at
a rate of at least 16,000 acres per year after completion
of the project's three year planting program and would appoint
an officer within MCA to be responsible for cocoa rehabilitation,
such officer to have qualifications and experience satisfactory
to the Bank (para 2.19);
(c) To be eligible for credit, farmers would have to meet the
following criteria: (i) reside on or near the farm to be
replanted, and be prepared to actively work on the farm;
(ii) be a member of a cooperative union or a client of PBA
to facilitate credit administration; and (iii) have had
their proprietary interest in land to be planted with
assistance of a loan defined and established to the satis-
faction of PU; and (iv) that they would be eligible to
replant a maximum of 5 acres in the project period (para 4.05);
(d) The Eastern Region Cocoa Project and the proposed project
would have first priority on seed supply from the seed
gardens at Bunso, Apedwa, Fumso and Kwadaso; and any
other garden should supplies from these gardens not be
adequate (para 4.06);
(e) Ghana Highway Authority would adequately maintain feeder
roads in areas where participating farmers are located
and would be responsible for the procurement and operation
of the equipment unit included in project costs which
would be used only in the project area.  GHA would also, in
conjunction with Project management, carry out by December
31, 1976 a survey of future feeder road requirements in the
project area (para 4.10);



- 34 -
(f) By February 1, 1976 a contract acceptable to IBRD for project
evaluation would be entered into with ISSER or another
institution acceptable to IBRD and Government would cause
ISSER and such other institution to monitor ERCP to its
completion (para 4.11);
(g) Government would provide all necessary funds to carry on its
activities in respect to the project up to and including the
fifth year of growth of project plantings and would continue
the farmers' credit scheme on terms and conditions acceptable
to IBRD (para 5.04);
(h) Government would make block budgetary allocations to cover
annual project costs, and funds so earmarked would be made
available quarterly in advance to PU. Funds for credit to
farmers would be made available quarterly to PU for its
expenditures in the subsequent 3-month period (para 5.05);
(i) Farmers would receive credit for the first three years of
plantings. Terms would be 18 years with repayment at no
less than 8% interest beginning in the 7th year. Interest
would be capitalized over,the grace period of 6 years
(para 5.06). The form of agreement between farmers and
PU would be agreed with IBRD (para 6.06);
(j) Cooperatives and PBA which guarantee and administer farmer
loans would be entitled to retain one quarter of the interest
repayments by the farmers (para 5.07);
(k)  The Project Manager would submit, in advance, a planting
and evaluation program for each calendar year to IBRD for
its approval (para 5.09);
(1) Accounts of PU, farmers' credit and participating PBA depots
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to IBRD and such accounts together with the accounts of
participating cooperatives would be submitted to IBRD
within six months of the close of each financial year
(para 5.10);
(m)  The Project Unit would be a semi-autonomous entity within
the Ministry of Cocoa Affairs (para 6.01);
(n) The Project Manager, and the Financial Controller would at
all times be persons with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IBRD. Those of the persons now in post are
acceptable (para 6.02);
(o) CMB would make available quarterly in advance to union
cooperative societies such funds as are estimated by PU
to be required by primary cooperatives for purchasing
members' cocoa. This would also apply to ERCP (para 6.06).



- 35 -
9.02      During negotiations it was agreed that a condition of loan effec-
tiveness would be that the form of agreement between farmers and PU had been
agreed with IBRD (para 6.06). Agreement in principle on a draft was reached
during negotiations.
9.03      Further, understandings referred to in paras 2.10, 2.16 and 4.05,
were reached with Government.
9.04      Retroactive financing would be available for all costs incurred
according to Bank procurement guidelines, prior to loan effectiveness,
to a limit of US$0.9 million.
9.05      On the basis of the assurances obtained at negotiations, the
condition   of effectiveness, and understandings reached with Government
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$14.0 million.






ANNEX 1
Table 1
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Regional Production of Cocoa
('000 tons)
Brong
Total     Eastern           Ashanti        Ahafo   Western   Volta    Central
'000
Tons 
1947/h8       208         t6               10  34          36        11      20          25
948/49       278         67               82  29          44        15      26          44
,949/50      248          54              72  29           43       14       24          39
1950/51      262.         56              78  30           45       17       25          42
951/52      211          48              61  29           37        12      24          30
'5,52/53     247          50              78  31           41        12      28          38
-953/54      211          ho              60  28           43       10       22          36
954/55       220        h4                69  31          43        11      22          34
1 955/56     229          38               68  30          51        12      28          32
1956/57       264         40               78  30          55        15      32          h4
l957,/58     207          35              70  34           35       10       22          35
1958/59       256          39              85  33          70         8      21          33
1959/60       317         47              105  33          74        14      23          53
1960/61      432          64              148  34          96       23       31          71
1961/62       409          54             134  33          85        21      29          87
1962/63      421          82              149  35          81       23       21          66
1963/6h       437          82             154  35          89        2h      28          60
'964/65      549         106             187  34          121       34       27          74
1965/66      409          71             153  37          100       2L       20          41
1966/67      375          68             128  34           86       25       19          49
1967/68      423          75             139  33          107       28       24          51
1968/69      330          56             107  32           92       21       14          40
1969/70      411          68             12h  30          114        31      21          54
1970/71      421          73              128  30         110        36      15          59
'>71/72      h63          85             143  31          117       50       10          57
i972/73      415          7h             124  30         111        43       22          4-3
^973/74       349         65             105  30           77       41        -          L7
-surce:  Cocoa Annex to Economic Report of March 9, 1972 and CMB.
Note: Columns may not add due to rounding.



GAMMALIN J"20" SALES TO FARMERS
BY REGION, 1956/57 - 1974 (1000 Gals)
Year v            Brong-Ahafo/Ashanti i2         Western/Central .          Eastern             Volta             Total
1956-57                     23.74                      2.82                    3.95              0.22             30.73
1957-58                     64.03                     21.84                   22.85              9.37            118.09
1958-59                    105.70                     -142                    38.15              5.45            190.72
1959                        85.86                     31.54                   30.48              2.50            150.38
1960                       129.56                     64.14                  104.38             14.38            312.47
1961                        93-34                     51.28                   44.06              8.96            197.65
962       -                103.10                     54.72                   48.70              3.93            210.46
1963 i                     128.81                     69.52                   61.76              7.29            267.38
19614                       96.27                     51.07                   h5.38              3.73            196.45
1965 i'                     42.38                     22.49                   19.98              1.64             86.49
1966                        11.98                      8.68                    5.73              0.95             27.34
1967                     23.16/36.75                5.82/15.21                19.32              3.24            103.50
1968                     38.87/63.89               13.09/27.05                30.89              5.44            177.22
1969                     38.83/77.80               22.66/28.58                26.66              4.16            198.68
1970                     34.90/78.62               13.68/28.54                20.39              3.44            179.57
1971                     26.49/42.91               23.29/19.32                15.50              2.60            130.12
1972                     23.04/47.11               28.44/25.12                22.93              2.46            149.10
1973                     23.78/77.16               19.61/38.84                30.77              7.74            197.89
1974                     21.98/30.55               14.22/22.31                31.08              5.94            129.08
a/   The first three years listed are fiscal years: April-March.
From 1959 on, data are according to calendar year.
b/   Some rows may not add to total due to rounding.
2/  All data for Brong Ahafo and Ashanti have been grouped together
because prior to 1960 no distinction was made between the two
regions. The same applies to Western and Central regions.
d/   UGFCC sales during 1963-1965 have been allocated to the regions
so that the regional sales for those years are the same proportions
of the total as existed in 1962.



AidiiEX 2
Table 1
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Projected Selling Price for Cocoa and Distribution of Proceeds
CIF (N. Y.) US$ per lb       1/                     =.5
CIF (N. Y.) US$ per long ton                        =      1,142.4
Insurance & Freight, US$ per long ton               =          48.0
FOB Ghana, US$ per long ton                         =      1,094.4
FOB Ghana, NV  per long ton                         =      1,262.7
Export Duty NO per long ton   2/                              5 523.7
Net Export Proceeds NO per long ton                 =         739.0
DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS                               N4 per long ton
Fixed price payable to farmers 3/                   =         597.33
Fixed allowance payable to LEA's  4/                -          58.84
Commission to Cocoa Marketing Company i/            -          6.59
Operation Costs, Cocoa Marketing Board:
(a)  Storage time allowance                                  0.29
(b)  Transport, Fumigation etc.                             17.14
(c)  Financial Costs                                        11.43
(d)  Administration                                         14.86
Profit accruing to Cocoa Marketing Board                       32.52
1/  IERD forecast in 1985 in 197h terms for Aocra, spot New York.
2/  Based on 1973/74 maximun allowable revenue of 9739.00 by the
Government. to the Cocoa Marketing Board.
3/  At present rate of 11A6.O0 per load of 60 lbs.
&/ The Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board pays an allowance of t56.84 and
t58Rh Dper ton for rocoa delivered to the Board at up ccuntry
center or atthe ports respectively. Since about 90% of the produce
is delivered at the ports, an allowance of t58.a4 is used.
5/ !Q_ of export value (CIF).



ANNEX 2
Table 2
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCQA PROJECT
Estimated Economic "True" Producer Price of Cocoa
CIF (N.Y.) us$ per lb                          0.51
CIF (N.Y.) US$ per long ton                1,1i2.!40
Insurance and Freight                         48.oo
FOB Ghana US$ per long ton                 l,094.40
FOB Ghana 0 per long ton                   1,262.72 1/   1,641.60 2/
Less  LBA Allowance                           58.84          58.84
:MB Cost & Commission                   50.18         50.18
Producer Price                    /  1,153.70    0 1,532.58 g/
1/  Converted at the official exchange rate of US$1.00 = 0 1.1538.
2/ Applying an upward adjustment of 30% to the exchange value of
the cedi to take account of the severe quantitative import re-
strictions needed to keep Ghana's external receipts and payments
in balance at the prevailing official exchange rate.



ANNEX 3
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Project Area Cooperatives
Zone             Union              No. of Societies      No. of Members
Mampong          Nkenkasu                     20                 2,991
Sekyere Mponua              31                 3,576
Offinso                     31                 4,687
82               11$254
Konongo          Ashanti Akin                 48                 3,948
Bekwai           Manso Adagya                 29                 3,201
Bekwai                      18                 3,305
Nsokote/Amansie              16                3,945
Adanse                       22                2,419
TA                12 870
TOTAL                      215                28,72



ANNEX 4
Table 1
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Project Costs
jg I'000
Foreign
Exchange
1975/76     1976/77    1977/78         Total             Component
Farm Development
Hired Labor             480       1,424      2,685           4,589                 _
Materials                565      1,516      2,669           4,750              2,137  (45%)
Total              1,045       2,940      5,354           9,339              2,137
Project Administration
Investments
Vehicles                620         108        295           1,023                818  (80%)
Feeder Road Component    -          198         -              198                156  (80%)
Equipment               323         146         69             538                269  (50%)
Total                943         452        364           1,759             1,245
Project Adainistration
Operation Costs
Office Rent              30          30         41             101                 10  (10%)
Vehicles                167         194        253             614                338  (55%)
Equipment                 4           5          5              14                  7  (50%)
Staff Salaries        1,246       1,714      1,847           4,807                240  (5%)
General                  140        270        270             680                 68  (10%)
Total              1,587       2,213      2,416           6,216               663
Evaluation                115         115        115             345                 34  (10%)
Technical Assistance       122        104         17             243                243  (100%)
Total              3,812       5,824      8,266          17,902             4,322  (24%)
Physical Contingency-5%   191         291        413             895               216
Price Contingency         607       1,868      3,975           6,450557
TOTAL              4,610       7,983     12,654          25,247             6,095  (24%)



GHNA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Per Acre Annual Cost
Year I         Year 2          Year 3          Year 4         Year 5          Year 6         Year 7           Year 8 onward
.... .Mandays.
LABOR
Land clearing                                                   30              -               -                              -
Peg  cutting, pegging and lining                                 3              -               -              -               _               _              _                  _
Holing for cocoa and shade                                       4              -               -              -               -               -              _                  _
Carrying cocoa seedlings                                         4              1               -                                              -              -                  _
Planting and filling vacancies                                  10              4               2
Mulching                                                          2             2               2               -              -               -              -                  -
Weeding                                                         20             20              20             20              10               8              6                  5
Spraying against capsid                                           2             8               8              8               8              10             10                 10
Pruning                                                           -             -               -              I               I               I              1                  1
Harvesting and processing                                        -              -               -              3               6               9             21                 25
Total MD Required                                          75             35             32              32              25             28             38                 41
......,.. , , .......... Cedi.
Total cost of MD (O 2.0 MD)                               150.00          70.00          64.00           64.00           50.00           56.00         7/i.00              32.00
FARM INPUTS
Materials
Plantain Suckers (340 ac @ e 7.50/100)                          25.50           -
Sprayers (¢ 30.00 each per 5 ac)                                 6.00           -               -              -               6.00            -              -                  1.50
Cutlasses                                                        3.00           3.00            3.00           3.00            3.00            3.00           3.00               3.00
Use of other tools (chisels, axes, baskets, etc.)                5.00           1.00            -              -               -               -              -                  -
Insecticides (.75 gals/acre @ e2.0/acre)  1/                     2.00           2.00           2.00            2.00            2.00            2.00           2.00               2.00
Transport of seedlings and snl,ekrs                              0.40           0.08           0.04            -               -               -              -                  -
Seedlings (680/ac @ e 0.08 each) 2/                             54.40           -                              -
Replarements (307. Year 2; 157i Year 3)                          -             16.32           8.16                            -                              -                  -
Total Materials                                          96.30          22.40          13.20            5.00           11.00            5.00           5.00               6.50
Subsidies
Sprayers (t 130.0 each for 5 ac)                                26.00           -              -               -              26.00            -              -                  6.50
Insecticides (O 14.50/gal)                                      14.50          14.50          14.50           14.50           14.50           14.50          14.50              14.50
Total Subsidies                                          40.50          14.50           14.50           14.50          40.50           14.50          14.50              21.00                     ,4, .
TOTAL COST PER ACRE                                  286.80         106.90           91.70           83.50         101.50           75.50          95.50             109.50
1/ Iased on 4 sprayings a year of "orthobux" @ ¢ 2200/gal.
2/ Includes cost of poly bags.



GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
On-Farm Costs
75/76    76/77     77/78      Total      78/79    79/80      80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84       8V/85 on
Planting
Schedule (ac)    4,000   10,000    16,000      30,000
Costs              *...00.*0...........0 ...            ....  .   0       ...................... ....................¢'0 
Fami-ly Labor     120.0.   356.0      671.2   1,147.2       403.2    372.8      349.6    332.8    396.8    472.8        491.8
Hired Labor       480.0  1,424.0  2,684.8    4,588.8   1,612.8  1,491.0   1,398.2  1,331.2  1.587.2  1.891.2    1,968.0
Materials         385.2  1,052.6   1,817.6    3,255.4       510.4    305.2      210.0    246.0    156.0    171.0        195.0
Subsidies         162,0    463.0      851.0    1 476.0      435.0    539.0     695.0    851.0    461.0    526.0        630.0
Total        1,165.2  3,295.6   6,024.6   10,467.4   2,961.4  2,708.0   2,652.8  2,761.0  2,601.0  3,061.0    3,284.8



ANex 4
T.ble 4W
GR8AN
ASHANTI RECUR COCOA PROJECT
Proiect Admieistratioa Staff
11
Unit Cost                75/76               76/77             77/78             78/79                79/80            80/81              81/82             82/83 on
......   .......................................................0        ' 0   ......................................................... .. ... .. ... ..
HRadnuarters
Project  O.nenger                     17,000              (1)   17.0          (1)   17.0
Deputy Project Manager                13,500              (1)   13.5          (1)   13.5
Fina.cial Controller                  42,600               (1)   42.6         (1)   42.6
Ad.ln. Officer                         6,000              (1)    6.0          (1)    6.0
Project Accountant                     5,900              (1)    5.9          (1)    5.9
Credit Officer                         5,900              (1)    5.9          (1)    5.9
Internal A.ditors                      3,900              (2)    7.8          (2)    7.8
Records Officer                        4,725              (1)    4.7          (1)    4.7
Records Asats.                         1,350               (3)    4.1         (5)    6.8
Coop. Officer                          4,725               (1)    4.7         (1)    4.7
Sr. A.st. Coop. Officers               2,430              (1)    2.4          (2)    4.9
Workshop Eng. Supt.                    4,200               (1)    4.2         (1)    4.2
Auto Mechsmico                         1,400              (2)    2.8          (3)    4.2
Draughtsaan                            2,700              (2)    5.4          (1)    2.7
Drauing Office A.sts.                  1,350              (1)    1.4          (3)    4.1
Sr. Asat. Clerls                       2,400              (2)    4.8          (5)   12.0
Stores Sup. (Purchases)                3,900              (1)    3.9          (1)    3.9
Sr. Storekeepera                       2,400              (1)    2.4          (1)    2.4
Secretaries                            2,400              (2)    4.8          (3)    7.2
Account Typiata                        1,200              (2)     2.4         (2)    2.4
General Typiots                        1,200               (3)    3.6         (4)    4.8
Watcheen                               1,060               (2)    2.1         (2)    2.1
Dri.er.                                1,450              (5)    7.3          (8)   11.6
Laborers                                 950              (1)     1.0         (1)    1.0
Total                                                        160.7              189.6             189.6             189.6               189.6             189.6             189.6                189.6
2/
Zoces and Districts
Administ-mtioc
Project Monogers                       7,000              (2)   14.0          (2)   14.0    (3)    21.0         (3)    21.0        (3)       21.0
Project Officers                      4,200               (8)   33.6          (8)   33.6   (12)    50.4    (12)    50.4           (12)       50.4
Store Superitrendecta                  3,900              (2)    7.8          (2)    7.8    (3)    11.7         (3)    11.7         (3)      11.7
Sr. Storekeepers                       2,400              (8)   19.2          (8)   19.2   (12)    28.8    (12)    28.8            (12)      28.8
Typist.                                1,200             (10)   12.0        (10)   12.0   (15)    18.0    (15)    18.0            (15)       18.0
Drivers                                1,450             (22)   31.9         (22)   31.9   (33)    47.9    (33)    47.9           (33)      47.9
Watch.en                               1,060             (10)   10.6         (10)   10.6   (15)    15.9    (15)    15.9            (15)      15.9
Laborers                                 950              (4)    3.8          (4)    3.8    (6)        5.7      (6)      5.7        (6)       5.7
Laborers for Deoarcation                 950             (30)   28.5        (48)   45.6   (72)    68.4                    -                    -
Total                                                      161.5               178.6            267.8             199.4                199.4            199.4              199.4               199.4
R.cords/Accou.e-ti
Reoords Officers                       4,725              (2)    9.5          (2)    9.5    (3)    14.2         (3)    14.2         (3)      14.2
Acct. Officers 1                       3,900              (2)    7.8          (2)    7.8    (3)    11.7         (3)    11.7         (3)      11.7
Acct. Officers 11                      2,400              (8)   19.2          (8)   19.2   (12)    28.8    (12)    28.8            (12)      28.8
A-ct. Clerks                           1,250             (24)   30.0         (24)   30.0   (36)    45.0    (36)    45,0            (36)      45.0
Drawiog Office A.oiotanst              1,350              (6)    8.1         (14)   18.9   (22)    29.7         (3)      4.1        (33       4.1
Total                                                       74.6                85.4            129.4              103.8                99.7             99.7               99.7                 99.7
3/
fxctens ion
Technical Officers                     2,700             (33)   89.1         (50)  135.0   (50)   135.0    (50)   135.0           (48)    129.6        (41) 110.7        (30)  81.0          (25)    67.5
Field Asote., Gr. I                    1,550            (200)  310.0       (300)  465.o  (300)   465.0   (300)   465.0    (287)    444.9    (245) 378.8                 (177) 274.4         (150)   248.0
Total                                                      399.1               600.0            600.0             600.0                574.5            490.5              355.4                315.5
Credit
41
For,  Inopec. Officers                4,200              (13)   54.6         (20)   84.0   (20)    84.0    (20)    84.0            (20T      84.0      (20)  84.0        (20)  84.0          (20)    84.0
Porn Inspec. Assat.                    2,700            (133)  359.1        (200)  540,0  (200)   540.0   (200)   540.0    (173)    467.1    (106) 286.0                 (50) 135.0          (50)   135.0
Total                                                      413.7               624.0            624.0             624.0                551.1            370.1              219.0                219.0
Project Staff:  Total                                            1,209.6            1,677.6          1,810.8           1,716.8              1,614.3          1,349.3           1,063.1               1,023.2
MCA
Director of R.hsblitetion              18,000               (1)    18.0        (1)   18.0
Director of Seed Gardens                18,000               (1)    18.0        (1)   18.0
Total                                                         36.0              36.0             36.0               36.0                 36.0             36.0              36.0                  36.0
Total Staff Cost:                                                1,245.6            1,713.6          1,846.8           1,752.8              1,650.3          1,385.3           1,099.1               1,059.2
1/ Includes rent euhaidy.
2/  Assuming 3 .oses and 12 separate district offices.
3/ Assuming 4,000, 10,000, 16,000 acre planting program end 10,000 participating farmers.
4/ Staff retained to oversoc onions.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
GHANA
ASHANT1 REGION COCOA PROJECT
1/
Vehicle Costs
Total
Unit Cost        1975/76        1976/77         1977/78        1975/76 - 1977/78          1978/79        1979/80         1980/81 onwards
e.................................                      a.....     .    .... e   o o .......................... ............. ....
Vehicles
Headquarters
Cars                                   7,000          (2) 14.0             -              -                  14.0                    -              -              2.8
Four-wheel drive                       9,000          (2) 18.0             -              _                  18.0                    -              -              3.6
5/7-ton trucks                       20,000           (2) 40.0             -              -                  40.0                    -              -              9.0
Pickups (small)                       4,000           (2)  8.0             -              -                   8.0                    -              _              1.6
80.0            -              -                  80.0                    -              -             16.0
Zones (3)
Four-wheel drive                       9,000          (2) 18.0             -      (1)    9.0                 27.0                    -              -              5.4
Tractors- 60 hp                        7,500          (4) 30.0             -      (2)   15.0                 45.0                    -              -              9.0
Water tank trailers                    5,500          (4) 22.0                    (2)   11.0                 33.0                    -              -              6.6
Pickups (small)                       4,000           (2)  8.0             _     (1)    4.0                  12.0                    -              -              2.5
Motorcycles                              900          (2)   1.8            -      (1)    0.9                  2.7                    1.B            -              0.9
79.8                        39.9                 119.7                    1.8            -             24.4
Divisions (12)
Four-wheel drive                       9,000          (8) 72.0             -     (4)  36.0                  108.0                    -              -             21.6
Tractors- 60 hp                        7,500          (8) 60.0             -      (4)  30.0                  90.0                    -              -             18.0
Tipping trailers                       1.700          (8) 13.6             _      (4)    6.8                 20.4                    -              -              4.1
5/7-ton trucks                       20,000           (8)160.0                    (4)  80.0                 240.0                    -              -             48.0
Motorcycles                              900         (54) 48.6   (24)   21.6   (4)    3.6                    73.8                   48.6           21.6           24.6
Bicycles                                 150        (333) 50.0  (167)  25.1               -                  75.1                   50.0           25.1           25.0
404.2           46.7         156.4                607.3                   98.6           46.7          141.3
Total Vehicles                                     564.0           46.7         196.3                807.0                  100.4           46.7          181.7
FEEDER ROAD COMPONENT
Grader                               72,000                 -             72.0            -                  72.0                    -              -              -
Front-end  loader                    60,0oo                 -             10.0            -                  oO.C
load Roller                           18,000                -             18.0            -                  18.0
Tipper truck                         30,000                 -             30.0            -                  30.0
Total Road Component                                  -           180.0             -                 180.0                    -              -              -
T o t a 1                                564.0          226.7         196.3                 987.0                  100.4          46.7          181.7
Vehicle spares @ 10°.                                      56.4           79.1          98:i                234.2                   98.;,           8,7           98,7
T O T A L                                          6204            3n5,s        29..0              1.221.2                   199.1          145.4          280.4
1/ Net of duties and taxes.



ANNEX 4
Table 6
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Eauipment Cost
Unit                                     Total
Cost      1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1975-19       1978/79
0         a.o.oo.o00...         00 0ooo              ... 0o
Office Equipment
Headquarters                        80         -        -          80          -
Zones                 13,000        26        13        -          39          -
Districts             16,000       128        64        -         192          _
Total                           2          77        -        311           _
Equipment Replacement                 47        62       62         171         62
(20 percent)
Workshop Equipment      35,OOO        35         -        -          35
Equipment Replacement                  7        7         7          21          7
(20 percent)
T o t al1                  323                           T3 



GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Recurrent Costs
C'000
75/76            76/77             77/78               Total
Annual                                                           1975/76 - 77/78
Cost Each
Vehicles                       X
Cars & Pick-ups             2,500       (6)  15.0       (6)  15.0          (7)  17.5              47.5
Four-Wheel Drive            3,500      (12)  42.0       (12)  42.0        (17)  59.5             143.5
Motorcycle                    500      (56)  28.0       (80)  40.0        (85)  42.5             110.5
Tractors                    3,500      (12)  42.0       (12)  42.0        (18)  63.0             147.0
Trucks                      4,000      (10)  40.0       (10)  40.0        (14)  56.0             136.0
Grader                      3,500             -          (1)   3.5         (1)   3.5               7.0
Front-end Loader            3,500             -          (1)   3.5         (1)   3.5               7.0
Roller                      3,500             -          (1)   3.5         (1)   3.5               7.0
Tipper                      4,000             -          (1)   4.0         (1)   4.0               8.0
613.5
Total                                  167.0           193.5              253.0
Buildings
Rent for Office Accomodation 1/              30.0             30.0              40.8             100.8
Equipment
1.5d of capital cost                          4.0              5.2               5.2              14.4
General Expenses & Training
Printing, Travel, Office,
Audit, etc.                                100.0            190.0             190.0             480.0
Farmers Training                             25.0             50.0              50.0             125.0               ^
Staff Training                               15.0             30.0              30.0              75.0               C
Total                                 1h0.0            270.0             270.0             680.0
1/  Annual rental:  headquarters -   5 t,400, zones - e 3,600 each, districts - e 1,800 each.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
The World Cocoa Market 1/
1.        Since cocoa is a commodity facing inelastic demand, it falls under
the purview of the Bank's policy 2/ of limiting financing of new production
of primary commodities facing inelastic demand, in general, to countries
with few export alternatives. However, this policy carries the provisions
that financing production of such commodities would not be restricted in
countries which lack alternative opportunities and which are poor, as well
as in cases where the long-run market outlook for the commodity is signifi-
cantly favorable, and where an effective international commodity agreement
exists. 3/ This review of the world market outlook for Bank lending for
cocoa production has been prepared against the background of these policy
considerations. Attention has also been given to the danger of a potential
shift to substitutes in the production of chocolate should cocoa prices be
sustained at high levels.
2.        The demand prospects for cocoa are attractive at present (in
contrast to the situation in tea), and it is expected that the increased
production of Bank Group projects in the pipeline will not contribute to
excessive supply which would reduce the price below even the maximum price
currently set in the International Cocoa Agreement. Consequently, based on
the present favorable market prospects and price projections, the Bank can
proceed with the projects now in the pipeline, the output of which is included
in the production estimate. If, because of the favorable price, new plantings
exceed present expectations, market prospects would have to be reviewed.
Consequently, the financing of future major cocoa projects not in the pipeline
should be contingent upon periodic review of market outlook in the light of
updated supply information and of evolving demand conditions.
3.        Cocoa is produced only in developing countries and consumed mainly
in developed countries. Both production and consumption are characterized
by a high degree of geographic concentration. Nearly four-fifths of world
output and exports is concentrated in five countries, namely, Ghana, Nigeria,
1/   Summary of "The World Cocoa Market - Review and Outlook for Bank Lending",
prepared by the Economic Analysis and Projections Department, February 22,
1974 (R74-36), and subsequent updatings.
2/   "Development Policy for Countries Highly Dependent on Exports of Primary
Products" (R73-3), January 4, 1973.
3/   "Financing of Tea," R73-206, August 17, 1973 and M73-42, September 17,
1973.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Brazil, Ivory Coast and Cameroon. Western Europe and North America together
account for about four-fifths of world imports of cocoa beans and Eastern
Europe for over 10%. The primary source of world supply in West Africa.
4.         The share of cocoa in the export earnings of a number of major
producing countries has gradually declined over time, indicating a trend
towards diversification of exports. However, in Ghana and Papua New Guinea,
and to some extent in Togo, dependence on cocoa export earnings increased
during the 1960s.
5.         Currently, about one-fifth of the output of raw cocoa is processed
into intermediate cocoa products in the producing countries themselves. This
production is expected to increase somewhat in the future. The remainder is
exported via three major forms of marketing systems in the producing countries:
marketing boards, caisses de stabilization, and private trading firms or pro-
ducer co-operatives.
6.         An International Cocoa Agreement covering three years, 1973/74-
1975/76 is currently in force. Stablization of prices and export earnings
with due regard to consumer and producer interests are the main objectives.
Its main features include: annual export quotas, a buffer stock with a
capacity to purchase up to 250 thousand tons and a price range (currently
29-1/2 - 38-1/2/lb) to determine buffer stock operations. The United States,
whose share is about a quarter of world cocoa imports, is however, not a
signatory country to the Agreement. The Agreement has been renegotiated
for 1976-77/1978-79 quota years with a price range of 39-55 US cents per pound.
It is unlikely that the United States will be signatory to this new Agreement.
7.         The world production is estimated at around 1,820 thousand metric
tons for 1980, as compared with an annual average of 1,369 thousand tons in
1967-71. This rate of growth of 2.6% per year is below the anticipated
growth in demand in 1972 constant prices. Equilibrating demand and supply,
the current price in 1980 is estimated to rise to around 61l/lb, or 4l/lb
in 1973 dollars, which is expected to hold for the first half of the 1980s.
This compares favorably with the average real price of 36.4i/lb in 1970-72
(1973 = 100, Index of International Prices).
8.         The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) has been consulted on
the prospects of the future world cocoa market and on the probable impact
of the anticipated Bank Group projects. ICCO considers the long-term market
outlook for cocoa to be favorable for the expansion of production and has
raised no objection to the proposed project.



ANNEX 
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Costs and Returns Per Acre
Year 1      2         3       4       5       6      7-18      19
Production
Cocoa (lb/ac)                                       100     300    400      750       750
Plantain bunches                  300      300      150
Income
Cocoa (016.00/60 lb)                                 26.7    80.0  106.7   200.0      200.0
Plantain (d 0.5/bunch)            150.0     150.0   75.0
Total Farm Income                 150.0     150.0  101.7    80.0  106.7   200.0       200.0
Loan                     216.3       78.4       64.4    -       -       -
Total Sources          216.3      228.4     214.4  101.7    80.0  106.7   200.0       200.0
Expenditure
On-farm materials       96.3       22.4      13.2     5.0    11.0    5.0      6.5       6.5
Hired Labor            120.0       56.0      51.2    51.2   40.0   LL.8    65.6        6q.6
Total Farm
Expenditures           216.3        78.4      64.4   56.2    51.0   49.8    72.1        72.1
Income before
Debt Service             -         150.0    150.0   45.5    29.0   56.9   127.9        127.9
Debz ,.ervice   8%
Interest 2/                                                                  70.0
Net Income                           150.0   150.0    45.5    29.0   56.9    57,9    127.9
Return to Farmer's
Labor per Manday          -          21.4    23.4      7.1     5.8   10.2      7.1      15.6
Return to Total Labor
Input per Manday          -           5.9      6.3     3.0     2.8    3.6      2.7        4.7
1/  In 1974 constant prices.
2/ Interest capitalized during grace period.



ANNEX 7(
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative
US$1000          US$1000
FY 76
First Quarter
Second  "                -                 -
Third   "              2,100             2,100
Fourth  "                300             2,400
FY 77
First Quarter            400             2,800
Second  "                800             3,600
Third   "              2,500             6,100
Fourth  "                500             6,600
FY 78
First Quarter            600             7,200
Second  "              1,200             8,400
Third   "              5,000            13,400
Fourth  "                600            14,000



GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Project Costs to Year 7 1/
FE-
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82            Total     Component
Hired Labor                    480     1,424      2,685      1,613     1,491      1,219       640          9,552
Materials                      565      1,516     2,669        945       844        827        824         8,190
Vehicles & Feeder Road
Component                     620        306       295        199       145        242       149          1,956
Equipment                      323        146        69         69        69         60         37           773
Office Rent                     30         30        41         41        41         36         22           241
Vehicles Maintenance           167        194       253        253       253        219        135         1,4
Equipment Maintenance            4          5         5          5         5          5          3            32
Staff Salaries               1,210     1,678      1,811      1,717     1,614      1,169       567          9,766
General                        140        270       270        190       190        165       101          1,327
Evaluation                     115        115       115        115       115        100         61           736
Technical Assistance           122        104        17         -         -          -         -             243
Total Incl. Contingencies   4,558      7,915    12,569      8,889      9,111      8,392     5,574         57,008      12,345   (22%)
1/   Excluding cost of familv labor, in end-1974 prices.
t %



GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
1llor-tt-ve Go-ver-eet Cash Floe
1985/86                                                         1997/98
to                                                              to           2005/86
Producer Price e 16/60/lb.                      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979/80     1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      1984/85      1992/93      1993/94      1994/95    1995/96       1996/97      2004/05          Onvards
INFLOW
IBRD Lo.e                                    2,310.0      3,595.0      6,271.0        -             -            -            -            -           -            -            _             -            -          -             _            _               _
Export Tao 00 Cocos  2/                          -            -            -           99.1        546.3      1,539.5      2,930.1     4,196.5       5,587.0     5,587.0      5,587.0      5,587.0       5,587.0    5,587.0       5,587.0      5,587.0        5,587.0
Ta-  -ed ntoti  -iP Poe3ec-  C.,tS 3/            17.0         20.0         25.8        25.8          25.8        2588                     2258          J5.8         25 .8        75.8         75.8         25.0        25.8         25.8         25.8           25.8
arrsLose Repey-te 4.                                     --                       -                                      2604        91         0 9 53 o     083.8        5.330        1 692.6      1_041 6                      -            --
Torst  Ifles                             2,327.0      3,615.0      6,296.8        125.1        572.1      1,565.3      3,216.3     5,133.7       7,565.8     7,565.8      7,565.8       7,305.4      6,654.4   .5,612.8       5,612.8      5,612.8        5,612.8
OUTFLOW
Peoject Costs                                3,812.0      5,824.0      8,266.0        .             -            -            .            -            -            -            -            -            -           -            -            -               -
PoiL Project Costs                                            -            -        4,922.2      4,001.9      2,899,0      2,768.8      2,338.9      2,403.9     7,507.9      2,507.9       2,507.9      2,507.9    2,507.9       2,507.9      2,507.9        2,507.9
Debt 5ervice 000RD Loon:
SeII_e charge  5/                             74.0         47.0                      -            -                  -            -            -            -            -            -            -                  -            -            -               -
Pri_cipl and Irrercoc  6/                    90 7     _340 2           66.5      14,45.0      1,035.0      1,035.0      1.0,5.0      1.033,0      1,241.2      1,241.2      1-,a1 0       I M         0,241.2    1.241,2       1,241,2     1,241.2
Total Outfloe                            3,984.2       6,220.2     9,034.5      5,957.2      5,036.9      3,934.0      3,803.8      3,373.9      3,645.1      3,749.1     3,749.1       3,749.1      3,749.1    3,749.1       3,749.1      3,749.1         2,507.9
S-rpl-e (deficit)                              (1,657.2)   (2,605.2)   (2,737.7)   (5,832.1)   (4,464.8)   (2,368.7)   ( 587.5)    1,759.8             3,920.7      3,645.1      3,645.1      3,556.3      2,905.3    1,863.7       1,863.7      1,863.7         3,104.9
Cu=uleti-e Suspls (Deficit)                   (1,657.,)   (4,262.4)   (7,000.1)  1/2,832.2)  (17,297.0)  (19,665.7)  (20,253.2)  (18,493.4)  (14,527.7)  '1(1,927.6)   18,233.2    21,789.5    24,694.8   26,558.5    28,422.2    43,331.8                     46,436.7
Prdodcer Price- e 18/60/lb.
SOrploi (defioit)                          (1,657.2)   (2,605.2)   (2,737.7)  / 5,845.4)  ( 4,538.1)  ( 2,575.4)   / 980.8)    1,196.5             4,367.2    2,895,1        2,895.1      2,806.3       2,155.3    1,113.7       1,113.7      1,113,7        2,354.9
C-o1-sti-t Surplo-  deticcc                 (1,657.2)   /4,262.4)   (7,000.1)  (12,845.5)  (17,383.6)  (19,959.0)  (20,939.8)  (19,743.3)  (15,376.1) (12,481.0)    10,679.8    13,486.1    15,641.4   16,755.1    17,868.8    26,778.4                      29,133.3
1/  1 co-ct-ot -ed 1974 pti/ee, i.e., =ithoutcoetinge..ies.
2/ Eopo-t doty pot log too a 523.7  + CMB profit of ¢ 32.52 per log to.,
3/  10% .0 recorreot costs (-ehicles sod eqoipo-ot).
4/ Not of 27. nterest spresd to -ooperatices aed PBA., loano to t osl-holdere ot 8% for 18 years i-le ding grace period of six years.
5/  3/4 of 12 00 ondisbursed portion.
6/ At 8.57 over 30 years inclodiog grace period of oighL yests.



GHANA
ASHANTI RYGION COCOA PROJECT
trstiiated Government Cashflow for a 16,000 Acre Planting
V0'000) 1/
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year h      Year 5      Year 6       Year 7      Year 8-18       Year 19 on
Costs
Total Credit
& Subsidies             4,108.8    1,486.4    1,262.2         232.0      648.0       232.0       232.0          336.0           336.0
Project Administration:
Capital Costs              112.9       112.9       112.9       112.9     112.9       112,9       112.9          112.9           112.9
Operating Costs          1,120.6    1,120.6    1,120.6    1,070.5   1,068.3          879.5       692.5         692.5            692.5
Total Costs per
16,000 acres            5,342.3    2,719.9    2,495.7    1,415.4   1,829.2    1,224.4    1, U37.4            1,1'1.4          1,141.4
Benefits per 16,000 acres
Export Tax
(>. 0 523.7/ton)           -           -           _          374.1   1,122.2    1,496.3    2,805.6           2,805.6         2,805.6
Profit accruing to CMB
(V 32.52/ton)                _          _           _            23.2       69.7        92.9       174.2         174.2            174.2
Net Benefits on
Export                                -          -            397.3   1,191.9    1,589.2    2,979.8          2,979.8         2,979.8
Farmers' Loan
Repayments _/              -           -           -           -                                1,041.6       1,041.6            -
Tot,l Benefits             -           -           -           397.3   1,191.9    1,589.2    4,021.4         4,021.4          2,979.8
Surp]us (Deficits)       (5,342.3)   (2,719.9)  (2,495.7)  (1,018.1)   (637.3)          364.8    2,984.0        2,880.0          1,838.4
1/  Constant 1974 prices.
2/ Less 2% commission to Cooperatives or PBAs.
cr



GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Estimated Government Cash Flow fcr Proposed Project and 16,000 Acre Annual Planting Program
1/
(¢'000)
Net Annual Surplus      Cummulative Surplus                            Net Annual Surplus       Cummulative Surplus
(Deficit)               (Deficit)                                      (Deficit)                (Deficit)
Year  1975/76         (1,657)                 (1,657)                  Year  1993/94           17,821                   (17,463)
76/77        (2,605)                  (4,262)                          94/95          20,612                     3,149
77/78        (2,738)                  (7,000)                          95/96          22,841                    25,990
78/79       (11,174)                 (18,174)                          96/97          24,680                    50,670
79/80       (12,527)                 (30,701)                          97/98          26,518                    77,188
80/81       (12,927)                 (43,628)                          98/99          28,356                   105,544
81/82       (12,164)                 (55,792)                          99/00          30,194                   135,738
82/83       (10,453)                 (66,245)                        2000/01          32,032                   167,770
83/84        (7,927)                 (74,172)                          01/02          33,896                   201,666
84/85        (5,219)                 (79,391)                          02/03          35,734                   237,400
85/86        (2,339)                 (81,730)                          03/04          37,572                   274,972
86/87           541                  (81,189)                          04/05          39,410                   314,382
87/88         3,421                  (77,768)                          05/06          41,248                   355,630
88/89         6,301                  (71,467)                          06/07          44,327                   399,957
90/91         9,181                  (62,286)                          07/08          46,165                   446,122
91/92        12,061                  (50,225)                          08/og          48,003                   494,125
92/93        14,941                  (35,284)                          09/10          49,841                   543,966
10/11                                  595,645
11/12                                  649,162
12/13                                  704,517                P N
13/14                                                         (D'  >
1/ Constant 1974 prices.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The project involves the planting of 30,000 acres of hybrid cocoa
under improved cultural practices. Project life is taken as 40 years and
project costs and benefits over the life of the project are shown at Table 1.
The economic rate of return for the project is 21.1%.
2.        The following assumptions have been used in the calculations:
(a) Yields
The yield build up for cocoa is as follows:
Age (Years)    4          5          6          7-40
100       300        400         750 lbs dry bean/acre
These are realistic yield estimates. Cocoa variety trials at CRIG have
yielded over 1,400 lbs dry bean/acre by Year 7 and averaged almost 1,200 lbs
between Years 8 and 12.
The yield build up for plantain is as follows:
Age (Years)    2           3         4
300       300         150 bunches
(b) Producer Price
The producer price for cocoa is taken from Annex 2,
Table 2. Plantain is mostly consumed in the locality
in which it is produced and the expected production from
the project would significantly affect the overall supply
situation in the area. The projected price has therefore
been arbitrarily reduced by 50% to ¢ 0.5 per bunch from
the present village market price of 0 1.0 per bunch, to
compensate for the increased supply.
(c) Costs
Identifiable duties and taxes have been deducted. A
physical contingency factor of 5% has been added to the
costs of all inputs except labor. Costs are taken from



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Annex 4. The full cost of insecticides and sprayers has
been taken into account, although participating farmers
would obtain these at subsidised prices.
(d)  Labor
Since all indications are that the supply of labor may be
limited, a shadow wage rate equal to the market wage rate
has been taken.
(e)  Foreign Exchange
In calculating the economic costs and benefits of the
project, the value of foreign exchange in terms of cedis
has been adjusted upwards by 30% to take account of the
severe quantitative import restrictions needed to keep
Ghana's external receipts and payments in balance at the
prevailing exchange rate.
3.        If project benefits are delayed one year the economic rate of
return falls to 17.1%. The sensitivity of the rate to variations in costs
and benefits is shown below. If benefits are 20% less and costs are 20%
more than estimated, the rate of return would be 11.5%.
% of Original Estimates
Costs                 Benefits        Rate of Return %
100                   100                   21.1
110                   100                   18.7
120                   100                   16.6
100                    90                   18.5
100                    80                   15.6
110                    90                   16.2
120                    80                   11.5
4-        Ghana's present marketing strategy is to sell most cocoa forward
to secure future fiscal revenues.  Comparison of spot prices New York - the
price indicator used by IBRD - and the price realized by Ghana in the past
tentatively indicates that Ghana receives per ton of cocoa f.o.b. Accra only
about 80% of the New York spot price. If Cocoa revenue is discounted by
80% the rate of return falls to 18.7%.
5.        At the official exchange rate, the rate of return for the project
is 16.5%.



ANNEX 1
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Econosic Costs and Benefits
(% 1000)
1975/76     76/77      77/78      78t79      79/80     80/81      81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85 on
COSTS
Farm Davelopment
Materials & Subsidies             566       1,515     2,668        946        845        905     1,097       617       697       825
Project Administration
Investwents
Vehicles                         620         108       295        199        145        280       280       280       280       280
Feeder Road Conponent             -         198         -          -          -          -         -         -         -         -
Equipaent                        323         146        69         69         69         69        69        69        69        69
Project Administration
Operating Costs
Rent                              30          30         1 4   141 441                   41        41        41        41        41
Vehicles  1/                     150         174       228        228        228        228       228       228       228       228
Equipuent                          4           5         5          5          5         5          5         5         5         5
Staff Salaries                 1,210      1,678      1,811      1,717     1,614      1,349      1,063    1,023    1,023       1,023
General                          140         270       270        190        190        190       190       190       190       190
Subtotal                    3,043       4,124      5,387      3,395     3,137      3,067      2,973    2,453    2,533       2,661
Contingency @ 5%                 152        206        269        170       157        153        149       123      127        133
Total                        3,195      4,330      5,656      3,565     3,294      3,220      3,122    2,576    2,660       2,794
Labor - Family Labor               120         356       671        403        373        350       333       397       473       492
Hired Labor               480       1,424      2,685     1,613      1,491      1,398      1,331    1,587    1,891       1,968
Adjusted Foreign Exchange
Component                       322        363        516        257       229        265        287       221      232        250
Total Costs Adjusted        4,117       6,473      9,528      5,838     5,387      5,233      5,073    4,781    5,256       5,504
3ENTFITS
Cocoa
Production ('000 lbs)            -            -         -         400     2,200      6,200    11,800   16,900   22,500    22,500
Value (¢'000)                    -            -         -         274     1,505      4,242      8,073   11,563   15,394    15,394
Plantain
Production (bunches)             -        1,200      4,200     8,400      6,300      2,400         -        -         -          -
Value (0I000)                    -          600      2,100     4,200      3,150      1,200         -         -        -          -
Total Benefit                 -           600      2,100      4,474     4,655      5,442      8,073   11,563   15,394    15,394
1J Net of taxes @ 10%.



ANNEX 10
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
STUDY ON FARM INPUTS
Terms of Reference
The study would specifically research and make recommendations on the following:
(1) The capacity and record of the Cocoa Division in delivering
in a timely manner insecticide and sprayers to village markets.
(2) The benefits of transferring the distribution system to the
private entrepreneurial class, taking into account the
administration of the subsidy system.
(3) The procurement procedure for insecticides and sprayers,
paying particular attention to timeliness, the priority
accorded by Government in allocating foreign exchange and
import licenses and the relevant financial arrangements
within MCA, with a view to determine, in conjunction with
(4) whether sufficient supplies of inputs are available for
distribution.
(4) The effective demand by the cocoa sector for purchasable
inputs.
(5) The relative benefit of a subsidy policy versus an increase
in producer price, for both farmers and Government. This
would take into account the smuggling of sprayers across
national boundaries and investigate the hire market for
sprayers.
(6) The availability of inputs, such as cutlasses, not presently
distributed by the Cocoa Division.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
GHANA
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Draft Agreement between Ashanti Region Cocoa Project Unit and Cocoa Farmer
THIS AGREEMENT is made on the                         day of _
19   between the Ministry of Cocoa Affairs, acting through the Ashanti
Region Cocoa Project Unit the head office of which is at
in the __                             Region
(hereinafter called the "Project Unit," which expression shall where the
context so admits or requires include its successor and assigns) and
whose address is
in the                                  Region (hereinafter called the
"Borrower, "which expression shall where the context so admits or requires
include his heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns).
WHEREAS the Borrower has provided to the Project Unit evidence
satisfactory to the Project Unit that the Borrower has exclusive rights
to farm for a period of not less than 20 years from the date hereof to
acres of land suitable for cocoa planting located at
(hereinafter called the
"Farm")
WHEREAS the Borrower regularly resides on or within five miles'
distance of the Farm and is prepared to and intends to work actively and
regularly on the Farm;
WHEREAS the Borrower presently has under cultivation
areas of cocoa of which       acres, if any, have been planted with financial
assistance from the Project Unit, and the Borrower now plans to plant
acres of cocoa with the assistance of the Loan provided for in
this Agreement (the total of the latter two figures not to exceed 5);
WHEREAS the (1) Produce Buying Agency having its registered
office at
which, for the purposes of this Agreement, intends to act through its
depot; (2)
Cooperative Society at                                 (delete either (1) or
(2) as appropriate) (hereinafter called the "Guarantor," which expression
shall include any successor thereto) has agreed to guarantee the Borrower's
obligations to repay the Loan provided for in this Agreement.
IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1.        The Project Unit agrees:
(a) to make a loan (hereinafter called the "Loan") to the Borrower
for the purposes, and up to the amounts, indicated below (estimated to
represent 100% of cost except for labor).



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
Estimated Cost        Maximum Amount
Purpose                         Per Acre              of Loan
(1)  Plantation Suckers
(2)  Cocoa Seedlings
(3)  Tools
(4)  Sprayers
(5)  Insecticides
(6)  Transport of foregoing
(7)  Labor (80% of estimated cost)
Total
Provided that (i) such amounts shall be made available over a
three year period, commencing approximately           , 19    to the
Borrower as they are required to finance the goods and services covered;
(ii) items (1) through (7) above will be supplied by the Project Unit to
the Borrower directly and the amount of the Loan for those items supplied
by the Project Unit will be the prices at which such items are available
to farmers generally in the area in which the Farm is located as reasonably
determined by the Project Unit; (iii) no suckers or seedlings shall be made
available to the Borrower until the Borrower has provided evidence satisfactory
to the Project Unit that the Borrower has made adequate preparation for the
planting thereot;
(b) to deliver suitable suckers and seedlings to the Borrower
and to provide the Borrower administrative, extension and other technical
advice and assistance in management of the Farm;
(c) to deliver to the Borrower and the Guarantor, within six
months after the Loan has been disbursed, a statement (1) showing the
principal amount of the Loan outstanding (2) showing the amount of interest
which will accrue by the date of the first payment of principal and interest
due hereunder, and (3) containing a schedule of payments, calculated in
accordance with sections 2 (a) and 2(b) hereof, showing the portions of
each allocable to principal and to interest.
2.        The Borrower agrees:
(a) to pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan from
time to time outstanding at the rate of 8% per annum;
(b) to pay the principal of, and interest on, the Loan in
twelve successive annual installments of equal amount on February 1 in
each year, the first such payment to be made on February 1, 19
(approximately seven years from the date of this Agreement);



ANNEX 11
Page 3
(c) commencing on the fourth anniversary of this Agreement and
continuing until the Loan is repaid, to sell all cocoa produced by the
Borrower to the Guarantor;
(d) to utilize cash provided out of the Loan for labor exclusively
for hiring labor for planting and maintaining plantains and cocoa on the
Farm;
(e) to provide out of his own resources sufficient labor in
addition to that financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to care for the
plantains and cocoa to be planted with the assistance of the Project Unit;
(f) to plant, promptly on receipt, and cultivate all suckers
and seedlings supplied by the Project Unit and in so doing to ensure that
satisfactory plantain and cocoa planting standards in accordance with the
advice of the Project Unit are followed at all times on the Farm;
(g) to take all reasonable measures to prevent and treat plantain
and cocoa diseases;
(h) to allow the employees, servants or agents of the Project
Unit access to all parts of the Farm for the purpose of inspecting plantain
and cocoa plantings and advising on all problems of plantain and cocoa
planting and all matters related thereto, provided that the Project Unit
shall be liable to the Borrower for any damage caused to the Borrower's
property as the result of the negligence of the Project Unit's employees,
servants or agents; and
(i) not to dispose of, or to suffer to be transferred, any
interest the Borrower has in the Farm (excluding transfers resulting from
the Borrower's death) without the prior written consent of the Project Unit.
3.        (a)  the Borrower hereby irrevocably authorizes the Guarantor to
deduct from the purchase price of cocoa sold to the Guarantor by the
Borrower amounts sufficient to pay the Project Unit the amounts due it
hereunder including the costs referred to in section 4(d) hereof, and to
pay such amounts on his behalf to the Project Unit;
(b) the Guarantor shall, from time to time and in its sole dis-
cretion, determine the portion of the purchase price of cocoa delivered by
the Borrower to the Guarantor which the Guarantor will deduct from each
payment to the Borrower for cocoa purchased in order to ensure that, on or
before the date each payment hereunder is due to the Project Unit, the
Guarantor will have deducted amounts sufficient to make such payment, pro-
vided that such deductions shall not commence until one year before the
date of the first payment of principal and interest due hereunder except to
the extent, if any, required to meet payments due under sections 4(b),
4(c) or 4(d). Without limitation to the discretion referred to in the
preceding sentence, (i) the Guarantor intends, as far as practicable, to



ANNEX 11
Page 4
set such portion at a level which will result in substantially equal portions
being deducted from such payments throughout the year; (ii) if, at any time
between February 2 of one year and January 31 of the next year amounts so
deducted are sufficient to cover the payment of principal and interest due
on the next February 1, no further deductions should be made except to
cover any costs which may be due under sections 4(c) and 4(d) or any amount
due pursuant to notice given under section 4(b) hereof;
(c) in respect of each such deduction, the Guarantor shall pro-
vide the Borrowqer and the Project Unit a written advice showing the date
and amount of the deduction;
(d) to the extent of deductions so made, the obligation of the
Borrower to pay the Project Unit the amount deducted shall be discharged;
(e) failure of the Guarantor to deduct amounts sufficient to
cover payments due hereunder to the Project Unit shall not relieve the
Borrower of his obligation to make such payments as and when due.
4.         The Borrower and the Project Unit further agree as follows:
(a) amounts of the Loan withdrawn hereunder shall be recorded
in the Schedule annexed hereto;
(b) if a default occurs in the payment of principal or interest
hereunder, or if the Borrower sells cocoa to any party other than the
Guarantor in violation of section 2(c) of this Agreement, or if the
Borrower fails in any material way to satisfy any other obligation under-
taken in this Agreement and such failure continues for a period of 60
days after notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Project
Unit, then the Project Unit may, at its option, so long as such failure
or default continues, by written and oral notice to the Borrower, declare
the principal of the Loan then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with interest thereon; and upon any such declaration such principal
and interest shall become due and payable immediately:
(c) if the Borrower fails to manage the Farm in accordance with
the provisions of this Agreement, or to harvest cocoa when necessary, or
if any of the events enumerated in the preceding paragraph (b) occur, then
the Project Unit and the Guarantor shall each have the right, and each of
them is hereby irrevocably authorized to hire labor to maintain cocoa planted
on the Farm and to harvest and sell cocoa on the Farm and charge the Borrower
accordingly with the cost, and the Guarantor is further irrevocably authorized
to deduct the amount of such costs from the proceeds of cocoa sold to it by
the Borrower and to retain or pay the Project Unit such amount, as the case
may require;
(d) if the Project Unit finds it necessary, to treat the Borrower's
Farm for diseases or pests with chemicals, or such other means as deemed
appropriate by the Project Unit for the containment and/or the combatting



ANNEX 1 1
Page 5
of the diseases or pests, the Borrower shall permit the Project Unit to do
so and shall pay the reasonable costs of the chemicals or other materials
used for such treatment;
(e) the Project Unit may, at its option, assign its rights here-
under to any res"ponsible institution, provided that any such assignment
shall have no effect on the Project Unit's obligations to the Borrower
under this Agreement;
(f) the Borrower shall not, directly or indirectly, assign this
Agreement without the written consent of the Project Unit and the Guarantor;
(g) the Borrower shall have the right to repay all or any
portion of the Loan in advance without penalty or premium.
5.        The Project Unit and the Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
(a) without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest on, the Loan;
(b) all amounts deducted by the Guarantor pursuant to section 3
hereof from the purchase price of cocoa sold to it by the Borrower shall
be paid promptly to the Project Unit, provided that, in consideration of
its services and guarantee, the Guarantor may retain, but only from amounts
so deducted, one quarter (25%) of amounts so deducted in respect of interest
payments (including  i.yments of capitalized interest);
(c) neither failure of the Borrower to sell cocoa to the Guarantor
nor failure of the Project Unit to exercise its rights hereunder shall
relieve the Guarantor of its obligations hereunder;
(d) the Guarantor shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that,
in purchasing cocoa from persons other than the Borrower, it does not
interfere with the collection of other loans due to the Project Unit.
Without limitation to the foregoing, the Guarantor will not purchase cocoa
from (i) any person identified to the Guarantor by the Project Unit in writing
as one of its borrowers who is under an obligation to sell cocoa to an
organization other than the Guarantor or (ii) a person known to be acting
for any such person.
6.        (a)  for purposes of this section 6, the term "eligible guarantor"
means the Produce Buying Agency and any primary cooperative society which is
active in the area where the Farm is located;
(b) if the Borrower desires to sell cocoa he produces to an eligible
guarantor other than the Guarantor, he may do so provided he obtains a
written undertaking executed by the eligible guarantor to which he wishes
to sell cocoa providing that such eligible guarantor assumes all the obligations
of the Guarantor under this Agreement;



ANNEX 11
Page 6
(c) if the Borrower proposes to procure such an undertaking,
the Project Unit will promptly provide the Borrower (i) a statement showing
all amounts owing at the time hereunder, indicating when payments are due
and the portions thereof allocable to principal and to interest, (ii) a
copy of this Agreement and (iii) a form of undertaking satisfactory to the
Project Unit;
(d) upon the execution of such undertaking by such eligible
guarantor and delivery thereof to the Project Unit, (i) such eligible
guarantor shall become the Guarantor hereunder, (ii) the guarantor which
was replaced shall be discharged of all its obligations hereunder and (iii)
the Project Unit and the Borrower shall be bound to the new Guarantor
in accordance witth the terms of this Agreement;
(e) in the event-of such substitution, (i) the Project Unit will
promptly provide notice thereof to the prior guarantor, and (ii) the
prior guarantor will provide the new Guarantor, if requested, an accounting
of its dealings with the Borrower.
7.        All disputes, differences and questions which may at any time
arise between the parties hereto or their respective representatives or
assigns touching or arising out or in respect of this Agreement or the
breach hereof shall be referred to a single arbitrator in accordance
with the provisions of the Arbitration Act 1061 (Act 38) or any statutory
modification or reenactment thereof for the time being in force.
8.        This Agreement shall not become effective-until it has been
executed by the Project Unit, the Borrower and the Guarantor. This Agreement
shall terminate when all principal of, and interest on, the Loan and any
amounts due under section 4(b) and 4(c) hereof have been paid.



ANNEX I 1
Page 7
AS WITNESS the hands of the parties hereto or their duly authorized
representatives on the date first above written.
SIGNED for and on behalf of the
MINISTRY OF COCOA AFFAIRS
by
Authorized Representative
in the presence of:
SIGNED by
Borrower
in the presence of:  _
SIGNED for and on behalf of the
(Insert Produce Buying Agency or
name of cooperative society)
By
in the present of:



ANNEX 11
Page 8
SCHEDULE
Signature of
AmDunt                     Borrower             Signed in the
Date            Withdrawn      or his Authorized Representative   presence of



AN~NEX 12
ASHANT~I REGION4 COCOA PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
November 1, 1975-June 30, 1977
Responsible   '75                                    '76                                              '77
Main Activities        Authority.5D                 D.JMP AM.A JM J  J AS   0    N    D    J.E.M    A                               M.
1. Organize Design Team
for Cocoa Survey          MCA..
2. Revise Estimates for
1976 Project
Operation                  PU      .        .     .
3. Initial Discussions
with ISSER on Pro-
ject Evaluation            PU      ..                  .     ..
4. Submit ISSER Contract
to IBRD and
5. Relocate Zonal anid
District Offices           PU      ..                        .    .     .    .
6. Have ERCP Farms
Records Up to
Date                      MCA                     .    .     ..              .
7. Initiate Discussions
and Advertise for a
Director of Seed
Gardens and
8. Clear with IBRDl &
Appoint Directors of
Seed Gardens and
Rehabilitation            MCA      .                       ___________
9. Put Design Team
into Operation            MCA     .. .                     .          .     .    .     .    .     .    .     .
10. Review Design with
11. Initiate Survey         Government.     .     .    .     .    .     .    .          .     .    .    .     .    .     .    . . .          .
12. Submit 1977 Project
Operation Program
to IBRD                    PU     ..                         .    .     .    . 
13. Submit for IBRD
Approval Contract
with Seed Gardens
Consultant               MCA
14. Liase with Cooperative
UJnions in Project Area
and Submit Request for
Finances to CMB for
Minor Season 1976          PU                                           .    .
15. Organize Group Respon-
sible for Price Policy
Formulation           Government
16. Initiate Studies and
Research               Governmnent. .       .                .    .     .    .
17. Review and Formulate
price policy and
submit to IBRD         Government. .        .     .    .     .    .     .    .
Th15doe  no  inlud  desild 1U oersion  sice  IP'  aciviiesSTevei  ahad of schedule.






IBRD 11531R
TWvv-, l,  045.                              1130           TF-                 1                                   1'00'                               NCVEM9tR  1975
G~ H  A  N  A
ASHANTI REGION COCOA PROJECT
Zona heaclqua,t-r
Coastat ons
,0 MatIed seed gardefs
Mumpoog                                                           Ne. see,d\ q/desre
P.oposed zonal bo1! dar0es
0                                                                   -------- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prop-se   aist-l,t bo,ndonies
Fi,st class rQoas               no00
'JAM ASI/   Jamasa                                                                               Areas tor St fi. rep iitlOg
\  ,  - -    }             \ ~~~~~~~~~~~M A M POIV G                                        1~K 1-m,ele2rs
V t ' \J   T O N/S O   \ . ,                       0         5         11         I         20
\~~~O                                               1 r--                               
\                    <                /~~~~~~~~~~FF F/l DU A SI   (I  
UU  A g   )            --/
t ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ u u                     0
'&  K O N    °   °                                '-°°
1-00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
P~~~ ~                      P  A N   O W1 F  5 T     >\                      ---                .,/i 
_9                                        K   A
A K R 0 A' E R I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
BROFOYEDRU       ~           50trs.,,r.  9   ~~~                            0   usOgn batr
2'0O  to  ako,ao~~  1555'  Ta 5r,e,d  ~ ~          is Cape c,,~,,         1l5           5500&sk,,JTh#14055                               -    -   nIfrelit ttOJ Osurdarlet~~



