FFICI.AL      LOAN NUMBER 1810 SE
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN VUMBER 1810 SE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association)
to provide additional financial assistance towards the financing
of the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement) the Association is agreeing to provide
such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to
twenty-eight million dollars ($28,000,000) (hereinafter called
the Credit);
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in the
Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expendi-
tures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the
Loan provided for in this Agreement are made;
(D) by agreement dated September 7, 1979, (hereinafter
called the OECF Loan Agreement), the Overseas Economic Coopera-
tion Fund of Japan (hereinafter called OECF) has agreed to make
a loan (hereinafter called the OECF Loan) to the Borrower in an
aggregate principal amount of two billion and five hundred
million Yen (Y2,500,000,000) to assist in financing Part F of
the Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions):
(a) Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the follow-
ing is substituted therefor:
"ll. The term Project means the project for which
the Loan is granted, as described in the Development
Credit Agreement (as such term is defined in the Loan
Agreement) and through incorporation of such descrip-
tion by reference in the Loan Agreement, and as the
description thereof may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Borrower, the Bank and the Asso-
ciation."
(b) Paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the follow-
ing is substituted therefor:
"(c) The Borrower shall have failed to perform
any other obligation under the Loan Agreement or the
Development Credit Agreement (as such term is defined in
the Loan Agreement)."
(c) Paragraph (e) of Section 7.01 is deleted and the follow-
ing is substituted therefor:
"(e) A default shall occur in the performance of
any other obligation on the part of the Borrower under
the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement
(as such term is defined in the Loan Agreement), and
such default shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
or the Association to the Borrower."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-3-
General Conditions and in the Development Credit Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional tervy have the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association
for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement,
all agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement
and all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) "Credit" means the development credit provided for in
the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bor-
rower, the Bank and the Association, for expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of


﻿-4-
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Sections of Articles III and IV of the
Development Credit Agreement and Schedules 1, 2 and 3 thereto, as
such Sections and Schedules may be amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein; provided, however,
that for the purposes of this Agreement: (i) all references to the
Association in any such Section and Schedule (except Schedule 1)
shall be deemed to be references to the Bank; (ii) all references
to the Credit in any such Section shall be deemed to be references
to the Loan; and (iii) all references to the Credit Account in
said Schedule 3 shall be deemed to be references to the Loan
Account.
Section 3.02. As long as any part of the Credit shall remain
unwithdrawn or outstanding, all action taken, including approvals
given, by the Association pursuant to the Sections and Schedules
of the Development Credit Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement,
or any agreement supplemental to the Loan Agreement and the
Development Credit Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken or given
in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank;
and all information furnished by the Borrower to the Association
pursuant to the provisions of such Sections, Schedules and supple-
mental agreements shall be deemed to be furnished to both the
Association and the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allo-
cation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equiv 7alent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity Lwned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified


﻿-6-
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, that subject to para--
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any loan made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
or
(ii) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified
in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement, other than the fulfillment of the
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement,
have been met.
Section 5.02. The date        i    kx      O    , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 2.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement, including
those incorporated therein by reference to the Development Credit


﻿-7-
Agreement, shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding
termination of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1'Economie
et des Finances
Rue Charles Latne
B.P. 4017
Dakar
Senegal
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        512
Dakar, Senegal                      TRESOR SG
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-8 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
5Lc f LD lQl ?"th
By                  Atc Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1985
through   October 15, 1999                  335,000
On April 15, 2000                                285,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 10 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                  1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                  2.50%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                            4.55%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                            6.60%
More than sixteen years
but not more than
eighteen years
before maturity                                  7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                  8.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   2~AdUday of A      9 191L.
FOR SECRETARY


