Document o(
The World Bank
FOR OMFCAuL USE ONLY
at Al. o? G    A 'I /
Rapep No. P-4078-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$38.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
NAMGANG AND TAEGU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
July 22, 1985
Tis domneo  hu a ruubided db lBmdu  .di may be used by retipenb ily In tee peifmnzance of
Ite  aEdml d1tkL ll smfeub  my ma odiwie be Ibdamed widbe  Weld Bank edhriztisa.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1, 1985)
Currency unit - Won (W)
Won            -  0.00118
$1.00         '  w 850  /1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
meter (a)                            -  3.28 feet
kilometer (km)                       -  0.62 miles
square kilometer (sq klm)            -  0.39 square miles
hectare (ha)                         -  10,000 square meters
cubic meter (Cu m)                   -  264 US gallons
cubic meters per second (cu mIs)    -  22.82 million US gallons per day
Gigawatt hour (Gwh)                  -  1 aillion kilowatt hours (kWh)
liter (1)                            -  0.26 US gallons
liters per capita per day (lpcd)     -  0.26 US gallons per capita per day
milligrams per liter (mg/1)          -  parts per million (ppm)
metric ton (mt)                      -  2,205 lb or I cubic meter of water
metric tons per day (mtpd)           -  2,205 lbs per day or 264 US gallons
per day
pyong (py)                           -  3.307 sq. m. or 35.586 sq.ft.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                   - Asian Development Bank
EPB                      Economic Planning Board
ERR          i           Economic Rate of Return
ICB                   -  International Competitive Bidding
IMC                   = Inter-Ministerial Committee
IFRR                  -  Incremental Financial Rate of Return
IS WACO               -  Industrial Sites and Water Resources
Development Corporation
KDB                   -  Korea Development Bank
KECC                  =  Korea Engineering Consultants
Corporation
KEPCO         R          Korea Electric Power Company
KLDC                  -  Korea Land Development Corporation
HOC                   - Ministry of Construction
HOF                   - Ministry of Finance
MOHA                  - Ministry of Rome Affairs
MOHSA                 - Ministry of Health and Social Affairs
NRS                   -  Namgang Reglonal Water System
OECF                  -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
of Japan
OOE                   -  Office of the Environment
RCMH                     MOC's Regional Construction and
Management Agency
TWB                   -  Taegu City Water Bureau
TWS                      Taegu Water System
UNDP                  -  United Nations Development Programme
WB                    -  Water Bureau
/ 1   In this report - $ refers to US dollars.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
NAMGANG AND TAEGU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:     Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries: Industrial Sites and Water Resources Development
Corporation (ISWACO) and Taegu City.
Amount:       $38 million equivalent.
Terms:        Repayable in 15 years including 3 years of grace, at
the standard variable rate.
Relendini 
Terms:    Government would relend $23 million of the proceeds of
the loan to Taegu City for the Taegu Water System (TWS)
on the same terms and conditions as for the Bank loan
plus a 0.05% p.a. handling charge. After completion of
the Namgang Regional System (NRS), its assets and the
corresponding portion of the Bank loan amounting to $15
million, would be transferred to ISWACO on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan plus a 0.05% p.a.
handling charge. ISWACO and Taegu City would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Proiect
Descriltion:  The proposed project consists of two water supply
components: the NRS, for 13 municipalities in the
Kyeongnam Province and the TWS for the city of Taegu.
The project would improve water services to about 2
million persons and provide water to 520,000 additional
persons by 1991. The MRS includes a water intake and
about 80 kms of transmission pipelines with a capacity
of 115,000 metric tons per day (tpd), a treatment plant
with first stage capacity of 75,000 tpd, and storage
reservoirs of 12,000 tons capacity. Complementary
distribution networks in the two main project cities
are being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB).
The TWS includes water intake and transmission
facilities from the Nakdong river, a 400,000 tpd water
treatment plant, about 80,000 ton capacity reservoirs,
the  expansion  of  distribution  networks,  the
rehabilitation of existing networks and a study for
improving the organization of water and sewerage
services.
Risks:        There are no special risks in the project. The
implementation schedule is feasible based on previous
project experience. To avoid a possible delay in
constructing complementary distribution works
Government provided assurances that complementary works
for the NRS would be completed by December 31, 1988.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Project Cost:                                Local   Foreign  Total
($ Million) --
Namgang Regional Water System              18.6    13.6    32.2
Taegu Water System                         31.2    20.9    52.1
Base Cost                           49.8    34.5    84.3
Physical Contingencies                      5.0     3.4      8.4
Price Contingencies                         6.5     4.5    11.0
Project Cost  a]                    61.3    42.4   103.7
Other Complementary Water Works       5.6     4.7    10.3
Total Water Works                   66.9    47.1   114.0
Interest During Construction                2.7     5.6      8.3
Total Financing Requirements                    69.6    52.7   122.3
FINANCING PLAN:
IBRD                                        0.0    38.0    38.0
Government Contributions for NRS           22.9     3.3    26.2
ADB (NRS's Distribution Works)              0.0     4.0      4.0
Internal Cash Generation and
Bonds from cities in NRS                  5.9     1.2      7.1
Taegu' B Bonds                             19.0     0.0    19.0
Taegu's Internal Cash Generation           13.6     6.2    19.8
Government Loans for Taegu                  8.2     0.0      8.2
Total Financing                     69.6    52.7   122.3
- Bank Fiscal Years    -
Estimated Disbursements:       1986   1987      1988    1989    1990
Annual               3.0    8.8      14.Q     9.8     1.6
Cumulative           3.0   11.8     26.6    36.4    38.0
Economic Rate of Return:         16Z
Staff Appraisal Report No. 5663-KO Dated July 22, 1985
a] Including Duties and Taxes estimated at $ 8 million equivalent



- 1 -
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FORL THE NAMGANG AND TAEGU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $38.0
million for the Namgang and Taegu Water Supply Project   The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including three years of grace, and
would bear interest at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled 'Korea's Development in
a Global Context" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated
June 21, 1984. The following summary is based on this Report. The
Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        Past Performance.  Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the
poorest developing countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a
w2ak balance of payments position financed almost entirely from
foreign grants. But the ability Lo austain a growth rate of 8% p.a.
from 1960 onwards raised Korea's per capita income from $180 in 1960
to $1,700 in 1982 (both in current prices), with more than 80% of the
population above the poverty line, and enabled her to join the ranks
of the semi-industrial nations. During this period, the share of the
manufacturing sector in GNP rose from 14% to 29% while the share of
agriculture fell from 39% to 17%. Merchandise exports, principally
manufactured goods, accounted for almost 41% of GNP as against a mere
4% two decades earlier, and the balance of payments position had been
considerably strengthened.
4.       Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in
the structure of employment. In the early sixties, well over half the
labor force had been employed in agriculture. By 1982, employment in
this sector had fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over
22Z of the employed.  Heavy migration from the rural areas to the
cities combined with deliberate Government policies to improve the
agricultural terms of trade ane a steady increase in agricultural
value added helped to ensure growtib in per capita rural incomes more
or less in line with the rest of the economy through the 1970s.
5.       Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks. 1974-84.
Foreign borrowing, an increase in public sector savings, and export
diversification resulting from an ambitious industrial policy enabled
the country to negotiate the first oil crisis without faltering and
thereafter to grow by 10% p.a. until 1978. However, the very success
of the Korean planners in stimulating the economy generated serious
inflationary pressures. Real wages rose at an average annual rate of
18% between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in productivity, and
by 1978 the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at over 18%
p.a., compared to a rate of 10% in 1977.  In addition, the large



-2-
volumes of subsidized credit which were made available to the heavy
and chemical industries by the financial system under the Government's
direction, brought about an excessive expansion of capacity in
subsectors faced with weak demand, while the traditional light
industries were frequently starved of funds. This trend vas in line
with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative advantage,
but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector, and,
in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level,
dampened export growth in the latter part of the 1970s.
6.        The Government announced, in April 1979, a far reaching
program of stabilization-cum-restructuring to contain price pressures
and revive exports, but it was overtaken by a series of unexpected
shocks. The oil price adjustment by OPEC raised Korea's petroleum
import bill from about $2.3 billion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980
witb the price-induced increase equal to nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In
October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief architect of Korea's
"economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was assassinated. This was
followed by a period of the severest political uncertainty and social
unrest in twenty years, with the situation returning to normal only
after a new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan was installed
in September 1980. On top of these developments, unfavorable weather
reduced agricultural output by about 22Z in 1980, or over 4% of GNP,
and a 20% decline in investments led to a worsening of deflationary
pressures that outweighed the 10 growth of export volume. As a
result, GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemployment increased to 5.2% from
3.2% in 1978, and the higher costs of fuel, raw materials and
foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 292.
7.        To stabilize the economy and promote external adjustment,
the Government aLtempted, with some success, to restrain wages.  It
also adopted a system of managed float, as a consequence of which the
effective exchange rate was cut by 30X in 1980.   Improved
competitiveness and weak domestic demand allowed export volume to
increase by 10% in 1980 and a further 17% in 1981. This sizeable
expansion in trade brought about a narrowing of the current account
deficit from $5.3 billion in 1980 (8.7% of GNP) to $4.6 billion (6.9%
of GNP) in 1981. Meanwhile a 0.3% cut in real wages following on the
heels of a 5% drop in the previous year, together with some levelling
off of import prices, led to an easing of inflationary pressures.
These favorable developments continued through 1982, a year which saw
inflation declining to 7.3Z and the payments deficit to 3.7% of GNP,
largely because of movements in the terms of trade favoring Korea,
modest success on the wages front and rather more conservative fiscal
and monetary policies.
8.        1983 and 1984 saw a continuation of the improving trend
brought about by the stabilization and adjustment program begun in
1979/80. Helped by the recovery of export demand in the electronics,
machinery and transport sectors, the current account deficit shrank
further to $1.6 billion in 1983 and $1.4 billion in 1984. With money
supply growth restrained to a conservative 12%-15% and with wages
running behind productivity, inflation continued to slide, being 3.4%
in 1983 and 2.8% in 1984. Real GNP surged by 9.5% in 1983 and 7.62 in
1984.  In short, Korea not only jumped back on to a high growth



trajectory but uanaged to do so while keeping its current account
deficit low and its prices stable.
9.        Mediuu-Term ProsAects.  As was the case during the 1970s,
Korea's rate of growth during the 1980O will be determined largely by
the performance of exports on the one hand and savings on the other.
The revised version of the Fifth Plan aims for a growth rate target of
7.5Z which is to be achieved via an export growth rate of 10% and a
national savings rate of 29%. All this is to be accomplished in an
environment of stable prices and equilibrium in the balance of
payments. The proposed targets are ambitious and the self-imposed
constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic management will
be required over the next few years.
10.      Export performance was robust during 1983 and the first half
of 1984 but has slackened since. A major cause would appear to be the
performance of the U.S. economy. As the latter expanded for roughly 18
months after August 1982 so did Korean exports. As growth in the U.S
tapered off from the summer of 1984 so have Korean exports. Commodity
exports grew at a rapid 15% in 1983 but slowed down to a more modest
10% in 1984. They are expected to grow at 9% in 1985. Korea is also
being affected currently by a worldwide slump in the construction and
shipbuilding industries. Over the longer run Korea aims to reduce
export volatility by diversifying its export markets and its export
base. Investments are being made in domestic R&D and in skill-
upgrading to achieve such diversification. This should also soften the
impact of the selective protectionism being faced increasingly by
Korean exports.
11.      National savings are being promoted partly through a process
of financial liberalization and inflation control which raised real
rates of interest for depositors EL.aI 5' to 8% in 1983-84, partly
through budget surpluses arising from restrained government
expenditure and partly through measures to increase efficiency in
public sector activities. The saving rate stood at 26.5Z in 1984, up
from a recent low of 21.9Z in 1980. However, a saving rate of 29% and
a level of fized investment of about 31% will be needed if growth is
to be maintained at 7.5% p.a. without pressure on the balance of
payments. On the basis of past aggregate saving performance, it is
likely that the Koreans will attain their saving target. However, the
process may be more difficult in the future than it has been in the
past since there has been a marked upward shift in the demand for
consumer durables in recent years.
12.       External Resource Balance. While total debt is high ($43.1
billion in 1984, 54% of GNP), the debt service ratio, including
interest on short-term debt, remains a manageable 20%. The share of
short-term maturities in total debt is high and, although improving
(from 30% in 1983 to 26% in 1984), remains a cause for concern. This
aspect of its debt and the continuing uncertainty in international
financial markets, which has led to high and volatile interest rates,
has persuaded the Koreans to hold their new fore..gn borrowing at about
$6 billion per annum though 1986 and to seek balance of payments
current account equilibrium by then. This implies a level of net
external borrowing of $2.5-3 billion per year through 1986. Our



assessment is that this level of borrowing is reasonable, and that
while a significant proportion of official assistance should be
continued, Korea is likely to move increasingly toward reliance on
private flows to meet external capital requirements. This assessment
was endorsed by the Consultive Group for Korea which met on July 16,
1984 in Secul. At that meeting, the Consultive Group, recognizing the
rapidly evolving character of Korea's economy and the trends in
capital assistance,  concluded that its role as a forum for aid
coordination and enhanced mobilization of external capital is now
being fulfilled by Government. Accordingly, it was agreed that the
Group should be formally disolved. Nevertheless, the Government
explicitly indicated its need and its intention to continue with a
substantial program of borrowing from the Bank and its wish to
continue with an active economic dialogue that would provide a vehicle
for continued advice on matters of economic policy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       As of March 31, 1985, Korea had received 75 Bank loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and eight IDA Credits, totalling
$5,311.54 million in loans and $115.58 million in credits (taking into
account cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a
subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date, $1,087.17 million remained
undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from commitments in the past
two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding Bank Loans, IDA
Credits, and IFC Investments as of March 31, 1985.  Progress on
project implementation is generally satisfactory.   Although
implementation delays - mainly in irrigation, highways and population
projects - have occurred, due primarily to shortfalls in Government
budgetary contributions resulting from cost overruns during a period
of high domestic inflation, they have been addressed and resolved.
The Government has taken measures to increase local funding of Bank-
financed projects. However, as the Government's budgetary situation
continues to be tight, the status and plans for counterpart
contributions will remain an integral part of country implementation
reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless, despite the
recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among
major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
14.      The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for
Korea reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for
discrete projects concerned with micro-institutional issues
increasingly to making loans which are aimed at addressing more
broadly based policy and institutional issues. This gradual change in
the Bank's lending approach, made possible by relatively sophisticated
Korean institutions, is proceeding well. Sector loans have already
been made for Highways, Education and Industrial Finance. The Bank
has also made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which complement
this approach by concentrating on issues that have a multi-sectoral
impact.
15.      In 1984, the Bank undertook an Agricultural Sector Survey in
Korea, which recommmended that Government should stimulate non-farm
employment in rural areas, reduce its overall intervention in the
sector and adopt a broader and longer-term view of agricultural



-5-
problems. The credit project, which was approved on May 21, 1985,
will promote agricultural development through financing private sector
investments covering a wide range of agricultural production and rural
income diversification activities.   It also addresses  the
institutional development issues of the National Agricultural
Cooperative Federation, the main credit institution serving
agriculture.
16.      Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping
improve Korea's trade and industrial incentives policies, at improving
the performance of the financial system and at developing the
technological capabilities of Korean enterprises. So far, trade and
incentives issues have been addressed through two SALs. Issues
pertaining to the strengthening of the financial system are being
addressed under the Bank's lending for industrial finance. For
example, the Industrial Finance project approved by the Board in June
1983 supports the Government's ongoing program of financial sector
reform. The technology enhancement objectives of the Government are
being pursued with Bank support through two projects approved in 1982,
one for the Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC) which
finances research, development and engineering, and the other for the
machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and
technical assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium
machinery firms. Bank lending to Korea in FY 1985 included additional
support for financial sector reform through the Second Industrial
Finance Project for KIDC, and for small and medium enterprises. Future
Bank lending would continue to emphasize financial reform and
technology enhancement.
17.      The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government
to modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the
rPilrnnd, highway construction and improvement, and port expansion.
The Highway Sector Loan approved in March 1984, as well as future
operations, would address sectoral and subsectoral issues such as
improving the integration of investment planning, energy conservation
and transport efficiency related to regulation and road user charges.
Those transport issues which involve macroeconomic policies affecting
other sectors of the economy, such as relative fuel prices, are being
handled within the context of the second SAL.
18.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the
requirements for skilled technical manpover, a precondition of up-
market industrial diversification. The Bank's first sector loan for
education, approved in 1980, was aimed at improving engineering and
management education and technician training. A second sector loan,
approved in May 1984, would support measures designed to improve
qualitative aspects of secondary and higher level science and
technology education.
19.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban sector involves
support for three regional development projects, two low-income
housing projects and three water supply projects.  The Bank is
assisting Korea to increase the availability of basic services such as
housing, water supply and transportation in the cities and to improve
the functioning and efficiency of urban areas.   A Seoul Urban



Transportation Project was approved on April 16, 1985, and new
projects in local government finance are under preparation.
Continuation of the policy improvement and institution-building
efforts initiated under ongoing projects is planned by moving
gradually to a sector approach.   Future lending for water or
sanitation would include support for the improvement of sector
policies and institutions, the expansion of water services, especially
for the urban poor, the expansion of sewerage and sewage treatment,
and reductions in pollution. The proposed project addresses these
objectives and furthers the Bank's strategy for the sector.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
20.       Country Background. Korea's population in 1984 was 40.6
million. Its population density of 410 persons/sq km is one of the
highest in the world; it is also one of the most urbanized of the
developing countries.   The overall population growth rate has
decreased from 3% in 1960 to about 1.5% at present.  The urban
population in the 187 largest municipalities, which represents 60% of
the total, has been increasing by 5Z p.a. or about three times the
estimated growth rate of the total population.  By the end of the
century, the population living in municipalities of more than 50,000
inhabitants is expected to include about 80% of the total population.
This rapid urbanization has overextended all urban services,
especially water supply. Coupled with accelerated industrial growth
and the relatively low priority given to the sector earlier, this has
led to a decline in the quality of the environment and in water
shortages with rationing in many cities.  Since the 1970s, the
Government has given increased priority to social infrastructure which
has resulted in significant improvements in the water supply and
sanitation sectors and contributed to improvements in public health.
Waterborne diseases have declined steadily since 1971. The crude
death rate also declined from 13 to 7 per thousand persons between
1960-81, while life expectancy increased from 53 to 66 years in this
period.
21.       Sector Organization. There is no single agency with overall
responsibility for the sector. At the Central Government level, four
Ministries are directly involved in the sector. The Ministry of
Construction (MOC),  through its Water and Sewerage  Bureau, is
responsible for the planning, design and construction of major water
and sewerage works.   The Industrial Sites and Water Resources
Development Corporation (ISWACO), a semi-autonomous public corporation
under MOC, operates regional systems providing water in bulk to groups
of municipalities and industrial zones and builds and operates
multipurpose dams. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MORA), through its
Local Finance Bureau, oversees the operation of municipal Water
Bureaus (WBs), including the approval of bonds, loans and tariffs and
the expansion of distribution and storage facilities. The WBs are
semi-autonomous organizations, responsible for the design,
construction, operation and financial management of water works under
the municipal governments.  They have separate budgets, revenues and
expenditures. The Ministry of Health and Social Affairs (MORSA) is
responsible for setting standards,   controlling the quality of
drinking water and implementing rural water supply programs. The



- 7 -
Office of the Environment (OOE), under MORSA, sets, regulates and
coordinates pollution control. The OOE also has to approve, under the
Environmental Preservation Law, projects which have a substantial
impact on the environment. Finally, the Economic Planning Board (EPB)
sets guidelines for tariff increases, approves investment plans and
allocates coun2erpart funds for the sector.
22.        Sector Financing and Tariffs. Regional bulk water supplies
to municipalities are financed by HOC budgets and foreign loans. After
completion, such projects and their corresponding debt service
liabilities are handed over to ISWACO for operation and maintenance.
ISWACO's national bulk water tariffs are approved by MOC and EPB.
Some 25-40% of the investments by municipal WBs are financed by MOC
and provided to the WBs as loans, at commercial rates, througb the
Korea Development Bank (KDB). The balance of investment funds
required are provided by the RBs' internal generation (15-35Z), sales
of municipal bonds (20-402), and foreign loans. The EPB provides
guidelines for the WBs' maximum annual retail tariff increases wbich
reflect macroeconomic policies, and MORA approves water tariffs for
WEs within these guidelines. Water tariffs have generally been
sufficient to cover operation, maintenance, debt service and some
contribution to capital investments.   In the rural sector,  a
successful rural water s-ipply program, scheduled for completion in
1986, is being implemented, with the provincial governments, the
villages and MORSA each financing one tbird of the costs. Sewerage is
financed from municipal revenues, government and foreign loans, and,
starting in 1985, from sewerage tariffs. Despite these measures
financial problems still remain as described in para- 27.
23.        Service Levels. About 55% of the population was served by
piped water in 1980, compared with 17% in 1960 and 33% in 1970.
Service levels are better (83%) in the large cities. However, many
municipalities suffer from restricted supply and water rationing. The
quality of treated water is uneven. Municipal water systems produce
about 260 liters per capita per day (lpcd), of which about half is for
non-residential use. To assist the Government resolve the problem of
unaccounted-for water, the Bank is providing support to leak detection
programs in some 20 cities.
24.        Only 8% of dwellings use sewerage systems; the rest use
septic tanks, cesspits, and night soil collection systems. Most of
the waste water from residential and industrial premises is discharged
untreated or partially treated into street drains. Tbis, combined
with high leakage and the possibility of infiltration, exposes
distribution systems to the risk of contamination. Increased emphasis
is now being given to sewerage and waste disposal (para. 25). Seoul
and Pusan, the two largest cities, and several other municipalities
have established combined waste and storm water collection systems and
sewage and night soil treatment plants, serving about one third of
their populations. The OOE and the municipalities are also enforcing
pollution control measures on industry and commerce in an effort to
improve tne quality of rivers and the environment.
25.        Sector Develonment. Sector investments in 1983 prices
increased from $218 million in the Third Plan (1972-76), to $530



- 8 -
million in the Fourth Plan (1977-81) and are forecast to reach $1,860
million during the Fifth Plan (1982-86), witb about half being
financed from the Government budget. Government objectives during the
Fifth Plan include preservation of water quality, replacement of
obsolete equipment, and expansion and construction of new sewerage and
water supply systems and treatment plants. The target for the Fifth
Plan is to increase the population served by piped water from 55% to
70Z by 1986.  Given the high rate of urban population growth,
maintaining even the present coverage requires substantial
investments.  The Fifth Plan provides for a number of environmental
pollution abatement measures, including the improvement of the Ran
River Basin (based on a Master Plan completed in 1984), the expansion
of combined sewerage systems, and the building of night soil and
sewage treatment plants in some 100 cities and towns. Government
plans to increase the percentage of population served by sewage
treatment plants from 6% to 35% and sewage treatment capacity from 0.5
million tpd to 8 million tpd between 1980 and 1991. Sanitation
investments in the Fifth Plan are estimated at $800 million in 1982
prices.
26.         Sectoral Issues and Constraints. Although Korea has
achieved impressive progress in the provision of water services, many
problems still remain. At the present growth rate of 5% p.a., the
urban population doubles every 14 years which, combined with rapid
industrialization,  dramatically increases water requirements.
Consequ2ntly, in spite of a per capita production of about 300 lpcd in
several major cities, significant water shortages continue requiring
continuous investments in the sector.
27.       The main outstanding sectoral issues, which are being
discussed with the Government, are summarized below:
(a) Financial.  Although water supply projects require lengthy
construction periods and reach full capacity only several years after
commissioning, the investment funds available to most municipalities
are short-term bonds, internal cash generation and annually approved
government contributions. This results in project investments with
relatively short design horizons being favored. This problem could be
alleviated witb the establisbment of financial mechanisms, presently
being discussed, for long-term financing of urban and water
investments. The lack of nation-wide financial criteria for setting
WBs' retail tariffs and ISWACO's bulk water tariffs also creates
uncertainty about their capacity to assume debt service liabilities
and finance long-term project investments. Some projects are financed
by grants from Government even when debt financing would be preferable
and affordable. ISWACO's bulk water tariffs for treated and raw water
have a national impact and affect many municipalities. A country-wide
studv of the bulk water tariff policy would be undertaken by ISWACO
under Loan 2491-KO rnd presented to the Bank for comments by June 30,
1986. This study would be financed and implemented by ISWACO in
coordination with EPB and MOC. Assurances were obtained duri-g
negotiations that the bulk tariff study including recommendations for
the NRS would be completed not later than June 30, 1986 (Section 2.05
of the Draft Project Agreement (DPA)). Confirmation was also obtained
during negotiations that the consultants for this study would be



-9 -
appointed not later than August 31, 1985.
(b) Orsanization in Interurban Areas. The WBs are generally well
operated and maintained. However, municipal water systems are
independently planned and operated even where contiguous
municipalities constitute a single integrated urban area. Coordinated
services would increase efficiency, remove unfairness in the access
to water or sewerage services, eliminate duplication of investments
and reduce dependence on government grants. To address this problem
MONA engaged the Korea Public Administration Research Institute to
prepare a country-wide feasibility study of the organization of urban
water supply services. The study, completed in 1984, is nov being
reviewed by the Ministries concerned and the Bank. MORA also intends
to undertake a detailed study of the organization of water services in
the Metropolitan Region (comprising some 40 municipalities around
Seoul City). This study would be completed and made available to the
Bank for comments.
(c) Division of Responsibilities. Government has hitherto successfully
implemented a large program of sector investments. However, there is
some lack of coordination between the Ministries involved in the
sector, in particular between MOC and MORA. This is partially due to
the division of responsibilities and is a problem common to other
sectors as well because of the Government's vertical organization. A
clearer division of responsibilities and closer coordination is
desirable. An Inter-Ministerial -Committee (INC) established under Loan
2072-KO meets on an ad-hoc basis to discuss particular sector
coordination issues. Inter-Ministerial meetings are presently
discussing the setting up of mechanisms for sector financing.
Cd) Independent Water and Severaze Organizations. MOC's Water and
Sewerage Divisions were reorgani;&ed under a new Bure.a in 1984.
However, at the municipal level, with the exception of Seoul City, the
responsibility for water and sewerage rests with two separate Bureaus.
Increasing urban population and density, higher water consumption and
industrialization require a large effort to improve severage services
and reduce pollution. In most countries, the integration of water and
severage services under the same management has proven efficient in
terms of staffing, finances, accounting, planning and coordination. It
is important to study the feasibility of this integration for the
particular conditions of Korea. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that MONA would review the organization of water and
severage services in Taegu City   and that the conclusions of this
review would be made available to the Bank for comments not later than
December 31, 1986 (Section 3.08 of the Draft Loan Agreement (DLA)).
(e) Scarce Water Resources. Korea has liuitcd water resources. Per
capita surface water runoff is only about 1,700 cu m or about 40% and
122 respectively of the water runoff of Japan and the United States.
Since two thirds of the annual precipitation of 1,160 mm occurs during
the rainy season (July to September), increased water demand requires
the construction of multipurpose reservoirs and regional water
transmission systems with long transmission pipelines and expensive
pumping. The cost of such facilities is increasing rapidly due to the
shortage of suitable dam sites and increasing land costs. It is



- 10 -
important, therefore, to improve water resources management,
especially for the four largest rivers - Ran, Nakdong, Geum and
Yongsan - the basins of which contain 70Z of the industry and urban
population. Government's plans for these river basins include the
implementation of water conservation programs in the municipalities,
waster plans for the use of water, and rational pricing policies to
help curtail water demand.
(f) Air and Water Pollution. High population density, increased
ownership of vehicles, the use of coal for heating, and especially the
wastes generated by rapid industrialization have resulted in a
deterioration of air and water quality. The Government enacted the
Environmental Preservation Law in 1981, and the OOE and the
municipalities are starting country-wide programs for sewerage and
sewage treatment and control of industrial air and water pollution.
28.      Bank Obiectives and Lending in the Sector. Bank's lending
strategy is to finance high priority investments included in
Government programs and through these operations maintain a dialogue
on important sector issues. Through its support of Government's
programs for water supply and sanitation, the Bank has the following
key objectives:
(a) to promote sound investment planning with emphasis on least-
cost alternatives, improve the efficiency of the use of
water resources, safeguard the environment and ensure that
the benefits of water and sanitation reach the poor;
(b) to strengthen sector institutions and improve coordination;
and
(c) to develop a solid financial basis for the sector, through
improvements in accounting, financial and management
information services, and the adoption of appropriate
policies for financing and cost recovery.
29.       Experience with Past LendinX. The Bank has financed three
projects in the water supply sector since 1982; the First Water Supply
Project (Loan 2072-KO) for expansion of water services in five cities;
the Second Water Supply Project (Loan 2350-KO) for the Nakdong Barrage
to increase water availability for municipalities in the Nakdong
basin, initiate leak detection programs and improve the financial
management or WBs; and the Metropolitan Region Water Supply Project
(Loan 2491-KO), approved in February 1985, to provide bulk treated
water to 25 municipalities, and to study bulk water tariff policies,
analyze the organization of water services in the Metropolitan Region,
and improve ISWACO's financial management. All these projects are
being implemented on schedule and compliance with loan covenants is
satisfactory. Bank projects have also resulted in significant cost
savings through selection of least cost investments. Important sector
improvement measures are being undertaken by Government. These
include: (a) the establishment of sewerage tariffs for the main
cities; (b) introduction of improved accounting regulations and
procedures for all WBs; (c) agreement to introduce marginal cost
pricing for the water available from the Nakdong Barrage; Cd) the



- 11 -
establishment of financial performance targets for ISWACO and several
WBs; (e) the transfer of appropriate leak detection technology; (f)
the introduction of microcomputers for accounting and financial
management to W3s; and (g) the introduction of environmental
management programs.   The Bank liaises closely with other
international agencies supporting the sector.
30.       Rationale for Bank Involvement. Bank support for this
project would continue, expand and sustain the above mentioned sector
improvements. Bank's involvement in project preparation has already
resulted in the adoption of a less expensive and more efficient
treated water system (para. 47). The project would also assist in
applying sound pricing policies and tariffs, improve the organization
of water and sewerage services in Taegu and help in achieving the
other objectives described in para. 32. institutional changes,
particularly those affecting several Ministries, are politically
sensitive and require time to be addressed.
PART IV.  THE PROJECT
31.       Proiect Origin and Formulation.  The proposed project is an
important part of Government's plans to upgrade and expand water
services in water-scarce regions and urban areas. The project was
identified and feasibility studies completed under Loan 2072-KO, with
detailed design being financed by Government. It was appraised in
April 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington from July 8 to July
11, 1985. The Korean delegation was led by Mr Kim Young Bin, Financial
Attache, Embassy of Korea. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5663-KO) is
being distributed separately. A supplementary project data sheet,
including a time-table of key events and a summary of special
conditions, is attached as Annex 111.
32.       Proiect Obiectives. The main project objectives are to: (a)
provide adequate and reliable water supply to 13 municipalities
located in a water scarce and poor area of the country and promote
their social and industrial development; (b) increase water supply
coverage in Taegu and ensure adequate water services particularly to
the low income population; (c) review the organization of water and
sewerage services in Taegu, which is expected to serve as a model for
other cities; (d) extend the scope of ISWACO's national bulk water
tariff policy study to include the Namgang Regional Water System
(NRS); and (e) promote sector development through a continued dialogue
with the Government (paras. 26-30).
33.       Water Demand.  The water demand has been rising rapidly in
Korea. Water production per capita increased from 117 lpcd in 1970 to
240 lpcd in 1980 and 273 lpcd in 1983. This rapid increase in per
capita demand, (6.7% p.a. during the last 13 years), is explained by
the progressive alleviation of water shortages, rapid
industrialization and urbanization, and higher living standards. The
same factors would continue to increase water consumption in the
future, but at a slower rate. The proposed NRS (para. 35 and Map
18965R) would provide treated water to an area where water shortages
have been a major hindrance to development. In 1983, about 55X of the



- 12 -
population had house connections, but no public water supply was
available in nine of the thirteen municipalities. In the other four,
water was severely rationed. The region, however,  has a  good
potential for tourism, fishery and export-related industrial
development. Infrastructure for these purposes is presently being
constructed. The NRS is expected to increase the population served by
piped water from 55% in 1983 to 75% in 1988 and 822 in 1991. Water
consumption is expected to increase to 172 lped in 1991, and 188 lpcd
in 2001. The proposed loan would finance the first stage of the NRS.
The water source is the Namgang Reservoir, which under normal
operating conditions would be able to provide the water needed for the
NRS and other users, but would require the acquisition of some 340 ha
around the reservoir. MOC confirmed during negotiations that public
water supply would have priority in the allocation of water resources
from the Namgang Reservoir. Assurances were obtained that to provide
adequate water supply to the NRS municipalities, MOC would complete a
program of land acquisition in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.07 of DLA).
34.       Taegu, with a population of two million persons, is the
third largest city in Korea (Nap 18966R). The proposed Taegu Water
System (TWS) would expand water supply for this rapidly growing city
(5.9% p.a. over the last 15 years), and reach the poorest, unserved
areas, thus eliminating problems of water rationing, low pressures and
intermittent supply. Water consumption is expected to increase from
263,000 tpd (146 lpcd) in 1983 to 556,000 tpd (218 lpcd) in 1991; the
project capacity of 400,000 tpd would satisfy Taegu's water demand up
to 1995. Unaccounted-for water at about 402 is high, but reducing water
leakage is difficult because of the large proportion of old
distribution pipe in the system. A leak detection program has already
been started with support of consultants, including a network
rehabilitation program financed by the project. This is expected to
reduce unaccounted-for water to less than 30% by 1990.
35.       Proiect DescriDtion. The proposed project consists of two
water supply components as follows:
(a)  Namran, Regional System (NRS). This subproject would provide
treated water to 13 municipalities,  including  two cities
(Chungmu and Samcheonpo), and eleven towns and villages. The NRS
includes a water intake and raw water pumping station from the
existing Namgang Reservoir, a raw water transmission pipeline,
a new water   treatment plant (75,000 tpd),  and two main
transmission pipelines,  one   serving five towns and the
Samcheonpo City corridor, and the other serving six towns and
Chungmu City, and a high level reservoir on the Chungmu branch
line. This subproject also includes consultant services for
project supervision and for studying ISWACO's bulk water tariff
policies.
(b)  Taepu Water System (TWS).  This subproject would eliminate water
rationing in Taegu after 1988, and provide water supply to some
780,000 additional persons by 1995. It includes expansion of the
water intake and pumping station from the Nakdong River, the
expansion of the Dasa treatment plant by 400,000 tpd, and



- 13 -
additional transmission and distribution facilities to use this
capacity and distribute water to all areas of the city. The TWS
includes additional booster pumping stations, and service
reservoirs, the   replacement of old and leaking distribution
pipes and the improvement of instrumentation and control of the
whole system. Consultant services for project supervision and a
review of the organization of water and sewerage services in
Taegu City are also included in the project.
36.      Complementary distribution works necessary to utilize the
water delivered by the NRS are under construction for the two main
cities of Chungmu and Samcheonpo with parallel cofinancing from ADB.
These two cities would use about 80% of the project capacity.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the distribution
works required for the municipalities in the NRS would be coordinated
by HOC and MOHA and implemented not later than December 31, 1988
(Section 3.06 of the DLA).
37.      Project Cost. The estimated project cost, including physical
and price contingencies, is H 84.5 billion ($103.7 million), of which
W 34.6 billion ($42.5 million) is the foreign exchange component.
Taxes and duties are estimated at about $8 million equivalent. The
base cost is expressed in June 1985 prices. The project is in an
advanced stage of preparation, and cost estimates are based on
detailed designs, HOC's annually updated rates and prices and recently
awarded contract prices for similar works. Pbysical contingencies have
been estimated at 102 of total base costs. Technical assistance for
construction supervision is included in project costs. This includes
about 340 man-months of local consultants and about 100 man-months of
foreign consultants. Estimated price increases over the project period
amount to about 7% of base costs plus physical contingencies. Price
increases for foreign costs are estimated at 5% for 1985, 7.5Z for
1986, and 8% for 1987-1988, and for local costs 2.5% for 1985, 5Z for
1986, and 5.5Z for 1987-1988. It is estimated that exchange rate
adjustments would, on the average, maintain "purchasing power parity"
during the project implementation period.
38.       Financing Plan.  The proposed Bank loan of $38.0 million
would finance 36.6Z of the project cost (39.7% excluding taxes), or
about 31.1% of total financing requirement of $122.3 million,
including the complementary distribution works in the municipalities
in the NRS and interest during construction. The remaining project
funds would be provided as follow: Government contributions for the
NRS ($26.2 million, 21.4Z), Taegu City bonds ($19 million, 15.5Z),
Taegu Water Bureau's (TWB) internal cash generation ($19.8 million,
16.2Z), Government loans for TWS ($8.2 million, 6.7%),  ADB ($4
million, 3.3Z), and internal generation and bonds by the two cities in
the NRS ($7.1 million, 5.8%). This financing plan was revieved and
confirmed during negotiations. The borrover will be the Government,
which will relend $23 million of the the Bank loan to Taegu City on
the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan plus a 0.05% p.a.
handling charge. Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with Taegu
City is a condition for effectiveness (Section 6.01 of DLA). After
completion of the IS, its assets and the corresponding portion of the
Bank loan, amounting to $15 million, would be transferred to ISWACO



- 14 -
(on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan plus a 0.05% p.a.
handling charge). The foreign exchange risk would be borne by ISWACO
and Taegu City.  Assurances were obtained that a Transfer and
Operations Agreement for the NRS, a draft of which would be presented
to the Bank for comments by December 31, 1987, would be signed with
ISRACO prior to the com pletion of the NRS (Section 3.05 of the DLA and
Section 2.02 of the DPA).
39.       Proiect Implementation. Detailed engineering would be
completed by August 1985. The first works contracts would be awarded
in December 1985. The project would be constructed between December
1985 and December 1988, which is consistent with the experience with
similar projects in the sector. The NRS would be implemented by MOC
and supervised by their Pusan Regional Construction and Management
Agency with the support of consultants. NOC confirmed during
negotiations that a site office, initially staffed by at least one
field engineer, would be established by December 1, 1985. MOC's Water
and Sewerage Bureau would provide coordination from Seoul as well as
liaison with the Bank. The TWB with the support of consultants would
implement the TWS subproject and MORA would review the organization of
water and sewerage services in Taegu City. Both MOC and TUB have
adequate experience in implementing foreign assisted projects,
including previous Bank projects. TWB would appoint consultants for
assisting in supervision of the TWS before the award of the first
contract. The appointment of consultants for the NRS would be a
condition of disbursements for this component (Paragraph 3 of Schedule
1 of the DLA).
40.        Procurement. The contract packaging ensures efficient
project implementation. The NRS's complementary distribution works
would be procured in accordance with ADB's and local procurement
guidelines. The main civil works and the bulk of the materials and
equipment, aggregating about $66 million, will be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) following Bank guidelines. A
preference margin in accordance with Bank guidelines would be granted
for domestic goods at bid evaluation. TWS civil works contracts, under
$2 million each, and aggregating about $14 million, and pipe materials
contracts under $0.5 million each, and aggregating to about $5
million, would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures which have been reviewed and are satisfactory to the Bank.
One civil works contract for intake works, estimated at about $1
million, and a control equipment contract, estimated at about $2
million would be negotiated with the respective contractors, who
completed the first stage of these works for the TWS in 1984, under
ICB contracts financed under Loan 2072-KO. This would be economical
and ensure compatibility of works and equipment and validity of
guarantees. A provision has been made that urgently needed goods
including specialized leak detection equipment, as agreed with the
Bank, estimated to cost not more than $0.25 million per contract and
aggregating not more than $1.0 million, may be procured through
prudent shopping. Due to the experienced and competitive local
construction industry, foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested in bidding for civil works contracts. Prior Bank review
would be needed for civil works contracts over $2 million and goods
contracts over $0.25 million, which includes about 60% of the value of



- 15 -
all contracts. This is adequate since both implementing agencies are
well experienced in Bank financed procurement. Advance contracting has
been included at Government's risk for consultant services for about
$2.0 million. Consultants for project supervision would be selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
PROCUREMEIhT OVERVIEW  -  COSTS AND BANK FINANCING  ($ Million)  a]
PROCUREMENT METHOD -
TOTAL
PROJECT ITEM:                   ICB      LCB    OTHER b]      COST
Civil Works                    36.0    13.8       1.0         50.8
(6.5)    (2.2)    (0.3)       (9.0)
Materials & Equipment          30.4      5.0       3.0        38.4
(22.5)    (3.6)    (1.9)      (28.0)
Engineering and TA              --       --       3.1          3.1
(1.0)       (1.0)
SUBTOTAL                       66.4     18.8      7.1         92.3
(29.0)    (5.8)    (3.2)      (38.0)
Land and Taxes                                                11.4
TOTAL                          66.4     18.8      7.1         103.7
(29.0)    (5.8)    (3.2)      (38.0)
a] Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by Bank loan.
b] Prudent local shopping.
41.       Disbursements. Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed
against: (a) 35% of civil works contracts; (b) 100% of the foreign
expenditures and 100% of ex-factory local expenditures for equipment
and materials; and (c) 50Z of the cost of consulting services.
Disbursements under contracts for equipment and materials costing
$250,000 equivalent or less each would be made on the basis of
statements of expenditure. A Special Account of $1.5 million would be
established for eacb subjproject to facilitate loan disbursements
against eligible expenditures. The closing date of the loan would be
June 30, 1990.
42.       Financial AsDects.  ISWACO's main source of revenue is the
sale of water to municipalities by its Water Division, and of power to
the Korea Electric Power Company (KEPCO) by its Dams Division. It also
receives revenues from the sale, at cost, of industrial sites. ISWACO
has made considerable efforts to comply with the rate of return
covenant under previous projects (Loans 2350-KO and 2491-KO). Between
1982 and 1984, ISWACO's power tariffs were increased 582 in real
terms, while water rights charges were increased 78% in real terms.
ISWACO's water rates were increased 10% in January 1985, which would
be sufficient to comply with the 4% rate of return covenant. In the
case of the Dams Division, a new source of power (the Chungju Dam),
started operating around mid-1985, and will more than double ISWACO's
power generation. Consultants to the Government are about to complete
a tariff proposal for this new power source. This tariff would be
applied retroactively to the beginning of power generation by Chungju



- 16 -
Dam ensuring compliance with the 4X rate of return covenant for this
Division in 1985. ISWACO has to assume the operation of the Geumgang
Regional System, where the water production capacity would be largely
under-utilized for many years due to very optimistic demand
projections. Therefore, the fixed assets of this system would be
excluded up to end-1989 from the assets used for the rate of return
analysis. ISWACO's financial position in 1985 is expected to be
satisfactory. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that starting
in 1986, both the Water and Dame Divisions of ISWACO would have
sufficient revenues to cover the cost of operation, maintenance, and
depreciation and provide a rate of return on annually revalued fixed
assets not lower than 5% (Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the DPA). Under
the proposed rates of return, the financial situation of both
Divisions would be satisfactory, and ISWACO would finance from
internally generated funds about 15% of its large investments in these
Divisions between 1984 and 1988. These investments are 2.2 times the
net fixed assets of these Divisions in 1983. Compliance with this
covenant is feasible but would require an increase of ISWACO's rates
in real terms between 1984 and 1988 of 50% for power, 60% for water
rights, and 10% for bulk water tariffs. To furtber protect the
financial position of ISWACO, assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that ISWACO would manage its debt position so as to
ensure that its projected debt service coverage does not fall below
1.3 (Section 4.05 of DPA).
43.       The TWB's financial performance during the construction of
the First Water Supply Project (1982-84), was satisfactory. Internal
cash generation financed more than the 30% of capital expenditures
during this period, compared with 20% required under that loan. TWB
receives no Government contributions, and only 12% of its investments
are financed by Government loans at commercial rates. The TWB's
financial requirements, however, are high, resulting from the need to
finance internally and througb short terms bonds (five years) about
60% of its capital expenditures. Therefore tariffs required for
financial viability are above the long-run marginal cost. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that starting in 1986 water charges
and other operational revenues would be sufficient to cover operation,
maintenance, and depreciation and provide a rate of return on annually
revalued fixed assets not lower than 8% (Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the
DLA). TWB's current tariffs are high, and an increase of only 5% in
real terms would be required to comply witb this rate of return. This
would result iu satisfactory financial pe:formance not only during the
construction period, when TWB would internally finance up to 43Z of
its total capital expenditures, but also for the foreseeable future.
44.        Accounts and Audits. MOC's accounting procedures are
satisfactory. ISWACO's and TWB's financial statements for 1983 and
1984 have been satisfactorily audited. Assurances were obtained that
within six months from the end of each fiscal year: (a) MOC would
submit the NRS' project cost accounts as audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b) within six months from the
end of each fiscal year ISWACO and TWB would submit their financial
statements, and TWB the project cost accounts for the TWS, as audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Sections 4.01 of the
DLA and 4.02 of the DPA).



- 17 -
45.       Oleration and Maintenance. ISWACO, which is operating
satisfactorily nine other regional systems, would be responsible for
the operation, maintenance and debt payment-for the MRS. ISWACO has
agreed to prepare a maintenance program for the NRS and send a copy to
the Bank for comments not later than December 31, 1987 (Section 2.04
of the DPA). TWE would be responsible for the construction, operation
and mainitenance of the TWS. TWB is a semi-autonomous bureau of the
City, with separate budget and resources and is a well run public
utility. Under the Second Water Supply Project, computer hardware and
software is being tested and developed to computerize accounting,
finances, inventories, etc., and to provide management information
systems for several WBs including Taegu City.
46.      Justification and Benefits. The proposed NRS meets urgent
water needs for thirteen municipalities in the Kyeongnam Province.
Although the project area has considerable economic potential, its
development and population growth rates are well below those of other
regions, mainly because of the scarcity of water. The project also
includes the expansion of water services for Taegu, where rapid
population and industrial growth would overextend the water supply by
1988. The project would solve these problems and provide the water
needed for the development of both project areas.
47.      The project would  improve service, eliminate rationing, and
reduce unaccounted-for water and operational expenses for the
population already served in Taegu City and four municipalities in the
NRS (about 2 million persons). Nine other municipalities would receive
water for the first time. The project would provide water to 520,000
additional persons by 1991 and almost one million persons by 1996,
with practically everyone in the main cities receiving good water
service in terms of quantity, quality and reliability. Another benefit
of the project has been the establishment of an integrated and more
efficient system of treated water for the NRS, and cest reduction by
design of project components for the revised demand. Tariff studies
underway would analyze national tariff policies and levels for bulk
water. Under the project the organization of water and sewerage
services in Taegu City would also be reviewed. This could result in
improved efficiency for botb services, increased self-financing
investments, and is-proved sanitation and environmental conditions.
48.       Most of the population without water, or with a rationed
supply, are of low income, and the new neighborhoods to be served are
predominantly low income. It is expected that about 65% of the urban
poor in the NRS area (about 50,000 persons) would have  house
connections by 1991, compared with 17Z now. In Taegu, about one third
of tbe incremental population benefited by the project (150,000
persona) is also poor. Water charges are affordable to the whole
population. This is because tariffs are progressive, subsidizing low
income consumers, and charging excess consumption at 3 to 5 times the
minimum tariff. Therefore the urban poor using 10 tons of water per
month, would pay only about Wl,300 per month, which is less than 12 of
the monthly disposable income at the poverty threshold.
49.       The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project, based on



- 18 -
existing tariffs and water benefits, including zise in values of
benefitting properties, is estimated at 13% for the NRS and 18% for
the TWS, with a weighted average of 16%. Sensitivity analysis sbows
that an increase in investment costs by 102, combined with a decrease
in benefits by 10%, would reduce the ERR to 13%. However, the marginal
cost of bulk treated water in the NRS is V 169 per ton, which is twice
the present nation-wide bulk water tariffs for treated water. The
tariff study (para. 27 (a)), would provide recommendations on the
level of charges to be applied to the NRS, based on economic,
financial and social considerations.
50.      Environmental Aspects. The project would improve health and
environmental living conditions of the population using safe water.
Severage, sewage treatment and other pollution control measures being
undertaken would deal effectively with the additional waste water
generated by the project.
51.       Proiect Risks. There are no special risks in the project.
The proposed implementation schedule is feasible based on previous
project experience and the relatively small size of the works.
However, delays may occur, and if so the rate of return would be
lover, but nonetheless adequate. In addition, there is the risk that
the municipalities may not build the necessary distribution works in
time, thus delaying the project benefits. This has not been a problem
in previous projects and Government has provided assurances that
complementary works for the NRS would be zompleted by December 31,
1988.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AiD AUTHORITY
52.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and ISWACO, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to
the Executive Directors. Special conditions are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
53.      Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with Taegu City is a
condition for loan effectiveness. The appointment of consultants for
the NRS would be a condition of disbursements for the NRS subproject.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
July 22, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                            ANNEX I
Sj at  3 L LI>                                     e 
WAULI          MU                              1481
USA  IRUNI OP         - 10KZ.KuCJJ   XmD _r
USA, EIPUBLIG CF                      GE~m    NU  (UZfUUD  NURAS) f
mm?                      (HOt 351!1132)f
ARM (MURANO S                                                     ULl icus 
a~~~~ ~ ~ ci msq. U
to.s                           U.            4      9.
ACRZCULIUA                           "20.4 2e3.2          22.4
Gr      Ae (3m   3                     150.c      430.0   1910.0             I0.2                    210B.6
t i              mu can
CULO QAI 07 OML Q AVMUIT)           143.0      493.0   1104.0              567.3                   995.5
0ULAT0U HID-A  (TUA )    25003.0    32241.0  39336.0
UBA  POPULZATtf (Z or TOrAL)         27.7       4l1.      61.3              34.7                     66.;
POPULATN PROJECTIONS
POPtILATO  IN 111 2000 O(HLL)                           50.5
5L IKONA  PoPArUN (HILL)                                70.2
POPULATI  lCRNIUI                                       1.7
POPULATION OMaI
PEE SQ. CI.                       253.9      327.4    393.2              2L1.9                     35.7
Ifl SQ. 1M1. cI. LAD            1223.2     1357.3   1730.3             1735.1                    92.4
POPULATOE ACE STRUCIURE (Z)
0-14 US                           42.9       42.1      33.1              39.0                     39.9
15-4 235                          53.7        54.6     62.1               57.6                    56.0
65 AND ABOVE                        3.3        3.3       4.1               3.3                      4.1
POPULATON GROU  RATE (Z)
TOTAL                               I.1        2.5       1.7               2.3                      2.4
R"AN                                4.7        6.7       5.1               4.3                      3.6
CRUDE SIXTH RATE (PER THmOUS)        42.8       30.4      22.3              30.1                     31.3
CRU  DEATH RATE (PU T3s)             13.7        9.6      6.4                9.5                     5.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.8        2.1       1.5               2.0                      2.0
FAPILY PLANPING
AGEPTO   ANNUIIL TCUS)               .       671.0    086.0 Ic
u    ( OF  HARRE  UEN)               *        25.0      54.0              32.7                    40.3
woo a       n
IHuEX or   m PROD PER CAPtTA
(1969-71-100)                        89.0       99.0    125.0              123.0                    114.3
PU CAPrrA SUPPLI OF
CALORIES CZ o  REEQIUIRENTrs3      95.0      109.0    126.0              114.4                    110.6
PROTES (CRAMS PER DAY)             57.0       64.0      74.0              57.0                    67.3
OF WXii ANDUL AND PUL             7.0        5.0      14.0 Id           14.1                     34.1
CHL  (AGeS 1-4) DEATH RATE           6.6         4.0       2.9               7.2                     5.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT SIREH (TEARS)        53.9       39.1      17.3              60.4                    64.7
INFANT SORT. RATE (PE  TfS)          75.3       50.1      32.0              66.3                    60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE VAlE (ErPO)
TuTAL                              12.1       5t8.0     71.0 /I           37.0                    65.4
URBAN                              18.6       84.0      83.o 0;           34.8                    75.1
RURAL                               9.5       35.0      54.9 77           26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRTA DISPOSAL
(1 07 POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..       25.0      64.0 te           41.3                     52.9
URBA                                 ..       59.0      80.0 /C           47.4                    67.0
RURAL                                *-         *-       0. 07T           33.3                     24.5
POPULATION PEU PHsICIAS            334.       2240.0   1440.0             7749.4                   1917.7
POP. PER Nmc PERSON                3240.0 (.g 1790.0    350.0             2460.4                   5l5.5
Pop. PM HOSPITAL BCD
TOTAL                            2510.0     1950.0    640.0 lb          10".2                     367.2
URBAN                            12S0.0 /f  1lOO.O    750.0 7[t          651.2                    411.5
RURAL                                -.         ..        ..            2594.6                   2636.3
AzIsos  P  wSPrrAL  ED                ..       L4.9        ..              27.0                    27.3
AVERAGE SIE KW HOUSEHOLD
ToTAL                               5.6        5.2       4.5
URBAN                               5.4        4.9       4.4
RURAL                               5.6        5.5       4.7
AVERAGE H0. OF PERSONS/REl
TOTAL                               2.         2.3       2.0 Ie
URBA                                2.8        2.7       2.1a T
RURAL                               2.4        2.2       2.0 7T.
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF UMELINGS)
TOTAL                              25.4       49.9
URBAN                              67.3       92.4
RURAL                              12.4       29.9      64.9 /d



-20-                                           ANNEX I
T     A 8 L  S 3A                                PAGE 2
KOREA. RINUIIC oF     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
OlUlCA R:PNUJLtC oF                 REFEuENCE GROUPS (ELGHTED AVRAGOES) /e
IOST                    (HOST RECtNT ESTIMATR) A/
RECENT           HIDDLC INCOUS          NIDDLE IICONC
meLk       IV9tk ESTIHATE/        ASIA & PACIFIC         LAT. AMERICA & CAR
ADJUSTED SNROLLHENT RATIOS
PRIIMRAT   TOTAL                   94.0       103.0    107.0             102.0                    105.4
MALE                    99.0       104.0    10.0              105.9                   106.3
FEMIA                   89.0       103.0    105.0               98.2                   104.5
SECONDARYt TOTAL                   Z7.0       42.0      85.0              46.0                     43.2
HaLE                    38.0        50.0     69.0               48.7                    42.3
FIMALE                  14.0        32.0     60.0              63.1                     44.5
VOCATIONAL CR OF SECONDAXY)          14.2       14.3      18.6              17.5                     33.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PrIYma                             58.0        57.0     46.0              31.8                     30.1
SECON'0Y                           34.0       37.0      39.0              13.5                     16.8
ADULT LIERA. BRATE (1)               70.6       87.6      98.0              72.9                     79.5
PASSEGP.R CASI/TBAiSA5D POP           0.5        1.9       6.5              10.1                     46.0
RWIG RECNIVERS/THOUSAND POP          31.2      124.4    393.5              113.6                    225.5
TV SECEIVEIS/TNOUSAIID POP            0.3       13.0    164.7               50.1                    107.Z
NEWSPAPER CDAILY GENRAL
INTEST ) CIRCULATIOV
PER TOUSAND POPULATION             66.2       136.3    173.1 J            53.9                     63.3
CINEMA ANMUAL ATTEWiAMCE/CAPITA       4.1        5.2       1.7 ?i            3.4                      2.8
a m
TOAL WA JR FORCE (TROUS)           8304.0    IL285.0  15414.0
FEMALE (PEACENT)                   26.1       32.7      32.5              33.5                     23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              66.0       50.0      34.0              52.2                     31.5
INDUSTRY (FERCEIET)                9.0        17.0      29.0              17.9                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              33.2        35.0     39.2              38.7                     32.2
;A1LI                              49.5       46.8      52.4              50.9                     49.3
FEMALE                             17.2       23.0      25.7              26.6                     15.Z
ECONOMIC DEPENDENC! RATIO             1.4        1.3       0.9               1.1                      1.4
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ISCSE
RECEIVED B
HIGHEST    OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..       17.1      16.1 11           22.2
RGIHEST 20 OF IIOUSEHOLDS            .-       44.5      45.3 7-           48.0
LOWEST ZOZ OF HOUSNEOLDS             *-        7.1       5.7 7!            6.4
LOWEST 403 OF IOUSEHOLDS             *.       17.7      16.9 7r           15.5
mr33T TAiT OWPS
ESTIMATO ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                  320.0 lh          188.6                    286.2
RURAL                                ..         ..    Z70.0 7W-          152.0                    184.0
ESTIM    RELATIVE POVERTY IXME
LvEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         ..    370.0 Jb           177.9                    522.8
RURAL                                ..         ..    310.07W            164.6                    372.4
ESTILATED POP. BELOW ASOLUTE
POVTY INCOME LEVEL (I)
URBAN                                ..         ..      18.0 lh           :3.4
RURAL                                ..         ..      11.07             37.7
MOT AVAILABLE
UDT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group verages for each indicator are population-waighted arithetic manu. Coverage of countrie. mong the
indicetors depeoda on availability of data and in cot uniform-
/b  Unlear otherwise noted. Deta for 1960V refer to any year betwes 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; ad date for Iot Recast EeimatCe  betwoen 1980 and 1982-
/c  1975; /d 1977;  A 1979; /f 1962;    R egitered* not all practicing in the country; fh 1978; /i 1976.
JUNE, 1984



-21-                                                                               ANNEX I
nmuwaaaamm.                                                                               p a-g-e
deetee ai"es  I" aimed.. fttiicie  dmdl .M 0-temseee  es=.st   Wis ilieimsee           m.  welata eits.-     1   .dmd~Iotr-   e6  eoet-t
eckjeetsar  (eneIre.   c.i1  ecei OMutp am  neat. teem meeked,                    iDes.. t S EdM" It.tc SN INs dael e c OI ef serp ftceese-aisce    to
assist.   sen" .    ict-cueae jee.' ice.",the mime  an. cepeseese   slsd atskmsi  b"mae fdenekSiae  dc              a  a-eed1te    mn
clap kmieee le en  iieeeel   Cm ee er 'i      MI mai    MI en   51amdeai ae  emImp  ioel iee a  eeQ asP1 alie . eaiesty mews ke
iscasem ec.a.i                                                  haiu.ULS.igaa-Pemseam  4uI M!!! !!~AdSd 55tr umet iplesavsag
jet=    .n     .           It0d.t.-ww..~aeet les dci.                cm55l                   i sis5  Pyad *6 PMcir1w dsfee          mkc .1 poo r-esse1.Ie
jgpj6 se W.84a          .W"t d ci a ,rtalsrl tew e an "adsaiieq peseastpm        i    fti  wn imclb.       tei-   e, eded. aeteae . el-m   preesseta  miemr  ad
caskt er esiece esemii 5  sichUes545.               01efeiee " milton...                                -tfflai-
Cfs sd ad   s a.   ed                                                         _ __ _ __  __ __ _ __  __ __ _ __  __ __ _  -    Pdeft mnipte SeeM.
4d! =l    goimel -    acute ae.55    M"tomes     ia Weerceriect teeket         '    :.r:.1ru.1 w Li %Z.?   i'ed     as11. euee ed ed
OL-PSIL       -OMP         iu ..-Md-     ..,-.                                     - Aecttekia  epahl. ad petals ade.ra  ad *pcelalea  kasetc
iIelllUt   *   esZnter. ask.e  a esred ft.  te" 11eec-s2 ace),                      "Mmk  sestetee "won. Iepiecec M as.aweetsledc.   mere- Is' aecii.i
CEO0. 1eft, ad tat dite.                                                             lice icec  den pk,csasee, teakse10ekae    pecLeIse pidiaesps   -eidwa
emae  as scatded. keces taile.. imccs'. emie.e  aits, ad
pra,v:2        tta   eetc  amcc   aee  a                  ei'   as                       ea _     ae. .55        If.. Ce .) ic  cUe  Ic-we..a oaceamases
en..  d imeii...fl5j                                                                  ggjg  peed-.t e    sstm ic    diace"'e
.   -9 Lad. -"ML gs stmd tie.  .s as                     Wcste  1   -                    Dmd' tee5 =  J.41PRIMS ..c.... c0i  adi
ilqteaimatmAaemeLeeWNW= -   If.1e ask. e   te pe, pes,Setec                   P- a ec I1    Ics.Ycee:e-p%AM IStie  t.Mciiems
tora.    lost doiee..eele,efdaaadstersse.m..Teeii-  es ft                                                             f W im       hesased Addo e-%
manesitS.Cii,  d se) iS.                                              iii emeectiDci Aeweeciasi  ipeecc
-  ftiea pcmttssc prueaece  s ad -"bdd em [M               V            q:I?=efaajmiZmnim
sec. m        en.; add -c .   satall aceesi  -W lens Lies'                   a-11te. tac-csnss. assecec. -csIc.p"               eiceetre
"Me.. PredmsSm P"eraces I"i ae.tsss' iALA Wearse.. ciscm                           ."cempud peet.
eefls  tsted. teal. ad ista iii .ep "eeea, sei4sliciret as  .S                    eem.ialccitccelet  csnemts                                 ice
ns -.  -   wpree  req iclestm.  -.s c..- em ser  eeis                       ad teMet. W-.. -4 teas dasseeI lames-sr.
cest  dle  a. iarsis5  -", muse   is de madcl ad Pass rasp
PI-cc.s ac=itam. Seek mad" n 5.%5 a1-s e a stse- i..-
as a   r artosiss' ad  aicreSsei  "em' Inl peejeesta, aperpea.
ajfl    P     t. -Me cc meetb en- "-  teda-epeesi   aomisees,a                            -4 a-Sc  es    eai
veldtestd;                        e. tee  etteew Ule ac..peccit isnttitip                    wME          ase  as FC.w    met, =ee3      etteec    es.
-tes   e  c~Imtlsacar isasmid a repseamesate,  im 1-ta`  P                                 watas.a Mietees ,rettc scale.6sttiqc  cisi t-1
npniedettm  .Iscel. Ic set c feses M. see kink tea. a.                             ""ee  t tee edJees   i- defrieft Ie-amk ci Pelsred"  i-elcs i
ass eq.1 e. see d'ek is. eie en I=ec  ia eI- te-em". ad the                         madtLa test ecms.-5 ""aits- eea.sae  -v Lead 5.55Mqi
bnti amf     aips.d" It  ccsi       peeecta"1.1 si.aeeeei-  k                       su.aah sI "L"          s -i  Im.;teeitc               n
PtM. ad cm a-cd  i..ti.. ci iciLLtsi  Me. M rep-.m   seest.                                                       ROM     acecece     MMtec  eccweaa
!qpslesse'twflin      0ese tecieis' rer psmpeiaf  iu-sc - iceesm                plecida cars.  -si.s 1a. eqci.  tae.  tsuisc 
~y~~Ttrj~ct telacec-ltc  icuteses' ea- ece ccl.-eed  tee                      icies   -ite.el  Is55 cs.tsc5titeecaeceeaa
55. eSCw aratcaPep-dnieee   rc.-e neeed -sece.  *ee--Ht5   eassid.
aisai   PsAcID    tlse   .ecpcitcs5  r   t  .dc                                 cee5        is   cesl5 at west..dk ..i 1.ne    A.u  t1ee
cieid P  e  dcc                              t-ltaaIr al  -.-m    a  ascttu    1 ptess -usde -er.5.
P"    ..    e-a.smttcete..  5  ec.  i.cqaasa                                        .crcrasc   wetCs..0   -e-r                                        -.
pIrLaees   ma. ss,m. ad  seseae11ts icrn wa.  eieas-  5ct chit. les 5  e   eaaesia
reteicseseqties.sia  attaai   aisti   (i-st te ts)  mct'A-e  151-1                                             2-AL  M                  f      I
tspcciei~mt5ad it s'eicad car)-I icracIen at                                                         Pe-rr fLel5 Js'eq4assJ-   icc.enrareg irseetear
psca5aei.ss iIi~~~. itt). ad-sect--i"- Md 1' an                                                                       at-at-. t- e.  -d
peer ietcietlse                   b"   p   9f-Me . Mtd-etPatse esasL.i  emtct Asei  cdea,seetn, - et cie, . ti macs-ee  ir  -tiC
peeseeeta-req tSa-wi e A.-iAlde 5c-t, P.tiecedceet-e  e eeercead5 ices M-9e   bwsetetsctd Wtr
~.JlnLmCAinA~Me-Am.s Sd-            ksepr ecdc   i                              pasca- pc clas Peee i .Mle ta           ,a   es       n.ees-
--at                   "'r"- h. tece   Mq              ILLa AM si-sa               A. mat-cs1ciaains  get - Ti =          masare-m  a kic a tc
umssmssi  d& LI  cat ice..               e                                         paicsme Semq secs   miceAss at5e Needsea"i Idtemttr
f.Plnftitniosa d-U  ELamp maerat           isi e1m    ma aiLs mew9 sa               e  macsea, .1' seLI ipens     rseedem,e  ci_. Tiamen icl  circ L.I
icttis isa  aeLi  Lc-se-esea.cmteIee  ti,adnc                                                se       cedeeefy Msciteedgl encetY  diAd a. a medidss
nea.                                                                       pehusne,Mk    m L eee  t maoed  MW  itccad egricall a Itetiec  paema"'  .mai
pae nec  a, bce ci mereaspes- AdtI nestd esa. tts  St
ien.ieeaft 141.5KI- cc.tINSe.te- i  et   .qe    m
Certc lsti.f.5.t tw-te   ci er.cpsc!a                        -) - rease stee ft-r  a  ette  at seas secc  Ien
amacid . cc eee -fieat7  Iadeed.acdsse-Mrrlt,sls ac      id. W. sea ad                         a-der LMe ic.1a   fic tac VW. Leresc         ofeit U.
s caeased af ader) Mak . em csk. ad cacec" -cteerte   6..                    W.Metm= eil -~   fete, seeteic. amatle. ffcrertsi asd
mii       ee as esladeit. arepta iceausa ci mef maus s                        iittjemr a.r   -    d an-   mm eraen, e1 cctct sent lerec  ti. sloe
a. -mesa.l acad" ple peeee,on   tesscs Ing-.'S. to"., ad totl                   ad sesIeee
let ats.  acfl5 ceetta.fara   St eat.tacct) - G aS                        auit   caaa-La  ecs ed.a  leecA. 5t, rAn-
-aeW  WA-Aeasi as Maw e.pl   etcl.  ma W, pet eptcu peretmm                                       seted. aice ade remic pemAcS.i St aU en. re-aMILceiys
"eW. AMeshia cecila e-Pria. 4imatcrceca. pe         estee - .c                     ttW1. Zens. ad MSt ice   st. e- %-M   Ito'. w-,Lap-es5    -as
--pta. ad Scfm   5e eften. P" adpLIs. catch  fant ifai. ceci                        Zieie.... ene-m   "een'I'e Stoft seeldtas. ad Ieee sea iteia
aeitsed Ic feed ce.eei. adScce it- dS.      ttca  fteetr- i   tce  en it. siel   ic.
maf aM  tetme   SqiM tact ae ck-.eiccael -mA C.. es-a.                            SIdkI -mieS   nae. ade  s 51 ads as -tee.
scLcieg ad Mecte ndrt  ccrmet  Le-erat. btei  -tM.1w ctsaeipescei                                                  M ed ti-tOt.
ci e d,s ici s.lcasfapt. seca  se.  sia .&CE iIflMte,l'nddge
511mm  f 0 gm  5 sts! iemtc    as' a   Mecc e Maess     -                   -                                                       pe ad
de seccce'leaelt 0t4easat  as7 mod a -fAI s'.t c-ly tttddeleci-ay    sLtt   chee i.e...tte   Pa M.,acas  I- cI.s
dosaiacsal               iai sac1.    w as's sat-a  set ranA   sen                 artesmss' Reite-as  dIth ete a-to  act-fe    era              t
a-a._                                                                              effacefS.M
~5ueei    pan. - tss4ra tcct.s.    n -ms eq  MM Mcesie macl e                  ctetitell  icaeso  t4ea..  deeet-st" -i*d  "a.  wet ctiet
0414 1-   1-41 11-ch SNB;L%r  matel dtcet et h c4jdeein  maC.nI Stsnes  m                                           am
4fte deft-d f- lft  "ti-I suo. 196 -d lemteiteP-- s'sntatta tie. datece Pocc Ici teia tal-elr eitci - ewes
UTjttsejiii,cctj.Cs'msfluif per. i ste iseea                -    .qI -- -tiefe-a as piessc  ites a    rents  a ccc ct.cl
met.~   ~      M  bt.     _t211-
net C en icr ltatea Sin Slitt. tee. ses. acsees-data
met aply  tale.ec-sisfa weseq eq muna Ms                                                                     tenet. catllc as"'     leeia mcc-lA.
akC     VW 5etI ica   WMAMecse  SeaM. mac   Sc9 OM           n
(tee   ut. ..'e  cicc      ec cli    ci.   a    ite
eua.m ,c ae!pi asLc maskl - m -Lc   at  Oe  i                  .c.ii                                                                     Mec1r
atder, S4ty S k.I'd   -as kne a eca  a isaredsh-tece pat St
cca-1. d ..g - Sthg me-p-tee- stel,Amk-. . t e
ltcts. th-ad  ,ccij  eest -rae  -. epc 
st wtee a a  iePene. wiIt                            Pata fl    S  f
ad   f   l   Sqntw-este    sMa Picees eftmodS eee kt-sa
silt te seilela



- 22 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
Population       39,958 (1983. thousands) /a
CNP per capita:  US$2,010 (1983) /a
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million USS at                         Annual growth rates (2)
current prices)                    Actual                   Estimated    Projected
tndicator                                     1984             1981     1982      1983     1984/a        1985         1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                  81,075             6.9      5.5       9.5      7.9           7.3          7.5
Agriculture                              11,285            24.5      4.1       6.3      0.4           3.5          3.5
Industry                                 33,166             5.0      6.8      13.1     10.9         10.0          10.0
Services                                 36,623             3.1      4.9       7.4      7.0          6.5           6.5
Consumption                                58,828             3.2      4.3       6.3      5.1          5.3           7.8
Gross investment                           24,308             2.2     13.1      13.7     12.4         11.2           7.6
Exports of CNFS                            31,194            17.0      6.9      13.8      7.9          11.3          8.3
Tmports of GNFS                            30,927             7.6      3.2      11.1      6.7          10.1          8.6
Gross national savings                     25.101            17.8     10.7      17.9     13.6          13.0          7.0
Prices
GOP deflator (1980 - 100)                                   1.158    1.241    1.275    1.330          1.375        1.624
Exchange rate (US$1 - W    )                                681.0    731.1    775.8    806.0          n.a.          n.a.
Export price index (1980 - 100)                             103.0     99.2      96.4     98.1         97.6         142.7
Import price index (1980 - 100)                             104.0     98.7     94.4      94.4         96.6         141.1
Terms of trade index (1980 - 100)                            97.9    102.2    103.1    105.1          101.0        101.2
Share of CDP market prices (Z)                     Average annual increase (X)
(at current prices)                           (at constant 1972 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990   1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic producr   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0       8.6        9.8       8.2        7.0       7.5
Agriculture             36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    13.6    11.3       4.3        4.9      -1.2        7.3       3.5
industry                20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    34.6    38.8    17.4         15.3      13.5       8.5       10.0
Services                43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    42.7    40.8       8.1        7.7       7.6       6.7        6.5
Consumption               85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    72.1    69.8       6.7        7.8       7.1        5.7       6.8
Gross inveatcu.it          11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    28.8    30.9    23.6        11.2      14.6        6.0       8.9
Imports of CGFS            3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    41.1    43.6    29.3         25.4      16.1       9.8        8.5
Exports of GNFS            12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    40.2    42.9    20.2        15.8      17.0       6.8        8.3
Gross national savings      8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7    27.2    29.7    17.2        14.6       9.0       12.7       9.5
As 2 of CDP
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985           Labor force in 1984        Millions       2
PUKLIC FINANCE (exclud-
ing local governments)                                                          Agriculture                   3.9       26.0
Current revenue               18.5    17.8    17.9    19.9    19.7           Industry                       3.5       23.3
Current expenditure           14.3    13.1    15.4    15.6    16.3            Services                      7.0       46.7
Current surplus                4.2     4.7     2.5      4.3     3.4          Unemployed                    0 6         4.0
Capital expenditure            3.4     6.4     6.4      5.9     2.6
Foreign financing               -      1.0      1.3     1.0     0.1                Total Labor Force       15.0      100.0
1960-70        1970-75         1975-80        1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (Z)                             8.7            9.0             7.9             7.0            7.5
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                  5.9            6.9             5.2             5.5            5.9
Annual energy consumption growth rate (Z)             1462            9.6             8.7            5.7             5.4
ICGR                                                   l.9            2.7             5.4            4.2             4.0
Marginal savings rate                                  0.3            0.3             0 3             0.3            0.35
Import elasticity                                      2.2            1.6             2.0             1.2            1.11
/a Preliminary.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
July 1985



-23 -                                                 ANNNU I
P*g 5 of 5
Populstion    t 39,958 (1983. tbousands) /a
GCP per capital  US$2,D10 (1953) Lt
KOREA - BALANC  Or PAINEDiS, EXTZERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(3lmllon US$ at current prices)
Actual                          Petluated  Prot..n"d
Indicator                                    1970    1975    1980    1981    1982    1953   1984!a   1985         19SO
BAULACE OF PAlIICTS
Ezports of good. and marviceu              1.379   5,884  22,577  27,269  28,356  30,383  33,627  385900       83,800
Of which,  Marcbandis- f.o.b.              882   5.003  17,214  20.671  20.879  23,204  Z6.280  30.700       71,900
Imports of good. and services              2,182   7,997  28.347  32,416  31.504  32,581  35,516  40,500       85.800
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.             1.804   6,674  21,598  24,299  23,474  26,967  27,369   31,600      72.400
Net transmfr.                                180     227    449       501     499     592     526      600        600
Current Account  alaLnce                    -623  -1,887  -5.321 -4,646 -2,650 -1.606 -1,362  -:.000           -1,300
CX of GNP)                               [-.l.)  (-9.0)  (-8.7)  (-6.9)  (-3.7)  (-2.1)  1-1.7;  (-1.5)       (-1.4)
Direct invest_nt                              66      53      -5       59     100   101.4    170       200        500
HLT loan (net)                               24Z   1,252   2,096   4.267   2.051   1,332   3,300    3,000         900
Official                                   147     486     689   1,337     880      861     700      800        660
Privete                                     95     765   1.408   2,929   1,171      471   2,600   2,200         240
Other capital (including errors
and oniaieons)                             372     929   3.770      367     484   -975  -1,000    -900          300
Change in Reservs (greos)                    -57    -494   -863   -316       -96       77   -740   -1.500      -3,300
International Reserves (gross)               610   1.550   6.554   6.870   6.966   6.889   7.630   9,400       21.600
Reserves an eonths' imports                  3.4     2.3     2.8      2.5     2.7     2.5     2.6      2.8        3.0
EyrERUAL CAPITAL AND DFRT
Gross Diaburseeents
Official grant.                              -       -       -       -       50       -       -        -          -
roncessional Loans                         123      123    138      159     148   Z03.3     150      150        200
DAC                                      T22    108       121     158       9   203.3    I50      t50         20O
OPEC                                       -       -       17       1       -       _       _        _          _
IDA                                        1      14       -       -       -
Other                                      -        I      -       -        -
Nonconcessional loans                      317   1,511   3655   4.779   3,937   3.230   5.100  46700          6,000
C''icial exports credit                   18     151     606    84a       532     500     750      700      1.000
URD                                        7     187     254     306     438      354    400      450         600
Other eultilateral                         5      87      90      104     116     188    200       200        200
Private - source (residual)              287   1,083   2.705   3,525   2,851   2,158   3,750    3,350       4,2W
Medium- and tonh-Tern Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed           1,797   5,540  16,274  19,964  22,006  28,170  29.800   32.800      40,400
Official - source                        613   2.657   6,498   7,702   8.572   9,876  10.000   10.800      14,600
Private - source                       1,155   2,883   9,776  12,263  13,433  18,294  19,800   22,000      25.800
Ondisbursed debt                           902   1,679   7,072   5,996   5,324   4,298   5.980   5,960        4,400
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total serv'ce payment.                     268     667   2,762   1,597   4,199   4,657   4,840   5,200        8.700
lnteresc                                  70     2S3   1.310   1,777   2,166   2,187   1,980    2,300       3,400
Payments an K of exports                  19.4    11.3    12.2    13.2    14.8    15.3   14.4    13.4          10.4
Short-Tern Debt
Debt outatanding and disbursed               -   2,409  10.047  13,658  14,100  11,940  11,500   11,000      13.000
Interest paymnte                             -       -     907   1,810   1,525   1,169   1,150   1.100        1,300
Interest as Z of exports                     -             4.0     6.7      5.4     3.8     3.4      2.8        1.6
Average Interest Rate oa Naw Loana (Z)
Off1cial                                   4.5    7.9    7.5    8.4         8.0    10.9    10.9    10.9        10.9
Private                                    7.1    9.3    14.0    13.6    13.7    11.7    11.7    11.7          11.7
Average Maturity on Nev Loans (year)
Official                                  28.0   19.3   19.6   15.3   15.5    16.4   15.0    15.0              15.0
Private                                   10.9     5.7    11.2    13.1      8.1    11.8    8.0      9.0         9.0
As 5 of debt outstanding
at end of moat recent year (1982)
atturity structure of debt outstanding
Haturicies due within 5 years                                               53.4
Maturicties due within 10 yeara                                             73.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                               0.7
/a Prelluinary.
East Asia and Paciftc Regional Offtce
July 1985



-24-                                         ANNex LI
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
THE STATUS OF DANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TIM REYUhLIC O KOREA la
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31. 1985)
Loan or                                                                               Amount m$ million)
Credit     Calendar                                                                 (less cancellation.)
Number       Year         Borrower                Purpose                    bank      TW      IDA    ndisabursed
Forty-six loans and eight credits fully disbureed                          2,764.44  40.00   115.58
1364         1977     ADC                  Irrigation                        95.0                            0.26
1503         1978     ADC                  Agriculture/Irrigatlon             36.0                           4.00
1666         1979     ISWACO               Chungju Mhltipurpose              125.0                           4.38
1676         1979     Republic of Kore-   Electronics Technology             29.0                            8.35
1758         1979     Republic of Korea   Second Guangju Regional            65.0                            1.54
1774         1979     Republic of Korea   Population 1                       30.0                           20.20
1788         1979     Korea Electric Co.  Power                              111.0                           8.26
1800         1980     Republic of Korea   Education V                        100.0                           2.55
1836         1980     Renublic of Korea   Railway VII                         94.0                           1.50
1851         1980     AFDC                 Agriculture II                    50.0                            1.23
1932         1981     KLTCB VIII           Div.  inanee Co.                   90.0                           2.01
1933         1981     KDB IV               Div. Pinance Co.                  100.0                           0.16
1980         1981     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land b Housing          75.3                           13.07
2004         1871     SHIB IV              Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                           3.37
2072         1982     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                        90.0                          25.75
2111         1982     Republic of Korea   Agricultural Marketing              31.3                           2.04
2112         1982     KTDC I               Technology Development             50.0                          11.53
2144         1982     CNB I1               DFC                               30.0                            8.60
2215         1982     Republic of Korea   Machinery Industry                  70.0                          61.99
2216         1982     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land and Eousing        100.0                          50.44
2228         1982     Republic of Korea   Provincial and County Rotad        125.0                          50.77
2267         1983     Republic of Korea   Coal and Cement Distribution       122.0                         100.00
2309         1983     Republic of Korea   Industrial Finance                 255.0                         144.23
2350         1983     Republic of Korea   Second Water Supply                78.5                           59.51
2388         1984     Republic of Korea   Jeonju Regional Development         60.0                          59.85
2392         1984     Republic of Korea   Highway Sector                    230.0                          202.12
2427         1984     Republlc of Korea   Education Sector                   100.0                          98.46
2473         1984     KTDC II              Second Technology Development     50.0                           46.00
2491         1985     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                        95.0                          95.00
Total                                                        5.311 ..   40.00   115.58     1,087.17
of which has been repaid                                     822.20    3.69     7.33
Total now outstanding                                        4 489.34  36.32   108.Z5
Amount sold                  8.83
of wbich has been repaid   8.8?                                 _       _        _
Total now held by Pank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                             4,489.34  36.32   108.25
Total undisbursed                                            1,087.17    -         -        1.087.17
/a   The status of the projects listed in Part A are described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA-financed
projects in execution, which Is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30
and October 31.



ANNP.X Tr
-25-                                  Page 2 of 2
B. statement of IFe Tnvestuents (as of March 31. 1984)
Piscal                                                       Amount (S million)
Year        nblipor            Types of lusinmes            Loan  Fquit  Total
1968     XLI (XnFc)             Development Financing          -      0.W    n.7
1969     Ronam Bilk Co.         Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                4.5    n.5    5.0/a
1971     Xorea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -      0.7    0.7
1974     RLR (KnFC)             Developaent Financing          -     0.4    n.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market nevelopment    -      0.3    0.3
1975     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products           16.n    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.        Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975     Rae TIn Dae Develop-
mtent Company Ltd.   Tourism                      ,2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        rapital Market Development    -      0.4    0.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                          5.0    O.R    5.8
1976     Korea Zlnc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                          15.0    4.n   19.0
1976     RLR (KDFC)            Development Financing        17.8     -    17.R
1976     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Flectronic Products           1n.0    0.4   1n.4
1977     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Flectronic Products             -     n.2    n.2
1977     KLI (KDFC)             Development Financing          -     0.3    n.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance rorp.        Capital Market                 -     0.5    0.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     KLB (KDFC)             nevelopment Vinancing          -      1.1    1.1
1979     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products             -      1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                   Capital 7Market                -     0.6   nf.6
1979     Korea levelopment
Leasing Corp                                        -     0.2    n.2
1979     rold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products             -      1.5    1.5
1980/84  Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronit Prodeucs             -     5.3    5.3
1980     Korea Investment
Flnance Corp.       Capital Market                  -     n.6    0.6
1980/    Korea Securities
82/84     Finance rorp.                                       -     2.3    2.3
1980     KLB (KnFC)             Develoament Financing          -     2.2    2.2
19R1     TaThan Rulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.             Grain Port Terminal           7.n    2.5    9.5
1982     KIFC                   Capital Market                 -     0.6    n.6
1982     K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement rorp.)  Research & Development          -     0.6    0.6
1983     VDIC                   Money & rapital Market         -     n.9    n,l
1984     Halla Cement           Cement Const. Material        4.3    3.9    8.2
1985     Korea Fund             Money & Capital Market         -     9.1    9.1
Total gross commitment                             11n.7   47.7  158.4
less canceLlations, terminations
repayment and sales                              j10.6   18.6  120.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                    9.1   29.1   38.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                           0.1    n.1
/a Cancelled at the reauest of the Company.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
NANGANG AND TAEGU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementarv Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project;          2 years
(b)  Project Preparation agency:                        MOC and TWB
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank, and Bank
consideration thereof:                               June 1984
(d)  Date of departure of the appraisal mission:    April 8, 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:              July 11, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                October 31, 1985
Section II: Snecial Implementation Actions:
None.
Section III: SDecial Conditions:
(a) the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with Taegu
City is a condition for loan effectiveness (para. 38);
(b) the appointment of consultants for supervision of the
NTRS is a condition for disbursement for this component.
(para. 39);
(c) the complementary distribution works required in the
project municipalities of the NRS, would be coordinated
by MOC and MORA and implemented not later than December
31, 1988 (para 36);
(d) to provide adequate water supply MOC would complete a
program of land acquisition in accordance with a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank. (para 33);
(e) a Transfer and Operations Agreement for the NRS would
be signed with ISWACO prior to completion of the NRS
component (para 38);
(f) a maintenance program for the NRS would be sent by
ISWACO to the Bank not later than December 31, 1987
(para 45);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) starting in 1986, ISWACO would achieve rates of return
of 5Z on revalued fixed asets for its Water and Dam
Divisions, (para. 42);
(b) a review of the organization of water and sewerage
services in Taegu would be completed no later than
December 31, 1986 (para. 27 (d)); and
(i)  starting in 1986 TWB would achieve a rate of return of
8% on revalued assets. (para. 43).



Fe QW*lpp                         Fe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIbIU
Wm
.-N-e~~~~~~~~~~~V
to 1-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
PAEO                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC OF KOREA
~w  NAMOANG REGIONAL WATER SYSTEM
T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~U Tm
g%~~~ *'e~~~..  -  .-                           0   Iw*alwwfrmoe   omon
oll  ~~--me
* . ~~~~~~~~~.7' ... - ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      DMol.m
-         ~~~NM W bw Wow bppI Fop""
'I,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dw
rs ~~~~                          ~~                      ~           ~          ~          0 ~ '                  t
~~~?tU ~ ~     JL



REPUBLIC OF KOREA
TAEGU CITY WATER SYSTEM
wife,aSmDlyV Mains
well, Puws.nslieu'@s
s-1 .'s.A..-.
A......Vlgo
4-.g.Coum..I ,yMI Mallan
V.~~~~~~Cx                     EM - K
JULY ins






