Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12634
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1328-UG)
DECEMBER 30, 1993
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1  =      Ush 100.0 (First Window)
US$1  =      Uslh 240.0 (Second Window)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)             =     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)           =     0.62 miles
1 meter (m)                =     3.28 feet
1 metric ton (ton)         =     2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)                =     1,057 U.S. quart
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          =      African Development Bank
AEL          =      Agricultural Enterprises Limited
APC          =      Agricultural Policy Committee
ARP          =      Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
AS           =      Agricultural Secretariat
BOU          =      Bank of Uganda
CMBL         =      Coffee Marketing Board Limited
ETR          =      Emergency Tea Rehabilitation
MAF          =      Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MCM          =      Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing
ODA                 Overseas Development Administration
OECD         =      Organization for Economic Cooperation &
Development
SAR          =      Staff Appraisal Report
TA           =      Technical Assistance
UCB          =      Uganda Commercial Bank
UDB          =      Uganda Development Bank
UGTC         =      Uganda Tea Growers' Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Uganda Commercial Bank: October 1 - September 30
Government: July 1 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:      Project Completion Report on Uganda -
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1328-UG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Uganda Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project prepared by the Africa Regional Office. There is no Part II.
This project took place (1983-1988) under unfortunate circumstances: dysfunctional
public production, hyperinflation, and general breakdown of law and order. These made it
impossible to achieve its fundamental objective of increasing Uganda's agricultural exports by
increasing their processing capacity.
In fact, the project's benefits thus far have come not from increasing processing
capacity but from supporting adjustment. Most project expenditure consisted of on-lending
to processing enterprises to finance construction and equipment. The PCR notes that the
project was successful in creating new capacity, but also states that in 1992 capacity utilization
in coffee-hulling, cotton-ginning, and tea-making were still only 35, 12, and 18 percent
respectively. The PCR also notes that although the project "did not seek...to boost vital
institutional development," it facilitated an early policy discussion, financed studies and helped
set up an agricultural coordinating committee, all of which supported the ongoing process of
policy adjustment in agriculture.
The project was overwhelmed by events. Inefficient parastatal marketing with very
low output prices, nationalized factories and mills where management had been driven out
without adequate replacement, breakdown in transport, very low output prices and failure to
pay farmers for their product were all reasons why export production failed to increase.
Moreover, security of life and property - and that of supervision missions -were circumscribed:
during the first year of implementation the military forces which later defeated the
government that negotiated the credit were already fighting in areas where the project was
to have pronounced effect.
One alternative would have been to stop disbursement and recast the project after
the new government had entered into structural adjustment. The PCR does not consider
this alternative although it does suggest that a mid-term review was in order.
The project is rated unsatisfactory. It is of uncertain sustainability: if most of the
additional processing capacity has been maintained it could be brought into production in the
future. The impact on institutional development was partial. A field audit is planned.
Attachment                                   <
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1328-UG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE  ...............................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................ iii
PART 1: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ......................... 1
Background ......................... 1
Project Objectives and Description . ......................... 2
Project Design and Organization ............     ............. 3
Project Implementation ......................... 4
Project Results ......................... 8
Project Sustainability ......................... 12
IDA Performance ......................... 13
Borrower's Performance ......................... 15
Consulting Services ......................... 16
Project Documentation and Data ............... .......... 16
PART 2: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Bank's Performance during Project Implementation
Government's Performance during Implementation
Project Relationships
Consultants' Performance
PART 3: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA/Bank Loans & Credits ......................... 19
Project Timetable ......................... 20
Credit Disbursements .......................... 20
Project Implementation .......................... 21
Project Costs & Financing ........        ................. 22
Project Results ......................... 23
Status of Covenants ......................... 25
Use of IDA/Bank Resources ..........         ............... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1328-UG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project in Uganda for which Credit 1328-UG, in the amount equivalent to SDR 63.5 million
(US$ 70 million), was approved on February 24, 1983; the Development Credit Agreement
was signed on March 11, 1983. A total of Ush equivalent to SDR 60 million (US$ 73.5
million) or 94.5 percent of the Credit was disbursed; the undisbursed balance of SDR 3.5
million was cancelled. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1992, some three years behind
schedule. The last disbursement was made on October 22, 1992.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts 1 and 3 of the PCR were prepared by
the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division, Eastern Africa Department, Africa
Region. Part 2 is to be provided by the Borrower. This report is based inter alia on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, internal Bank
memoranda, and correspondence between Bank and the Borrower.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1328-UG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1. Objectives: The project's conceptual basis was consistent with Government's overall priorities and
strategy for reviving the economy (devastated by years of civil war and mismanagement), through
agricultural rehabilitation. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP) aimed to increase Uganda's
agricultural exports, by: (a) rehabilitating export crop processing; (b) financing recurrent inputs; and
(c) supporting policy and institutional reforms.
2. Implementation Experience: ARP became effective on July 20, 1983. It was originally scheduled
to be completed by December 31, 1988. However, the project was implemented against a backdrop
of major structural, institutional and financial problems. In addition to the fiscal and monetary
indiscipline and economic mis-management, administrative institutions had broken down and the
general economic climate was damaged by repeated civil wars. The instability prevailing in Uganda
resulted in unavoidable implementation delays; furthermore, appraisal targets related to physical
rehabilitation of processing facilities had to be revised several times to respond to changes in the
project's environment and focus, and Credit proceeds were reallocated thrice in view of changing sub-
sectoral priorities. The closing date was therefore extended four times to June 30, 1992.
3. Given the institutional void in Uganda in the early 1980s, implementation
responsibility for rehabilitation and sector imports components was assigned to Uganda Commercial
Bank (UCB), while the Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) was assigned the task of promoting
closer cooperation between the agencies in the agricultural sector, and facilitating the necessary policy
and institutional reforms. Further, APC was responsible for coordinating planning, resource allocation,
and execution of activities to assist agricultural recovery; as the Steering Committee for the project,
it was also in charge of project monitoring and evaluation. The Agricultural Secretariat (AS) was
established to provide technical and analytical support to APC. The Secretariat reported to APC, but
was under the direct administrative authority of Bank of Uganda (BOU). AS was not placed under
an agricultural line ministry due to lack of requisite capacity in the latter, and also because the
agricultural sector was then managed by various ministries and parastatals with conflicting interests
and lack of coordination. The establishment of APC, however, helped initiate intra-sectoral
coordination arrangements to address constraints related to inadequate cooperation between various
line ministries, parastatals, cooperatives and implementing agencies. Project performance was also
affected to some extent by both Government of Uganda and the top management of UCB changing
thrice over ARP's life, on the one hand, and a lack of continuity in IDA's supervision missions, on
the other. Implementation performance of the executing agencies was mixed, with some areas such
as procurement and contract management being handled inadequately, while others such as overall
physical rehabilitation of factories and TA, were completed in a relatively satisfactory manner.



iv
4. ARP's flexibility was tested repeatedly, and appraisal estimates had to be modified several times
in response to changing sub-sectoral priorities. Thus, the planned investment target of ten cotton
ginneries was reduced by 30 percent, to seven ginneries; additionally, US$ 7 million was reallocated
from the coffee subcomponent for rehabilitation of 7 tea factories, and another US$ 3.6 million was
reallocated from the agricultural imports category for refurbishment of a sugar mill. Altogether 12
coffee hulleries were rehabilitated (some 40 percent below the appraisal target). Of the US$ 40
million of Credit proceeds earmarked for recurrent imports (equipment, spares, chemicals, packing
materials), about US$ 25 million was actually spent on this category, due to reallocations to other
components and inadequate management. In addition to the IDA credit, Italian co-financing of US$
10 million was provided in 1985, for sector imports. Overall, the project experienced difficulties in
supervision of contractors and consultants retained, and procurement of inputs was not entirely
smooth, particularly in the initial phase. The Technical Assistance component was characterized by
recruitment delays and mobilization problems. While training of staff from various ministries and
agencies was provided, its full impact can not be assessed, in the absence of a well defined training
program. The DCA stipulated submission of a comprehensive training program to IDA, but no such
plan is available in project files. Five of the seven studies planned at appraisal were undertaken, the
exceptions being a study of the cotton subsector (commissioned concurrently by the Overseas De-
velopment Administration), and a coffee study which was converted into TA to Coffee Marketing
Board. However, two additional studies (Sugar Rehabilitation and Tea Rehabilitation Project
feasibility studies) were also undertaken and completed under ARP.
5. Results: In order to objectively assess ARP's achievements, it is important to briefly revisit the
primary structural and institutional constraints affecting project performance (in addition to the
unfavorable external markets for Uganda's key agricultural exports and overwhelming security
problems in the country), which included: shortages of foreign exchange; high, unpredictable inflation
(especially prior to 1988/89 - resulting from the large-scale monetization of the deficit), which eroded
producer incentives; generally low producer prices and poor processing margins, which translated into
inadequate incentives for improving the quality and quantity of output and resulted in raw material
shortages; inadequate and untimely crop financing and severe working capital shortages affecting the
cooperatives and parastatals; and inadequate credit delivery systems, along with poor access to com-
mercial debt by entities such as UTGC.
6. On the positive side, ARP was relatively successful in advancing its primary objectives of providing
funds for urgently needed sectoral imports and physical rehabilitation of agro-processing facilitie.
However, the expected benefits from these components could not be realized promptly as a result
of a poor macroeconomic environment, non-supportive agricultural marketing policies and wrong
price signals. The tradable goods sector neither expanded nor diversified in the latter half of the
1980s, and was in fact severely damaged by the civil strife and macro-economic distortions; there is
thus presently a situation of serious idle processing capacity in Uganda; coffee hullery and cotton
ginnery average capacity utilization rates are estimated at some 35 percent and 10 percent, respec-
tively, while average capacity exploitation at the tea factories operated by the two parastatals (AEL
and UTGC) is some 12 percent and 20 percent, respectively. However, recognizing this, GOU has
introduced radical policy reforms starting with the coffee industry, under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (ASAC). ASAC was designed in 1990 to address salient issues in adjustment of
agriculture and their macroeconomic ramifications. The system of marketing, pricing and taxing coffee
has been overhauled and efforts to introduce appropriate structural adjustment policies for other cash



v
crops (tea, cotton) are also underway. In view of the macro-economic and sectoral policy reforms
which have been underway since late 1989 in conjunction with measures to address the systemic
weaknesses, improved capacity utilization and generation of benefits from the rehabilitated processing
facilities can be expected to develop over the medium to long-term period.
7. A negative ramification of the rehabilitation effort has been the imposition of a financial burden
on the cotton subsector cooperative system and UCB, in the form of non-performing investments.
GOU on-lent the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part A of the project to UCB at 6.5 percent
per annum; UCB in turn on-lent to the unions at market rates of interest (reviewed periodically), plus
1 percent foreign exchange risk fee. Section 3.01 (d) of the DCA stipulated that the Borrower would
bear the foreign exchange risk; however, the Back-to-Office Report of the Pre-Appraisal Mission and
the Consultants' Preparation Report for the proposed Cotton Subsector Development Project suggest
respectively, that the foreign exchange risk was actually passed on to the unions / assumed by UCB.
The foreign exchange risk, the market rates of interest applied to the union loans (recently greater
than 40 percent), combined with responsibility for ginneries not completed under turn-key contracts
has multiplied their debt burden. Many cooperatives are virtually bankrupt and are unable to re-
structure or privatize, because their assets are locked in as collateral under these loans. Government
is exploring the possibility of relieving these institutions of the financial liabilities incurred under the
ARP, in the context of the Cotton Subsector Project and the financial sector reforms envisaged under
the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC). The Cotton Project proposes to
liberalize the subsector, thereby creating a competitive environment conducive to the development
of a dynamic private sector; it further seeks to alleviate the debt burden of the unions through
various measures including determination of appropriate values of debt outstanding per union and
providing relief for the same, in conjunction with the preparation of financially viable Business Plans.
This would result in a level playing field, as non-compliance with such a plan would mean non-
eligibility, and eventual liquidation in the case of most insolvent unions.
8. Again, other positive project impacts include moderate but durable achievements from ARP's
institutional strengthening, support of a policy framework, deepening of sector knowledge through
studies and capacity building measures; it should however be kept in view that, the project design did
not seek to galvanize major macro-economic and sectoral reform or boost vital institutional
development. A significant contribution of the project was its support to APC and its executive arm,
the AS. These two bodies were instrumental in initiating several institutional strengthening measures.
The AS played a particularly useful role in the analysis of appropriate prices for export crops and
improvement of producer incentives, within the context of ARP conditionality. The AS was also an
invaluable forum for establishing dialogue with GOU concerning the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit, and acted as a catalyst in activating this project which is being successfully implemented; AS
has continued to play a central role under the ASAC. Another important contribution of ARP was
its role in project pipeline development. With the exception of the study on tobacco, the findings of
other studies undertaken provided input to the foundations for subsequent operations including,
ASAC, Agricultural Development iroject (ADP), Sugar Rehabilitation and Livestock Services
Project. ARP's impact in the area of managerial and technical training can not be clearly assessed,
and it was not possible to determine how the training provided, fitted into the overall strategy for
sustainable capacity development. No rate of return was calculated at appraisal since the project was
designed as part Program Credit and part Development Finance Credit type operation. On balance
project performance may be deemed satisfactory.



vi
9. Sustainability: In addition to a shaky fiscal and monetary discipline in the economy, the major
externalities affecting the sustainability of the project were: the precipitous fall in international coffee
prices; depressed world markets for commodities such as cotton, tea and tobacco; and the OECD
economies slipping into a protracted recession. The negative impact of these events was exacerbated
by weak implementation capacity and reluctance by Government to take unpopular corrective action
such as expenditure cuts, in a timely manner. Additionally, perhaps the most pressing structural issue
continues to be that of inadequate and untimely crop financing and severe working capital shortages
in the agro-processing industry; the problem stems from a combination of two factors: (a) the inability
of unprofitable cooperatives and parastatals to raise the requisite working capital from banks, as the
former are already saddled with debt-servicing costs on donor financed rehabilitation programs; and
(b) deterioration of Uganda's overall financial system (including the decline in the level of rural finan-
cial intermediation); economic and political instability, poor performance of key productive sectors
and the highly inflationary environment prior to 1989, have all contributed to decimating the loan
portfolios of banks. Furthermore, the entities involved in ARP components generally lacked the
requisite technical, operational, managerial, or financial capacity.
10. While the above threats to project sustainability are cogent, the structural and institutional
weaknesses are being addressed through ongoing or proposed IDA operations and other Government
actions; a measure of discipline in public services, economic policy reforms, re-establishment of
political institutions and restoration of security were introduced subsequently in late 1989. These
alongside prudent subsectoral policies are expected to ameliorate longer-term prospects of some
agricultural products supported by ARP. In this context, subsequent Bank support for structural
change in the sector is principally channeled through the ASAC which targets liberalization of the
coffee subsector, controlled expansion of rural credit, enhanced policy formulation, and strengthening
of agricultural research and extension capacity. Liberalization of the cotton (through the Cotton
Subsector Project), and tea (with EEC participation) subsectors are also being seriously pursued. The
prospects for improved impact of the rehabilitation component through increased capacity utilization
are thus likely to be enhanced in the medium to longer term. Although ARP was not designed to play
a pivotal role in major macro-economic and sectoral reform or vital institutional development, it
initiated certain valuable institutional coordination arrangements, which are expected to be
sustainable.
11. Findings and Lessons Learned: The implementation experience indicates that financing of a
rehabilitation project can entail many unavoidable risks. Thus, when seen in isolation many of its
components may appear not to have been successful. However, as discussed above, they may
ultimately turn out to be important building blocks of a longer term, successful, sector and country
adjustment strategy. The key findings and lcssons of ARP are as follows:
* The financial vulnerability and managerial weaknesses of cooperatives and parastatals have
significantly constrained project impact. The lack of crop finance and inaccessibility to working
capital has translated into serious under-utilization of rehabilitated processing capacity. In
hindsight, project design did not fully examine and provide for these issues. However,
implications of the highly unfavorable developments in international markets for Uganda's
agro-exports, which undermined the financial viability of these entities, would have been
almost impossible to predict at the time of appraisal in the early 1980s.



vii
* The project design underestimated the pervasiveness of the macro-economic, sectoral and
institutional constraints. With the benefit of hindsight, it may be suggested that too much
emphasis was placed on the physical rehabilitation component, perhaps to the detriment of
sufficient policy dialogue. The delay in generation of benefits from the rehabilitation and
imported input components stems from the lack of a supportive policy framework to facilitate
growth following the structural changes; holding a Mid-Term Review might have helped
trigger improvements;
* Project implementation experience reveals that IDA should have been more resolute in
confronting the Borrower on deficiencies in execution. Prompt and bold actions such as
making credit extensions subject to timely resolution of outstanding issues, might have
resulted in better project performance. Despite inadequacies in financial and operational
management that surfaced rather early on in execution, there were four subsequent extensions
of the closing date, and no concrete measures were introduced to address these weaknesses;
* In retrospect, administration of inputs procurement by a commercial bank (UCB), albeit with
the assistance of procurement agents, and subsequent distribution of the same via five
parastatals, a cooperative union and a line ministry, does not appear efficient. However, at
time of project preparation this was considered the only viable option, as UCB could provide
the requisite implementational resources. Nevertheless, inputs were not always procured in
a prompt and efficient manner (particularly in the initial phase of the project). Procurement
of assistance for rehabilitation works, and administration of related contracts proved to be
cumbersome and may have resulted in additional financial costs. Procurement arrangements
should have been more carefully formulated to ensure transparency, and speedy review and
improved distribution procedures;
i Task Management responsibilities changed hands five times during ARP's implementation,
and there were no full supervision missions in the final three years. Consistent, appropriately
timed and regular missions would have contributed to a greater understanding and a coherent
approach to the problems prevailing in the field; and
* A major contribution of ARP was its role in project pipeline development. Funding arrange-
ments for follow-on operations proved to be particularly useful, as for the successful Sugar
Rehabilitation Project. Studies provided input to the foundations for subsequent operations
including, ASAC, ADP, Sugar Rehabilitation and Livestock Services Project.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECr
(CREDIT 1328-UG)
PART 1: PROJECr REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECIIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name              Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.                1328-UG
RVP Unit                  Eastern Africa Department
Country            :      Uganda
Sector             :      Agriculture
Subsector                 Agricultural Exports
2. BACKGROUND
2.1   Sector Development Obiectives: Agriculture has dominated the Ugandan economy, providing
livelihood to up to 90 percent of the population and supplying almost all of Uganda's exports in
recent years. A combination of expedient conditions, including natural advantages in terms of fertile
soils and a favorable climate, combined with competent economic management, resulted in a steady
2 percent per year growth in per capita GDP in the 1963-70 years. However, the economy declined
drastically under the military regime of the 1970s; in the aftermath of the protracted civil strife,
deterioration occurred in almost every sector. A Commonwealth team of experts that reviewed the
Ugandan economy in 1979, recommended a rehabilitation program of administrative and policy
reform supported by the infusion of foreign exchange. The failure to undertake policy reform,
coupled with continuing political instability, drought, the 1979 oil shock and world recession led to
even greater declines in output and incomes from 1979 to 1981. Export volumes fell drastically at the
end of the decade, and terms of trade deteriorated by 55 percent from 1978 to 1981. According to
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the central constraints to recovery were felt to be the severe
shortage of foreign exchange and the incentive system; the rehabilitation of agriculture was thus a
top priority, as it was viewed as the engine for economic recovery. Economic revival would depend
on increasing export crop production and restoration of processing facilities damaged by war. Coffee,
cotton, tea and tobacco exports were to be boosted, in addition to non-traditional agricultural exports.
Thc premise for the foregoing was Uganda's historical reliance on certain cash crops, viz., coffee,
cotton, tobacco and tea, which together with cacao account for 90 to 98 percent of the country's
overall cxports.
2.2   Polic Context: In view of the preceding, GOU's first priority was to restore law and order.
This was followed by the Recovery Program, released in April 1982; the Program (endorsed by the
Bank Group), focussed on revitalization of the directly productive sectors, and was supported by 2
stand-by arrangements with IMF (SDR 225 million total, for the 1981/82 and 1982/83 fiscal years),
as wrell as by release of the balance (US$ 75 million) from the First IDA Reconstruction Credit (Cr.
983-UG). The Program aimed to stabilize the economy and eventually revive investment and
production through restoring a measure of confidence in the currency, reducing price distortions and
improving fiscal and monetary discipline. Appropriate pricing and marketing policies, improved input



2
supplies and processing facility rehabilitation, were the key instruments to stimulate production of
cxportable surpluses. Over the medium to long term, institutional and policy reforms in addition to
agricultural services strengthening (including research and extension), were to be given more
attention.
3. PROJECT OBJECIIVES & DESCRIPEION
3.1    Proiect Obiectives: The Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP) sought to increase foreign
exchange earnings from agricultural exports, in order to support the program for reviving the
economy; the focus would be on promoting exports through: (i) rehabilitating export crop processing;
(ii) financing recurrent inputs; and (iii) policy and institutional reforms.
3.2    Project Components: The main project components at appraisal were:
(a) Part A    Rehabilitation of Crop Processing Facilities: Rehabilitation of about 20 coffee
factories or 15,000 tons of coffee hulling capacity and 12 cotton ginneries or 18,500 tons of
lint ginning capacity (revised later to 10 ginneries); development of tea leaf collection
capability of UTGC to 2,400 tons; assistance in refurbishing 1,376 tobacco curing barns, and
investments in nontraditional exports; also, reduction in livestock mortality rates (resulting in
incremental livestock population of 200,000); and strengthening of project preparation,
appraisal and supervision capabilities of UCB.
(b) Part B    Agricultural Recurrent Imports for provision of inputs required to sustain and
increase the production of agricultural exports and livestock, including chemicals, equipment,
spare parts and packing materials.
(c) Part C    Studies of institutional framework  and  policy prerequisites, to  assist
Government to implement price and marketing reforms, formulate sector development
strategies and identify subsector projects.
(d) Part D    Technical Assistance (TA) through: (i) strengthening of accounting supervision
and engineering training capabilities of Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing (MCM); (ii)
strengthening economic and statistical capabilities of Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAF)'; (iii) strengthening Borrower's capacity to evaluate agricultural policies; and (iv)
provision of vehicles, office equipment and supplies.
(c) Part E    Training of MAF, MCM, and Agricultural Secretariat staff in, inter alia:
pricing methodologies and exchange rate policies; regulation and incentive systems for
marketing institutions; budget and financial systems of parastatals; project appraisal; and
allocation and monitoring of foreign exchange.
Now: Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives (MCIC) & Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Forestry
(MAAIF), respectively.



3
4. PROJECT DESIGN & ORGANIZATION
4.1    Conceptual Foundation: The project's conceptual basis was consistent with Government's
overall priorities and strategy for reviving the economy through agricultural rehabilitation. GOU
recognized the need to address the problems of the agricultural sector in 1979; however, the serious
internal conflicts of 1979 and 1980 inhibited progress and not much could be done until the wide
ranging economic reforms implemented in June 1981, together with improved prospects for political
stability opened up the possibility for economic recovery. The acute shortage of foreign exchange and
the lack of adequate processing capacity for export crops, combined with a variety of poor and
inconsistent agricultural policies, were viewed as the most prominent obstacles to a speedy
rehabilitation of the agricultural exports subsector. The project was therefore designed to contribute
to this rehabilitation by financing most urgently needed imported capital goods and inputs for the
export crop subsector and by providing assistance in the initiation of a process of institutional reform,
agricultural policy formulation and coordination. Moreover, the project supported studies that could
lead to subsequent agricultural projects; this was to be a platform for the resumption of more project
specific lending in the sector and would help strengthen the ongoing dialogue on agriculture between
the Government on the one hand and the Bank and other donors on the other. The support under
the project of the recently-established Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) and Agricultural
Secretariat (AS), was aimed at promoting closer coordination and cooperation between the Ministries
directly concerned with formulating agricultural policies and objectives (para. 4.3).
4.2    Scope and Scale: The project's scope and scale addressed the sectoral priorities and objective
of rehabilitating key subsectors through a three pronged approach: (a) rehabilitation works valued
at US$ 28.3 million for restoring export crops processing facilities; (b) provision of US$ 39.2 million
worth of essential capital and intermediate goods to boost agricultural production, thereby ensuring
adequate capacity utilization; and (c) support for an enabling macro-economic and sectoral policy
environment, through its technical assistance, studies and training components2; ARP's support for
institutional strengthening and policy reforms covered four parastatals and five ministries.
4.3    Roles and Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies: Organizational arrangements for the
project were clearly defined. Given the institutional void in Uganda in the early 1980s,
implementation responsibility for rehabilitation (Part A) and sector imports (Part B) components was
assigned to Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB), while the APC3 established in October 1982, was
designed to be a top level policy making body consisting of six Permanent Secretaries from Ministries
of Agriculture, Finance, Planning and Economnic Development, Cooperatives & Marketing and
Finance, the Governor of BOU and the Managing Director of UCB. Chaired by the Permanent
Secretary to Ministry of Planning and Economic Development, APC was assigned the task of
promoting closer cooperation between the agencies in the agricultural sector, and facilitating the
necessary policy and institutional reforms. Further, the APC was responsible for coordinating
2      USS 2.5 million plus an additional USS 1.3 million from the IDA Technical Assistance Credit (see para. 5.12), was provided
for the TA component.
3
In its Recovery Program and agreement with IDA under the Second Reconstruction Credit, GOU undertook establishment
of APC. The formation of APC and AS were conditions of negotiations of ARP.



4
planning, resource allocation, and execution of activities to assist agricultural recovery; as the Steering
Committee for the project, it was also in charge of project monitoring and evaluation. However,
UCB's operations under the project were not under the direct purview of APC, and it reported
directly to IDA on project implementation. The AS was established to provide technical and analytical
support to APC. The Secretariat reported to APC, but was under the direct administrative authority
of Bank of Uganda (BOU). AS was not placed under an agricultural line ministry due to lack of
requisite capacity in the latter, and also because the agricultural sector was then managed by various
ministries and parastatals with conflicting interests and lack of coordination. To increase the
likelihood of Government pricing decisions, priorities in resource allocation and sectoral policies being
consistent with the priorities of farmers, processors and even marketing boards, analytic functions
relating to these areas were centralized in the AS. Additionally, the responsibility for training lay with
AS and included, assessment of specific staff training needs of agricultural sector ministries and AS
itself, identification of suitable training opportunities and preparation of detailed training proposals.
AS also supervised sector studies undertaken.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    Credit Effectiveness & Implementation Schedule: The Credit was approved on February 24,
1983, and the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was signed on March 11, 1983. It became
effective on July 20, 1983. The project was originally scheduled to be completed by December 31,
1988; the credit closing date was established as June 30, 1989. However, the instability prevailing in
Uganda resulted in unavoidable implementational delays; furthermore, the project design had to be
modified several times in response to changing sub-sectoral priorities. The closing date was therefore
extended four times to June 30, 1992. A first extension of one year was granted to allow the
completion of construction works which had been delayed (paras. 5.4 & 5.5). The second extension
of one year was accorded to allow the rehabilitation of four additional coffee hulleries; subsequently,
another 6 months were given for completion of these works. A final 6 months extension was granted
by IDA for selected disbursements4 - primarily for preparation of a Cotton Subsector Development
Project, bringing the cumulative extensions to three years. Proceeds of the Credit were reallocated
three times: in March 1985, March 1987 and November 1988 (para. 5.6). The DCA was amended a
corresponding number of times.
5.2   Implementation Experience: ARP was implemented against a backdrop of major structural,
institutional and financial problems. In addition to fiscal and monetary indiscipline and economic
mismanagement (which led to rampant inflation and foreign exchange and supply shortages),
administrative institutions had broken down and the general economic climate was damaged by
repeated civil wars.
5.3    Parts A & B   Rehabilitation of Crop Processing Facilities & Recurrent Imports: In order
to execute Parts A and B of the project, UCB recruited the following long-term technical assistance:
(a) Project Manager; (b) Engineering Surveyors and Supervisors for rehabilitation of processing
facilities; and (c) Procurement Agent for agricultural input imports. Other consultants and contractors
4      Categories 3, 5 and 7 (imports, consultants and vehicles, office equipment).



5
were engaged to assist in the rehabilitation of factories, TA and Studies. The project experienced a
number of difficulties in supervision of contractors and consultants retained. Much effort had to be
invested by both the implementing agencies and IDA, in trying to identify workable solutions to
problems related to contractual obligations, claims for incremental compensation and, extent and
quality of retainees' performance. Other administrative issues constraining implementation related to
tardy payments to some contractors, belated delivery of two construction sites, and surveys and tender
processing lagging behind schedule as a result of unsatisfactory performance by some
consultants/contractors. Overall, project procurement was not entirely smooth and there were serious
delays (particularly in the initial phase of project implementation), due to inappropriate processing
of tenders and confusion regarding the Procurement Agent's contract.
5.4    ARP's flexibility was tested repeatedly, as appraisai targets related to physical rehabilitation
of processing facilities had to be revised several times to respond to changes in the project's
cnvironment, focus and priorities. In October 1984, in concordance with project implementation
authorities and consultants, the proposed investment in cotton ginneries was reduced by 20 percent
in foreign exchange and 9 percent in local costs. Moreover, as the cotton ginneries to be rehabilitated
wcre in disturbed areas, civil works could not be commenced by contractors in a timely fashion.
Despite these problems, 7 of the 10 originally planned ginneries were completed. The ginnery at
Namasale was cancelled and two contracts at Arapai and Bugondo had to be terminated as well, due
to continuing security problems. The ginnery at Pakwach was completed behind schedule due to
disappearance of electrical equipment from site; the equipment was subsequently replaced (at a cost
of US$ 250,000), and the ginnery was brought back into working order.
5.5    Altogether 12 coffee hulleries were rehabilitated. The original appraisal target aimed at
rchabilitating 20 hulleries5. With the exception of one privately owned factory in Mukono District,
seven of the cight hulleries initially rehabilitated were cooperatives. Progress on hullery sites was
somewhat slow as one of the contractors lacked adequate managerial capabilities. In January 1989,
the Bank agrccd to a proposal by Sebei Elgon Cooperative (operating the hullery at Kapchorwa), to
include a maize and wheat mill in the free space available in the complex at an approximate cost of
US$ 300,000. Later in 1989, IDA also agreed to the rehabilitation of 4 additional coffee hulleries.
T'he proposed hullerics were to replace and rationalize processing capacity in the war-ravaged Luwero
Triangle at an estimated additional cost of US$ 1.7 million. The actual number rehabilitated was some
40 percent below the appraisal target; this shortfall in coffee rehabilitation demand was attributable
to security reasons, over-estimation of up-take of coffee rehabilitation funds, availability of spares
from other sources, failure of many cligiblc coffee hulleries to meet the criteria for borrowing agreed
with UCBIIDA in the Project Agreement, low farmgate prices in real terms, and soft world markets
For robusta', due to consumcr prefcrences shifting in favor of arabica coffee.
5.6    The tea subcomponent was excluded from ARP at the time of appraisal, as major factory
rehabilitation requircmcnts were expected to be met by a number of alternate operations financed
Tlc ;appraisal tatrget was initially revised to 8 hulleries during implementation; in 1989, IDA agreed to the rehabilitation of 4
additional hullries.
Since the mid-1960s. rohusta has accounted for between 88 to 97 percent of Uganda's total coffee exports.



6
by various multi-lateral agencies including the European Development Fund (EDF) and the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). However, in early 1984 GOU requested financial
assistance for the subsector, due to significant delays in funding from other sources, combined with
an urgent need for restoration of tea processing capability. Some US$ 7 million was reallocated from
coffee to finance the rehabilitation of 7 tea factories. All factories were completed by year-end 1987,
and were out of their maintenance periods one year later. However, the machinery at the factories
could not be tested adequately due to severe shortage of green leaf. The lack of working capital at
both UTGC and AEL combined with an inadequate transport and roads infrastructure and power
outages resulting in unscheduled factory closures, severely constrained operations. At AEL tea
estates, labor and input shortages exacerbated the problem, while at UTGC delayed payments and
low farmgate prices for tea resulted in scarcity of raw materials. In 1987, IDA agreed to the
reallocation of US$ 3.6 million from the recurrent inputs component to finance refurbishment and
delivery of urgently needed sugar processing equipment for Kakira Sugar Works; this initiative
provided financing under the first phase of rehabilitation of operations at Kakira, and laid the basis
for further development under the subsequent sugar industry project, which is being successfully
implemented.
5.7    Nearly US$ 40 million of the proceeds of the IDA credit were earmarked for the recurrent
imports component at the time of appraisal. As a result of reallocations to other components and
inadequate management, about US$ 25 million was actually spent on this category. To sustain the
efforts initiated under the project, UCB requested (November 1987), a further Bank credit of US$
20 million to cover the imports of agricultural inputs for the next two years. This supplemental credit
was not approved by IDA. In addition to the IDA credit, Italian co-financing of US$ 10 million was
provided in 1985 (about US$ 6 million represented items to be sold to the private sector), for imports
of sector inputs.
5.8   Part C  Studies: Five of the seven studies planned at appraisal were undertaken (Table 6),
the exceptions being a study of the cotton subsector, which was dropped as it overlapped with a study
commissioned concurrently by the British Overseas Development Administration (ODA), and a coffee
subsector study, which was converted into TA to Coffee Marketing Board for coffee liquoring and
quality control. However, two additional studies (Sugar Rehabilitation and Tea Rehabilitation Project
feasibility studies) were undertaken and completed under ARP.
5.9   Part D Technical Assistance:  Implementation of the TA component did not proceed
smoothly. The ARP had envisioned strengthening MCM's accounting and engineering capabilities,
as well as MAF's planning, data collection and monitoring departments. GOU had requested
assistance from an international agency for the recruitment of TA for AS and MAF, but the
component cncountered recruitment delays and mobilization problems. While training of staff from
various ministries and agencies was provided, its full impact can not be assessed in the absence of
rcquisite information (para. 5.10). Institutional support, including development of managerial and
operational capabilities of personnel, at the tea parastatals was also provided through the
Managcment Assistance and Training Services (MATS) subcomponent. With respect to the vehicles
subcomponent, there wcre repeated solicitations for procurement of additional vehicles during project
implemcntation. Maintenance of project financed transport facilities was poor, and there was evidence
of vehicles being lost or cannibalized. Despitc absence of records providing running totals of number



7
and type of vehicles by destination, approval for additional procurement was constantly sought and
generally granted over the life of the project.
5.10   Part E  Training: The DCA stipulated submission of a comprehensive training program to
IDA by year end 1983; in 1985, following the visit of a Bank Senior Agricultural Training Specialist
to Uganda, copies of completed training plans for both UCB and AS were requested by IDA, but no
such plan is available in project files. AS, which was responsible for coordinating training for all
implementing agencies under ARP, had little idea of training carried out by UCB's project staff, and
the Specialist's report suggests that although, analyses of training needs were conducted to produce
proposals for individual staff, these exercises were not carried out in a thorough or systematic manner.
The report further called for an independent agricultural training project to coordinate, organize and
strengthen manpower development in the agricultural sector. In addition to training of MCM, MAF,
UCB and AS personnel, in areas such as statistics, accounting and financial management, marketing,
project formulation and implementation, a Ginnery Training Program (estimated cost US$ 170,000)
was implemented; it included an overseas study tour for the chief ginnery inspector and in-house
training for some 44 participants in plant operations and maintenance.
5.11   Disbursements: The estimated and actual disbursement of the Credit is given in Table 3, Part
III. A total of some SDR 60.0 million (US$ 73.5 million) was disbursed. Although the project
disbursement profile was designed to reflect the risk of delays in procurement, not surprisingly, ARP
implementation and disbursements slowed down considerably during the civil disturbances in 1985 and
1986. A final six month credit extension was granted so that US$ 3.1 million in undisbursed monies
could be used to prepare a Cotton Subsector Development Project and purchase vital spares for
ginneries, but this initiative could not be implemented due to delays (particularly in the selection of
consultants to prepare the project). The last disbursement was made on October 22, 1992. The
undisbursed balance of SDR 3.5 million was cancelled.
5.12   Project Costs & Financing:  Total project cost over the five-year investment period was
estimated at US$ 88.9 million at time of appraisal (US$ 82.1 million net of taxes and duties), with a
foreign exchange component of US$ 71.3 million or 80 percent. No allowances for physical or price
contingencies were needed in the cost estimates, according to the SAR, due to the divisibility of
project components into financing of incremental operating costs (recurrent inputs imports
component), and a line of credit to a bank for on-lending. ARP was to be financed through an IDA
credit of US$ 70 million (SDR 63.5 million) and counter-part funds totalling nearly US$ 17.6 million
(US$ 10.8 million net of taxes and duties) from GOU, UCB, BOU and beneficiaries of recurrent
imports. An additional US$ 1.3 million of the TA component was financed from the IDA Technical
Assistance Credit (Cr. 1077-UG; approved in FY81). The actual total cost was about US$ 81.8 million
(Table 5, Part III).
5.13   Project Risks:  The primary project risks identified at appraisal were: (a) The unstable
security situation in Uganda; although it was expected to improve over time, especially as the
economy recovered, the security situation was unpredictable over much of the project's life and
contributed significantly to implementation delays; (b) The second risk was the possibility of delays
in delivery of project items, and a delay in the implementation of the project. The disbursement
profile was designed to reflect this contingency. Despite various safeguards, procurement and
disbursement did not proceed as planned, partially as a result of some inadequacies in project



8
administration and supervision, and partly due to an uncertain security situation; and (c) Thirdly, UCB
would be taking major financial risks in its on-lending to numerous rural based hulleries, barns and
ginneries (most ginneries were in financial trouble) and to the tea parastatals, which were technically
bankrupt and had very weak managements. To ensure that its financial performance did not
deteriorate, UCB would be ensured a spread of at least 7.5 percent (with reference to ARP's
rehabilitation portion of the Credit). Nevertheless, at project completion, UCB was carrying a
portfolio of non-pcrforming loans acquired undcr ARP.
6. PROJECT RESULTh
6.1    Project Obiectives: In order to objectively assess ARP's achievements, it is important to
briefly revisit the primary structural and institutional constraints undermining project performance (in
addition to the overwhelming security problems): (a) shortages of foreign exchange; high,
unpredictable inflation (especially prior to 1988/89 - resulting from the large-scale monetization of
the deficit), which eroded producer incentives7; (b) generally low producer prices and poor processing
margins, which translated into inadequate incentives for improving quality and quantity of output and
resulted in raw material shortages; (c) inadequate, untimely crop financing and severe working capital
shortages in cooperatives and parastatals; inadequate credit delivery systems and poor access to
commercial debt by entities such as UTGC; (d) weak agricultural budgetary support; (e) excess
processing capacity, combined with insufficient supply of electric power, requisite fuels, spares and
consumables; inefficient marketing systems; and (I) inadequate transportation infrastructure and
shortage of vehicles. Additionally, institutional shortcomings which affected project outcome include:
ineffcctive agricultural research and extension services; segmented, inefficient markets for capital,
labor and inputs.
6.2    On the positive side, ARP was relatively successful in advancing its primary objectives of
providing funds for urgently needed sectoral imports and physical rehabilitation of agro-processing
facilities. However, the expected bcnefits from these components could not be realized promptly as
a result of a poor macroeconomic environment, non-supportive agricultural marketing policies and
wrong price signals. The tradable goods sector neither expanded nor diversified in the latter half of
the 1980s, and was in fact severely damaged by civil strife and macro-economic distortions; there is
thus presently a situation of serious idle processing capacity in Uganda. Recognizing this, GOU has
introduced radical policy reforms, starting with the coffee industry; the system of marketing, pricing
and taxing coffee has been overhauled and efforts to introduce appropriate structural adjustment
policies for other cash crops (tea, cotton) are also underway (paras. 6.3-6.4). A negative bequest of
the rehabilitation component has been the imposition of a financial burden on the cotton subsector
cooperative system and UCB, in the form of non-performing investments. GOU is examining the
possibility of addressing this issue in the context of the proposed Cotton Subsector Project and the
proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (para 6.5). In view of the macro-economic and sectoral
policy reforms which have been underway since late 1989 in conjunction with measures to address
Since 1990, GOU embarked upon a concerted stabilization program, which helped reduce the average inflation rate from
over 200 percent in 1986/87 to about 42 percent in 1991/92. The average monthly rate between July 1992 and February
1993 was (0.2) percent.



9
the systemic weaknesses, improved capacity utilization and generation of benefits from the
rehabilitated processing facilities can be expected to develop over the medium to long-term period.
Again on the positive side, expedient project impacts include, moderate but durable achievenments
from ARP's institutional strengthening, support of a policy framework, deepening of sector knowledge
through studies and capacity building measures; it should however be kept in view that, the project
design did not seek to galvanize major macro-economic and sectoral reform or boost vital institutional
development. Nevertheless, the institutional coordination arrangements initiated under ARP have
proved quite valuable. No rate of return was calculated at appraisal since the project was designed
as part Program Credit and part Development Finance Credit type operation. On balance project
performance may be deemed satisfactory.
6.3    Part A  Rehabilitation of Crop Processing Facilities: Delays in generating benefits from this
component have resulted due to a deterioration in Uganda's terms of trade (declining beverage,
cotton and tobacco prices), as well as due to the absence of a supportive sectoral and macro-
economic policy framework. While rehabilitation of crop processing facilities was adequate, there is
presently a situation of serious idle capacity in Uganda. Raw material shortages, inadequate producer
incentives and crop finance limitations of cooperatives and parastatals are at the core of this issue.
Other problems rampant in the agro-processing industry are financial insolvency, and managerial and
technical constraints. Project impact was also curtailed due to absence of provisions for supporting
operational reforms to ensure profitable use of facilities, and lack of effective controls on the
financial intermediary, UCB. There are reportedly more than 300 hulleries and nearly 600 huller
machines (1988/89 crop year) in Uganda. The primary coffee processing capacity and its utilization
are currently estimated at 450,000 tons and 35 percent, respectively8. Coffee exports (which dominate
Uganda's narrow export base) have declined in value from over US$ 394 million in 1986 to US$ 141
million in 1990 (as a result of decline in international prices, changing consumer preferences and a
drop in quality of both Ugandan robusta and arabica). Since 1981, coffee export tonnage has however
stayed at or above 50 percent of the 1970 peak volumes. A series of radical reforms introduced over
the last couple of years in the structure of domestic coffee processing and export business, aimed at
liberalizing coffee marketing and opening the industry to competition, reducing governmental control
and taxation, rationalization of producer pricing mechanisms, appear to have readied the subsector
for take-ot'f.
6.4    As with coffee, ARP contributed to a refurbishing of nominal cotton ginning capacity, which
far exceeds current output; the ginneries are reportedly operating at only about 10 percent of their
combined capacity at this time. Furthermore, ginnery malfunctions are a serious problem, with a lack
of spares and qualified mechanics contributing to long delays, inflated processing costs and reduced
cotton quality. However, this situation is expected to reverse following the substantial reforms being
proposed under a Cotton Subsector Project; with increased competition, significant export expansion
could be achieved fairly quickly. Tea production and exports dropped enormously in 1979, following
the war with Tanzania; made tea output is presently some 9,000 tons, almost half of early 1970 levels.
The unfavorable developments in international pricing environment have eroded incentives at project
completion; this combined with working capital shortages in the parastatals have meant low levels of
8     Uganda Agricultural Sector Memorandum, March 1993.



10
green leaf supplies. Average capacity utilization (in 1990) at AEL was just 12 percent, while it was
20 percent at UTGC. Some of the issues affecting the tea subsector are also being addressed through
ASAC. An initiative in the right direction has been set in motion, with Government eliminating the
export monopoly of the Uganda Tea Authority. Given the short gestation period in tea - about 3
months, production from existing tea estates could be increased very quickly.
6.5    A negative ramification of the rehabilitation effort has been the imposition of a financial
burden on the cotton subsector cooperative system and UCB, in the form of non-performing
investments. GOU on-lent the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part A of the project to UCB at
6.5 percent per annum; UCB in turn on-lent to the unions at market rates of interest (reviewed
periodically), plus 1 percent foreign exchange risk fee. Section 3.01 (d) of the DCA stipulated that
the Borrower would bear the foreign exchange risk; however, the Back-to-Office Report of the Pre-
Appraisal Mission and the Consultants' Preparation Report for the proposed Cotton Subsector
Development Project suggest respectively, that the foreign exchange risk was actually passed on to
the unions assumed by UCB. The foreign exchange risk, the market rates of interest applied to the
unions' loans (recently greater than 40 percent), combined with responsibility for ginneries not
completed under turn-key contracts has multiplied their debt burden9. Many cooperatives are virtually
bankrupt and are unable to restructure or privatize, because their assets are locked in as collateral
under these loans. Government is exploring the possibility of relieving these institutions of the
financial liabilities incurred under the ARP, in the context of the Cotton Subsector Project and the
financial sector reforms envisaged under the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC).
The Cotton Project proposes to liberalize the subsector, thereby creating a competitive environment
conducive to the development of a dynamic private sector; it further seeks to alleviate the debt
burden of the unions through various measures including determination of appropriate values of debt
outstanding per union and providing relief for the same, in conjunction with the preparation of
financially viable Business Plans. This would result in a level playing field, as non-compliance with
such a plan would mean non-eligibility, and eventual liquidation in the case of most insolvent unions.
6.6    Part B  Agricultural Recurrent Imports: The project made quite an important contribution
through the financing of recurrent imports (essential tools, packaging materials, veterinary supplies,
equipment and spares) - thereby assisting somewhat in the alleviation of the near chronic short supply
of agricultural inputs. Due to reasons noted in para. 5.7 however, only about 60 percent of the US$
40 million earmarked originally was expended to this end. In view of the intermittent turmoil in
Uganda, the benefits from this component could not be maximized. Lack of inputs continued to be
a serious constraint on agriculture, and the shortage was noted by various missions. In this context,
the Agricultural Development Project (ADP) approved in January 1985, sought to continue the
supply of inputs initiated under ARP, through the provision of about US$ 18 million worth of
agricultural, livestock and fisheries inputs.
9      Overall the unions are currently indebted to the Cooperative Bank and UCB for ADB and IDA ginnery rehabilitation loans
estimated at Ush 52.1 billion (around US$ 42.6 million). The ADB loans constitute the bulk of union indebtedness, as the
IDA portion totals Ush 3.1 billion (about USS 2.5 million). Approximately USS 1.6 million or about 65 percent of total
amount outstanding (IDA loans) represents accumulated interest. Appendix 3, Final Report, April 1993, Cotton 9Subsector
Development Project Preparation, BCGA, U.K & self-estimates.



11
6.7    Part C  Studies: Project documentation suggests that the five subsector studies completed
were of uneven quality; for instance, the Livestock Marketing Study, was deemed satisfactory only
after extensive review by IDA. Project files also indicate that the Costs of Production Study (major
traditional export crops) and the Non-Traditional Exports study, required much revision. Specific
comments on the other studies undertaken were unavailable. As participated in study reviews at every
stage, but the Secretariat's comments were reportedly not addressed in the final version of the studies.
An important element missing from the whole exercise was a plan of action for reviewing and
implementing the findings of these studies. This was addressed through the implementing agencies
undertaking this operation upon the recommendation of APC. Based on these studies, three task
forces were set up for cotton, livestock and agricultural services (food crops), in 1984. Due to various
constraints however, there was a delay in the finalization of the reports, which were submitted
eventually in 1987. On the basis of the recommendations of these Task Forces, nine study groups
were established in 1987; the study groups completed their work including development of the Action
Programme in 1989, which led to the formation of Action Plans for Agricultural Policy Agenda and
investment projects. A major contribution of this component was its role in project pipeline
development. With the exception of the one on tobacco, the findings of the other studies provided
input to the foundations for subsequent operations including, ASAC, ADP, Sugar Rehabilitation and
Livestock Services Project.
6.8    Part D  Technical Assistance: The residual impact of the TA component is the hardest to
gauge, since project documentation does not elaborate on the performance of APC or AS, in areas
of institutional development and policy formulation. Nonetheless, the project made important
contribution to policy reform and institution development through its support to APC and its
executive arm, the AS. It was via this mechanism, that GOU gleaned vital information on production
and incentive problems confronting farmers and processing industries; GOU was also assisted by AS
in implementing ARP conditionality (during the early 1980s), which required that farmgate prices,
and agro-processing margins be adjusted upwards with a view to improving production and export
incentives, within an administered pricing system'". A consequent positive response in coffee, tea,
cotton, and tobacco sectors, was subsequently dampened by security problems in the mid-1980s, the
collapse of international coffee markets and decline in real farmgate prices. The AS was also an
invaluable forum for establishing dialogue with GOU concerning the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (ASAC), and acted as a catalyst in activating this project which is being successfully
implemented. AS has continued to play a vital role under the ASAC, which was designed in 1990 to
address salient issues in adjustment of agriculture and their macroeconomic ramifications"1. AS's role,
however, has shifted from administration of export prices and margins toward monitoring of product
and inputs markets and prices, and providing analytical support for further adjustment and regulatory
initiatives of Government.
6.9    Part E  Training: Durable capacity building through managerial and technical training could
not be assessed clearly, since it was not possible to determine how the training provided fitted into
The DCA stipulated that AS would regularly consult with IDA on prices of export crops to producers and processors;
howccr, no forrnal records of such consultations are available on file.
An OED Report of June 1990, which reviewed the TA provided under other projects in Uganda, including the Technical
Assistance I Project (Cr. 1077-UG), underlined the lasting impact of AS in institutional capacity development.



12
the overall strategy (para. 5.10). Identification of eligible candidates and selection of fields of study,
appear to have been handled in an ad hoc and at times arbitrary manner, although overall, the fields
of study sclected were pertinent.
7. PROJECIT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1    Sustainability: In addition to a shaky fiscal and monetary discipline in the economy, the major
external shock affecting the sustainability of the project was the collapse of the International Coffee
Agreement in 1989 and the subsequent precipitous fall in international coffee prices. Consequently,
foreign exchange earnings and government tax revenues relative to targets declined dramatically'2.
The situation was worsened due to depressed world markets for other commodities such as cotton,
tea and tobacco and the OECD economies slipping into a protracted recession. The negative impact
of these events was exacerbated by weak implementation capacity and reluctance by Government to
take unpopular corrective action (for example, expenditure cuts or exchange rate adjustment) in a
timely manner. Of the structural weakness indicatcd in para. 6.1, perhaps the most pressing issue is
that of inadequate and untimely crop financing and severe working capital shortages in the agro-
processing industry; the problem stems from a combination of two factors: (a) the inability of
unprolitable coopcratives and parastatals to raise the requisite working capital from banks, as the
former are already saddled with debt-servicing costs on donor financed rehabilitation programs; and
(b) deterioration of Uganda's overall financial system (including the decline in the level of rural
financial intermediation); cconomic and political instability, poor performance of key productive
sectors and the highly inflationary environment prior to 1989, have all contributed to decimating the
loan portfolios of banks. Another key issue is the capacity and willingness of parastatal and co-
opcrative union personnel to maintain and operate project assets.  Lack of motivation and
commitment of the often underpaid staff would positively detract sustainability; the entities involved
in various project components, gcnerally lacked the requisite technical, managerial, or economic
Capacity.
7.2    While the above threats to project sustainability are cogent, the structural and institutional
weaknesses are bcing addressed through ongoing or proposed IDA operations and other Government
actions; a mcasure of discipline in public scrvices, economic policy reforms, re-establishment of
political institutions and rcstoration of security were introduced subsequently in late 1989. These
alongsiel prudent subsectoral policies are expected to ameliorate longer-term prospects of some
agricultural products supported by ARP. In this context, subsequent Bank support for structural
change is principally channeled through the ASAC which targets liberalization of the coffee subsector,
controlled expansion of rural credit, enhanced policy formulation, and strengthening of agricultural
research and cxtcnsion capacity. Liberalization of the cotton (through the Coffee Subsector Project),
and dcvelopment of tea (with EEC participation) subsectors are also being seriously pursued. The
prospccts for improved impact of the rehabilitation component through increased capacity utilization
are thus likclv to hc enhanced in the mcdium to longer term (paras. 6.3-6.5). Although the project
was not diesigned to play a pivotal role in major macro-economic and sectoral reform or boost vital
nstMiutiollid development, the institutional coordination arrangements initiated under ARP have
I l-ocr, concciled action hy (ievernnint (parlicularly since 1990), has helped maintain real producer pnces of coffee.



13
proved quite valuable and are expected to be sustainable. In view of the advances made in capacity
building in the agricultural ministries, the ov,"rall roles, specific functions and intra-sectoral
relationships of AS and other entities should be revisited; a review and subsequent
rationalization/redistribution of the roles and functions of these entities may be called for at this
juncture.
8. IDA PERFORMANCE
8.1    Supervision Performance: IDA mounted seven full supervision missions between October
1983 and February 1989; additionally, a number of missions dealing with specific project
subcomponents and issues such as, emergency tea rehabilitation, procurement matters and producer
incentives were carried out. Task Management responsibilities changed hands five times during the
project's implementation, primarily as a result of staff turnover. In the period 1984 through late 1987,
project supervision was transferred to the Nairobi office of the Bank, partially to effect more
intensive supervision. Nonetheless, at times, IDA staff expounded different directives and policies
(often justifiable in view of the changing situation), which contradicted each other and may have
caused confusion in implementation. For instance, in December 1985, all procurement was suspended
due to the instability in the country; thereafter, in August 1986, a Bank initiative, subsequently agreed
by GOU, sought to expedite procurement under the project through innovative procedures. However,
by October 1986, the position with regard to procurement under ARP had changed dramatically, so
that most new procurement was put on hold; any new commitments were to be tested for robustness
to macro-economic problems and IDA was to proceed very selectively - only with those new
commitments that made sense in view of the macroeconomic distortions prevailing in Uganda. In
January 1987, however, it was decided that funds from ongoing IDA Credits (Cr. 1328-UG and Cr.
1248-UG) were to be utilized for emergency rehabilitation of Kakira Sugar Works, and suspension
of other procurement would also be reviewed afresh.
8.2    Although there was no official supervision for over three years (the last full supervision
mission was in Fcbruary 1989'3), a dialogue was maintained with UCB and AS (subsequent
communication with AS focused primarily on the ASAC). Review of project progress and assessment
of related problems suffered at times in the absence of consistent communication. The audit
covenants of the DCA were complied with after considerable delays. Repeated reminders had to be
issued by the Bank, to induce submission of Audit reports. In fact, no audit reports on status of
project accounts were submitted for six years (1983-1989). Thereafter, all overdue reports were
submitted en masse. No clarifications for a discrepancy in the Special Account (pending since 1986),
were provided until 1990, although IDA raised the issue several times (especially in the latter part
of the project), with BOU. IDA received financial data on UCB's operations fairly regularly.
Compliance with internationally accepted accounting principles was not always observed in the various
reports received. In retrospect, this project experience suggests that IDA should have been more
resolute and prompt in confronting the Borrower on such deficiencies in implementation.
13    Subsequent missions were mounted primarily in connection with the Cotton PPF.



14
8.3    Findings and Lessons Learned: The implementation experience indicates that financing of
a rehabilitation project can entail many unavoidable risks. Thus, when seen in isolation many of its
components may appear not to have been successful. However, as discussed above, they may
ultimately turn out to be important building blocks of a longer term, successful, sector and country
adjustment strategy. The key findings and lessons of ARP are as follows:
(a)    The financial vulnerability and managerial weaknesses of cooperatives and parastatals
have significantly constrained project impact. The lack of crop finance and
inaccessibility to working capital has translated into serious under-utilization of
rehabilitated processing capacity. In hindsight, project design did not fully examine
and provide for these constraints. However, implications of the highly unfavorable
developments in international markets for Uganda's agro-exports, which undermined
the financial viability of these entities, would have been almost impossible to predict
at the time of appraisal in the early 1980s.
(b)    The project design underestimated the pervasiveness of the macro-economic, sectoral
and institutional constraints. With the benefit of hindsight, it may be suggested that
too much emphasis was placed on the physical rehabilitation component, perhaps to
the detriment of sufficient policy dialogue. Given the absence of an enabling policy
environment and rather limited infrastructural capacity, some of the rehabilitation
investments, such as cotton ginneries, may have been premature. The delay in
generation of benefits from the rehabilitation and input import components stems
from the lack of a supportive policy framework to facilitate growth following the
structural changes; holding a Mid-Term Review might have helped trigger
improvements;
(c)    Project implementation experience reveals that IDA should have been more resolute
in confronting the Borrower on deficiencies in execution, such as non-compliance
with the Audit Covenants of the DCA. Prompt and bold actions such as with-holding
disbursements and making credit extensions subject to timely resolution of
outstanding issues, might have resulted in better project performance. Despite
inadequacies in financial and operational management that surfaced rather early on
in execution, there were four subsequent extensions of the closing date, and no
concrete measures were introduced to address these weaknesses;
(d)    Administration of inputs procurement by a commercial bank (UCB), albeit with the
assistance of procurement agents, and subsequent distribution of the same via five
parastatals, a cooperative union and the Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries,
does not emerge as an efficient arrangement, in retrospect. However, at time of
project preparation this was considered the only viable option, as UCB could provide
the requisite implementational resourcest4; the ministries lacked the requisite
capacity and furthermore, the Uganda Central Tender Board was already over-
burdened by supervision of nearly all procurement in the country, resulting in
14    The same basis determined the selection of UCB as the implementing agency for the rehabilitation component.



15
unacceptably long delays. Nevertheless, inputs were not always procured in a prompt
and efficient manner (particularly in the initial phase of the project). Three Quote
Bid System, Prudent Shopping, Direct Contracting and Limited International Bidding
procurement procedures were employed; procurement of assistance for rehabilitation
works, and administration of related contracts proved to be cumbersome and may
have resulted in additional financial costs. Procurement arrangements should have
been more carefully formulated to ensure transparency, and speedy review and
improved distribution procedures;
(e)    Task Management responsibilities changed hands five times during ARP's
implementation, and there were no full supervision missions in the final three years.
Consistent, appropriately timed and regular missions would have contributed to a
greater understanding and a coherent approach to the problems prevailing in the
field. Additionally, more careful monitoring of the project's progress vis-a-vis overall
objectives would have been more useful than focusing primarily on implementation
problems; and
(f)    A major contribution of ARP was its role in project pipeline development. Funding
arrangements for follow-on operations proved to be particularly useful, as for the
successful Sugar Rehabilitation Project. Studies provided input to the foundations for
subsequent operations including, ASAC, ADP, Sugar Rehabilitation and Livestock
Services Project.
9. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
9.1    ARP was initiated with a favorable reception from Ugandan Government, and there was no
change in the authorities' stance, when the present Government of Uganda assumed power in
January 1987. Project implementation by the Borrower was somewhat hampered (particularly in the
initial stages) by inadequate coordination and cooperation between various line ministries (Ministry
of Agriculture, Ministry of Animal Industries & Fisheries and Ministry of Cooperatives & Marketing),
parastatals, cooperatives and other entities, including UCB, UTGC, AEL and AS. The preceding
should be seen in the light of the political uncertainties prevailing over much of ARP's life 15; the
establishment of APC however, helped promote intra-sectoral coordination, thereby ameliorating the
situation.
9.2   The Borrower's support to institutional development in the context of ARP, despite serious
socio-political and economic impediments, has paved the way for initiating changes in the right
direction in sectoral policy framework. Implementation performance of the executing agencies was
mixed, with some areas such as procurement and contract management being handled inadequately,
while others such as overall physical rehabilitation of factories and TA, were completed reasonably
well. In conclusion, considering the emergency situation under which the project was launched and
15    Both the Government of Uganda, and the top management of UCB changed thrice over ARP's life.



16
the unstable political and security environment under which it was implemented, the achievements
of the executing agencies were adequate.
10. CONSULTING SERVICES
10.1   The consultants attached to AS and UCB performed at varying levels of competence, and
their performance was not uniformly satisfactory. Although the quality of the studies produced was
deemed uneven, their overall contribution was quite significant as these studies sought to recommend
solutions to specific subsector issues and provided input for follow-on operations (para. 6.7). The
assistance provided in other fields, such as project management, engineering supervision and training,
was also not consistently adequate; but insecurity in project areas affected the performance of
consultants associated with the rehabilitation component.
11. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION & DATA
11.1   The Staff Appraisal Report, Supervision reports and Project Progress Reports supplied the
bulk of the information for this report. The implementation volumes' coverage of the physical
rehabilitation and recurrent inputs components of the project was adequate, but it provided limited
information with respect to the progress of the Studies, TA and Training components.



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1328-UG)
PART 2: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
BANK'S PERFORMANCE DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1.1 Bank's Performance:
1.2  Lessons Learned:
2.   GOVERNMENT'S PERFORMANCE DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.1 Government's Performance:
2.2 Achievements and Lessons Learned:
3.   PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
3.1
4.   CONSULTANTS' PERFORMANCE
4.1






19
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1328-UG)
PART 3. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit Title                  Purpose            Year of     Status
Approval
First Reconstruction Cr.983-UG    The agricultural component    1980    Completed
was aimed at sectoral                 in 1985.
(US$ 19 million of a total credit   rehabilitation through
of US$ 95 million, was earmarked  provision of imported
for agriculture).              inputs and spares.
Second Reconstruction Cr.1252-   The agricultural component    1982    Completed
UG                             was aimed at sectoral                  in 1990.
rehabilitation through
(US$ 17 million of a total credit   provision of imported
of US$ 70 million, was earmarked  inputs and spares.
for agriculture).
Agricultural Development Project  Increase food production  1985     Ongoing
Cr. 1539-UG                    and family income in
project area through
(US$ 10 million)               provision of inputs;
strengthening of extension
services; support for
research and surveys.
Sugar Rehabilitation           Restore efficient            1988     Ongoing
Cr.1893-UG                     agricultural and processing
operations at the Kakira
(US$ 24.9 million)             Sugar Works.                                    l
Agricultural Sector Adjustment    Facilitate financial      1990     Ongoing
Credit                         stabilization; promote
Cr.2190-UG                     agricultural growth and
diversification.
(US$ 100 million)                                                              l
Livestock Services             Reverse the decline in       1990     Ongoing
Cr.2176-UG                     livestock numbers by
dealing with the alarming
(US$ 21 million)               animal epidemic disease
situation; bring about
improvements in the
Ministry of Animal Industry
and Fisheries.



20
Table 2. Project Timetable
Time                  Date Planned            Date Revised             Date Actual
Identification                                                                         41R0
Preparation                                                                            7/81
Pre-appraisal                                                                          2/82
Appraisal Mission                                                                      5/82
Post-Appraisal Mission                                                                 8/82
Credit Negotiation                                                                     1/83
Board Approval                                                                      02/24/1983
Credit Signature                                                                    03/11/1983
Credit Effectiveness                                                                07/20/1983
Project Completion                   12/31188
Credit Closing                      06130/1989             12/31/1991'               06/30/92
Table 3. Credit Disbursement (USS Million)
IDA Fiscal Year        Appraisal Estimates            Actual            Actual as
% of
Annual       Cumulative    Annual Cumulative    Appraisal
Estimate
1983                0.2         0.2            0.0       0.0          0
1984                8.7         8.9            1.7       1.7          19
1985                30.8        39.7           8.1       9.8          25
1986               24.0         63.7           8.3      18.1          29
1987                3.2         66.9           22-8     40.9          61
1988               2.0          68.9           15.6     56.5          82
1989                1.1         70.0           8.4      64.9          93
1990                                           3.4      68.3          98
1991                                           2.1      70.4          100
1992                                           2.7      73.1         104
1993                                           0.4      73.52         105
Credit closing date was revised a total of four times.
2        The US Dollar amounts exceed the appraisal estimates due to the appreciation of the SDR.



21
Table 4. Project Implementation
Indicators                                 Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
Rehabilitation of Processing Facilities
Coffee Hulleries                                                        20                           12
Tea Factories                                                                                        7
Cotton Ginneries                                                        10                           7
Tobacco Barns                                                          1,200
Sugar Mills                                                                                          I
Recurrent Imports C(JSS million)3
Chemicals                                                              na.                          8.00
Agricultural Equipment                                                 na.                         11.25
Spares                                                                 na.                          5.75
Total                                                                  40.0                        25.00
Smudies                                                                        7                             74
Technical Assistance
Project Manager                                                         I                            1
Engineering Surveyors & Supervisors                                     1                            1
Procurement Agents                                                      1                            1
Agricultural Economist                                                  1                            2
Economist/SLatistician                                                  3                            2
Financial Analyst                                                       1                            1
Agriculturalist                                                         1                            1
Engineer                                                                2
Accountant                                                              2
Equipment                                                              na.                          see5
Vehicles                                                                16                           31
No. of Persons Trained
Local Training                                                         n.a.                          75
Overseas Training                                                      n.a.                          48
Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry                                     n.a.                          15
Ministry of Cooperatives & Marketing                                   na.                           8
UCB                                                                    na.                           52
AS                                                                      7                            28
Other                                                                  n.a.                          20
3        Classification of agricultural input imports into chemicaLs, equipment and spares is based on AS estimates.
4        Out of the seven originally pLanned studies, only 5 were undertaken; however, two additional studies relating to Sugar
Rehabilitation and Tea Rehabilitation Projecs were also undertaken under the ARP.
5        6 Computers; 6 Typewriters; I Dtplicator, 5 FLling Cabinets; 2 Photocopiers 8 Electric Fans; 22 Calculators.
Additionally, assorted spares for ofrice equipment and vehicles were also procured.



22
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs (USS Million)
Project Component             Appraisal Fstimate                 Actual s
Local     Foreign   TIotal       Local     Foreign   Total
Coffee Subsector                   5.4       22.0       27.4        2.03      18.25     20.28
Cotton Subsector                   4.9       22.2       27.1        1.31      24.80    26.11
Tea Subsector                      2.0        7.7        9.7        0.96      12.42     13.38
Tobacco Subsector                  2.0        4.8        6.8        0.79        3.18     3.97
Livestock                          1.0        6.3        7.3        0.92        4.90     5.82
Non-TraditiGnal Exports            1.2        4.4        5.6        1.38        8.31     9.69
Tech. Asst.                        1.1        3.9        5.0        0.87        1.64     2.51
Total Costs                        17.6       71.3      88.9        8.26      73.50    81.76
B. Project Financing (USS Million)
l                    Sources                                   Planned                             Actual 7
l IDA Credit                                                     70.0                                73.5
UCB                                                            4.6                                0.29
GOU                                                            0.3                                0.15
Beneficiaries of Imported Agr. Inputs                         12.2                                7.12
Bank of Uganda                                                 0.5                                0.70
Total                                                         88.9                                81.76
6        Total expenditure by subsector includes capital expenditure, consultancy services, imports of agricultural inputs and
studies. The division of agricultural inputs by beneficiary subsectors is based on AS estimates.
7        Actual figures for counterpart financing from GOU, UCB, BOU and beneficiaries of recurrent itnports are based on
AS estimates.



23
Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits'
Indicators                                 Appraisal Estimate                Actual
Rehabilitation of Processing Facilities
Coffee Hulleries                                                       20                           12
Tea Factories                                                                                       7
Cotton Ginneries                                                       10                           7
Tobacco Barns                                                         1,200
Sugar Mills                                                                                         1
Recurrent Imports (US$ million)
Chemicals                                                              n.a.                        8.00
Agricultural Equipment                                                 n.a.                        11.25
Spares                                                                 n.a.                        5.75
Total                                                                 40.00                       25.00
Technical Assistance(USS million)
Equipment                                                              n.a.                        0.07
Vehicles                                                               n.a.                        0.48
3 Since the project was designed as part program credit and part DFC-type operation, no overall rate of return calculation was
made for the project.



24
B. Studies
Studies Completed                                    Purpose                                     Status
Coffee Study                  Preparation of detailed proposals for the improvement of coffee     Not under-
marketing, including recommendations for changes in payment systems    taken
and the role and ownership of the Coffee Marketing Board.
Cotton Study                  Study to determine the appropriate future role of cotton in Uganda,  Not under-
including if necessary, preparation of a strategy to increase production    taken
and of an organizational and financial structure for the industry.
Tea Study                     Study to determine the comparative advantage for Uganda in tea      Completed
production and the preparation of a strategy for the industry including
its optimal size and future organizational and financial structure.
Tobacco Study                 Study to determine the comparative advantage for Uganda in tobacco  Completed
production and the preparation of a strategy for the industry including
its optimal sir,e and future organizational and financial structure.
Cost Study                   Study of the costs of production, processing and marketing of major  Completed
export crops and of competing crops in order to improve Borrower's
information base required for decision making in the agricultural
sector.
Livestock Study               Study of investment priorities, marketing strategies and product export    Completed
potential in the livestock subsector.
Nontraditional Exports        Feasibility study to determine the potential of non-traditional     Completed
agricultural exports and the identification of policy and institutional
measures for their promotion.
Sugar Study                   Study to determine potential and viability of refurbished processing  Completed
facilities in the sugar subsector through a Rehabilitation Project.
Tea Feasibility Studv         Feasibility study focusing on both the UTGC complex (including      Completed
outgrowers) and the AEL complex, including analysis of the
implications of project proposals on incentives to outgrowers for
continued rehabilitation of abandoned tea gardens, and evaluation of
availability of labor and fuelwood supply to factories.



25
Table 7. Status of Covenants
Section/Covenant                                        Status of Compliance
3.01(a)(b)
The Borrower shall support the project by providing promptly    Complied
funds, facilities, services and other resources.
3.01(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the credit to UCB  Complied
under a subsidiary loan agreement.
3.02(a)
Maintain the Agricultural Policy Committee.               Complied
3.02(b)
Maintain an Agricultural Secretariat.                     Complied
3.03
The Borrower shall take actions to ensure requisite imports  Complied
under the project.
3.05
Employment of consultants and experts.                    Complied
3.07
Submit a comprehensive training program by 12/31/1983.    Not Complied
3.08
Submit annual Work Plan by 6/30 for 1983, and 3/31 for each    Complied with delays
succeeding year.
3.1 0(a)
Provision of import insurance.                            Complied
3.11
Submit plans, reports, contracts and other project documents.    Complied with delays
4.01
APC to submit project M&E system to IDA by June 30, 1983.   Complied
4.02
Phase out by 12/31/1984 the role of Veterinary Department in    Complied with some exceptions, e.g. dangerous drugs
the importation and sale of veterinary drugs and chemicals.
4.03(a)
Review annually the level of producer and processor prices of    Complied
export crops based on recommendations made by the
Agricultural Secretariat.
4.08
GOLJ to allow UCB a minimum spread of 7.5% on             Complied
rehabilitation loans under ARP.



Table 8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inppts
Stage of        '80    '81    '82    '83    '84    '85    '86   '87    '88          '89   '90    '91   '92      93
Project Cvcle
Pre-appraisal    34.2   0.4    30.5
Appraisal                      46.4   28.2
Negotiation                           9.0
Supervision8                          2.2    22.1   24.9   8.8   23.7   19.5   7.1
Other9
10.6   3.7   2.0    50
Total           34.2   0.4    76.9   39.4   22.1   24.9   8.8   23.7   19.5   7.1   10.6   3.7   2.0    5.0
Preparation vs. Supervision Ratio: 148.9/108.3 = 1.37
In addition to the full supervision missions, a number of missions dealing with specific project components and related issues such as, procurement matters, producer incentives,
training and emergency tea rehabilitation components were carried out.
9  The last full project supervision mission went to Uganda in February 1989; subsequent missions related primarily to the preparation of a cotton subsector development project.



27
B. Missions
Stage of Project    Month/Year   No. of             Specialization               Performance           Twpes of
Cycle                         Persons           Representedl0                 Rating"l            Problems12
Identification        4/80            2              LVS, ECN
Preparation           7/81            1                 LVS
Pre-Appraisal         2/82            4              ECN, LVS
Appraisal              5/82           8         ECN, MSP, LVS, OTH
Post-appraisal        8/82            2                 ECN
Negotiation            1/83           3              ECN, OTH
Supervision13
1              10/83           1                 ECN                          2                   P, F
2              12/84           1                  FA                           2                  P, 0
3              10/86           2              ECN, OTH                         2                   I, S
4               2/87           1               ECN, PRS                        2                  S, P
5              11/87           2                 ECN                           2                 M, S, 0
6               6/88           2               ECN, PRS                        2                  M, 0
7               2/89           2               ECN, FA                         2                   M
10 ECN=Economist; FA=Financial Analyst; LVS=Livestock Specialist; MSP=Management Specialist; PRS= Procurement
Specialist; OTHI=Other.
1  = Minor Problems; 2 = Moderate Problems; 3 = Major Problems.
12 F= Financial; M= Managerial; P= Procurement; 1= InstitutionallPolicy; S= Security; O= Other.
13 In addition to the ful! supervision missions listed above, a number of missions dealing with specific project components and
related issues such as, procurement matters, producer incentives, training and emergency tea rehabilitation components, were
carried out. For instance, between October 1983 and December 1984, no full supervision mission was carried out; however,
four missions visited Uganda in this period to deal with specific project matters.



28
Sources                                  Planned                             Actual
IDA Credit
1. Goods & Civil Works Part A                             24.7                                27.8
2. Consultants' Service Part A                             0.7                                 3.8
3. Imports Part B                                          32.5                               26.7
4. Tea Sector Goods & Imports                              7.5                                 6.8
5. Consultants' Service Part C                             1.5                                 2.3
6. Tech. Asst. & Training                                  1.1                                 1.4
7. Veh. & Office Equip.                                    0.4                                 0.6
8. Refur/Ship Equip. PTB.                                                                      4.0
9. Special Account                                         1.5                                 0.1
Subtotal                                                 70.0                               73.5
UCB                                                           4.6
GOU                                                           0.3
Beneficiaries of Imported Agr. Inputs                        12.2
Bank of Uganda                                                0.5
Total                                                        88.9



