Document of
The World Bank   .
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4150-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
January 27, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:         Ugandan Shilling (USh)
US$1.00:               USh 100.0 (First Window)
US$1.00:               USh 240.0 (Second Window)
On August 23, 1982, the Government introduced
a dual exchange rate coupled with a 5% devaluation of
the official (Window One) exchange rate. The exchange
rate in the Second Window is market-determined through a
weekly auction and subject to wide fluctuations; it has
steadily fallen from USh 300 to the Dollar in August 1982
to USh 240 to the Dollar in January 1983. Conversions in
the Staff Appraisal Report have been made at the First
Window rate, which is applicable to all external assistance
projects.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)            =     3.28 feet
I Square meter (m2)   =    10.76 square feet
1 Kilometer (km)             0.62 miles
1 Hectare (ha)         =     2.47 acres
1 Metric Ton (ton)    =      2,205 pounds
OUT-TURNS
1 kg of made tea       =      5 kg of green leaf
1 kg of coffee         =      1.92 kg of green coffee
1 kg of lint           =      3 kg of seed cotton
1 bale of cotton lint =       185 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEL       =      Agricultural Enterprises Limited
AfDB      =      African Development Bank
APC       =     Agricultural Policy Committee
AS        =      Agricultural Secretariat
BCU       =     Bugisu Cooperative Union
CDC       =      Commonwealth Development Corporation
CFTC      =      Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
CMB       =     Coffee Marketing Board
CTB       =     Central Tender Board
EDF       =     European Development Fund
LMB       =     Lint Marketing Board
NTC       =     National Tobacco Corporation
UABT      =     Uganda Advisory Board of Trade
UCB       =      Uganda Commercial Bank
UCCU      =      Uganda Central Cooperative Union
UDB       =     Uganda Development Bank
UTA       =      Uganda Tea Authority
UTGC      =     Uganda Tea Growers' Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Government of Uganda Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
Uganda Commercial Bank Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
AMOUNT OF IDA CREDIT
US$70.0 Million
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.  Background and Resource Base  ......................                 1
B.  Role, Structure and Performance   .....            ..............    2
C.  Organization and Supporting Services   ....            ..........    6
D.  Constraints and Policy Issues   .....................                8
E.  Government Objectives and Priorities   ....            ..........   11
F.  The Financial Program  .............................                12
G.  Bank Assistance Strategy  ..........................                14
H.  Project Formulation .......................                         14
II. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY - UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK (UCB)
A.  History and Role                                                   15
B.  Capital and Ownership   ............................               15
C.  Management, Organization and Staf,f  ....            ...........   16
D.  Policies and Procedures ...........................                16
E.  Accounting and Auditing   ..........................               18
F.  Operations and Portfolio ..........................                18
G.  Financial Performance, Situation and Prospects  ...                18
H.  Evaluation   .......................................               20
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives   .......................................               20
B.  Pricing and Resource Allocation  ....             ..............   21
C.  Marketing of Export Crops   ........................               21
D.  Rehabilitation of Crop Processing Facilities  .....                24
E.  Provision of Agricultural Recurrent Imports  ......                26
F.  Training   .........................................               27
G.  Technical Assistance   .............................               27
H.  Cost Estimates   ...................................               28
I.  Financing Plan  ...................................                29
J.  Terms of the Credit   ..............................               30
K.  Procurement and the Rehabilitation Contracts  .....                31
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission to Uganda in
May 1982 composed of Messrs. J. Wambia, H.J.S. Marples, P. Hopcraft (IDA),
and R. Bates, C. Bourne, D. Hines, H.J. van Hilten (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
L.   Disbursements         .................. ...................          33
M.  Counterpart Funds  .................................                   35
N.  Accounts and Audit   ................................                  35
0.  Environmental Impact   .....            ........                       36
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management    .                    .36
B. Annual Work Programs    ..38
C.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation    .               .39
D. Implementation Schedule    .                     .40
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Production                                 ................           40
B. Markets ..................                                              41
C.  Prices         ..................... .......................          42
D.  Financial Analysis   ............. ..            .................     45
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits   .................................                   46
B.  Risks   ..........          ..................................         46
VII.  CONDITIONS OF THE CREDIT   ......             .......................  47-49
ANNEXES:
1.  Financial Tables          ....................................    50-58
2.  Terms of Reference   ..................................    59-60
3.  Criteria for Subproject Appraisal   ....               ...............     61
4.  List of Eligible Imports  ......             ......................    62-66
5.  Technical Assistance   ................................    67-68
6.  Disbursement Schedule   ...............................                     69
7.  Allocation of the Credit ......              .......................       70
8.  Implementation Schedule   .............................                     71
9.  Prices, Costs and Returns of Major Crops in Uganda ...                      72
10.  The Ginning Subsector  ...............................                      73
11. Price Projections for the Major Agricultural
Exports of Uganda  .................................                    74
12.  Price Structure of Major Export Crops in Uganda   .....                     75
13.  Other Terms of Reference ..............................   76-111
14.  Investment and Summary Cost Tables               . ...............  112-116



CHARTS AND MAPS
Figure 1 - Organizational Chart of the Uganda Commercial Bank
Figure 2 - Organizational Chart of the Project
Map of Annual Rainfall (IBRD No. 16793)
Map of Farming Systems (IBRD No. 16789)
Map of Coffee Growing Areas (IBRD No. 16790)
Map of Cotton Growing Areas (IBRD No. 16791)
Map of Cotton Ginneries (IBRD No. 16719)
Map of Tea Growing Areas (IBRD No. 16792)






UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background and Resource Base
1.01      Background.  Uganda has a population of 13 million people, a size
of 241,000 km2 and with an altitude of between 1,000-1,500 m, it enjoys a
mild climate. Except for a few areas in the northeast, the country has
moderately good to fertile soil and receives adequate rainfall to sustain
successful crop production (see map).  Average rainfall of 1,270 mm occurs
mainly from March to June in the central and eastern parts of Uganda, and
from September to November in the south and west; while the north has one
long rainy season when about 760 mm fall between March and August. The
soils around Lake Victoria, known as the "Fertile Crescent", are mainly
alluvial and can sustain almost continuous cultivation of bananas, the
staple food in the area. Alluvial soils extend to the northern part of
Uganda, but due to increased rainfall variability and longer dry seasons,
they are less productive than in the Fertile Crescent. Volcanic soils are
to be found in the western part of the country dominated by the Ruwenzori
Mountains, and in the eastern part around Mt. Elgon. These volcanic soils
are also fertile and sustain high yields of tea and coffee respectively.
1.02      Land Use.  Crop and livestock smallholder (2-3 ha) mixed farming
is the dominant form of land use in Uganda. There is limited use of
fertilizer in crop farming because where the mote remunerative cash crop
coffee predominates, and bananas are the food staple, fertility is
sustained by crop residues and cattle manure. In zones where cotton and
annual crops predominate, yields have been sustained by using simple
rotations. From a total land area of 20 million hectares, only 28 percent
is cultivated; but most districts have already put to use the lands best
suited to crops. Permanent unimproved pastures cover 5 million ha, almost
equal to the area of cropland; forest and woodland, 7.5 million; mountains,
2 million; and swamps, 1 million. In addition to the land area, lakes and
rivers cover 3.6 million hectares and fishing plays a major role in the
country's food supply. The fish catch in the country nearly equals the
meat products from cattle, goats, sheep and poultry in its significance to
the Ugandan diet, both as a source of protein and by weight.
1.03      The Ministry of Agriculture has used farming systems as a
basis for classifying the country into seven agricultural zones (see map).
Farming systems in Uganda vary widely depending on climate, soil, location,
altitude, and proximity to market and tradition. However, two basic
systems dominate production of the smallholder cash crops, coffee and
cotton. Over 90% of Uganda coffee is robusta, the bulk of which is
produced in Buganda (see map). In that area, plantain (banana) is the main
food staple, but other food crops such as maize, sorghum (mainly for beer),
sweet potatoes, and legumes are grown. As in all areas of Uganda,



- 2 -
the planting of mixed crops is common, the total area planted to mixed
crops marginally exceeding that planted to crops in pure stands.
1.04       Where coffee is produced, livestock are valued particularly for
manure which generates heavy increases in yields. Cotton is also grown in
Buganda but the most important cotton growing area is east of the river
Nile in a wide belt from Busoga to Acholi (see map).  In much of that area
finger millet is the dominant staple. The distribution of active cotton
ginneries is shown in a map along with this report. Land fertility is
under pressure in the densely populated parts but is generally well
maintained by a rotation of three years cropping followed by three years
fallow cum regenerated pasture. Cassava is generally grown outside the
rotation as it is thought of partly as a drought reserve. In the last few
years, when cotton became unprofitable to grow, there has been a big
increase in cassava plantings, probably because it could be marketed over
an extended period and would therefore not produce market gluts. While
most cultivation is done by hand in Buganda, in the cotton growing areas,
because of a much greater acreage of annual crops needing timely planting,
ox cultivation is used extensively (especially in Teso and Karamoja). From
the annual crop zones in the north and east, about 150,000 cattle are
exported to the towns and densely populated areas of South Buganda for
slaughter. The dominant cash crops in the montane systems are arabica
coffee in Bugisu (Mt. Elgon) and tea in the western (Kigezi/Ankole) region
(see map). In these montane systems, mixed farming practices are similar
to those in Buganda.
B. Role, Structure and Performance
1.05       General.  Uganda's agriculture currently contributes 75 percent
of GDP, 95 percent of the country s exports, and provides a livelihood to
about 93 percent of the population. Agricultural export taxes account for
27 percent of the Government's tax revenues. Industrial activity is
largely agro-based: cotton ginning, cigarette manufacturing, sugar
refining, grain milling, and processing of coffee and tea. The transport
and banking sectors also have important links to agriculture. The
performance of the agricultural sector in the last decade is summarized in
the production and livestock population data in Tables 1 and 2. Table 1
compares peak year production figures (Col. 1) with the 1980 and 1981
production figures. While statistics on official purchases in the peak
years closely approximate actual production (the economic and political
environment at that time was better than it is now), it is estimated that
tobacco and coffee production declined less dramatically than is suggested
by this table.  Coffee was smuggled into Kenya, while tobacco was either
smuggled into Sudan and Zaire or sold locally. It must also be noted that
the statistics on the foodcrops, livestock and fisheries sectors are highly
suspect. The reported 40% decrease in banana production between 1975 and
1981 is inconsistent with the absence of any signs of starvation in the
banana growing parts of the country. The 1981 figures on food crops are
however consistent with the long term (3-4 years) rising trend,
representing a 14 percent increase over the 1980 production figures.



-3-
Table 1
Principal Agricultural Production Statistics
('000 metric tons)
Peak (Year)        1980        1981       1982
Estimates
Export Agriculture
(Official Purchases)
Coffee (exports)               251.9 (1969)        135.5        97.5      162.0
Robusta                      232.5               130.4        93.0     154.5
Arabica                       18.4                 5.1         4.5        7.5
Cotton Lint                     86.4 (1970)          4.0         4.8        5.7
Tea (made)                      23.1 (1972)          1.5         1.5        2.0
Tobacco                          5.0 (1972)          0.4         0.1        0.9
Sugar (raw)                    152.0 (1968)          2.4         3.0     n.a.
Foodcrops
(Estimated Production)
Plantain                     9,107.0 (1975)    5,699.0    5,900.0   6,600.0
Cassava                      2,993.0 (1977)    2,072.0    3,000.0   3,300.0
Maize                          674.0 (1976)        286.0       342.0      393.0
Sorghum                        467.0 (1975)        299.0       320.0     400.0
Beans                          340.0 (1967)        186.0       n.a.      n.a.
Groundnuts                   1,136.0 (1966)         65.0       n.a.      n.a.
Livestock
(Estimated Population
in Millions)
Cattle                           5.5 (1978)          4.5         4.5        4.5
Goats                            2.4 (1977)          2.0         2.7     n.a.
Sheep                            1.1 (1977)          1.0         1.4     n.a.
Fish Catch
(By Lake Region)
Lake Victoria                   17.0 (1981)         10.0        17.0        n.a.
Lake Kyoga                     167.0 (1977)        131.0       130.0        n.a.
Other Lakes                     42.1 (1978)         24.9        20.8        n.a.



-4-
Table 2
Area, Volume and Farm Gate Value of Smallholder Crops & Livestock in 1980
(Current Market Prices for Foodcrops
and Official Prices for Export Crops)
Area     Production  Gross Value
(1,000 ha)  (1,000 mt)  (USh Million)
Crop
Coffee (green)                           224           103            835
Cotton (raw)                             100            43            258
Tea                                     n.a.             7.5           15
Tobacco                                 n.a.             0.4            4
Bananas                                1,173         5,699         19,950
Finger Millet                            279           459          8,260
Sorghum                                  167           299          4,485
Maize                                    258           286          4,290
Cassava                                  302         2,070          6,210
Sweet Potatoes                           231         1,300          3,900
Beans                                    265           186          5,580
Peas                                     250           155          4,650
Groundnuts                                80            65          1,365
Sesame                                    70            24            720
60,622
Livestock
Cattle
Beef                                                 81         13,770
Milk                                                335         10,050
Sheep and goat meat                                     10          2,074
Poultry
Meat                                                 10          2,500
Eggs                                                  8          3,700
Pork                                                     6          1,200
33,294
Total Crop and Livestock                                           93,916
1.06      Exports.  At one time significant quantities of coffee, cotton,
tea, tobacco, and sugar had been exported, but production of these cash
crops declined precipitously in recent years, leaving coffee as the only
significant export crop. Coffee's share in export receipts increased from
53 percent in 1971 to over 95 percent in 1981, despite a decline in
official coffee exports from 175,000 tons in 1971 to 97,500 tons in 1981.
The main causes of this decline have been the lack of basic agricultural
tools and inputs, a greatly diminished processing capacity as hulleries



- 5 -
were looted or broke down and were not repaired, a pricing policy that
discouraged official sales of cash crops, and the overall impact of
inefficient marketing Boards on the exports sector.   It is expected that
as the volume of coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco exports increase
following the rehabilitation of the economy, the share of coffee in total
exports will decrease. However, agriculture will still account for over 90
percent of Uganda's exports in the foreseeable future.  IDA has financed
three projects in the agricultural sector: one for tea in 1968 (Cr.
109-UG), one for livestock in 1969 (Cr. 130-UG), and one for tobacco in
1971 (Cr. 212-UG). While the Smallholder Tea Project appears to have been
a success although tea production declined precipitously due to low
producer prices in the late 1970s, the Tobacco Project failed to achieve
any of its objectives. The Project Completion Report for the tobacco
project identified defective project design, bad organization and
management, low prices paid to farmers, political turmoil in the country,
and interference with project implementation following the 1971 coup as the
main reasons for the project's failure. The better performance of the
livestock project is referred to in para. 1.09 below.
1.07      Foodcrops.  Eight foodcrops provide most of the calories in the
Ugandan national diet: finger millet, maize, sorghum, plantain, cassava,
sweet potatoes, phaseolus beans, and groundnuts. The production of these
foodcrops has been reduced by 25 percent between 1976/77 (the peak year of
production for most food crops) and 1980. The main causes of this decline
have been marketing and price controls, and the lack of basic agricultural
tools and inputs such as seeds and fertilizers, resulting in declining
hectarage and yields. However, since the decontrol of food crop prices in
1977 and the removal of the domestic marketing monopoly of the Produce
Marketing Board (PMB) in 1981, this subsector has shown signs of rapid
recovery, and Uganda has already made firm commitments to export officially
US$8 million worth of foodgrains in 1983. Uganda currently exports
foodgrains unofficially to neighboring countries. The Bank is the
executing agency for an IFAD-funded project (declared effective in March
1982) which aims at increasing food production in the eastern and
northeastern parts of Uganda through financing of recurrent imports needed
to sustain or increase food production. The project includes preparation
for a follow up project with similar emphasis on food production and rural
development in the same area, also expected to be funded by IFAD in 1984.
1.08      Livestock.  Two million mixed farmers own 95 percent of the
cattle population in Uganda and nearly all the goats and sheep. In 1978,
Uganda had 5.5 million head of beef and dairy cattle, and was not only
self-sufficient in most of its meat requirements but had an export
potential. Uganda has better pastures than other Eastern African countries
due to well distributed and ample rainfall (except in the northeast), and
the main constraint to production is control of animal health, particularly
the bovine epidemic diseases, rinderpest and contagious pleuroneumonia, the
endemic tick borne disease East Coast Fever, foot and mouth disease, and
trypanosomiasis. The cattle population, which was stable at around 5.5
million head until 1978, declined by about 20 percent between 1979 and
1981, and is now estimated at 4.5 million. The main causes of the recent
decline in the livestock population and production are the looting of
cattle populations, particularly on developed ranches, during and after the



- 6 -
war of 1979 and the serious epidemic disease situation in the country
subsequent to the breakdown of the disease control program. In the eastern
and northern areas tsetse fly have reinfested large areas previously
cleared. The resultant trypanosomiasis is causing widespread morbidity
and some mortality of cattle, thus reducing growth and offtake.
1.09      From 1960 modern commercial dairying, ranching, poultry and pig
farming was developed on a limited scale in Uganda. By the late 1970s
about 400 commercial ranches were in various stages of development, each
designed to carry 600 to 1,000 head of cattle. Properties were held on
leasehold by individuals, cooperatives, or companies and examples of
outstanding success were found in all types of leaseholders. This success
was due in part to a reliable favorable environment, in part to well
established land tenurial arrangements and in part to the profitability of
commercial dairying and ranching where production was three to four times
that obtained per unit of livestock or of land from traditional husbandry.
IDA funded a Beef Ranching Project in Uganda which was approved by the
Board in 1969. The Project met nearly all its objectives. Beef ranches
developed under this Project were equally adversely affected by the general
decline of the economy and the 1979 war.
1.10      Fisheries.  The importance of fish in the Ugandan diet is
demonstrated by the fact that 50 percent of the countryts animal protein
comes from fish. Lake Kyoga and Lake Victoria contributed 78 percent and
10 percent of the total catch in 1981 respectively. The stocking of Lake
Kyoga with large numbers of Tilapia and Nile perch species between 1956 and
1958 contributed to the increased catch from the Lake. The country's catch
is reported to have built up from 13,000 tons in 1962 to 62,000 tons in
1970 and 167,800 tons in 1981. This rate of increase appears very steep,
and the figures are subject to a wide margin of error.
1.11      The fishermen are mostly small scale producers using simple
wooden boats. Fish is transported on bicycles and pick-ups to the main
distributing centers where about 60 percent is either smoked or chilled and
sent mainly to Jinja and Kampala. An ice plant in Soroti, when it was
functioning, provided ice for preserving fresh fish during transportation
to urban areas. In the 1960s, frozen, dried and smoked fish were exported
to Kenya, Tanzania and Zaire. The recent decline in fish production in
Uganda is largely explained by the breakdown of the fishnet manufacturing
factory in Kampala, boat repair services, and ice plants.
1.12      Forestry.  Of the 1.5 million ha of forest, some 700,000 ha are
natural forest, 28,000 ha are softwood and eucalyptus plantations (largely
in the Nile valley and the southern parts of the country), and the rest is
savannah woodland. Fuelwood and poles from the savannah woodland are
utilized largely in the non-monetary rural economy, while commercial
logging takes place in the forests and plantations. The sector is
estimated to have contributed some 4% of GDP in the mid-1970s.
C. Organization and Supporting Services
1.13      The agricultural sector is served by three Ministries, numerous
cooperative societies and several parastatals.  All the parastatals in the



- 7 -
agricultural sector currently have severe financial problems, with the
possible exception of the Coffee Marketing Board and until 1982, Uganda
Livestock Industries. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is
responsible for the development and implementation of crop production and
forestry policies and programs. Five parastatals come under the direct
supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture: Uganda Tea Authority, Uganda
Tea Growers Corporation, National Sugar Works (Kinyala Factory), Wood
Industries Corporation, and Uganda Agricultural Enterprises.
1.14      The Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing is responsible for the
development and implementation of policies and programs in the cooperative
movement and agricultural marketing. It supervises the activities of the
Coffee Marketing Board, the Lint Marketing Board, the Produce Marketing
Board, and the cooperative movement.
1.15      The cooperative movement has dominated the internal marketing of
export crops in Uganda since World War II. Membership of cooperative
societies in 1980 was reported to be over 1.0 million families, about half
of the families in the country. The movement, with Government support, has
assisted farmers with the purchase and distribution of inputs, processing
and marketing of cash and food crops, extension of credit, distribution of
consumer goods, and provision of transportation. There are about 3,500
registered primary cooperative societies in Uganda of which about 2,300 are
single purpose cooperatives concerned mainly with marketing and processing
coffee and cotton.
1.16      The Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries has overall
responsibility for the development of the livestock and fisheries
subsectors. The Ministry supervises the activities of Uganda Meat Packers
Factory, Ltd., Uganda Dairy Corporation and indirectly, Uganda Livestock
Industries. The Ministry's Department of Veterinary Services has played a
leading role in the initiation of commercial dairying and ranching in the
country; the latter are mainly in areas cleared of tsetse fly. The
Department also demonstrates frame drying of hides and skins and licenses
traders who export these commodities.
1.17      Research.  Agricultural research in Uganda has concentrated
heavily on the cotton crop because of its early economic importance. It
was undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Faculty of Agriculture
of Makerere University and the Commonwealth Cotton Growing Corporation.
Several varieties of American Upland cotton ("Allen" and "Sunflower") were
brought to Uganda in the period 1903-1910. With minor introduction of
Egyptian and Malawian strains, these varieties have led, through extended
breeding programs, to the strains currently in use. Breeding and selection
focussed not only on increase in yield (about 2% per year was achieved) but
also on resistance to some of the many pests and diseases which afflict
cotton in Uganda. Cotton breeders in Uganda had considerable success in
producing varieties resistant to some insect pests and to bacterial blight
but the crop remains very susceptible to other insect damage. Until a
decade ago, the cotton breeding stations (Namulonge, Serere, Bukalasa,
Ngetta, and Kawanda) released 3-4 tons of new seed each year which was
multiplied through five generations (five years) to produce the
10,000-12,000 tons of seed needed for each crop year.  The multiplication



- 8 -
process was done, firstly, through the agricultural department and prison
farms and then by farmers in demarcated areas segregated by natural
barriers to ensure that all growers in those areas grew only the specified
stock seed for multiplication. Much research on spraying and chemical weed
control was also carried out.
1.18      The agricultural departmzit als) carried out research on
practically all the major crops, pasture, and livestock husbandry. Coffee
and tea research have not influenced the production of coffee and tea in
Uganda to the same extent as cotton research. Many local and foreign
research scientists left the country during the last decade due to the
decreasing importance which the Government attached to research, the
worsening security situation, and the lack of funds and materials with
which to work. Many facilities, equipment and materials need replenishment
before research can again play a significant role in agricultural
development.
1.19      Extension.  The Ministry of Agriculture has a large extension
service comprising of about 2,300 agents, of whom some 700 are university
graduates, posted at district, county, and parish levels. The service has
used many extension techniques including crop demonstrations and field
days, farmer seminars at District Farm Institutes, farm youth clubs, and
farm women's organizations. The absence of most agricultural inputs and
implements in the last five years made the work of extension agents
irrelevant as farmers could not apply recommended inputs or farm
practices. Extension agents were also immobilized by the increasing lack
of transportation.
1.20      Credit.  Agricultural credit has played a minor role in Uganda's
agriculture with the possible exception of annual crop marketing credit to
cotton and coffee processors. The Cooperative Department administered a
rural cooperative credit scheme from 1962 to 1974 to provide credit to
small-holders for annual agricultural inputs. The maximum funds loaned in
any one year was USh 16.5 million in 1972. The default rate was very low,
varying from 0.1% to 4%. Currently, agricultural credit is provided to
farmers mainly through the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB), which typically
accounts for 70 percent of total agricultural credit, while the other 6
commercial banks share the remaining 30 percent. Over 90 percent of
agricultural loans are repaid on schedule. About 48 percent of total
lending in Uganda goes to agriculture, mainly to large scale farmers (those
owning more than 5 ha), ranchers, and marketing Boards and hardly any is
for cash crop development. The maximum interest rate on 5-8 year
agricultural loans is fixed by the Bank of Uganda, in agreement with the
IMF (see Table 3), currently at 14 percent.
D. Constraints and Policy Issues
1.21      The causes of declining agricultural production and exports are
the lack of foreign exchange to finance capital and recurrent imports
needed for production, processing and marketing; and an array of policy
and institutional constraints. These have been accentuated by the adverse
political and security situation in the country over the past decade.
However, these causes did not merely originate in the 1970s. Some of their



- 9 -
origins can be traced to pre-independence years, ana their early results
can be traced to the late 1960s, two years before the advent of the
Military Regime.
1.22      Foreign Exchangce.  Th- agricultural s:.tor is cu!revtly a minor
consumer of foreign exchange (US$25-30 million per year out of an annual
import bill of over US$500 million) and is a ne_ earner of foreign
exchange. Gross foreign exchange earnings from the sector in 1981, with no
significant volume of non-coffee exports, were US$220 million. Related
industrial enterprises making textiles, cooking oil, soap, flour, animal
feed, and leather also depend on some imported inputs. The lack of
adequate processing capacity, which is a direct result of the shortage of
foreign exchange, is a major physical constraint to the recovery of
Uganda's agricultural exports even at current low levels of production.
Efforts to increase production and to improve marketing efficiency would be
unsuccessful without simultaneously relieving the processing bottlenecks.
An appropriate agricultural technology policy would contribute
significantly towards further reducing the import content of agricultural
production.
1.23      Policies.  Before and after independence in 1962, the
Government's policies in the agricultural sector, especially export
agriculture, have had four broad characteristics. The first is that at the
farm level Government has recognized and supported the dominant role played
by smallholders. It has put greater emphasis on encouraging smallholder
mixed-farm production rather than estate production, with the notable
exception of the sugar industry which relies on estate sugarcane almost
exclusively. Secondly, farmers are encouraged to form cooperative
societies through which support services, input supplies, and credit are
extended to them. The Uganda Central Cooperative Union (UCCU) has an
extensive monopoly in the importation, wholesale, and retail trade of most
agricultural inputs and implements, including supplies and spares used by
crop processing enterprises. Farmers are often compelled (directly or
indirectly) to sell their produce of certain crops (coffee and cotton in
particular) through their society. Since 1977, coffee farmers have been
allowed to sell coffee to privately owned hulleries as they had done prior
to 1972. Farmers' cooperative societies are members of larger district
cooperative unions to which they are compelled to sell their produce by
law. Thirdly, Government parastatals have a monopoly to buy and export all
cash crops. Thus unions and private coffee processors are in turn
obligated to sell their crop to marketing Boards. The fourth
characteristic is Government's use of pricing policies to shelter farmers,
processors and marketing Boards from fluctuations in the international
price of their crops through, firstly, price assistance funds for coffee
and cotton (not anymore) and, secondly, fixed prices to producers,
processors and marketing Boards. The Government's industrial protection
policy, which bans imports of many items produced locally and used by the
agricultural sector also provides a strong disincentive to agricultural
production as domestic prices for these goods often exceed the import
price. In addition, the agricultural sector subsidises the industrial
sector through under valuation of agricultural exports and industrial
imports via an overvalued exchange rate and through a foreign exchange
allocation bias in favor of industry.



- 10 -
1.24      The administration of these policies is split between four
Ministries: the Ministries of Agriculture and Animal Industry have primary
responsibility for production at the farm level; Cooperatives and Marketing
for marketing through cooperatives and marketing Boards; Finance for
pricing of export crops in collaboration with the Ministry of Cooperatives
& Marketing. The Ministry of Agriculture has no significant (de facto)
input in the determination of producer prices, nor does it influence
marketing policies. There is a need for closer policy coordination between
the four Ministries, so as to ensure that they do not pursue conflicting
policies and objectives. The establishment, under this Project, of an
Agricultural Policy Committee, supported by a technical Secretariat (para.
3.02) is aimed at partially solving this problem. The poor state of
Uganda-s public service (Ministries as well as non-financial parastatals),
which has been demoralized by ridiculously low salaries, political
interference, lack of human and budget resources, and the adverse security
situation, is evident in all agricultural institutions in Uganda.
1.25      Consequences.  The decline of the agricultural sector is as much
the result of the policies and institutional set up as the lack of foreign
exchange. In fact, there is a circular relationship between the two.
Cooperatives and marketing Boards have become inefficient as buyers,
processors and sellers of produce from farmers. The pricing and exchange
rate policies have discouraged the production of export crops, but
especially cotton and tea (which cannot be easily smuggled and marketed
outside the cooperatives and marketing Boards). The prices paid to farmers
and processors for these crops have been uncompetitive with those of
competing non-controlled produce (mainly foodcrops). Tobacco production
likewise declined, but tobacco was sold locally at market rates through
unofficial channels. While the production of coffee also suffered from
these policies, up to 50,000 tons of coffee were smuggled to Kenya where it
fetched prices refiecting international coffee prices converted at the open
(parallel) market exchange rate which was thirty times as high as the
official exchange rate until the June 1981 devaluation, and is now three
times as high as the official exchange rate.
1.26      The typical coffee hullery was capable of processing an average
2,450 tons of coffee per year, but processed only 1,700 tons on average in
1981. The situation in the cotton ginning subsector described below is
typical of that prevailing in the coffee, tea and tobacco subsectors. The
number of working ginneries declined from 52 in 1971 to only 32 in 1982.
Among the 32 that are still operational, none are capable of ginning even
20% of their peak levels achieved in early 1970s, and nearly all have
stocks of unginned cotton. The regional distribution of operative
ginneries is shown in a map along with this report and their basic data in
Annex 10. The typical ginnery in Uganda today is a 30-year old double
roller with 20 installed gins but of these, only 10 are usable. One double
roller gin is theoretically capable of processing 720 bales of lint per
year (each weighing 185 kg). The average production per gin has declined
from a 1971 peak of 576 bales (i.e. 413, 429 bales from an installed
capacity of 882 roller gins) to 60 bales in 1980 (i.e., 22,455 bales from
an installed capacity of 358 roller gins in 32 working ginneries). The
typical ginnery in Uganda was capable of ginning 7,200 bales of lint per
year in the 1970s but only ginned 700 in 1981.



11 -
1.27      On August 23, 1982, Government introduced a dual exchange rate.
All agricultural exports and priority imports (including those intended for
the agricultural sector) are valued at the official (Window One) rate of
US$1.0 = USh 100; while all other exports and imports are valued at the
parallel (Window Two) rate which is determined by a weekly auction of
foreign exchange by the Bank of Uganda currently fluctuating at about USh
240 to the dollar. As the Government-stipulated margins of crop processing
to factories dwindled and became negative, and as their throughput also
declined to under 10 percent of capacity, their capital base (equity and
fixed assets) thus became completely eroded; furthermore, they became
unable to obtain working capital credit from banks who regard them as bad
lending risks without Government guarantees. Most of their able staff were
unpaid for long periods and sought alternative employment. Marketing
Boards were once profitable, but are not so now because of the drastic
decline in the volume of produce they handle, Government price controls and
taxes (direct and indirect) on export crops, and their increased
inefficiency.
1.28      Conclusions.  Thus, the financial and managerial state of
processors and marketing Boards, which is in part the consequence of
Dolicies outlined above, is a formidable obstacle to the revival of export
agriculture. A revival of export agriculture therefore requires a major
effort to stimulate farm level production through appropriate pricing and
exchange rate policies; the rehabilitation of processing facilities and
importation of annual inputs; an array of policy and institutional measures
designed to improve efficiency in the processing and marketing of cash
crops; increased coordination of policies, programs and resource allocation
in the sector; and an enlightened policy of industrial rehabilitation and
reform, giving emphasis to export orientation based on abundant domestic
resources and appropriate import substitution with lower and rationalized
tariffs. In this context, the Bank's Trade Policy and Export
Diversification studies scheduled for FY84 and FY85 are expected to support
the Government's efforts in the agricultural sector.
E. Government Objectives and Priorities
1.29      The Goverment's objectives and priorities for the agricultural
sector are stated in the Recovery Program (1982-84) which it presented at
the Consultative Group Meeting in Paris in May 1982. The Recovery
Program's main objective is to increase Uganda's export earnings through
the revival of export agriculture. In the short run (next 2-3 years), the
objective is to increase utilization of existing capacity through
improvements in the availability of inputs, and through repairs and
replacement of broken down and obsolete plant and equipment where
justified.
1.30      The recent increases in producer prices are expected to lead to
increased farm-level production of all export cash crops, even though ir.
some cash crop producing areas food crops offer higher cash returns. This
is partly because of the high sunk cost and low variable cost (mainly
labor) structure of coffee and tea, leading to a slightly inelastic supply
situation. However, food crops provide effective competition for cotton
and tobacco. Export cash crop prices paid to farmers and processors will



- 12 -
need to be competitive with those of food crops, to be increased
substantially annually in real terms and be properly timed and promptly
paid if increased volumes of these export crops are to be expected. A
principal function of the Agricultural Secretariat (para. 3.02) will be to
recommend prices to be paid to farmers and processors of export cash
crops. To encourage processors to invest in new costly equipment, their
processing margins, efficiency and throughput (via higher producer prices)
must be increased substantially. It is unlikely however that Government
can raise enough resources to reactivate agricultural exports back to their
former peaks within the period of the Recovery Program. Government has
therefore set priorities for agricultural rehabilitation which would
reinforce and complement its overall priorities and strategy for
rehabilitating the economy. The broad priorities are: recurrent imports to
increase or sustain production; the selective rehabilitation of processing
facilities for cash crops; policy and institutional reforms aimed at
increasing farm level production, processing capacity utilization and
efficiency, improved marketing efficiency and proper allocation of scarce
resources to agriculture. In the Recovery Program, which is also the
Government's foreign exchange budget, these priorities for the agricultural
sector have been costed at US$220 million for the two year period beginning
June 1982.
F. The Financial Program
1.31      The Government has also agreed with the IMF on a second stand-by
Program covering the period July 1982 to June 1983. The main features of
the program are summarized in Table 3.
G. Bank Assistance Strategy
1.32      The Bank has reviewed the Recovery Program, including the
agricultural sector priorities, and supports it. The priorities for this
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project are consistent with Government's
Recovery Program. In line with the current focus of Bank assistance to
Uganda on rehabilitation and reconstruction of the economy, especially the
directly productive sectors, the program in agriculture is aimed mainly at
rehabilitation. The Bank is already providing imported inputs and spare
parts to the agricultural sector through the First and Second
Reconstruction Credits approved in FY80 and FY82 respectively. About US$19
million of the US$95 million under the First Reconstruction Credit has been
spent on the agricultural sector. Of the US$70 million under the Second
Reconstruction Credit, US$17 million has been earmarked for agriculture
(inputs, spare parts, packing materials, transport, etc.). The imports and
subprojects are selected on the basis of their potential to quickly earn or
save foreign exchange. This assistance will enable the agricultural
sector, in the short run at least, to further utilize existing processing
capacity. However, the sector's needs far exceed the level of support
which the Bank expects to provide during the period of the Recovery
Program. Medium term increases in agricultural output and efficiency will
therefore require further support from other donors, a determined effort at
properly focused exchange rate, price policy and institutional reforms, and
higher levels of recurrent inputs in addition to processing facility
rehabilitation. The Bank's dialogue with Government, together with



- 13 -
Table 3
Summary of the 1982/83 Financial Program
Assumptions
Real GDP growth                         10.0 percent
GDP deflator (increase)                 25.0 percent
Exchange rate depreciation
(weighted average)                  43.0 percent
Objectives
Balance of payments
Current account deficit              2.1 percent of GDP
Current deficit                      1.5 percent of GDP
Debt service ratio                      20.0 percent of mer-
chandise exports
1.   Exchange Rate.  Establishment of a dual exchange rate system
with a modest depreciation in one market which will remain
managed and a sharp depreciation in the other with weekly
auctions where the Bank of Uganda will sell a minimum of
US$8 million during each four-week period. Agricultural
exports and imports would be valued at the lower of the two
exch4nge rates.
2.   Supply-side Measures.  Large increases (33-66%) in agricul-
tur4l producer prices, petroleum product prices; increased
investment in the productive sectors under the Recovery
Program.
3.   Public Finance.  Reduction in overall budgetary deficit to
2.2% and bank financing to 0.2% of GDP.
4.   Monetary Policy.  Increase in total domestic credit limited
to 33% per annum with appropriate quarterly ceilings
(performance criterion). Increase in net credit to
Government limited to less than 1% with appropriate
quarterly ceilings (performance criterion). Increase in the
structure of interest rates by one percentage point.
5.   External Borrowing.  New borrowing at 1 to 5 years (perform-
ance criterion) limited to SDR 30 million. New borrowing of
1-12 years (performance criterion) limited to SDR 80
million.
6.   External Arrears.  Net minimum reduction in external arrears
of SDR 18 million with appropriate quarterly levels
(performance criterion).
SOURCE: IMF



- 14 -
Government's recent actions, suggest a strong determination to come to
grips with the sector's problems and some convergence of views on how some
of these problems can be tackled.
1.33      A second objective of Bank assistance in the sector is to improve
sector planning, resource allocation, policy analysis capability and help
solve institutional and manpower problems. The Technical Assistance
Credit, approved in FY81, provides resources to be used for technical
assistance for studies, preparatory work on plant and equipment
rehabilitation, and staff training and support for sector institutions. An
Agricultural Sector Study, scheduled to begin in FY83 and to be completed
in FY84, will enable the Bank to advise the Government on longer-term
agricultural policies and a strategy beyond rehabilitation, while an
Agricultural Parastatals Study by IDA, scheduled for FY85, will help
Government define its policies for dealing with the issues affecting
agricultural parastatals.
H. Project Formulation
1.34      Background and Identification.  The Government recognized the
need for a project to address the major problems of the agricultural export
sector immediately after the war of 1979 and requested IDA for assistance
to rehabilitate the coffee subsector. However, due to the Government's
delay in implementing necessary economic reforms (particularly the currency
devaluation) and continuing political instability prior to the December
1980 elections, IDA was unable to appraise the project. The comprehensive
Project for the exports sector was identified during the Economic Mission
in July 1981 and the appraisal of an IFAD Agricultural Reconstruction
Program, whose focus is exclusively on food and livestock production in
eastern and northern Uganda. In September 1981 Government requested IDA
for assistance to rehabilitate the agricultural exports subsector.
1.35      Preappraisal and Appraisal.  The wide ranging reforms implemented
in June 1981 (particularly the 92% devaluation of the Ugandan shilling from
USh 8 to the US dollar in April 1981 to around USh 100 by August 1982 and
the increases in producer prices) together with an apparently improved
prospect for political stability following the December 1980 elections
offered the possibility for economic recovery, the key to which was seen to
be the quick revival of coffee, cotton, tea and tobacco exports (in that
order of importance). IDA preappraised the Project in February 1982 and
appraised it in May 1982. The Project, especially its policy and
institutional focus, supported with studies (six of which may lead to
projects) is designed to be a platform for the resumption of normal
agricultural project lending (possibly from 1985) and to strengthen sector
dialogue between Government and donors. The key signal for the transition
to new project specific investments in the sector will be the full
utilization of the existing productive investments.
1.36      Coffee, Tea and Livestock Subprojects.  The investments proposed
under this Project are all geared to facilitate levels of production which
are consistent with the long-term viability and international market
prospects of the export crops, especially coffee and tea, and conform to
the World Bank's lending guidelines on coffee and tea projects. They do
not necessarily anticipate the return to peak levels of exports (see



- 15 -
Table 1). In the case of coffee and tea, all incremental production is
expected to be sold within Uganda's quota markets. No new plantings of
coffee or tea are proposed under the Project. The inclusion of a livestock
component in a Project whose emphasis is on export crops is justified on
four grounds: (a) livestock are an integral part of the farming systems in
the export crop growing zones; (b) they provide necessary draft power,
manure, protein and supplemental income through the sale of meat and milk;
(c) they provide an investment opportunity (and therefore strong incentive
for cash crop production) to farmers; and (d) the continued spread of
epidemic diseases leading to high mortality would cause an unacceptable
reduction of the livestock resource base, which could only be reversed over
many years, with far-reaching consequences for the agricultural economy.
II. THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY - Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB)
A. History and Role
2.01      History.  The Uganda Commercial Bank was established in 1965
under an Act of Parliament. It was conceived as a successor to the Uganda
Credit and Savings Bank from which it inherited nine branches with USh 42
million in deposits and USh 20 million in advances. Since 1965, UCB has
grown steadily, despite the difficult environment in Uganda during the
1970s, to become the predominant banking institution in Uganda. As of July
31, 1982, it had about USh 13.7 billion in total assets, 2,570 employees,
and 54 branches located throughout the country. UCB is by far the largest
commercial bank in Uganda, and accounts for over 80% of total banking
activity in the country. As at March 31, 1982, it commanded 47% of total
deposits and 65% of advances in the country.
2.02      Role.  UCB's role is largely that of a commercial bank.  In
addition to general commercial banking activities, it engages in small
scale industrial and agricultural term lending and administers four
Government development funds on a managed funds basis, three of which are
in the livestock subsector.
B. Capital and Ownership
2.03      UCB's present authorized capital is USh 1.5 billion of which
USh 130 million is paid up. Government is the sole shareholder, and is
expected to increase its subscription to USh 500 million in 1983. This is
in excess of the amount required to be subscribed by Government to UCB (USh
170 million) by 1985 under the agreement for the Industrial Rehabilitation
Credit. The ratio of total assets to equity has increased slightly from
61:1 in 1980 to 63:1 in 1982, but is projected to decrease to 3.6:1 in 1983
(and to stay below 6:1 thereafter) when UCB's fixed assets are revalued
(see Annex 1(d)). UCB agreed to hire a valuer to revalue its fixed assets
not later than December 31, 1983 (Section 3.04(i) of the Project Agreement)
and maintain a debt to equity ratio of less than 20:1 until the Credit is
closed, except by agreement with IDA (Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement).



- 16 -
C. Management, Organization and Staff
2.04      Management.  Management of UCB is vested in a nine member Board
of Directors whose Chairman is the Chief Executive Officer, with
responsibility for the day to day administration of the institution. The
Chairman and Managing Director is appointed by the President of Uganda.
The incumbent, appointed in 1979, is an experienced commercial banker. The
rest of the Board is appointed by the Minister of Finance. Although the
UCB Act provides for a Deputy Managing Director, also appointed by the
President and expected to serve on the Board, this position has never been
filled. Instead, the Board has proposed to Government the creation of two
new senior management positions under the Managing Director; a General
Manager for Operations and a General Manager for Administration.
Government approval has been received, and the positions are likely to be
filled from within UCB through promotions.
2.05      Organization and Staff.  The bank is organized at headquarters in
Kampala into eight operating and support divisions (see Figure 1) each
headed by a Chief Manager: Administration, Personnel, Legal, Inspection,
Accounting, Research, Credit, and City Branch. In addition, the 54
branches (53 rural, one City Branch) are under the direction of four area
managers. Of the 2,570 employees the bank had, as of September 1982, 141
were senior level professionals: 129 were general commercial bankers, while
12 were specialists, such as engineers and lawyers. With the present
volume of business, the professional staffing position appears to be
adequate. UCB has not experienced difficulty in recruiting and training
suitably qualified Ugandans when needed because it is considered one of the
best employers in Uganda. It has its own training school for staff
development.
2.06      The Credit Division.  The unit which would have primary
operational responsibility for the physical implementation aspects of the
proposed Project is the Credit Division, which looks after the loan
operations of the bank. It is headed by an experienced Chief Credit
Manager who is assisted by two Assistant Chief Credit Managers. The fact
that UCB is banker to most rural enterprises confers to it significant
informational advantages not shared by other banks in their loan appraisal
and monitoring operations. In addition, the UNDP has provided a Credit
Advisor to the bank.  The bank employs experienced though not formally
qualified accounting staff. The Credit Division has a credit processing
unit and a control unit which are responsible for the administration of
loans and debt recovery. The division currently has 16 experienced
professional level staff, including economists, financial analysts,
statisticians, an industrial engineer, debt recovery officers,
veterinarians, and agriculturalists, and is in the process of recruiting
three more industrial engineers. UCB's staffing levels are adequate to
handle the US$5 million credit facility under the Industrial Rehabilitation
Project in addition to the proposed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project.
The bank agreed to maintain adequate staffing levels in its Credit Division
which would enable it to implement this Project.
D. Policies and Procedures
2.07      Policies.  The most important general policy followed by UCB in
its lending is that all advances be adequately backed by sound security.



- 17 -
Specific lending guidelines tailored to the features of each sector and
subsector of lending also exist and are generally followed and revised from
time to time in accordance with changes in the economic environment, and in
Government credit policies.
2.08      Loan Processing.  UCB follows normal commercial bank practices in
regard to approval, disbursements, control and recovery of advances.
Discretionary limits for approval of loans have been prescribed by the
Board of Directors for the Managing Director, the loans committees, and the
branch managers. Loan decisions are made at one of four levels: the
branch; the Credit Manager-s Loans Committee (chaired by the Chief Credit
Manager); the Managing Director's Loans Committee; and the Board of
Directors (for loans above USh 1.0 million) which will be the case for most
subprojects in this Credit. The Board of Directors meets once monthly.
The Bank of Uganda imposes an additional element on the decision-making
structure by requiring that loans exceeding USh 1.0 million must first be
approved by it.   Approval is usually given.  The decision-making structure
does not result in long delays between loan application and credit
decision. The typical lag for loans emanating from rural branches is two
weeks for referrals at the Managing Director's Loan Committee and four
weeks for referrals to the Board of Directors. The discretionary limits
for approval of loans are very low at all levels and would have to be
raised if they are not to hamper UCB's future lending operations. The
management of UCB is taking a cautious attitude on this issue, but expects
to raise these limits as soon as conditions allow. UCB has a fairly
flexible approach to what it deems acceptable collateral. The
responsibility for administering the disbursement, utilization and
repayment of approved loans rests with branch managers. Branches are
required to submit to the Credit Division on the last day of each month a
return of all overdrawn and outstanding loan accounts. These are reviewed
to ensure that advances are in accordance with the terms and conditions
specified and repayments are regular. Further monitoring of the condition
and movement of advances in branches are effected by inspection visits to
branches by control officers from the Credit Division, as well as by
regular audit visits by the bank's inspectors.
2.09      All projects are appraised according to a standard format which
covers the commercial, financial, technical and economic aspects of the
proposal, as well as an assessment of the experience and entrepreneural
capability of the sponsors. The bank's existing standard form for
preparing these appraisals is adequate but complicated and could be
simplified. The loan delivery capacity of IJCB is also adequate. Crucial
to these functions is the presence of rural branches.
2.10      Loan Follow-up.  A satisfactory system of follow-up on loans is
yet to be developed by UCB. It is necessary that the accounting records be
restructured and the proper systems put into place to provide timely and
accurate statistics on the number and value of overdue loans in relation to
the total size of the portfolio and in relation to other portfolio
characteristics such as loan size, enterprise size, loan maturity, lending
sector, etc. UCB agreed to rectify this shortcoming during the
implementation of the proposed Credit and to introduce a system which would
involve monthly supervision of projects in the disbursement stage and
quarterly visits not later than December 31, 1983 (Section 2.05 of the



- 18 -
Project Agreement). This will be additional to the normal watchdog
functions that branch managers exercise over clients.
E. Accounting and Auditing
2.11      UCB has a mechanized accounting system which is satisfactory.
Its accounts are audited jointly by Messrs. Lawrie Prophet and Company, and
by Messrs. Coopers and Lybrand Ltd. So far, UCB's accounts have been
prepared and audited on time.
F. Operations and Portfolio
2.12      UCB's lending to agriculture is slightly above the guidelines set
by the Bank of Uganda. Its lending for agriculture has been mainly for
crop processing.  Normally, full repayment of these advances is made at the
end of the crop cycle.
2.13      The size and diversity of UCB's portfolio, and the carry-over
feature in the majority of the accounts make it difficult to assess the
quality of this portfolio by standard arrears analysis, a problem which is
compounded by UCB's loan follow-up system (para. 2.10). The general
economic situation of Uganda, however, suggests that a good number of the
accounts may be inactive and inadequately serviced. For example, about 8%
of the total advances as of July 1982 were to marketing parastatal bodies.
Most of these are not operating satisfactorily and have insufficient
turnover in their accounts. Because of these problems and uncertainties,
UCB has been fairly conservative in making loan loss provisions. As of
July 31, 1982, its net provision for bad and doubtful debts was USh 185
aillion. This was a little over 2% of the total advances, but is expected
to be increased to USh 435 million in FY83. The provision for bad and
doubtful debts is maintained strictly on a cumulative basis, and is
deducted from the bank's pre-tax profits. In addition, the bank has
accumulated inner reserves, which are an added protection for possible loan
losses, of USh 85 million. The portfolio of agricultural loans as of July
31, 1982 was USh 4.1 billion, the largest proportion of the total portfolio
(45%).  UCB, together with UDB, successfully administered the IDA-funded
Beef Ranching Project (Cr. 130-UG, 1968). The loan was fully disbursed in
5 years, and 98% of the subloans were recovered.
G. Financial Performance, Situation and Prospects
2.14      Financial Performance.  UCB generates a reasonable net return on
its overall operations. New income (i.e. income arising out of new
operations) was 18.8% of total income and 50.6% of equity in the 1981
financial year. This compares favorably with the rates of return
experienced during the 1970s. Annexes 1(a)-(d) show the structure of
interest rates in Uganda and summarized audited financial statements and
selected ratios for UCB from 1976 to 1981 with projections to 1987. Except
for 1979, when UCB made a USh 52.1 million loss because of war-related
damages and write-offs, it operated profitably during the period under
review (1976-1982). Its net profits increased from USh 11 million in 1976,
representing 0.5% of its working resources to USh 499.7 million in 1982
(provisional estimates),representing 3.6% of working resources. A net
income to working resources ratio of more than 1% is considered good for a



- 19 
commercial bank. UCB's other financial performance indicators are also
good. Except in the loss making year of 1979, its management expense
ratio, which measures the proportion of income going to overhead,
throughout the 1970s was below the 60% considered desirable and was 57% in
1981. The estimate for 1982 is 38.9%.
2.15       Deposits are the main non-capital liability.  In July 1982, they
comprised 90% of total liabilities. Demand deposits are 62% of total
deposits; savings deposits, 32%; and time deposits, 6%.  Loans are the
major earning assets, amounting to 66% of total assets in July 1982. At
the same point in time, the ratio of advances to deposits was 69%. The
limit according to Bank of Uganda Act of 1969 is 82.5%. UCB agreed to keep
its loans to deposits ratio below 82.5% until the Credit is closed (Section
2.01(a) of the Project Agreement).  A considerable proportion of the bank's
capital is tied up in balances at the Bank of Uganda (12%) and in Uganda
Government Stock (26%).
2.16       UCB has been able to perform so well financially largely because
of the substantial interest spread, averaging 7%, in the 7 years under
review. Since this spread is a function of deposit and lending rates set
by the Bank of Uganda in consultation with the IMF, UCB has largely
benefitted from the Government's policy of keeping deposit rates low. The
margins are very slim for agricultural loans. UCB estimates that a total
administration cost of USh 51,600 is incurred per loan. For a loan of
USh 1.0 million, administration costs would be 5.2%, which when added to
average costs of funds of 11.0% makes the total cost of a small
USh 1.0 million loan 16.2%. Since the average loan rate for agriculture is
14%, smaller loans are uneconomic. On these calculations, the bank would
have to make loans of at least USh 1.7 million to break even. While the
cost estimates are rough, they underscore a major economic reason for the
demonstrated preference for large loans. Under the proposed Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project, loan processing (including the cost of hiring
engineering surveyors), and supervision costs are estimated to average
USh 4.1 million (US$41,000) per loan. UCB would have to make loans of at
least USh 55 million (US$550,000) to break-even. The typical loan size
under the Project would be USh 70 million (US$700,000), and would thus give
UCB a 3.3% net return/profit at prevailing interest rates.
2.17       UCB experienced substantial growth in nominal terms between 1976
and 1982. Its total assets increased from USh 2.2 billion to USh 14.0
billion; its deposits from USh 2.1 billion to USh 13.3 billion; and its
advances from USh 0.9 billion to USh 9.0 billion. This growth in assets
and deposits was not accompanied by increases in UCB's paid in capital,
which remained at USh 30 million until early 1982. Thus, even though UCB-s
reserves tripled between 1976 and 1982 from USh 32 million to USh 119
million, its total equity base did not increase enough to maintain its
leverage ratio (total assets/equity) at a satisfactory level (considered to
be 3:1). The increase in UCB's authorized capital, the budgeted increases
in its paid in capital, and the planned revaluation of its fixed assets
would lead to a reduction in its leverage ratio to acceptable levels.
2.18       Situation and Prospects.  The economic decline of Uganda severely
limited lending opportunities of UCB in the 1970s. In September 1980,
UCB's total advances were only 35% of its total deposits, half of the 70%



- 20 -
permitted by the Central bank. The estimate for July 1982 is 69%. Because
of the nature of its operations, growth in UCB's resources and lending
depend mainly on developments in the economy. Since such developments are
difficult to forecast, the medium-term operational and financial
projections for UCB have to be read cautiously. It should be expected
however that if the economy picks up, demand for credit would increase and
lending opportunities would expand for the commercial banks. UCB, being
the major commercial bank, would be expected to take a large (but
declining) share of the expanding business. In that case, UCB would need
to increase its deposits considerably so as to have an acceptable ratio of
deposits to advances. The bank has a sufficiently strong short-run
capacity to generate deposits if necessary. If the economy stagnates, UCB
is still likely to retain a large sthare of the limited commercial banking
business. Its financial prospects are therefore fairly good, provided it
continues to obtain an adequate spread. To ensure that its financial
performance does not deteriorate, UCB would be allowed a spread of at least
7.5% on the rehabilitation portion of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 4.04
of the Development Credit Agreement), especially because this Credit would
finance subprojects with high risks in a sector to which nearly all other
banks have ceased making term loans (though perhaps not solely on account
of risk) and would represent a large proportion of UCB's resources and
operations over the next five years.
2.19      Projections from available data indicate that UCB would have
adequate liquidity to handle the proposed Credit. The Bank of Uganda's
stipulation that importers using foreign exchange loans automatically pay
100% of their credit balances in the Bank of Uganda would not apply to the
rehabilitation portion of this loan on-lent to UCB. The terms and
conditions of on-lending from Government through UCB to sub-borrowers are
described in paras. 3.28-3.29.
H. Evaluation
2.20      UCB is a well-established bank and the largest financial
institution in Uganda. It is reasonably well staffed and has been
performing well financially. It is our judgment that the agricultural
exports processing sector could be successfully reactivated, and that UCB
is a suitable channel for that portion of the IDA Credit.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The objective of the Project is to increase Uganda's foreign
exchange earnings from agricultural exports within the next 3-5 years by:
(a) improving the Government's capability in resource allocation and
pricing related to the agricultural exports sector; (b) introducing reforms
aimed at increasing cotton and coffee marketing efficiency; (c)
rehabilitation of processing facilities of coffee, cotton, tea, tobacco
(barns) and financing investments in nontraditional exports, through a line
of credit to UCB; (d) provision of sector imports, including the
requirements of the livestock subsector; (e) training for Ugandan staff
expected to be involved in Project implementation; and (f) technical



- 21 -
assistance, including studies, to assist Government to implement price and
marketing reforms, formulate sector development strategies and identify
subsector projects.
B. Pricing and Resource Allocation
3.02      In its Recovery Program and agreement with IDA under the Second
Reconstruction Credit, the Government undertook to establish a unit with
the capability to support and rationalize policy making in pricing,
marketing of export commodities, and resource allocation in the
agricultural sector. The unit would also assist the Government to
develop goals and strategies for the agricultural sector, evaluate
agricultural policies, allocate foreign exchange budgeted for the sector
under the Recovery Program, review the sector's foreign exchange budget,
and monitor the allocation of foreign exchange to the sector. The
Government has assigned the responsibility for carrying out these functions
to an Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) (Section 3.02(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The APC, formed on October 26, 1982, is
expected to have a major input in the June 1983 budget process in matters
relating to agricultural prices and allocation of foreign exchange to the
sector. The APC will be supported in its analytic functions by an
Agricultural Secretariat (Section 3.02(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). The organization and functions of the Agricultural Secretariat
and the Agricultural Policy Committee are described in the chapter on
implementation (Chapter IV). The Terms of Reference (TORs) for the
Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) and the Agricultural Secretariat are
shown in Annexes 2(a) and 2(b) and have been agreed with Government. The
formation of APC and the Agricultural Secretariat were conditions of
negotiations. There is also an urgent need for strengthening the
Statistical Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. Government agreed to
hire consultants to conduct a comprehensive study of costs of production,
processing and marketing of major export crops so as to improve the
information base in support of the Government's decisions affecting the
sector (Section 3.05 and Schedule 2C(l) to the Development Credit
Agreement). This study would be complemented by the proposed Parastatals
Accounting Study to be funded by IDA which inter alia will cover five
agricultural parastatals.
C. Marketing of Export Crops
3.03      Coffee.  The importance of coffee to the Ugandan economy is
paramount and changes in the Coffee Marketing Board's (CMB) structure or
marketing policies must be approached cautiously so as not to risk the
diversion of foreign exchange earnings from official channels or to
undermine Government revenue derived from coffee. However, in order to
maximize marketing efficiency and thus export earnings, it is necessary
that certain improvements be gradually introduced in coffee marketing over
the next 2-3 years. These may include: (i) reverting CMB's ownership and
control to producers in a manner directly related to coffee deliveries to
CMB; (ii) revising CMB's role from sole buyer to sole sales agent for the
coffee growers of Uganda (receiving sales commissions based on the quantity
and value of coffee sold) so that CMB's profits would be represented by
gross commissions less marketing costs, rather than as a fixed shilling per



- 22 -
kilogram of coffee sold calculated to cover its costs; (iii) creating a
two-payment system enabling the grower to share in the final price of his
product as well as enabling the CMB to create grower incentives to produce
higher quality (and thus more valuable) coffee under strict safeguards to
ensure that farmers have confidence in the system; (iv) modifying
Government's taxation on coffee through the CMB by expressing the first
payment as a specific shilling amount, and the second payment on the basis
of a graduated ad valorem formula; (v) reviewing and diversifying marketing
methods, including auctioning of those coffees whose quality aspects merit
this, with adequate safeguards to protect Uganda's interests. In
particular, the arabica coffees, whose prices can vary most markedly
depending on quality, would stand to yield substantially higher returns in
an auction. The CMB also needs to increase its ability to assess the
quality and thus value of coffee through the provision of equipment and
training of Ugandans. The implementation of many of the above proposals
would necessarily take a few years and require skill and caution. The
Project would provide technical assistance needed to assist the Government
in implementing these changes. IDA has submitted proposals to Government
on how it could improve coffee marketing in Uganda. Government agreed to
hire consultants to assist in preparing detailed proposals for coffee
marketing reforms (Section 3.05 and Schedule 2C(2) to the Development
Credit Agreement).
3.04      The coffee industry operates under considerable constraints, most
of them unnecessary and bureaucratic. These include delays in the
allocation of foreign exchange; unavailability and inadequate use of
railway wagons resulting in the use of expensive road transport; and
excessive documentation. In all these cases, immediate administrative
measures could be taken to eliminate or reduce the problem which results in
direct loss of foreign exchange earnings. The APC and the Agricultural
Secretariat are expected to address this problem on a continuing basis.
3.05      Cotton.  Until 1982, the major problem facing the cotton industry
was not the operations of its marketing system; rather, it was its very
existence. The production of lint declined from its peak of 413,000 bales
in 1969/70 to less than 22,500 bales in 1980/81. As a result of the 500%
increase in producer prices in 1981, the industry is showing brisk signs of
recovery. This recovery would be considerably strengthened if (a) the
Government maintains adequate incentives for production and processing; (b)
there are strong incentives for efficiency in the marketing of the crop;
and (c) competition is introduced in the industry, as a means of securing
(a) and (b) above. The recommendations for coffee marketing apply equally
for cotton, i.e., (i) ownership and control of the Lint Marketing Board
(LMB) should revert to producers; (ii) LMB should be the export sales agent
of cotton producers and be allowed to keep its profits; (iii) the creation
of a two-payment system; (iv) the adoption of a combined specific and ad
valorem export tax system. In addition, (v) domestic textile mills should
be allowed to contract to buy cotton directly from farmers' societies or
unions and commission ginneries to gin it on their behalf; (vi) cotton
ginneries should have the option to sell lint to the Lint Marketing Board
(LMB) at the guaranteed minimum price or to sell directly to the domestic
textile industry if it offers a higher price; and (vii). unions should
likewise have the option to sell cottonseeds to LMB, oil and soap
factories. As conditions of negotiations, Government introduced the last
two reforms listed above.



- 23 -
3.06      In 1973 LMB acquired most oil and soap factories in Uganda
previously owned and operated by Asians who were deported.  The profits and
losses of the oil and soap mills impact upon the finances of the LMB, and
their value bears no relation to the performance of the Board as a
marketing organization. The Board's financial obligations with respect to
these mills cloud attempts to assess or to enhance its efficiency as a
marketing organization. Although a few are profitable enterprises, the LMB
has always considered them to be a burden and has urged Government to
reallocate them to another parastatal or to sell them to the private
sector. The Government agrees with IDA that LMB should divest itself of
the oil and soap factory business as soon as possible and has already
reduced the number of edible oil and soap mills falling under the
responsibility of the LMB from 17 to 8. Government has directed that these
oil and soap mills be divested from LMB under recently enacted laws which
allow their owners (prior to their expropriation in 1973) to reclaim them.
Government agreed to hire consultants to study the appropriate future role
of cotton in Uganda's economy; the production possibilities; and the
suitable organization and financial structure of the cotton industry and
its relation to the textile industry, the oil mills and soap factories
(Section 3.05 and Schedule 2C(3) to the Development Credit Agreement).
3.07      Tea.  The Uganda Tea Authority (UTA) has the official monopoly
for the export of all tea from IJganda. Domestically, all tea is marketed
by Uganda Blenders, Ltd. Uganda has lost its reputation for quality tea in
the world market for a variety of reasons, and her tea fetches very low
prices. The causes of the decline in tea quality include faulty processing
equipment, poor liquoring and grading, and mass marketing through UTA. The
Government recently considered further centralization of the production,
processing and marketing of tea under one organization but has postponed it
pending the results of a broader study of the tea industry which would be
carried out as part of this Project and agreed upon at negotiations. The
study would consider Uganda's comparative advantage in tea, the optimal
size of the industry, its future organizational and financial structure
(Section 3.05 and Schedule 2C(4) of the Development Credit Agreement).
There are therefore no immediate marketing recommendations for the tea
subsector addressed in the Project.
3.08      Tobacco.  The National Tobacco Corporation (NTC) has
responsibility for processing and marketing all tobacco grown in Uganda,
including exports which have virtually ceased. Although NTC officially has
a marketing monopoly, the low official producer prices for tobacco resulted
in an estimated 25% of the flue-cured crop and 50% of the fire-cured crop
being sold through unofficial channels until June 1982. The situation is
expected to improve considerably as a result of the 60% increase in
producer prices announced in June 1982. However, Uganda's comparative
advantage in tobacco, and the suitability of the current structure of the
industry are in doubt. Government agreed to hire consultants to carry out
a study to consider Uganda's comparative advantage in tobacco, the optimal
size of the industry and an appropriate organizational and financial
structure of the industry (Section 3.05 and Schedule 2C(7) to the
Development Credit Agreement). There are no significant marketing issues
in the tobacco subsector requiring immediate attention under this Project.



- 24 -
3.09      Nontraditional agricultural exports.  There is considerable scope
for diversifying and increasing Uganda's export earnings through the
promotion of nontraditional agricultural exports especially those of an
agro-industrial nature. The minor exports (past potential and actual)
include cereals, oil seeds, sugar, spices, fruits and vegetables, hides and
skins, animal feeds, eucalyptus oil, gum arabic, forest and wood products,
flowers, smoked and dried fish. The potential for exporting foodgrains
exists in the near future. They have increased considerably as a result of
the dual exchange rate introduced in August 1982. The minor agricultural
exports are valued at the Second Window (auction) exchange rate, which is
about 2.4 times the official exchange rate in terms of Ugandan shillings.
Uganda earned US$13 million in 1975 from these minor agricultural exports,
but more recent figures are not available. Government agreed to hire
consultants to conduct a detailed feasibility study to determine the
potential for these minor exports and to identify the necessary policy and
institutional measures that would promote them (Section 3.05 and Schedule
2C(5) to the Development Credit Agreement). A good export potential also
exists in the livestock subsector for hides and skins and possibly for
beef. Government agreed to hire consultants to examine such possibility,
the policy and institutional prerequisites for promoting such exports and
to identify appropriate production and marketing strategies (Section 3.05
and Schedule 2C(6) to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
C. Rehabilitation of Crop Processing Facilities
3.10      The lack of adequate processing capacity will be felt most
acutely if cotton, tobacco and tea production in 1982/83 is double that of
1981/82 as is widely expected to be, stimulated by recent increases in
producer prices. Efforts to increase production and to improve marketing
efficiency would not be successful without simultaneously relieving the
processing bottlenecks. This is not only true for cotton (where the 1980
crop is still being ginned) and coffee but also for tea. Uganda's stock of
exportable (processed) coffee at the beginning of the coffee year is
estimated to have declined steadily from 128,640 tons in 1977 to 87,540
tons in 1982. At the same time, her official coffee exports decreased from
153,120 tons in 1976 to 117,000 tons in 1981 but increased sharply to
162,000 tons in 1982. It is estimated that about 250,300 tons of coffee
delivered or ready for delivery between 1978 and 1982 (60,600 tons in 1980)
have not been processed. The rehabilitation of coffee hulleries, liquoring
facilities of CMB and the Bugisu Cooperative Union mill in Mbale, the tea
collection services of UTGC, tobacco barns and cotton ginneries under this
Project would complement, not duplicate, the projects of the European
Development Fund (EDF) and the African Development Bank (AfDB) in the
coffee and cotton subsectors. This will be done through a US$29.1 million
line of credit to UCB, of which US$0.8 million will be for the requisite
technical assistance.
3.11      With respect to the rehabilitation of the tea industry, the
Project adheres to the strategy agreed at the donor's meeting (IDA, CDC and
EEC) with Government at Entebbe on March 23, 1982. The major
rehabilitation requirements of the tea industry are expected to be catered
for through a proposed EDF US$16 million tea project whose focus will be on



- 25 -
smallholder tea; the proposed Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC)
US$8 million project whose focus will be on tea estates; the IFC-sponsored
US$5.5 million investment in the Toro-Mityana Tea Co. already approved by
the Board; and US$1.2 million earmarked under the Second Reconstruction
Credit to the tea industry. These however exclude smallholder tea leaf
collection facilities for the Uganda Tea Growers' Corporation (UTGC) and
do not completely cover the subsector's recurrent imports which would be
financed under this Project. However, even the short-term financing of the
UTGC tea operations is inhibited by its limited ability to buy foreign
exchange and lack of creditworthiness. Therefore, pending the outcome of
the studies referred to in para. 3.07 and follow-up action, Government
agreed to reschedule UTGC's local currency debts and provide it with a
minimum 3-year debt moratorium. This would be a condition of disbursement
for the tea component of the Project (Schedule 1.4 to the Development
Credit Agreement). As of November 1982, UTGC owed USh 112.1 million in
local currency loans.
3.12      UCB agreed to select final beneficiaries on the basis of thorough
preparation by engineering consultants to be recruited under this Project
and documented appraisal of each subproject covering technical, managerial,
financial and economic aspects as detailed in Annex 3 (Section 2.01(b)(i)
and Schedule A to the Project Agreement).
3.13      The capital expenditures whose foreign exchange costs would be
eligible for financing include:
(i) Plant and machinery: replacement of obsolete, worn-out or
damaged equipment including gins,1/ opener/cleaners, hullers,
presses and press pumps, prime movers, conveying systems,
electrical equipment (including generators); balancing equipment;
and the cost of installation and commissioning of all such
equipment;
(ii) Spare parts: up to two years' stock of spare parts for plant and
machinery;
(iii) Civil works: repairs of existing structures and civil works;
(iv) Small tools and maintenance equipment: to ensure that
there are adequate tools for maintaining rehabilitated processing
factories;
(v) Packing materials: up to two years' requirements of imported
packing materials necessary for fully utilizing rehabilitated
factories. They are included because it is estimated that
whatever is financed under the recurrent import program element
of this Project would have been already utilized by the time the
rehabilitated factories are ready for use; and
1/ Details of the type of ginning equipment (saw or roller gins)
would be worked out by the engineering surveyors.



- 26 -
(iv) Transportation: lorries, pick-ups, tractors, wheel carts,
including spares used directly.
3.14      This component will finance about (a) 20 coffee factories, (b) 12
ginneries, (c) tobacco curing barns (d) tea collection facilities; and (e)
the production, processing and marketing of nontraditional exports. Many
coffee, cotton, and tea factories meeting the selection criteria are
omitted from this Project because they have been earmarked for or are
receiving adequate assistance from other donors, principally the AfDB, CDC
and the EDF. Tobacco barns, which are built and maintained by individual
farmers, have all but disappeared in Uganda, and those still in existence
need many repairs.2/ In all, it is expected that this component of the
Credit would finance about 30 loans with an average size of just under
US$0.7 million in the coffee and cotton subsectors, and many other smaller
loans in. the tea, tobacco and nontraditional exports subsector. Any
subprojects whose costs are expected to exceed US$1.5 million would require
prior approval from IDA before they are rehabilitated (Section 2.02(i) of
the Development Credit Agreement). By about 1990, this component of the
Project is expected to increase coffee hulling capacity by about 15,000
tons; increase ginning capacity by about 17,500 tons of lint; improve the
tea leaf collection capacity of UTGC by 2,400 tons (made tea equivalents);
increase the capacity of about 1,200 tobacco curing barns to produce 1,500
tons of additional tobacco and provide capital for the expansion of
nontraditional exports.
E. Provision of Agricultural Recurrent Imports
3.15      The fourth feature of this Project is the provision of imports
required to sustain and increase the production of Uganda's traditional
agricultural exports (coffee, cotton, tobacco, and tea) and non-traditional
exports and livestock.
3.16      Subsidies on acaricide were introduced fifteen years ago when the
Veterinary Department decided to pursue a tick eradication policy. All
cattle owners were encouraged to use acaricide to control ticks and
eventually to eradicate East Coast Fever, the most important tick borne
disease. In order to encourage traditional owners in those areas to follow
the lead of fenced farmers who already used acaricide, Government agreed to
subsidize the cost of acaricide by 50%. This subsidy has persisted long
after the reason for its introduction has disappeared as cattle owners have
been well aware of the benefits of using acaricide for some years and no
longer need any subsidy to encourage them to do so.
3.17      Because of the decline in reliability of firms trading in
agricultural chemicals about ten years ago and the shortage of foreign
exchange and hence imported veterinary drugs and chemicals from that
period, the Veterinary Department assumed responsibility for the
importation and distribution of the more critical veterinary drugs and
chemicals including acaricide. These commercial activities are a heavy and
2/ There is adequate processing capacity for tobacco and only
curing barns need major rehabilitation.



- 27 -
unnecessary burden on a professional department with very minimal
resources. Because of the subsidy on acaricide, its scarcity and
consequent rationing, there have been allegations of favoritism.
Government agrees that these anomalies should be removed. Government
agreed to return the wholesale and retail marketing of veterinary drugs and
chemicals to commercial traders and cooperative societies and to phase out
the subsidies on acaricide by December 31, 1984 (Section 4.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
3.18      All recurrent imports proposed to be financed under the Project
and their proportional distribution conform with the foreign exchange
budget for the sector in the Government's Recovery Program. The detailed
positive list of eligible imports and broad subsectoral allocations (Annex
4) are annexed to Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Amendments to the list would require prior IDA approval.
F. Training
3.19      Local and overseas  training would also be provided for staff
directly involved in the Project in the following organizations: (a) the
Agricultural Secretariat; (b) mechanics and fitters on the maintenance of
rehabilitated ginneries and hulleries with the help of two expatriate staff
recruited under the Project; (c) officials in the Ministries of
Agriculture, and Cooperatives and Marketing; (d) UCB staff; and (e) key
liquoring and grading staff of the CMB. The typical length of the training
period would be three to six months, but would not normally exceed one
year. Specifically, professional training for officials of the
Agricultural Secretariat and the two agricultural Ministries would provide
skills in the following areas: (i) pricing methodologies and exchange rate
policies that would boost Uganda's traditional exports; (ii) appropriate
marketing institutions for agricultural exports, and their regulation and
incentive systems; (iii) project formulation and appraisal; (iv) the budget
and financial policies and systems for the agricultural ministries and
parastatals; and (v) foreign exchange budgeting, allocation and
monitoring. Training for officials of UCB would mainly be in project
preparation, appraisal, supervision, and agricultural credit policies.
G. Technical Assistance
3.20      There are two objectives of providing technical assistance under
this Project: (a) for the studies needed to recommend solutions to
specific subsector issues, and (b) to support immediate Project implementa-
tion. The main features of this component of the Project are summarized in
Annex 5. Following are the 7 studies to be undertaken under the Project:
(1) coffee marketing (technical); (2) cotton industry strategy and
organization; (3) tea industry strategy and organization; (4) survey of
costs of production, processing and marketing of major export crops; (5)
livestock marketing and development strategy; (6) nontraditional agri-
cultural exports (prospects, policies, and institutional framework); and
(7) tobacco industry strategy and organization. These would require about
126 man-months of consultant services. In addition, funds equivalent to
about 12 man-months would be made available for the Agricultural
Secretariat to recruit consultants for specific tasks as may be necessary.
It is expected that the Agricultural Secretariat would be staffed and



- 28 -
funded initially with five technical assistance personnel and seven Ugandan
counterpart professionals (see Figure 8).
3.21       To strengthen the capacity of UCB and the Government to implement
the Project the following 12 expatriate staff (total 276 man-months) and
professional services would be needed: to UCB : (a) an engineering
surveyors' firm to prepare detailed cost estimates and contracts for
factories requiring rehabilitation; (b) engineering supervisors to
supervise the actual rehabilitation of factories by contractors; (c) a
Project Manager for 36 man-months; and (d) a procurement agent/officer for
13 months; to the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing: (e) two
accountants and two engineers for 12 months each (specialized in ginneries
and hulleries) to re-train fitters and mechanics in ginneries and hulleries
on the repair and maintenance of the rehabilitated factory equipment; to
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry: (f) two economists/statisticians
for 24 months each; to the Agricultural Secretariat: (g) one financial
analyst for 24 months, one economic statistician for 24 months, one
agricultural economist for 24 months, one agriculturalist for 24 months,
one economist for 24 months who would be its Director and also be
responsible for training and direction of the studies listed in paras.
3.03-3.09).
3.22       The recruitment of the firm of engineering surveyors, a
procurement agent/officer, the appointment of the Project Manager and the
Director of the Agricultural Secretariat (with a further requirement they
be in post) would be conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
3.23       In addition, vehicles, office equipment and supplies would be
provided to the Secretariat, UCB, the Statistical Unit of the Ministry of
Agriculture's Planning Department, and the Department of Cooperatives unit
responsible for accounting and auditing and the re-training of fitters and
mechanics in ginneries and hulleries across the country.
H. Cost Estimates
3.24       The total Project cost is estimated at US$88.9 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$71.3 million or 80%. Taxes and duties
amounting to US$6.8 million or 8% are included. Estimated costs are
summarized in Table 4. Because this Project is partly recurrent financing
and partly a line of credit to a bank for on-lending to sub-borrowers,
there are no allowances for physical or price contingencies in the cost
estimates.
3.25       The cost estimates are based on November 1982 prices updated to
March 1983 and are derived from recent quotations and appraisal estimates.
A high foreign exchange proportion (82%) of the rehabilitation subprojects
is projected because of the low level of industrial production in Uganda, a
situation which has started to improve gradually. Since the final
definition and assessment of the necessary physical rehabilitation would
only be made after in-depth appraisal has been undertaken by UCB, the
Project costs for the rehabilitation component are tentative. Similarly,
the subsectoral allocation of foreign exchange for the recurrent
agricultural imports are estimates obtained during appraisal, projections
based on recent allocations, and some notions of subsectoral priorities.



- 29 -
Table 4
Project Cost Summary
% of     Z of
Foreign   Total
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign Total Exchange Base Costs
- (US Shs Million) -        -(US$ Million)
A. Coffee Subsector      543.0  2,2)3.5  2,746.5   5.4        22.0  27.4    80.2      30.9
B. Cotton Rehab.         487.8  2,215.5  2,703.3   4.9       22.2  27.1    82.0       30.4
C. Tea Subsector         203.3    765.3    968.6   2.0        7.7   9.7    79.0       10.9
D. Tobacco Subsector     202.4    482.0    684.4   2.0        4.8   6.8    70.4        7.7
E.  Livestock Subsector   105.3    630.8    736.1   1.0       6.3   7.3    85.7        8.3
F. Techaical Assistance  106.7    388.7    495.4   1.1        3.9   5.0    78.5        5.6
G. Nor-traditional
Exports            120.0    440.0    560.0   1.2        4.4   5.6    78.6        6.3
TOTAL PRDJECT COST      1,768.5  7,125.8  8,894.3  17.6      71.3  88.9    80.1    100.0
3.26       Project costs would be financed in the following amounts and
proportions.
Table 5
Financing Plan
% of
Local     Foreign                  Total    % of Net
Currency   Exchange                   Proj.   Project
Costs      Costs        Total    Costs        Costs
------ US$ Million --
1.  Proposed IDA Credit            -         70.0          70.0     78.7        85.3
2.  IDA Tech. Asst. Cr.            -          1.3           1.3       1.5        1.6
3.  Gov't. of Uganda              0.2          -            0.2       0.2        0.2
4.  UCB                           4.6          -            4.6       5.0         5.6
5.  Beneficiaries of
Recurrent Imports          5.5          -            5.5       6.2         6.7
6.  Bank of Uganda                0.5         _             0.5       0.6        0.6
Net Project Cost            10.8        71.3          82.1      92.2       100.0
Taxes & Duties               6.8          -             6.8      7.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST         17.6        71.3          88.9    100.0
Project financing by the financial agencies for the different
categories of goods or services is set out in Table 6.



- 30 -
Table 6
Project Financing by Category of Goods and Services
Bank                                    Proposed   IDA
of                                       IDA      Tech.
Uganda    GOU      UCB  Beneficiaries  Credit  Asst.Cr. Total
-------------------------US$ Million------------------------
Processing
Factory
Rehab.          -         -      4.2         2.4        28.3      -       34.9
Recurrent
Imports         -        -        -          9.8        39.2      -       49.0
Technical
Asst. and
Training       0.5       0.3     0.3          -          2.5      1.3      5.0
Total       0.5      0.3      4.6        12.2        70.0      1.3    88.9
3.27      UCB would meet the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
necessary to prepare subprojects (mainly to cover the partial costs of
engineering surveyors) soon after negotiations but prior to Credit
effectiveness not exceeding US$300,000 from its own sources. These costs
would be retroactively financed by IDA upon effectiveness (Schedule 1.2 to
the Development Credit Agreement). The Government would allocate adequate
funds to the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing and to the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry to enable these organizations to accomplish their
tasks under the Project (Section 3.01(a) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
J. Terms of the Credit
3.28      Government would borrow US$70 million from IDA on standard IDA
terms. The Government may re-allocate the funds between the rehabilitation
and recurrent imports component, and within each of the above categories
during implementation with the approval of IDA. About US$1.3 million of
the technical assistance component would be financed from the ongoing IDA
Technical Assistance Credit. Government would on-lend US$29.1 million from
IDA funds equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost of the factory
rehabilitation component of the Project and the necessary technical
assistance, to UCB under a subsidiary loan agreement at 6.5% per annum
(Section 3.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). Government would
bear the exchange risk. These on-lending rates are similar to those agreed
under other recent IDA credits to Uganda and are considered reasonable.
UCB would on-lend the IDA funds to sub-borrowers at 14%. In addition, UCB
would charge sub-borrowers a 1% commitment fee on undisbursed balances.



- 31 -
3.29      The US$29.1 million that Government would on-lend to UCB would be
amortized in accordance with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of
the subloans UCB makes from this amount and disbursements against technical
assistance (Section 3.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). UCB's
policy limits the maturity of most of its loans to 10 years, including an
appropriate grace period. UCB would have a 15-year repayment period,
including 5 years of grace. The proposed grace period of 5 years would be
adequate for UCB to fully commit the funds (3 years) and disburse a
substantial part before it starts repayment to Government. The
sub-borrowers would have a maximum repayment period of 10 years and a
maximum grace period of three years.
K. Procurement and the Rehabilitation Contracts
3.30      Rehabilitation Contracts.  Recent experience in Uganda suggests
that it would not be prudent to undertake the rehabilitation without prior
detailed survey of actual rehabilitation needs of each plant. It is also
clear that the actual rehabilitation requires close supervision and
coordination. The technical, administrative and financial requirements for
the rehabilitation effort, compounded by ICB procedures, would be beyond
the capabilities of individual ginneries or hulleries. A condition of the
subloans would therefore be that the rehabilitation requirements of a
factory being rehabilitated would be ascertained by UCB-s surveyors and
that sub-borrowers would use services of the firm of construction engineers
retained by UCB to undertake the actual rehabilitation of their factory on
their behalf (Section 2.04 (a)(vii) and (viii) of the Project Agreement).
3.31      The rehabilitation of ginneries and hulleries would be done by
engineering contractors selected on the basis of international competitive
bidding and unit price quotations (Schedule 3A(l) to the Development Credit
Agreement). The contractors would be responsible for the procurement of
all the materials for factories they rehabilitate. The loans to owners of
these factories would also include necessary raw materials, packing
materials and spares for up to two years. These materials and spares would
be procured through the procedures for the recurrent imports component of
the Project with the assistance of the Procurement consultant (paras.
3.34-3.38).
3.32      Rehabilitation contracts for the ginneries and hulleries would be
individually too small and too dispersed to attract international
contractors. Therefore, to encourage competition, minimize the risk
inherent in entrusting the entire rehabilitation contract to one firm, and
to increase the likelihood that local contractors may also bid, UCB would
award about 5 contracts for the rehabilitation of hulleries, ginneries, and
tobacco barns of roughly equal sizes valued at a total of approximately
US$25 million. Interested firms may bid for one contract or a combination
of the contracts, and the lowest qualified bidder would be selected.
Bidders for the rehabilitation of the processing facilities would be
prequalified and contracts would be awarded in accordance with prevailing
IDA Guidelines for Procurement of Goods and Works (Schedule 3A(4) to the
Development Credit Agreement). A 7 1/2% preference for prequalified
domestic contractors would apply (Schedule 3C to the Development Credit
Agreement).



- 32 -
3.33      Consultancies.  The Government has appointed the Commonwealth
Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) to be its recruiting agent for
technical assistance personnel for the Agricultural Secretariat. These
would also be employed on terms and conditions of service acceptable to
IDA. All technical assistance (including those staff recruited through
CFTC) would be selected according to IDA Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (Section 3.05(c) of the Development Credit Agreement). The
average man-month cost for all technical assistance, including salary,
costs, fees, international travel and subsistence, is expected to be about
US$10,000. Vehicles, office operating equipment and expenses, housing
repairs and minor items would also be included. In aggregate, 419
man-months of technical assistance are envisaged.
3.34      Recurrent Imports:  Agricultural inputs, tools, packaging and
bagging materials, veterinary supplies, equipment and spares totalling
US$39.2 million would be bulked to the extent practicable to increase
competition in bidding (Schedule 3A(3) to the Development Credit
Agreement), and packages of US$500,000 or more would be awarded on the
basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA-s
Procurement Guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever is lower
(Schedule 3B(4)(ii) to the Development Credit Agreement). Items that
cannot be grouped to form packages of more than US$500,000 equivalent but
whose value exceed US$10,000, totalling about US$2 million would be awarded
on the basis of the Central Tender Board-s normal competitive bidding
procedures which have been reviewed by IDA and found to be generally
acceptable (Schedule 3D to the Development Credit Agreement). Packages of
items whose value is below US$10,000 would be procured directly by the
individual beneficiaries (Schedule 3D(2) to the Development Credit
Agreement).
3.35      Between 15 and 17 bidding packages/contracts are expected to make
up the estimated US$39.2 million in the recurrent imports category of the
Project (see Table 7).  With a threshold of US$1.0 million for prior IDA
review of procurement documentation (Schedule 3E(2) to the Development
Credit Agreement), about 44% of the total number of packages would cover
about 83% of the value contracted. On that basis, between 6 and 8
contracts amounting to about US$32.6 million over the three year
procurement period would be subject to prior review. Random checking of
smaller contracts would be carried out in the field.
3.36      The allocation of foreign exchange under this Project would be
the responsibility of the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee which is
currently responsible for the allocation of foreign exchange purchased at
the official or managed (Window One) exchange rate, and all the imports
would be imported at the managed exchange rate, currently US$1.0 = USh
100. Importers are required to pay 100% of the local currency equivalent
for foreign exchange purchases, and would do so under this Project. Once
an importer has been allocated foreign exchange,he has to obtain an import
license from the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade (UABT), a process which
results in a second complete review, and causes further delay. Since
all items being imported under this Project will be only those listed in
the positive list, and in order to eliminate the duplicative review process
of the Board of Trade for imports under this Project, Board of Trade import
licenses would be issued within five working days of the foreign exchange
allocation to importers under this Project (Section 3.03 (vi) of the
Development Credit Agreement).



- 33 -
3.37      The Board of Trade is supposed to supervise the procurement
procedures for cooperative, private and parastatal sector imports. The
Central Tender Board (CTB) is supposed to supervise procurement by
Government ministries only. However, the CTB in practice supervises all
procurement in the country, a load it is not designed to carry, resulting
in unacceptably long delays in procurement. The CTB is expected to be
strengthened with technical assistance provided under the Second
Reconstruction Credit.
3.38      Five parastatals (CMB, LMB, UTGC, AEL, and NTC), the UCCU, and
the Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries are expected to purchase over
90% of all recurrent imports financed under this Project either on their
own behalf or their customers (farmers and processors). In order to ensure
that procurement is as efficient as possible, and to lessen the load on the
CTB and UABT, UCB would engage a procurement agent to handle bulk
procurement and disbursements for those importers allocated foreign
exchange under the Project who wish to use the agent's services for a fee.
The recruitment of such a procurement agent would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement). The
procurement agent would station an officer in Kampala for some 13 months
over the two-year period during which most recurrent imports would be
purchased and is expected to handle most of the procurement under the
Project. The agent would work with the CTB and UABT consistent with IDA,
UABT, and CTB procurement policies and procedures. Other importers who do
not wish to use the services of the procurement agent retained by UCB would
not have to do so.
Table 7
Procurement Profile of Value/Number of Contracts
No. of          Cumulative           % Total
Contracts       Value (Number)        (Number)
Threshold          Above         Above Threshold        Above
(US$000)         Threshold        (US$ million)        Threshold
Recurrent
Imports
Above  10,000         1              11.0    (1)         28  (6)
5,000 -10,000         1              19.04   (2)         49  (13)
2,000 - 5,000         5             32.62   (7)          83  (44)
1,000*- 2,000         2             35.32   (9)          90  (56)
500 - 1,000         4             38.21  (13)          98  (81)
200 -   500         3             39.15  (16)         100 (100)
* Denotes threshold for prior review of procurement documentation by IDA.
L. Disbursements
3.39      Disbursements under the IDA Credit would be made for the foreign
cost of eligible imports against full documentation, including invoices
paid by the Bank of Uganda or the relevant commercial bank under existing



- 34 -
regulations controlling the allocation of foreign exchange. IDA funds
would be disbursed against technical assistance costs and eligible imports
from any IDA member country, Switzerland and Taiwan. The Bank of Uganda
would clear all withdrawal applications before they are forwarded to IDA.
3.40      Upon Credit effectiveness, IDA would advance the Government
US$1.5 million equivalent to be deposited in a Special Account. The Bank
of Uganda will make payments to suppliers from the Special Account
according to the agreed disbursement percentages within each eligible
expenditure category, and obtain direct reimbursement from IDA to replenish
it. The Bank of Uganda will ensure that complete withdrawal applications,
with supporting documentation, are sent to IDA immediately after payment
being made from the Special Account (Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement and side-letter). It is hoped that this payment procedure will
speed up disbursements considerably for both the rehabilitation and
recurrent import components of the Project. Slow disbursements have so far
been a major problem of IDA operations in IUganda.
3.41      The Recovery Program envisages a total rehabilitation requirement
(capital and recurrent) in foreign exchange for the period 1982/83 to
1984/85 of US$736.5 million, of which US$ 220 million or 30% has been
budgeted for agriculture. The annual allocations to agriculture (in
million US$) are 78.9, 1982/83; 81.1, 1983/84; 60.0, 1984/85; and include
the amount of this Credit, i.e. US$70.0 million to be fully disbursed over
the same period. These imply an average monthly allocation to agriculture
of US$6.1 million. Excluding the amount of this Credit, they imply that
Government would allocate US$3.9 million from its other resources
(including aid) to agriculture monthly. However, actual allocations to the
agricultural sector over the past six months have averaged only US$1.6
million, reflecting in part a shortfall in foreign exchange availability
compared to what was expected when the Recovery Program was inaugurated.
In order to encourage the Government to allocate its own resources to
agriculture according to its foreign exchange budget, and to ensure that
adequate foreign exchange allocations to agriculture continue after the
disbursements for recurrent imports under this Credit cease, Government
agreed to allocate at least 30% of the foreign exchange earnings from
agriculture above US$300 million during the preceeding financial year to
finance items imported under this Credit in the subsequent financial year,
beginning July 1, 1984 (Section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement
and side-letter). The Credit would be disbursed to finance 100% of the
foreign cost of eligible imported goods; 100% of the foreign cost of
technical assistance or 75% total costs; 80% of the cost of goods procured
locally but previously imported; and 100% of the foreign cost or 80% of the
total cost of the rehabilitation costs, the last percentage being the
estimated foreign exchange component of rehabilitation costs (Schedule I to
the Development Credit Agreement).
3.42      Annex 6 shows the projected schedule of disbursements for the
Credit. Disbursements are expected to start in the third quarter of FY84
(April 1984) and to be completed by December 1986 in the case of recurrent
imports (three years) and December 1988 in the case of rehabilitation
contracts (five years), spanning a period of five years after Board
approval.   The allocations of the Credit are shown in Annex 7.  The
Project is expected to be completed on December 31, 1988, and the Credit to



- 35 -
be closed on September 30, 1989. This is less than the average 9 years for
development finance company credits in East Africa, as indicated in the
regional disbursement profiles, but is consistent with the disbursement
profile of the First Reconstruction Credit and with the actual monthly
imports to the agricultural export sector in 1982.  It is expected that the
implementation of the types of rehabilitation investments to be financed
under the Credit would take a shorter time compared to the implementation
of new projects normally financed under DFC operations. The rehabilitation
arrangements proposed to be adopted for this Credit would also facilitate
quick disbursement. As 40% of the coffee processing capacity in Uganda is
owned by private processors (i.e. whose owners are not cooperative
societies or unions), UCB would ensure that their needs are taken into
account in allocating the proceeds of the line of credit (Schedule B to the
Project Agreement).
M. Counterpart Funds
3.43      Local currency counterpart funds generated by the repayment of
the line of credit from UCB and from the sale of recurrent agricultural
imports would be allocated to a special Government account at the Bank of
Uganda set up for this purpose.  The Bank of Uganda would credit the
account with the domestic counterpart funds as soon as these have been paid
in by UCB or by importers (Section 3.04(a) of the Development Credit
Agreement). The Government would allocate the counterpart funds to the
recurrent or capital costs of projects in the Recovery Program and after
its expiration to projects in a future Development Plan (Section 3.04(b) of
the Development Credit Agreement).
N. Accounts and Audit
3.44      The Bank of Uganda, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, the
Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Cooperatives and
Marketing, Uganda Commercial Bank, and the processing factories involved in
Project activities would open and administer separate Project accounts and
would keep records consistent with sound accounting practice, adequate to
reflect their operational and financial position. These records should
permit proper identification of all receipts and payments in respect of the
Project as well as the assets and liabilities created by Project
transactions (Section 4.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). Every
year during the life of the Credit, the accounts would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA not later than
nine months after the completion of the financial years of the respective
organizations (Section 4.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement and
Section 3.02(b) of the Project Agreement). The Special Account will be
audited separately by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. UCB-s
financial year runs from October 1 to September 30 and its accounts are
audited by an independent accounting firm acceptable to IDA. This
arrangement is expected to continue during the Project implementation
period. Beginning March 31, 1984, UCB would submit to IDA yearly reports
of its operations, resources, portfolio, accounts and progress in
implementation of the recurrent and rehabilitation components to be
financed under the proposed Credit to IDA (Section 2.08(b) of the Project
Agreement).



- 36 -
3.45      Lhe accounts of cooperative unions, which own all ginneries and
60% of all hulleries in Uganda, are audited by the Audit and Accounts
Division of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing (MC&M) or by private
auditors. The MC&M is understaffed and would be strengthened through the
provision of two accountants on technical assistance for one year each in
FY84 (Section 3.05(b) of the Development Credit Agreement). Supported by a
team of 10 (preferably ex-cooperative department staff) accountants and
auditors who would be assigned by Government to work with them, the
accountants would assist the cooperative societies to update (or audit, as
the case may be) their accounts which are in arrears (Section 3.06 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
0. Environmental Impact
3.46      The Project's impact on the environment would be modest, but
positive. Installation of blowers at ginneries would enable seed cotton to
be moved automatically from ginnery storage to the gins with less pollution
of the air which ginnery workers breathe. Rehabilitated hulleries and
ginneries would be better lighted, cleaner and safer for workers.
Improvements in cotton and coffee processing operations would drastically
reduce the need for storage in makeshift village stores and in farmers
houses, which would improve living conditions. As cotton, coffee, tea, and
tobacco cultivation is not considered to be ecologically deleterious, and
as the Project does not involve modifications in cultivation techniques, no
environmental impact on the production side is anticipated. Environmental
and safety guidelines relating to cotton and coffee factories financed by
IDA have been passed on to UCB and will be adhered to in the rehabilitation
subprojects.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The proposals for the organization and management of the Project
and Secretariat as shown in Figure 2 take into account its multiple
features and activities which involve a commercial bank in term lending, an
import program, training, studies, and policy and institutional reforms
affecting four parastatals and five ministries. It also takes into account
the Ugandan administration system which is characterized by division of
responsibilities and imbalances in capabilities and authority among various
ministries and parastatals.
4.02      The Project Manager employed by UCB would be responsible for all
the physical implementation aspects of the Project. At the policy level,
the APC and Secretariat are designed to provide symmetry in the planning,
resource allocation, execution and monitoring of activities in the
agricultural sector. The APC would also be the Steering Committee for the
Project. The longer term intended purpose of the APC (i.e. directing and
coordinating policy, plans, and resource allocation within the agricultural
sector) would follow naturally, and its workability be adequately tested,
from its beginning as a Steering Committee for this Project. To remove the
possibility that the Steering Committee might slow down UCB's approval
process in respect of the rehabilitation component of this Project, UCB-s
operations under the Project would not be under the direct purview of the



- 37 -
Steering Committee, and UCB would report directly to IDA. The Managing
Director of UCB, who would be ultimately responsible for the rehabilitation
aspects of the Project, is a member of the Presidential Economic Advisory
Committee (PEAC) and the APC. The Government has appointed the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Planning, as Chairman for the APC. The Director of
the Secretariat would be the Secretary to the APC (Section 3.02(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement) which would meet at least once monthly in its
first year of operation. The Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
administers the IDA Technical Assistance Credit which would finance a
portion of the technical assistance component of the Project, and would
thus be involved in the recruitment of some staff or firms under the
Project. UCB would hire all its technical assistance from the proceeds of
the Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit and be responsible for its own
technical assistance, in addition to the rehabilitation component of the
Project. UCB would be represented in the Steering Committee by the
Managing Director. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry would be
responsible for ensuring the success of the effort to strengthen its
Statistical Division and would provide all necessary support. Similarly,
the Ministries of Cooperatives and Marketing and Animal Industry and
Fisheries would be responsible for the Project components falling within
their purview.
4.03      To increase the likelihood that Government pricing decisions,
priorities in resource allocation and its policies in the agricultural
sector will be consistent with the priorities of farmers, processors and
even marketing Boards, analytic functions relating to these crucial
decisions would be centralized in the Secretariat. IDA has submitted
proposals to Government on how it could institute a better mechanism for
setting prices of agricultural export crops, i.e. more directly related to
domestic and external prices. Government agreed that the Agricultural
Secretariat would consult IDA annually on its recommendations of such
prices within reasonable time prior to their submission to the APC to
enable IDA to comment on them (Section 4.03(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement), and the APC would formally review these prices yearly based on
the recommendations of the Agricultural Secretariat (Section 4.03(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The Government has decided that the
Secretariat would be initially located in the Bank of Uganda (BOU).
4.04      The Secretariat would consist of a Director, a Deputy Director,
one evaluation officer, two agricultural economists, two agriculturalists,
three financial analysts, two economic statisticians and an adequate number
of support staff. Five of the professional staff of the Secretariat would
initially be technical assistance personnel. The terms and conditions of
their recruitment would be agreed between IDA and the Government before
such staff are recruited (Section 3.05(c) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
4.05      The Secretariat would report to the APC, but would be under the
direct administrative and budget authority of the Governor of the Bank of
Uganda. The APC, whose terms of reference appear in Annex 2(a), would
formulate, coordinate, direct, and review key policies and programs within
the agricultural sector.  To provide for high level coordination between
the key Ministries and agencies concerned with the performance of
agriculture, the APC would have top level policy making represention by



-38-
Permanent Secretaries from the following Ministries:  Planning and Economic
Development (Chairman); Commerce; Agriculture and Forestry; Cooperatives
and Marketing; and Animal Industry and Fisheries in addition to the
Governor, Bank of Uganda, and the Managing Director of UCB (Section 3.02(a)
of the Development Credit Agreement). The Secretariat would be responsible
for conducting seven sector studies under this Project referred to in
paragraphs 3.02-3.09. The scope of these studies, and the terms of
reference for the study teams, have already been agreed with Government.
Detailed Government/IDA review would be held within six months of the
completion of interim and final reports of these studies by consultants
(Section 3.05(d) of the Development Credit Agreement).
4.06      The responsibility for training would lie with the Director of
the Secretariat. Assisted by the training officers of the various
organizations involved in the Project where training needs have been
identified, his training responsibilities would include assessment of
specific staff training needs and identification of suitable training
opportunities. The Secretariat would prepare and submit to IDA detailed
training proposals including: (i) main objectives; (ii) types of training
to be provided; (iii) training needs in terms of numbers, categories and
levels of personnel over time; (iv) candidate selection criteria; (v) plans
to utilize newly acquired skills; (vi) arrangements for the administration,
monitoring and evaluation of the training program; and (vii) budget and
financing proposals. The first of these programs would be submitted to IDA
not later than December 31, 1983 (Section 3.07 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
4.07      The operational responsibility for implementing the
rehabilitation component of the Project would lie with UCB, specifically
the Project Manager, the Chief Credit Manager and the Credit Division. UCB
would also supervise the recurrent import component of the Project handled
through its procurement agent. As this Project would represent a major
part of UCB's operations for the next 5 years, UCB agreed to assign
exclusively to the Project for its duration: (i) three debt-recovery
officers; (ii) two senior credit analysts; and (iii) two agricultural
economists each with at least three years of relevant experience (Section
2.01(b)(iii) of the Project Agreement). In addition, the Credit would
provide UCB with a Project Manager and eight vans to boost its capacity to
appraise and supervise the subprojects.
B. Annual Work Programs
4.08      Basic documents for Project implementation would be annual
programs and budgets. These would facilitate a full annual review of
progress in Project implementation between Government (through the Steering
Committee), UCB, and IDA and make possible technical, financial and
managerial adjustments or modifications to the Project as implementation
proceeds and experience is gained. The work programs, which would be
approved by IDA after final submission to the APC, would contain a
description of: (i) plans and disbursement targets of UCB and the Bank of
Uganda; (ii) the APC and Secretariat's work plans; (iii) the plans of the
Planning Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry; (iv) the
plans of the Ministry of Animal Industry related to the Project; and
(v) the plans of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing related to the
Project.



- 39 -
4.09      After the first year, work programs would start with an analysis
of actual performance (e.g., foreign exchange allocations, pricing policy,
etc.) during the preceeding period.  Because the LMB, CMB, NTC, UTA, AEL
and UTGC each have a key role to play in the implementation of policies and
the import program, they would also be required to submit brief annual work
programs to the APC through their respective parent Ministries.  The APC
would review and approve the first set of work programs not later than May
31, and submit them to IDA not later than June 30, 1983. Thereafter, the
work programs would be presented to IDA by the APC for review and approval
every March 31 (Section 3.08(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). IDA
may also review and comment on the programs during supervision. These
dates would enable the work programs to have an input in the national
budget process and to provide a basis for meaningful dialogue with IDA and
the IMF on such matters as setting agricultural prices, review of foreign
exchange allocations to agriculture, export performance, etc. Most
importantly, it is expected that the Secretariat would provide the basis
for the June 1983 export pricing decisions, projections of foreign exchange
earnings and export tax revenues, and the agricultural sectors recurrent
and development budget estimates.
C. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.10      The APC, through the Agricultural Secretariat, would be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation. The Government would appoint to
the Secretariat an Evaluation Officer who would be responsible for
reporting, monitoring and evaluation in the Secretariat. The Secretariat
would design, and APC would submit to IDA, not later than June 30, 1983, a
monitoring and evaluation system which the APC would implement not later
than September 30, 1983 (Section 3.09 of the Development Credit
Agreement). Information would be obtained from the institutions involved
in Project implementation in order to assist managers, the Secretariat and
APC in: (i) collecting statistics on Project components for further
evaluation and reporting needs; (ii) assessing progress in the fulfillment
of targets set out in the annual work programs and budgets; (iii)
identifying problems and constraints for timely adjustment and
reorientation of all Project activities; and (iv) managing the Project at
all levels.
4.11      A set of questionnaires would be designed, tested, and used to
collect information every three months beginning September 1983. The
Secretariat would formally request and obtain the completed questionnaires
every quarter beginning January 15, 1984 as a step in each institution's
participation in the formulation of the work programs, reporting,
monitoring and evaluation with the active support of the Secretariat. The
Secretariat and UCB would prepare reports every six months summarizing
Project progress and performance, and submit them to the APC. IDA may
review and comment on the reports during supervision.
4.12      The Government (through the APC) and UCB would prepare a
completion report summarizing Project performance and evaluating its
impact. The reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six months
after the closing date, now set at September 30, 1989. (Section 3.11(d) of
the Development Credit Agreement).



- 40 -
Table 8
Area, Yield, and Annual Farm Level Production
Without         Year 6 (1988)
Project      Without    With        Incremental
(1981)       Project    Project   at Year 6
Coffee (Kiboko) _/
Area (000 ha)                 217.00       217.00      217.00          -
Yield (tons/ha)                 1.60         1.60        2.00          0.40
Production (<DOO  tons)       289.00       289.00      297.80          8.80
Processed ('000 tons)         150.00       179.00      194.00         15.00
Cotton
Area ('000 ha)                 40.40       371.50      400.00         28.50
Yield (tons/ha)                 0.26         0.26        0.40          0.14
of seed cotton
Seed cotton (Q000 tons)        10.50        96.60      160.00         63.40
Lint ('000 togs) 2/             3.50        32.20       53.30         21.10
Tea
Area ('000 ha) 3/               0.50         0.76        1.17          0.41
Yield (tons/ha)                 3.60         6.00        6.00          -
Production ('000 tons) 4/    1.70            4.60        7.00          2.40
Tobacco
Area ( 000 ha)                  2.50         4.50        6.00          1.50
Yield (tons/ha)                 0.20         0.20        0.40          0.20
Production ('000 tons)          0.50         0.90        2.40          1.50
1/ From Year 2.
_/ Ginned.
3/ Being plucked; plantings would not increase.
4/ Green tea.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.13       The implementation schedule for the Project appears in Annex 8.
V.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01       Farm Level.  Table 8 summarizes the expected crop area, yields
and additional production expected to result from the Project.



- 41 -
5.02      Illustrative crop budgets (costs and returns) for the main crops
in the Project areas (coffee, cotton, tea, tobacco, bananas, maize and
groundnuts) appear in Annex 9. There would be no increases in area under
coffee or tea, but coffee yields and tea pluckings would increase as
farmers respond to higher prices, increased marketing efficiency, higher
processing capacity and increased availability of agricultural imports, by
better husbandry and harvesting. All projected yield "increases" are
really a return to previously normal yields when imported agricultural
inputs and implements were available to farmers. On average, by 1988,
coffee yields are expected to increase by 0.4 tons/ha (26%) and annual
processed coffee production by 15,000 tons (8%); cotton yields would
increase by 0.14 tons/ha (54%), and annual production of lint by 21,100
tons (66%); tea yields would not increase but annual production would
increase by 2,400 tons green leaf (52%); tobacco yields would increase by
0.2 tons/ha (100%) and production of uncured tobacco by 1,500 tons (166%).
In addition, yields and output of all food crops are expected to increase
modestly. Livestock mortality would be reduced by 0.92% per annum,
resulting in a livestock population of 200,000 (5%) bigger than would be
possible without the Project in 1990.
5.03      Processing.  At the processing level, the cotton ginning capacity
of Uganda is expected to increase by over 100,000 bales (18,500 tons) and
coffee hulling capacity by at least 15,000 tons by 1987. Tobacco factory
processing capacity is adequate at the moment to handle all the expected
increase in farm level production with only a few minor repairs needed at
the NTC factory. However, about 1,376 tobacco curing barns in the middle
north area of Uganda will need rehabilitation and are catered for under the
Project's line of credit to UCB. Increases in production or exports of
nontraditional crops or livestock have not been estimated.  Annex 10 shows
the background information and projected output relating to the cotton
ginning subsector. Ugandan textile mills have the capacity to absorb about
80,000 bales of Uganda's lint. The Government currently rations the amount
of lint that it will make available for domestic use and exports the rest.
This situation is expected to persist for the next 2 years. The same
situation applies for tobacco and tea where domestic demand exceeds the
available supply. However, because the Government is eager to earn foreign
exchange from any incremental production of cash crops, and as local demand
is satisfied or suppressed by a high consumer price policy for coffee, tea,
cigarettes, and textile goods, a higher proportion of increased production
is expected to be exported.
B. Markets
5.04      All incremental coffee, cotton, tea and tobacco production (Table
9) is expected to be marketed in Uganda-s traditional export markets
without difficulty since Uganda still maintains a presence in most of these
markets even at current low levels of exports. Similarly, all incremental
food crop production is expected to be readily absorbed in the country,
although at slightly depressed prices. In the case of coffee all
incremental production would be sold within Uganda's prospective quota



- 42 -
markets projected at 190,520 tons3/, and there would be no need to revert
to the non-quota market to dispose of any surplus produce.  On a worldwide
scale, Uganda is a minor producer of all her major export crops and the
increased export volumes of coffee, cotton, tea and tobacco would have no
effect on world market prices. Marketed production of all above crops is
projected to increase on account of (assumptions, in order of importance):
(1) improved security; (2) considerable improvement in the exchange regime
in favor of exports and with lower export taxes; (3) increased coffee,
cotton and tea processing capacity; (4) increased use of railway transport
for export to Mombasa; and (5) increased availability of inputs. In the
absence of this Project, however, marketed production of these crops is
still projected to increase, but to a lesser degree.
Table 9
Projected Marketed Production of Major Export Crops
(Thousand Metric Tons)
Cattle
Year             Coffee        Cotton       Tea         Tobacco    Population
(Millions)
(1)   (2)   (1)   (2)   (1)   (2)   (1)   (2)   (1)   (2)
1981 Actual     117   117    3.5   3.5   1.7   1.7   0.5   0.5   4.5  4.5
1982 Estimated 162   162   18.6  18.6   3.0   3.0   0.6   0.6   4.5  4.5
1983            150   150   22.8  27.4   3.4   3.4   0.7   1.0   4.4  4.5
1984            150   155   24.9  29.3   3.7   3.7   0.8   1.4   4.4  4.5
1985            160   160   26.6  32.0   3.8   5.0   0.8   1.6   4.3  4.5
1986            160   165   28.7  45.4   4.0   6.0   0.6   1.8   4.3  4.5
1987            160   170   30.0  50.4   4.3   6.5   0.7   2.0   4.3  4.4
1988            170   180   32.2  53.3   4.6   7.0   0.8   2.0   4.2  4.4
1989            170   190   36.0  55.0   4.7   8.0   0.9   2.2   4.2  4.3
1990            179   194   38.0  55.5   5.0   9.0   0.9   2.4   4.1  4.3
(1) Without project
(2) With project.
C. Prices
5.05       The prices of all the main products exported by Uganda are
forecast to fall or remain constant in real terms in the 1980s, and should
be a cause for concern to the country (projected in Annex 11). On the
other hand, Uganda may be the cheapest producer of robusta coffee in the
world, since robusta coffee is indigenous to Uganda. She should be able to
3/ The projection assumes that Uganda retains her 1976 share of the world
coffee market (4.33%), and that total world demand in 1990 would be
4.4 million tons.



- 43 -
retain the competitiveness of her coffee, and perhaps to regain that of
tea, cotton, and tobacco in the international market if the Ugandan
shilling is valued realistically. The Government is committed to the
maintenance of such an exchange rate in the long run although the Ugandan
shilling iE overvalued and farmers pay an average implicit export tax of
70% (Annex t2). While Uganda fetches a premium price for some of its
cotton and should be able to regain the premiums for its mild washed
arabica, its low quality robusta coffee, tea and tobacco fetch prices
ranging from between 20-50% below the world market average.4/ The reasons
for this poor market performance range from poor processing to
inappropriate grading and packaging. The situation is expected to improve
considerably for the following reasons: the factory rehabilitation effort
being undertaken by various donors in the agricultural subsectors; an
improved marketing and incentive system; and improved availability of
packaging materials and transport spares.
5.06      Coffee.  About 20% of world coffee production is consumed in
producing countries. Of the supplies entering international markets,
almost 90% is imported by the United States, Canada and European
countries. The United States absorbs more than one-third of world coffee
imports and Western Europe takes approximately one-half of total imports.
Major importing countries in Europe are West Germany (10% of world
imports), France (8%), and Italy (6%). Consumption in coffee producing
countries is expected to grow by 3.8% between 1980 and 1985, and by 1.5% in
the remaining years up to 1990. World import demand is projected to grow
at an average rate of 2.7% a year up to 4.4 million tons in 1990. The
demand for Uganda's coffee is expected to fit this pattern.
5.07      The world's largest coffee-producer is Brazil (on average 25% of
the world's production), followed by Colombia (12%), Ivory Coast (6%),
Mexico (5%), Guatemala (3.5%), and Indonesia (3.5%). Uganda's share of the
world market is about 4.3%. World coffee production has been expanding at
an average annual rate of 3% from about 4 million tons in 1974 and will
probably reach 7 million tons in 1990.
5.08      Prices are expected to decline to a forecasted low of US$2.62/kg
(1981 constant) by 1985. This decline in prices is expected to slow the
rate of coffee plantings which will result in a strengthening of coffee
markets during the second half of the 1990s.
5.09      Tea.  Developing countries have become dominant in the
consumption of tea (61% in 1980), and this trend is most likely to
continue. With their higher expected population growth, higher expected
income growth and higher income elasticity of demand for tea, it is
projected that their share of total consumption will increase to 63% by
1985 and to 69% by 1995. Because of this larger role of the developing
countries, world tea consumption should grow at a slightly faster rate in
the 1980-95 period (3.2%) than in the 1961-80 period (2.8%). However, in
the period 1980-85, tea consumption is expected to grow at only 2.4% p.a.
because of the slower income growth expected in this period.
4/ Compare the 1982 prices of Uganda's main exports in row (b) of Annex 12
with the 1982 world market prices in Annex 11.



- 44 -
5.10      World tea production is expected to grow at much the same rate as
in past years (3.6% p.a. in the 1980-95 period, compared with 3.7% in the
1970-80 period). Because of their faster growth rate, China, Kenya, Turkey
and the USSR will achieve a larger share of total production and world
exports. Uganda's tea production (1,700 tons in 1981) is less than 0.25%
of the world's total.
5.11      Five countries (India, China, Sri Lanka, USSR and Turkey) produce
70% of the world's tea production and five countries (India, United
Kingdon, USSR, Japan and the United States) consume 70% of total
consumption. Since the 1960s, production has grown fastest in East Africa
(Kenya, Malawi and Tanzania), Turkey and USSR, with rapid expansion in area
planted and increased productivity from new clonal (vegetatively
propagated) varieties leading to these increases. Prior to this, India and
Sri Lanka were by far the most important producers and exporters. The rate
of growth of production has been falling in India and output has actually
fallen in Sri Lanka since 1965. Tea production in China has increased very
rapidly recently and that country is now the second largest producer of tea
and the third large.t exporter.
5.12      The United Kingdom remains the most important importer of tea,
with about one-quarter of its imports being re-exported. However, its
share of international trade has fallen steadily from 43% in 1961 to 23% in
1980. Pakistan, USSR and Iran are the fastest growing importers of tea.
Because it is believed that output will continue to grow faster than
consumption, tea prices in constant dollar terms are expected to continue
to decline over the 1980-85 period to a forecasted low of US$1.71 per kg in
1981 constant dollars by 1985--although at a slower rate than in the recent
past. Because of expected depressed income growth for the next few years,
and the expected low prices for tea in the period to 1985, the current
dollar price decline could be severe--averaging about 3.2% p.a. There
should be some increase in constant dollar terms in the period 1985-90
(averaging 1.5% p.a.) but prices are likely to decline thereafter to 1995
at an average annual rate of 1.2%. These movements would result in the
following constant 1981 dollar price forecasts: US$1.89/kg in 1983;
US$1.71/kg in 1985; US$1.84/kg in 1990; and US$1.74/kg in 1995. Uganda's
tea fetches very low prices (average of 50% of the world market prices) on
the world market.
5.13      Cotton.  Prospects for income and population growth indicate that
the outlook for fiber consumption is still quite favorable. Per capita
demand growth is highest relative to increases in per capita income where
average incomes are low, therefore cotton consumption prospects are best in
the developing countries. Economic and climatic conditions in many
developing countries also favor expanded cotton production, and long term
trends in the geographical relocation of the textile industry are likely to
continue, although slowed by trade agreements. Demand growth for cotton in
the centrally planned economies slowed sharply in the 1970s due to
increasing supplies of man-made fibers and this is likely to continue to
keep their cotton consumption growth modest in the future. Mill
consumption in the industrial countries is projected to continue to decline
at a moderate rate. On a world basis, mill consumption of cotton is
projected to increase at an average of 1.9% per year to 1995. World
production is expected to increase at a rate sufficient to meet projected
demand growth averaging 1.9% per year to 1995.



- 45 -
5.14      Over the longer term, cotton prices will be affected less
negatively than in the recent past by the behavior of man-made fibers'
prices as demand growth assimilates the present world wide excess capacity
in the man-made fiber industry and higher capital and feedstock costs tend
to restrain investment in new production capacity.  The price of Mexican
Middling 1-3/32 inch quality is projected in 1981 constant dollars at
US$2.68/kg in 1985. Uganda's cotton fetches premium prices on the world
market averaging 10%.
5.15      Tobacco.  Uganda is a minor producer and exporter of tobacco
(less than 0.01% of world production). On the basis of recent consumption
patterns and expected world population and income growth rates, consumption
of tobacco is estimated to reach approximately 6.8 million tons in 1990,
and 7.7 million tons in 1995, implying an average annual growth rate of
2.3% per annum in the forecast period.  Assuming no major changes in the
rate of technological progress and government policy, world production is
estimated to reach 6.7 million tons in 1990 and 7.5 million tons in 1995.
Production and consumption will grow at about 3.0% in developing countries,
a slightly higher rate than in the recent past. Projected production and
consumption growth in industrial countries is slow and falling. In
centrally planned economies, the historical rate of growth in production
and consumption of 1.3% is anticipated to continue over the next decade.
5.16      Because of the heterogeneity of the tobacco leaf and consumer
tastes among countries, many exporters (including Uganda) also import some
leaf. However, eight countries--the United States, Turkey, India, Brazil,
Zimbabwe, Greece, Italy and Bulgaria--account for over 50% of exports in
terms of volume and for an even higher proportion in terms of value.
5.17      Constant dollar prices in the long term are expected to remain at
approximately the same level as the last few years with some narrowing in
regional differentials as developing country producers upgrade the quality
of their crop. Uganda's tobacco generally fetch lower prices on the world
markets. Prices projected for tobacco in 1990 and 1995 are in the region
of US$2,000/ton in constant 1981 dollars.
D. Financial Analysis
5.18      Processing:  The background data of ginneries likely to receive
the rehabilitation loans appear in Annex 10, i.e. past production, debt
situation, ginning capacity (nominal and actual), stocks in 1981, etc. The
effects of this Project on UCB's finances have been projected to 1987 and
found to be profitable (Annex 1). By their very nature, projections of a
commercial bank's operations are risky--a risk which may be significantly
increased by the dominant position of UCB in an economy that is shaky. The
projections assume the terms of the Credit outlined in paras. 3.28 and
3.29. Other assumptions behind the projections are summarized in notes
accompanying Annex 1.



- 46 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The main benefits to be derived from the Project would be an
increase in Uganda's principal exports (cotton, tea, tobacco, and coffee),
reduction in livestock mortality, and improved decision making and resource
allocation within the agricultural sector (specifically the exports
subsectors). The Government's information base for the sector planning,
pricing decisions and resource allocation would be improved by (a) the
completion of the seven studies; (b) the strengthening of the Statistics
Division of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry; and (c) the work of
the Agricultural Secretariat and the APC. Because of its nature as part
program credit and part DFC-type operation, no overall rate of return
calculation has been made for the Project.
B. Risks
6.02      The principal risk facing the proposed Project is the potentially
unstable security situation in Uganda. This is expected to improve over
time, especially as the economy recovers and, to the extent that this
Project improves the state of the economy, this risk will be reduced
proportionately. The second risk is the possibility of delays in delivery
of Project items to Uganda, and a delay in the implementation of the
Project. This risk is fully reflected in the projected disbursement
profile. The proposed implementation procedures, organization and
management structure of the Project would minimize this risk, especially
the use of professional engineering surveyors to prepare the subprojects
and the use of rehabilitation contractors organized by UCB (rather than the
sub-borrowers). Procurement and disbursement for the rehabilitation
component would be much faster since this would be the responsibility of
the contractors, supported by UCB's staff.
6.03      For the recurrent imports, the risk of delays in procurement and
disbursement is considerably lower since this Project would benefit from
the experience and technical assistance of the First and Second
Reconstruction Credits and would be assisted by a professional procurement
agent.  The proposed use of a positive list, procurement agent and bulking
is intended to overcome some of the problems experienced in Bank program
loans to Uganda so far.  The same applies to the technical assistance
component of the Project which would benefit from the experience of the
ongoing IDA Technical Assistance Project.
6.04      Thirdly, UCB would be taking major financial risks in its
on-lending to numerous rural based hulleries, barns, and ginneries (most
ginneries are in financial trouble) and to the tea parastatals which are
technically bankrupt and have very weak managements. The use of
engineering surveyors and supervisors, and the proposed bidding process for
the rehabilitation component of the Project are also intended to speed up
disbursements. While strict adherence to the agreed appraisal, selection
criteria and implementation procedures should reduce the risks
significantly, yet the nature of the political and economic (domestic and
international) environment in which these sub-borrowers will operate is
such that even very carefully selected subprojects could run into severe



- 47 -
financial difficulties. It is for this reason that substantial lending
spreads are recommended for UCB on the IDA Credit, which should cover most
of UCB's risks. Finally, the half-yearly supervisions and monitoring that
UCB will receive within the context of this Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project and the Industrial Rehabilitation Credit, the close supervision
that the policy and institutional aspects of the Credit that will be made
within the context of the Second Reconstruction Credit (especially the
operations of the Secretariat and the APC), and the Government's expressed
strong political commitment to the Project would significantly reduce the
risks inherent in it.
VII. CONDITIONS OF THE CREDIT
Negotiations
1.        Government established the Agricultural Policy Committee (para.
3.02 and Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and the
Agricultural Secretariat (para. 3.02 and Section 3.02(b) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
2.        Government allowed cotton ginneries the option to sell lint to
the Lint Marketing Board (LMB) at the guaranteed minimum price or to sell
directly to domestic textile mills (para. 3.05).
3.        Government allowed cotton ginneries the option to sell
cottonseeds to LMB, oil and soap factories or to export markets (para.
3.05).
4.        Government agreed that LMB should divest itself of oil and soap
factory business as soon as possible (para. 3.06).
Effectiveness
1.        UCB would have recruited a firm of engineering surveyors and a
Project Manager (para. 3.22 and Section 6.01(b) and (c) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
2.        The Bank of Uganda would have recruited a Director for the
Agricultural Secretariat, (para. 3.22 and Section 6.01(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
3.        UCB would have recruited a procurement agent/officer to assist it
with procurement and disbursement aspects of the Project (para. 3.38 and
Section 6.01(d) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Other
1.        UCB agreed to hire a valuer to revalue its fixed assets not later
than December 31, 1983 (para. 2.03 and Section 3.04(i) of the Project
Agreement).



- 48 -
2.        UCB agreed to maintain a debt to equity ratio of less than 20:1
until the Credit is closed, except by agreement with IDA (para. 2.03 and
Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement).
3.        UCB agreed to introduce a loan follow-up system satisfactory to
IDA which would involve monthly supervision of subprojects in the
disbursement stage and quarterly visits (para. 2.10 and Section 2.05 of the
Project Agreement).
4.        UCB agreed to maintain a loans-to-deposit ratio below 82.5% until
the Credit is closed (para. 2.15 and Section 2.01(a) of the Project
Agreement).
5.        Government agreed to allow UCB to maintain a spread of at least
7.5% on the rehabilitation loans it finances under this Credit (para. 2.18
and Section 4.04) of the Development Credit Agreement).
6.        Government agreed to reschedule the local currency debts of
Uganda Tea Growers' Corporation (UTGC) and provide it with a minimum
three-year debt moratorium as a condition of disbursement for the tea
component of the Project (para. 3.11 and Schedule 1.4(b) to the Development
Credit Agreement).
7.        UCB agreed to select final beneficiaries on the basis of thorough
preparation by engineering consultants to be recruited under this project
and documented appraisal of each subproject covering technical, managerial,
financial and economic aspects as outlined in Annex 3 (para. 3.12 and
Section 2.01(b)(i) and Schedule A to the Project Agreement).
8.       UCB agreed that any subprojects whose costs are expected to exceed
US$1.5 million would require prior approval from IDA before they are
financed from this Credit (para. 3.14 and Section 2.02(i) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
9.        Government agreed to return the whosesale and retail marketing of
veterinary drugs and chemicals to commercial traders and cooperative
societies and phase out the subsidies on acaricides by December 31, 1984
(para. 3.17 and Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
10.       The detailed positive list of eligible imports and broad
subsectoral allocations (Annex 4) was agreed to and annexed to the Credit
Agreement. Amendments to the list would require prior IDA approval (para.
3.18 and Annex to Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement).
11.       UCB would meet the foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
necessary to prepare subprojects (mainly to cover the partial costs of
engineering surveyors) soon after negotiations but prior to Credit
effectiveness not exceeding US$300,000 from its own resources. These costs
would be retroactively financed by IDA upon effectiveness (para. 3.27 and
Schedule 1.4(a) to the Development Credit Agreement).
12.       Government agreed to on-lend to UCB US$29.1 million from IDA
funds equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost of the factory
rehabilitation component of the Project and the requisite technical
assistance, at 6.5% per annum for 15 years including 5 years grace.



- 49 -
The funds would be amortized in accordance with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules of the subloans UCB makes from this amount and
disbursements against technical assistance (para. 3.28-29 and Section
3.01(c) and (d) of the Development Credit Agreement).
13.       UCB agreed to on-lend the IDA funds to sub-borrowers at 14%, plus
1% for a maximum period of 10 years and a maximum grace period of 4 years
(para. 3.28 and Section 2.01(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement).
14.       The Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Cooperatives and
Marketing, the Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries and the Bank of
Uganda agreed to submit copies of their annual project accounts to IDA not
later than nine months after the end of their financial years (para. 3.44
and Section 4.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
15.       UCB agreed to submit copies of its audited accounts to IDA within
nine months of the end of its fiscal year (para. 3.44 and Section 4.01(b)
of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.02(b) of the Project
Agreement).
16.       Beginning March 31, 1984, UCB would submit to IDA yearly reports
of its operations, resources, portfolio, accounts and progress in the
implementation of the recurrent and rehabilitation components to be
financed under the proposed Credit (para. 3.44 and Section 2.08(b) of the
Project Agreement).
17.       The Agricultural Secretariat would consult with IDA on prices of
export crops to producers and processors and the APC would formally review
these prices yearly based on the recommendations of the Agricultural
Secretariat (p4ra. 4.03 and Sections 4.03(a) and (b) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
18.       Detailed Government/IDA review would be held within six months of
the completion of interim and final reports of subsectoral studies being
undertaken as part of this Project (para. 4.05 and Section 3.05 (d) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
19.       Government agreed to submit a comprehensive Project-Related
Training Program to IDA not later than December 31, 1983 (para. 4.06 and
Section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement).
20.       UCB agreed to assign exclusively to the Project for its duration:
(i) three debt recovery officers; (ii) two senior credit analysts; and
(iii) two agricultural economists, each with at least three years of
relevant experience (para. 4.07 and Section 2.01(b)(iii) of the Project
Agreement).
21.       Upon Credit effectiveness, IDA would advance the Government
US$1.5 million equivalent to be put in a Special Account from which
payments would be made according to agreed disbursement categories and
percentages and reimbursements obtained from IDA directly to the Government
(Procedure 1) (para. 3.40 and Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement).



- 50 -
ANNEX 1(a)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Tables
Structure of Interest Rates
(Per cent per year)
1981                  1982
June        November        December
Bank of Uganda
Ways and means                                 2.5             5.0            2.0
Rediscount rate                                7.0            9.0            10.0
Bank rates to commercial banks                 8.0           10.0            11.0
Treasury bills
35 days                                        4.71           8.0             9.0
63 days                                        4.95            8.5            9.5
91 days                                        5.08           9.0            10.0
Government stocks
5 years                                       8.5           11.0            12.0
10 years                                       9.5           11.5            12.5
15 years                                      10.5           12.0            13.0
Commercial banks 1/
Deposit rates:
Demand deposits                               -          Optional       Optional
Saving deposits                              5.0            8.0             9.0
Time deposits:
3 to  6 months
6 to  9 months
9 to 12 months
1 to  2 years                                6.0           12.0 2/        13.0
2 to  3 years                                7.0        Negotiable      Negotiable
3 to  5 years                                8.0        Negotiable      Negotiable
5 years and over                          Negotiable   Negotiable       Negotiable
Lending rates 3/
Agriculture                                    8.0           13.0            14.0
Export and Manufacturing                      12.0           14.0            15.0
Commerce                                      12.0           15.0           20.0
Unsecured                                     12.0           17.0            20.0
1/ Minimum interest rates.
2/ One-year deposit.
3/ Maximum lending rates.
Source: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities.
December 1982



AGRICULTITRAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
11ganda Com-ercIal Book
Profit and Loss Accounts 1976 -1987
(Io USh lIll.o.s)
1976           1977            1978            1979              1990             1981           1982            1983            198b            1985           1986           1987
(Estt=ato)
1.  INCOME
a.  Interest & Discount                            140.46          179.91          245.68           265.43          191.56           489.89        1,397.01        1,717.96        2,002.72        1,821.62      2,088.75       2,202.29
6.  Ether Inco=e                                    30.62           46.76           42.43            33.44            90.31          218.63          218.63          218.63           19.63          218.63         218.63         218.63
Total Iscore                                   171.08          226.67         288.11           298.87           471.87           708.52        1,615.64        1,936.59       2,221.35        2,040.25       2,307.38       2,420.91
2.  EXPENDITURE
a.  Internet on Depostts  BBorroaig                 62.98           78.04          105.83           145.21           224.43           256.40         595.75          773.13          793.S9          809.25         922.85         980.72
b.  SeIs-i-s & Alltasoces                   36.53           42.87           55.41           78.81           90.89            136.94                  184.23          198.09          211.95          225.81         239.67         253.53
c.  Othor Ad=intstrative Espenses           16.27  52.80  25.86  68.73  40.05  95.46  51.00  129.81  49.19   42.19 120.77  257.61                    217.08          2728.65         240.22          251.79         263.36         274.93
d.  Othor Expenditsre                               44.32           43.72           38.61            75.92            42.47          130.00          128.88          141.88          158.88          178.88         188.88         208.88
Total ERpendt-re                               160.10          190.49         24Z.90           350.94           406.97           644.11        1,115.94        1,343.75       1,04.64         1,465.73       1,614.76       1,718.06
3.  NET INCOME (LOSS) FOR THE YEAR
BEFORE TAX                                    10.98           36.18          45.21           (52.07)           64.07            64.18          499.07          992.84         916.71           574.52        692.62         702.85
4.  LESS CORPORATION TAX                             5.OO                                                                                            224.87          296.42          408.35          287.26         346.31         351.43
5.  PROFIT (LOSS) AFTER TAX                          5.98           36.18          45.21           (52.07)            64.07           64.18          274.84          246.42          409.35          287.26         346.31         351.43
UNAPPROPRIATED PROFITS
BEFORE TAX                                     0.60           0.7l 7.03                        9.03           (51.06)            1.03           27.48    _      32.32           33.87           32.01         34.07          32.01
TOTAL                                            6.58           36.29          45.51           (51.57)            13.03           65.48          302.32          328.74          442.23          319.27         390.38         383.44
6.  APPROPRIATIONS
a.  Capitol Reserve                                   1             15               7                                 -                -               -              -               -               -              -              -
b.  GeC.ral Reaerve                                  2.5             6.5            10                -                3               12               5             25              75              80             70             90
I. Ioser Bererva                                      1.5           14.5            28                -                7.5             26            250             260             325.1           204.57         278.37         260
d.  Proposod DIivdeod                                 1.4                    -               -                         1.5              -              15               9.97           -               -              -              0.25
Total Appropriatiosa                             6.4            36             45                 -              12               38             270             294.87          410,13          284.57         348.37         350.25
Onappropriated ProfIts                           0.18            0.28            0.51          (51.6)              1.3            27.48           32.32           33.87           32.1            34.7           32.01          33.19



- 52 -
ANNKEX 1(c)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Uganda Coetercial Bank
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets 1976-87
(in SOb oilSlion)
1976       1977       1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985      1986       1987
Current Assets
Cash an Sand N Balaces with
Other Banks                         550.49      652.34    594.04  1,927.83  2,463.31  4,857.54  1,331.25  1,437.75  1,552.08  1,677.00  1,744.01  1,813.08
Treasary Bills                         287.89     222.43      57.38    116.31      69.82     89.87  2,374.02  1,289.08    412.32  2,490.4   3,981.84  4,319.88
Investments at Cost                   221.70      436.85    426.85    571.85  1,471.85  1,391.85    593.55    322.45    103.08    622.06    995.00  1,079.72
Advances and Other Accaunts           869.03   1,306.38  1,882.63  1,961.60  2,215.60  5,609.57  9,013.05 11,057.05 12,830.08  9,184.00 13,421.06 14,290.01
Items in Transit                      101.14       79.31    188.71       -          -       890.97      69.88    550.87  1,328.01  3,245.07    610.47    439.19
Shnrtdated Uganda G-vernment
Stacks                                -          29.85       -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -         -          -
TOTAL LIQUID AND OTHER
CURRENT ASSETS                    2,030.24   2,727.14  3,149.62  4,577.59  6,220.95 12,839.80 13,312.00 14,658.37 16,227.10 18,619.07 20,753.01 21,944.69
Fined Assets
Bask Premises                          80.62       92.78    105.28    108.74       91.58     80.89    173.32  2,325.15  2,343.45  2,361.75  2,384.93  2,403.23
Residential Premises                    12.57      23.42      37.96     46.94      16.09      15.63     77.67  1,069.28  1,075.68  1,084.08  1,094.72  1,100.12
Furniture, Equipment,
Mnt-r Vehicles                        12.74      26.55      50.43     47.89      62.44     71.26      29.73    419.25    422.59    425.89    430.07    433.37
Capital WSaks in Progress                                                          62.89     68.28      68.28      78.28     88.28      98.28    100.28    110.28
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                 105.93     142.75    193.68    203.56    222.99    236.05    349.00  3,892.00  3,930.00  3,970.00  4,010.00  4,050.00
Other Assets
Custonern Liabilities fur
Acveptances, Guaranteas
and Indeenities                      44.06      271.29    194.19    111.34    749.44    681.45    342.00    342.00    342.00    342.00    342.00    342.00
TOTAL ASSETS                        2,180.24   3,141.18  3,537.48  4,892.50  7,193.38 13,757.30 14,003.00 18,892.37 20,499.01 23,131.07 25,105.01 26,336.69
Lass Liabilities
Current Depasit and Other
Accsts                            2,055.53   2,763.09  3,220.95  4,684.47  6,234.35 12,925.43 13,312.05 14,377.50 15,528.00 16,770.00 17,441.00 18,138.09
Items In Transit                                                        23.85      71.81                69.38
Dividend (Proposed)                                                                                     15        20         20         20        20         10
Acceptances, Guarantees and
Indemnities for Aceounts
nf Cuntumere                         44.06      271.29    194.19    111.34    749.44    681.45    342          342        342       342        342       342
TOTAL LIABILITIES                   2,099.59   3,034.38  3,415.14  4,819.66  7,055.60 13,606.88 13,669.05 14,739.50 15,890.00 17,132.00 17,803.00 18,490.05
'ET WORTH                              80.65      106.80    122.34      72.84    137.78    150.42    264.14  4,152.87  4,609.1   5,799.07  7,302.07  7,846.19
Represented By:
Share Capital                          30          30         30        30         30        30        130       500        500       500        500        500
Capital Reserve                         8          23         30        30         30         -          -         -          -         -          -          -
General Reserve                         23.5       30         40        40         43        55         60        85        160        240       310       400
Profit 6 Lass Acc-ust                     .24       0.3        0.47     51.60       1.32     27.51      32.32      33.87     32.01      34.07     32.01      33.19
Revaluation Reserve                     -           -          -         -          -         -          -     3,503      3,503     3,503      3,503     3,503
Tr-nisng Fud                              .46        .46        .5        .5         .5         .5       -         -          -         -          -         -
Uganda Government Funds                 18.44      23.03      21.37     23.93      32.95     37.91      41.82       -         -          -         -          -
IDA Induntrial Rehabilitati-n
Credit                                -           -         -          -          -         -          -        31        144       322        457       500
IDA Agricultural Credit                 -           -          -         -          -         -          -         -        270     1,200      2,500      2,910
TOTAL                                   80.64     106.79    122.34      72.83    137.77    150.92    264.14  4,152.87  4,609.10  5,799.07  7,302.07  7,846.19



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Uganda Commercial Bank
Actual and Projected Ratios - 1976-1987
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982        1983        1984         1985        1986         1987
_                               -       ~~~~~~~ ~                                       ~~~(Est.)--
A. INCOME AND EXPENSES (X)
Net Income/Total Income                     6.4       16.0       15.7        -         13.7       10.0       30.9        30.6         36.7        28.2        30.0         29.2
Net Income/Equity                          17.6       43.1       45.0        -         61.9       41.3      224.8        14.9         21.1        18.8        16.9         16.38
Net Income/Working Resources 1/             0.5        1.3        1.4        -          1.0        0.5        0.3         3.3          4.2         3.3         2.9          2.8
Management Expenses Ratio 2/               48.8       46.2       52.4       84.0       56.6       57.0       38.9        36.1         30.2        32.7        35.1         36.2
B.  SPREAD (%)
Average Interest Earned                    12.9       10.1       10.6       10.5       10.6       14.5       15.5        15.5         15.5        15.5        15.5         16.5
Average Interest Paid                       3.1        2.8        3.3        3.1        3.0        9.0       11.0        11.0         11.0        11.0        11.0         11.0
SPREAD                                      9.8        7.3        7.3        7.4        7.6        5.5        4.5         4.5          4.5         4.5        -4.           4.5
C.  FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Advances/Deposit Ratio                      0.4/1      0.6/1      0.4/1      0.4/1      0.4/1      0.4/1      0.7/1       0.8/1        0.9/1       0.8/1       0.8/1        0.8/1
Total Debt/Equity                           34/1       30/1       34/1       99/1       68/1      120/1       61/1         3.6/1         4/1       4.7/1       4.8/1        4.9/1
Total Assets/Equity                         34/1       34/1       33/1       97/1       61/1      122/1       63/1         3.6/1       5.1/1       5.8/1        5.9/1         6/1
Equity/Total Deposits (x)                   3.0        3.0        3.1        1.0        1.7        1.0        1.7         28.7        27.0        25.5         25.5        24.5
1/ Working Resources = capital + reserves + deposits + borrowings
2/  Management Expense Ratio = salaries + overheads - income after interest payments



_ 54 -
ANNEX 1(e)
Page 1 of 5
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Notes & Assumptions for Projections of UCB Financial Statements
1.        Interest and Discount will be at an average of 15.5% advances
effective from 1982.
2.        Deposits:
(a) Projected GDP (nominal prices):
Real GDP      Assumed Inflation
Year       GDP (USh Million)    Growth %              Rate %
1982             895,301           4.8                50.0
1983           1,134,393           5.6                20.0
1984           1,318,379           5.7                10.0
1985           1,491,349           5.7                 7.0
1986           1,637,610           3.6                 6.0
1987           1,798,275           3.6                 6.0
(b) The Bank Deposits/GDP ratio (1970-1981) averaged 6%.
(c) UCB currently (1982) commands an average of 25% of total
deposits. However, as the economy and security situation
improves, it is reasonable to assume that the share of other
banks in total deposits would increase, and UCB's share would
decrease progressively. UCB's deposits would increase on an
average of 5.2% p.a. during the projected period.
% Share       UCB Deposits
Year     Total Bank Deposits         of UCB        USh Million
1982              53,718.06            25            13,313
1983              68,063.58            21            14,378
1984              79,102.74            20            15,528
1985              89,480.94            19            16,770
1986              98,256.06            18            17,440
1987             107,896.05            17            18,139
3.      "Other Income" has been estimated to remain constant at the 1981
figure of USh 218.63 million.
4.        Interest payable on Deposit & Borrowing will be 11% of current
Deposit and other accounts, after deducting 50% of the total in respect of
Demand Deposits. No interest has been charged separately on Borrowed Funds
as a more than usual percentage has been allowed as interest bearing
balances.



- 55 -                      ANNEX I(e)
Page 2 of 5
Interest-bearing Deposits               Interest-bearing Deposits
(Year)                             (USh million)
1982                                   732.16
1983                                   790.68
1984                                   854.04
1985                                   922.35
1986                                   959.25
1987                                   997.62
5.        Salaries and allowances will increase at an average rate of
USh 13.86 million per annum. The substantial increase recorded in 1982 is
a result of introduction of cost of living allowance and general increases
in allowances.
6.        Apart from a few costs, the items under other expenditures are
considered more or less fixed and are projected to increase by an average
of USh 50 million each year.
7.        The Tax Holiday for the Bank is now over and from 1983 onwards,
profits tax is expected to be levied at 50% effective from January 1,
1983. For 1982, the tax applicable is 45%.
8.        Assets will be professionally revalued in the course of 1983.
Nevertheless, for the purposes of these projections, a factor of 10 has
been used in valuing the Bank's fixed assets. This is considerably less
than the impact of the two major currency devaluations since 1980.
9.        Share capital will increase to USh 500 million in 1983.
Government has already agreed to increase the Authorized Capital to
USh 1,500 million.
10.       An IDA Line of Credit of US$5 million has been converted at a
current (1982) average official exchange rate of USh 100 = US$1 at
Window 1.
11.       Funds held in respect of Uganda Government Funds are considered
too inadequate for any effective on-lending and it is proposed to pay these
back to Government in 1983. The Bank will nevertheless continue to
administer recovery of loans outstanding.
12.       Acceptances, Guarantees, and Indemnities have been averaged at
USh 342 million per month.
13.       IDA Agricultural Credit of US$29.1 million has also been
converted at USh 100 = US$1.
14.       Advances are generally expected to be 60% of total deposits.



- 56 -                       ANNEX 1(e)
Page 3 of 5
(i) However in 1982 advances are expected to amount to USh 9,013.5
million after taking into account IDA loans (Reconstruction I &
II and the Industrial Rehabilitation Credit) marked on the
portfolio amounting to USh 1026 million and thereafter to
increase as follows:
1982      1983       1984       1985       1986      1987
Reconstruction I
(IDA)             7,987.5   8,628.5   9,316.8  10,062.0  10,464.6 10,883.1
Reconstruction II
(IDA)             1,026.0   2,400.0   3,100.0
IDA Line of Credit               31        144        322        457       500
IDA Agricultural
Line of Credit*                 -        270      1,200      2,500    2,910
Total Committed   9,013.5  11,057.5  12,830.8  11,584.0  13,421.6 14,293.1
Disbursed and
Oustanding       1,397.09  1,755.76  2,132.92  2,065.22  2,167.15 2,238.68
*Loans marked for importation of recurrent items are expected to be repaid
within one year of grant thereof and repayments will be paid back to Bank
of Uganda immediately. These are therefore not expected to affect the
portfolio, hence their exclusion.
(ii) The IDA Credit of US$5 million is also expected to additionally
increase Advances by cumulative subloan balances as above. The
credit account has been converted at the Exchange Rate of USh 100
= US$1.
(iii) The Agricultural Credit of US$29.1 million for factory
rehabilitation is expected to be utilized in full within 5 years
and the cumulative balances are expected to increase aggregate
loans as above. (Rate US$1 = USh 100) (See No. 13).
N.B. Drawings in respect of Recurrent Imports are expected to be
repaid within one year and paid back to Bank of Uganda the same
year. They are not therefore considered to affect advances
considerably.
15.       Cash-on-hand & Balances with other Banks will be 10% of total
deposits. This conforms with statutory requirement prescribed by the
Central Bank.
16.       Historically, only about 40% of total deposits have attracted
interest (i.e., Time Deposits). The rest of the 60% is in respect of



- 57 -
ANNEX 1(e)
Page 4 of 5
demand deposits which do not attract interest. However in view of the
desire to mobilize more deposits in order to back up the expected increased
lending, interest bearing deposits are expected to increase to 50% of total
deposits in 1983 onwards. Interest payable is expected to average 11% per
annum.
17.       Fixed Assets are expected to increase by USh40 million every
year. However it is proposed to revalue the bank's Assets in 1983. Heavy
capital investment in 1982 is a consequence of the bank's plan to
rehabilitate damaged bank premises. Total Fixed Assets would be allocated
as follows: bank premises, 61%; residential premises, 28%; and furniture,
11% after deducting capital works in progress. There are no immediate
plans to complete capital works in progress.
18.       Until communication systems and reconciliation procedures have
drastically changed, no regular trend of movement in Items in Transit will
been determined.
19.       No specific policy has been adopted by the bank in its
investments. However it is assumed here that the residue from total
deposits after deducting total advances and cash-in-hand, is invested in
Treasury Bills and Other Investments in the proportion 80% and 20%
respectively.
20.       Other Administrative Expenses are expected to increase by an
average of USh 11.57 million per annum.
21.       Other Expenditures are expected to increase by USh 15 million
every year from 1983.
22.  (a)  Except for the IDA Industrial Line of Credit for which the entire
loan of USh 500 million has not been disbursed, all lendings in
respect of all other existing loan categories have been fully
disbursed.
(b) Based on the ruling interest rates the average interest on
outstanding as well as on the projected outstanding loans is
15.5%.
(c) Apart from the increase in Paid-up Capital from Government from
USh 130 million to USh 500 million, no other cash subscriptions
or subscriptions in the form of notes receivable from Government
are expected. Liquidations or Acquisitions are not applicable to
the bank in its present structure.
(d) Dividends are expected to be paid to Government and on the basis
of past experience, the bank may determine how much to pass over
to the Government from the profits made after tax.



- 58 -
AINEX 1(e)
Page 5 of 5
(e)  It is expected that provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts (which
are kept strictly on cumulative basis) will average about USh 30
million per year and this together with write-offs have been
taken into account within Other Expenditures in the Profit and
Loss account projections.
23.       Interest rates presently applicable are:
Savings Bank Accounts                          9%    p.a.
Fixed Deposit Receipts
(for one year and over - negotiable)        13%    p.a.
Bank Discount Rate                            10%    p.a.
Bank Rate                                     11%    p.a.
Treasury Bill Rate - 35 days                    9%   p.a.
63 days                   9.5% p.a.
91 days                  10%   p.a.
Government Stocks -  5 years                    12%   p.a.
10 years                  12.5% p.a.
15 years                  13%   p.a.
Source: UCB, Credit Division



- 59 -
ANNEX 2(a)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Terms of Reference for the Agricultural Policy Committee.
Location                              Bank of Uganda, Kampala.
Composition                           Chairman, Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Planning;
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture; Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Animal Industry and
Fisheries; Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing;
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Finance; Permanent Secretary Ministry
of Commerce; Governor, Bank of Uganda;
Managing Director, UCB. The Committee
Secretary will be the Director of the
Agricultural Secretariat.
Responsibilities                      Annual review of budgets (development
and recurrent) of all Government bodies
within the agricultural sector. Annual
and quarterly allocation of foreign
exchange within the agricultural
sector. Quarterly review and
allocation of technical assistance
within the agricultural sector.
Quarterly review of prices to be paid
to farmers for export crops, and
processing margins allowed to marketing
organizations. Monthly review of
performance in export and domestic
marketing of agricultural commodities.
Aid coordination in the Agricultural
Sector. As Steering Committee of the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project,
the Agricultural Policy Committee will
have the overall responsibility for the
Project.



- 60 -
ANNEX 2(b)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Agricultural Secretariat.
Location          :                   Bank of Uganda, Kampala.
Composition                           (i)  Internationally recruited staff:
1 Economist who will be
Director of the Secretariat
1 Agricultural Economist
(Commodities)
1 Financial Analyst (Budgets)
1 Agriculturalist
1 Economic Statistician
(ii) Locally recruited staff:
Deputy Director (Economist)
2 Financial Analysts
I Agriculturist.
I Evaluation Officer
I Economic Statistician
1 Agricultural Economist
Responsibilities :                    The main task of the Secretariat will
be to provide the economic and
analytical basis for policy-making in
the areas of aid coordination to the
agricultural sector, pricing,
marketing, and resource allocation
relating to agriculture in support of
the APC. It will work closely with and
strengthen institutions responsible for
data, gathering and analysis in the
operating ministries and the Bank of
Uganda.  The Secretariat will undertake
ad hoc tasks as may be assigned to it
by the APC using its staff or
consultants.
Reporting         :                   It will operate in all budget and
administrative aspects as a special
department within the Bank of Uganda
under the direct supervision of the
Governor of the Bank of Uganda.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Criteria for Rehabilitation Project Appraisal
1.        The economic benefits of the proposed rehabilitation.  Although
the pre-selection process ane the engineering surveyor's work would
eliminate projects without obvious economic merit, even those on the list
would require thorough economic and financial analysis. To ensure that
funds are not spent on rebuilding a project which would potentially not be
efficient in the long term in Uganda, the economic and financial rate of
return concepts will be used in the selection process. UCB will pay
particular regard to the availability of adequate labor, cotton, coffee or
other raw material as the case may be in a particular area served by a
factory and their competitiveness relative to that of other crops grown in
the same area.
2.        The appropriateness of the engineering and the technical design
of the proposed rehabilitation and the cost estimates. As much as possible
UCB will seek to fully rehabilitate fewer enterprises rather than to try
and repair many of these halfway.
3.        The financial situation of the project, and the cooperative union
if it is owned by a cooperative union, and its financial restructuring
needs, either in the form of injection of new equity and/or repayment,
rescheduling or cancellation of debts; and the financial viability of the
enterprise after rehabilitation. It is particularly important that
borrowers be given a realistic chance to repay the loans since their
financial viability has over 10 years been undermined by the pricing policy
of the Government which have denied them reasonable (or indeed until June
1981, positive) trading margins.
4.        The quality and competence of the management.  This is especially
relevant for the ginneries which are owned by cooperative unions which are
subject to much political interference. In cases where existing managers
have no demonstrable background and experience in the business,
installation of competent management would be a condition for lending.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
COFFEE /a  SUBSECTOR  /b
Base Costs
Guantity                                                          (U Shs Million)                  Phb.                         Dot.
---------------------------------             ------------------------------------------Cont, For.   Gross   Duts Ta:
Unit    83/84      84/85      85/86   86/87 87!88 88/89   Total    Unit Co-t  83/84 84/85  85/86  86/87 87/88 88/89 Total   Rate  Ebch, Tao Rate Rate Rate
A. COFFEE ANNUAL IHPORTS
I. CHEHICALS
FENITRGTHION 50 EC 591.1 /c              UNIT    5,355,4  35,470.5  28,724.2         -      -     -      69,550       1,265   6.8   44,9   36.3        -      -      -    88.0      0  0.87          0    0    0
DIELDRIN 591,1                            UNIT      092.6   5,911.9   4,787.5        -      -      -     11.592        1.150   1.0    6.8    5.5        -     -      -    13,3      0  0,87          0    0    9
BENTATE 591.2                            TONS          1.8       11.8        9,6     -      -     -        23.2  3,220,000   5.8   38.1   30,9         -      -      -    74.7      0  0.87          0    0    U
COPPER OXYCHLORIDE 591.2                 TONS         17.8     118.2       95.7      -      -     -       231.8    425,500   7.6   50.3   40.7          -     -      -    98.6      0  0,87          0    0    0
Sub-Total CHEMICALS                                                                                                              21.1  140,1  113,4        -     -      -   274.6
2. SEMI-CAPITAL REGUIREMENTS FOR COFFEE
CP 15 SPRAY PUMPS I SPARES 721,9         UNIT          770     5,100      4,130      -      -     -      10.000   13,322.4  10.3   67.9   55.0          -     -      -   133.2      0  0U69       0.21  0.3    0
FORKS 695.1                              UNIT      23,100   153,000   123,900        -      -      -    300,000          870  20.1  133.1  107.8        -     -      -   261.0      0  0.69       0.21  0.3     0
COFFEE TRAY WIRE 693.5                   ROLLS          77        510        413     -      -     -       1,000      17,250   1.3    8.8    7,1         -     -      -    17.3      U  0.87          0    0    0
PRUNNING SAUS 695.31                     UNIT       7,700    50,008    41,300        -      -      -    100,000          870   6.7   44.4   35.9        -     -      -    87.0      0  0.69       0.21  0.3    0
COFFEE PULPERS 721.9                     UNIT         38.5        255     206.5      -      -     -         500      69U000   2.7   17.6   14.2         -     -      -    34.5      0  0.87          0    0    0
Sub-Total SEMI-CAPITAL REGUIREMENTS FOR COFFEE                                                                                   41.0  271.8  220.1        -     -      -   533,0
3. MISCELLANEOUS COFFEE EOUIPHENT
AND SPARES
MISCELLANEOUS TRANSPORT 785.2
786.81,625,4,625,9 /d                 UNIT         0.l        0.5        0.4      -      -     -           172,500,000   5.6   37.0   29.9          -      -     -    72.5       0  0.69      0.21  0.3    0
SPARE CHAINS/PULLEYS FOR
CURRENT NOBEL
HANDPULPERS 721.9                     UNIT          77        510        413      -      -     -       1,000      32625   0.3    1.8    1.5         -      -     -      3.6      0  0,69      0.21  0.3    0
HANDPICKING UNITS 721.9                  UNIT          0.3          2        1.7     -                         4  2,214,000   0.7    4.5    3.7         -     -      -      8.9     0  0.87          U    U    0
LIOUORING EOUIPMENT
FOR BCU 665,2                          SUm         0.1        0.5        0.4      -      -     -           I  2,300U000   0.2    1.2    0.9         -      -     -      2.3      0  0,87          0    0    0
MILLING LINE FOR CEN  721.9               SUN         0.0         0.5       0.4      -      -     -            1 16,445,000   1.3    8.4    6.8         -     -      -    16.4      0  0.87          0    0    0
LIGUORING EOUIPNENT
FOR CHB 665.2                          SUm         0.1        0.5        0.4      -      -     -            1  4,600,000   0.4    2.3    1.9        -      -      -     4.6      0  0.U7          0    0    0
COPPER SHEATHING FOR EXISTING
DONPULPERS 682.22                     UNIT       577.5      3-825   3,097.5       -     -      -       7.500       4,350   2.5   16.6   13.5        -      -      -    32.6      0  0,69      0.21  0.3    0
Sub-Total MISCELLANEOUS COFFEE EOUIPMENT
AND SPARES                                                                                                                    10.9   71.9   58.2        -     -      -   141.0
4. GUNNY BAGS 654.5                          UNIT  101,316.6   671,058 543,425.4        -      -      -  1.315,800          261  26.4  175.1  141.8        -     -      -   343.4      0  0.69       0.21  0.3    0
Sub-Total COFFEE ANNUAL IMPORTS                                                                                                     99.5  65U.9  533.6        -      -     - 1,292.0
gton
_ X
/a  EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30, BEGINNING WITH JULY 1, 1983
/b  EXCHANGE RATE OF USN1.U0 = U Sbs 100
tc  TAE NUNBERS AFTER EACH RECURRENT IMPORT ITEH LISTED REPRESENT THE UN STANDARD INTERNATIONAL TRADE CLASSIFICATION CODE 1975 ED.
/d SUCH AS WHEELBARROWS AND BICYCLES BUT NOT INCLUDING PASSENGER VEHICLES
Jasjars 27, 1983



AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATIOTN PORJECT
TOBACCO /a  OUBSECTOR  lt
Base Costs
Qoantit4                                                        /U  hs Nolloos'                   Phs.                          Doc
--- --- --- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --- --- ---        --- - - -- -  - - --ss,-- - - -- -         - -- -C   t    For.   tross    Dots    Tax
Unit   03/04   84/05   85/06  86/0? 07/00 88/09  Total    Unit Cost  03/04 84/85  05/00  00/07 87/00 80/89 Totall  Rate  E,xt. Ts: Rate Rate Tate
A. TOBACCO ANNUAL IMPORTS /
1. SPARES FUR NTC FACTORY                       sum         0,1      0.5      0.4      -             -          I34.500,0U0   2,7   /7.6   14.2            -                  4.5       U  0087          U    U    U
2. TRANSOPUT SPARES FOR HiT
FACTORIES 705,2,700,01
625,4,625.9 Id                               tON         UGl      US       3.4      -                          31- 1 00,U 0UU  2 ,4   19.0   12.0      -                  I,0      U  0.65       0,260 U4    U
3, OEMI-COPOTA[ REQUIREMENTS FOR TOBACCO
MOEt 695.1                                   UNIT G0,U24.666.300.953.760.5          -             - 130,090            400   4.6   30.5   24,7          -            -     90,0      0  0,07          0    0    0
PANGAS 0095.1                                UNIT  1I4.040,919,00.   0.042,3        -      -      -    21.410          345   0.0    0,0       3.1       -      -     -     7.4       0  0,07          0    U    U
AXES 005.1                                   UNIT  1,040.610,019.1 0.042,3          -      -      -    21,410          645   1.1    7.0       5.7       -     -      - 13.0          U  3.93          0    0    U
STITCHING MEEDLES 699.31                     UNIT    205,3 1,359.) 1,101,1          -      -      -      2,000           73   0.0    0.1       8.       -      -           0.2       0  0.60      0.21  0.3    U
CP3 PUMPS AND SPARES 721.0                   ONIT       10.2    07.0    S4.0-9                             133      25,300   0.3      1.7    1.4        -     -      -     3.4       0  0.07          0      
PLANTECTOR SPRATERS 721,9                    UNIT       39,0   204.2   213.9        -             -        31       17.250   0.?    4.6        3.?      -                    .9      0  US?7          0    0 
BALING0PRESSES 721,23                        UNIY        4.2   20.1       12 2.7             --             55      50,6000   0.2     1.4      1.0 1                       2.0       T  3.07          T       
BOO SAW0 WITH BLADES 005.31                  OMIT        '7       910      013      -      -      -      1,000         090   0.1    0.4    0.3                             0.7       0  0.07          0,   0    U
PLATFORM SCALES 721.9                        UNIT        4,4    29.1    23,5        -      -      -         57    217.50T    1.U      0.3    5.0        -1  2.4                      T  0.00       0.20   0.3 
SALTER SCALES 721,9                          UNIT        5.9    30.7    20.7        -      -      -         72      00.050   0.4  2.5   2.0             -      -      -    4.9       0  0,09       0.21  0.3 
PAIL/TERRICANS0692,41-42                     UNIT        0.5      3.0      2.9      -      -      -          7    205.160   0.1    0.7    0.0           -1  .4                       0  0.07          0    0    0
SICKLES 695.1                                UNIT         10   100.0    05.09                              200          230   0.0    0.0    0.0         -      -      -     0.0      0  0,07          0    0    0
WATERING CANS 002.41-42                      UNIT    507.3 3,757.7   3.043          -      -      -     7,300          400   0.3      1.7      1.4      -      -     -     3.0       0  0,07          0    0    0
SEEDBED PACKS 695,1                          UNIT    3,050  29,500  20,609          -      -      -    50,300        1,205   4.0   32.3   20.1                            6    3.3   0  0.07          U    0 
MISCELLANEOUS TRANSPGRT 705.2
786,81,625,4,625.9 /e                     IO         3.1      0.5      0.4      -      -      -           1 13,469,000   0.0       5.3     4.3      -                  10.5      0  0.69       0.21  0.3    0
OX-PLOUGHS 721,1O                            OMIT      50.1   331.5   260,5         -                       50      16.000   0.0    5.3       4.3       -            -   10.9        0  0,07          0    0    0
RAFFIA 654.9                                 AGO         7,7       51    41.3       -             -        tO           345   3.0    0.0    0.0         -      -      -    0.0       0  0.07             0    0
tub-Total SENI-CAPITAL REIUIREMENTS FOR TOBACCO                                                                                  15.7  103.0    04.0       -             -239
4. BAGS AND OTHER PACKING MATERIALS
POLO LINED GUNNY BAGS 654,5                  UNIT      1,040   12,240   9,9-         -      -      - 24,300            435,  0.0    5.3        4.3      -                  0.4       0  0.00       0.21  0.9      0
MESSIAN CLOTH 054.5                          UNIT       29,7   100.9   059,4        -      -      -        386      87.000   2.0   17.1   03.9                            33.6       0  0,69       0.21  0.3    0
TAR LINED PAPER ROLLS 041.02                 UNlY    703.0 1.940,2   1,53076                             3,016      11.200   3.3   21,0    07,7         -      -      - 42.7         0  0.03       0,20 0.45      0
J30E TWINE 657.51                           OGLES       10.2   101.1    06.7        -      -      -        210      37,025   0.0      4.0    3.2        -      -      -     7.0      0  0.74       0.15  0.2    0
NYLINAROPES0657.51                          ROLLS        0.3        2      1,7      -      -      -          4    130,050   0.0    0.3    0.2           -      -      -     0.0      0  0,.74      0.15  0 .2    0
Sub-Total BOOS AND OTHER PACKING MATERIALS                                                                                        7.3   40,5   30.3        -                   5.1
5. HERBICIDES
ALBEX 5901.3                                LITERS 1,329,9 0,000.2 7.132,9          -      -      -     17,270       1.300   1.6   12,.2    9,0         -                 23.0       0  0,07          0    0    0
ALDRIN 591.3                                  KG      754,34,0995,5 4,045,3                              9    ,795      400   0.3    2.3    0.09                            4,5      0  0,07          0    0 
OAPIUA OR NUVAN 501.3                        UNIT      1.69911,253.2 9,112,0.                          22.005        0.300   2.3   15.5   12.06                           30.4       0  0.07          0    0    0
D/IMECROM 50, 501.3                          UNIT  2,013,418.634,415,090,2          -      -      -    30,538        1.190O   3.2   21,4   17.4         --            42.0           0  OR?7          0    0    0
SKIMMED MILK 591,3                           BASS       30.3   240.7   004,0        -                      472      20.700   0.0       5.0    4.0       -      -      -     9,0      0  0,00          0    0    0                            0o
Sub-Total  HERBICIDES                                                                                                             0.5   56,4   45 .7       -      -      -110,06 
Gob-Total TOBACCO ANNUAL IMPORTS  Ic                                                                                                30.5  2421.1  190,0        -      -      -  4074.0 
/a  EACH PEAR REPREEGENTS A FINANCIAL SEAK JOLT I - JUNE 30, OCAIMMIkO RITA JULY 1. 0963
/0  EXCHAN6E ROTE OF USMU00   0  SOs 100
Ic  IMPORTED IN BULK BY NTC PFOA SALE TO FARMERS ON ITS BEHALF
Id THE NUMBERS AFTER EACH RECUARENT IMPORT ITEM LISTED REPRESENT THE UM OTONDARS INTERNATIONAL 0R00E CLASSIFICATTION COPE 0975 ED.
/e SUCH AS WHEELBARROWG AND BICYCLES BUT NOT INCLUDING PASSENGER VEHICLES
Jaruars 27, 1003



UGAND!A
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
COTTON /a SUDSECTOR lb
Base Costs
Quantity                                                        (U Shs Million)                   Phs.                         Dom.
Cont.-----For.----Gross----D--ts---Ta--------------                     ----------------------------------------------Cont. For.   Gross   Dutv Tax
Unit       D3/84    84/85       35/36   36/87 37/88 881/9  Total        Unit Cost  D3/84  04/85  85/86  86/87 87/B3 00/89 Total   Rate  Exch, Tax Rate Rate Rate
A. ANNUAL IMPORTS FOR COTTON
SECTOR BAGS AND MISC.
PACKING MATERIALS
BUNNY BAGS 654.5 /c                      UNIT        38,500   255.000   206,500        -     -      -   500,000          261   10,0   66.6   53.9        -     -      -   130.5      0  0.69      0.21  0.3    0
HESSIAN CLOTH 654.5                       DALES          243   1,609.6   1,303.4       -     -      -     3,156       87,000   21.1  140.0  113.4        -     -      -   274.6      0  0.69      0.21  0.3    0
JUTE TWINE 657.51                        DALES         24.3      161.2      130.5      -     -      -       316       27!000    0.7    4.4    3.5        -     -      -     0.5      0  0.74      0.15  0.2    0
SPARES AND MATERIALS FOR LOCAL
MANUFACTURER OF HESSIAN
CLOTH 651.98                          UNIT         115.5        765      619.5      -     -      -     1i500       58s00O    6.7   44.4   35.9        -     -      -    07,0      0  0.69      0.21  0.3    0
BALING HOOPS 695.1                       TONS          24.3      161.2      130.5      -     -      -       316      230Y00    5,6   37.1   30.0         -     -      -    72.7      0  0.87          0    0    0
Sub-Total ANNUAL IMPORTS FOR COTTON
SECTOR BAGS AND MISC.
PACKING MATERIALS                                                                                                               44.1  292.4  236.8       -     -      -   573.3
E. MINOR TOOLS
SCALES 721.9                             UNIT          30.0        204      165.2      -     -      -       400        39000    0.1    0.6    0.5        -     -      -     1,2      0      1         0    0    0
KNAPSACK SPRAY PUMPS
AND SPARES 721,9                  15 LITRE SETS   1,306       9,100      7,434     -      -      -     10,000      11,500   15,9  105.6   85.5        -     -      -   207.0      0  0,87         0    0    0
OX PLOUGH SPARES 721.19                    SUm           0,1       0.5        0.4      -     -      -          1  60,490,000    4,7   30.0   25.0        -     -      -    60.5      0  0.87          0    0    0
MISCELLANEOUS TRANSPORT 785.2
786,81,625.4,625.9 /d                  SUm           0.1        0.5        0.4     -      -     -          I 191,400000   14,7   97.6   79.0         -     -      -   191.4      0  0.69      0.21  0.3    0
Stib-Totol MINOR TOOLS                                                                                                             35.4  234.6  190.0       -      -     -   460.1
C. COTTON CHEMICALS
DOT 75Z WP 591.1                         UNIT           52,8     349.9      283.3      -     -      -       606      575,000   30.4  201.2  162.9        -     -      -   394.5      0  0.87          0    0    0
SEED DRESSING CHEMICALS 591.2             TONS           4.1        27       21.9      -     -      -        53      345,000    1.4    9,3    7.6        -     -      -    10.3      0  0.7          0    0    0
Sub-Total COTTON CHEMICALS                                                                                                         31.3  210.5  170.5       -      -     -   412.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                111.4   37.5  597.2       -      -     - 1,461a
/a EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30, DEGINNING WITH JULY 1! 1903
/b EXCOANbE RATE OF USSI.O0  U Shs 100
Ic  THE NUMBERS AFTER EACH RECURRENT IMPORT ITEM LISTED REPRESENT THE UN STANDARDI INTERNATIONAL TRADE CLASSIFICATION CODE 1975 ED.
/d SUCH AS WHEELBARROWS ANDI BICYCLES BUT NOT INCLUDING PASSENGER VEHICLES
Januars 27, 1903



- 65 -
UGANOA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                  ANNEX 4
TEA /a  SUBSECTDR  /b                                                     Page 4 of 5
Base Costs
Quantits                                                    IU Shs Killion)               Phb.                       I?,.
--------------------------------- --_-- -            --------------------------------------------ornt, For.   Gross   Duts Ta
Unit  83/84    04/85      85/86   06/87 B7/08  88/09  Total    Unit Cost  83/B4 04/US  85/B6  86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Rate Rate
A. FOR 4EL ESTATES
ApK 562.91 /c               TONS    295.8  1,95,9   1,506.3        -     -     -     3,841      34,500  10.2   67.6  54.7       -     -     -  132.5      08.87          0    0    0
ZINC OXIDE 562               KG   2,67P.l  17,744.4  14,369.5       -     -     -    34,793         173   0.5    3.1    2.5      -     -     -    6.0     C  0.87         U    0    U
DALAPON 591.3               KR   7,114.4  47,121.4  38,159.1        -     -     -    92.395         104   1.3    8.7    7.0      -     -     -   17.0     0  0,87         0    0    0
GRANhAXONE 591.3           LITRES 1,414.3   9-367.2   7,585.6       -     -     -    18,367         690   1.0    6.S    5.2      -     -     -   12.7     80,8O7          0    0    0
245-D, 591,3               LITRES    35.5      235.1     190.4      -     -     -       461       2,645   0.1    0.6    0.5      -     -     -    1.2     0  0.7         0    0    0
POLYPROPYLENE BAGS 583.22   UNIT    7.700    51,000    41,300       -     -     -   100,000         218   1.7   11.1    9.0      -     -     -   21.8     0  0.69      0.21  0.3    0
Sub-Total FOR AEL ESTATES                                                                                  14.    97.5  79.0       -     -     -  191.2
B. DUTBRDNERS /d
PRUNNINB KNIVES 695.1       UNIT  2,892.4  194,17.1  15,513.5       -     -     -    37,563         460   1.3    0.8    7.1      -     -     -   17.3     0  0.87         0    o    n
PRUNNINB SAWS 695.31        UNIT  1,446.1   9,578.3   775b.6        -     -     -    187B1         460   8.7    4.4    3.6      -     -     -    8.6     0  0.87         0    0    0
SHARPENING STONE 695.1      UNIT   645.6   4.276.4       3,463         -        -     8,3B5         920   0.6    3.9    3.2     -      -     -    7.7     0 0.87          0    0    0
SPRAYER 721.9               UNIT    241.5   1,599.4   1,295.2       -     -     -     3,136      16-100   3.9   25.7   20.9      -     -     -   50.5     0 0.87          0    0    0
PLUCKING SHEARS 695.1       UNIT  1,291.3   8,552.7      6,926      -     -     -    16,770       2.760   3.6   23.6   19.1      -     -     -   46.1        0       O.0    02
M1SC SHALL TOOLS 695.1      UNIT    645.6   4,276,4      3,463      -     -     -     0.385      3.335   ?.2   14.3   11.5      -      -     -   7R.0     0  0.87         0    0    0
NPK 562.91                  TONS    144.9      959.0     777,3            -           10B82     34,500   5.0   33.1   26.8      -      -     -   64.9     0  0,87         n    0    0
GRAhhAXONE 591.3           LITRES 4,338.5  28.735.4  23,270.1       -     -     -    56,344         690   3.0   19,0   16.1      -     -     -   38.1    0O.B7            0    0    0
ROUNDUP 591.3              LITRES 1,446,1  9R578.3   7,756.6        -     -     -    18,701       2,415   7.5   2,31   18.7      -     -     -   45.4     0  0.07         0    8    0
POLYPROPLENE BA00 583.22    UNIT 10,264.1    67.983  55,052.9       -     -     -   133,300         218   2.2   14.8   12.0     -      -     -   29.1     0  0.69      0.21  0.3    0
Sub-Total OUTGROWERS /d                                                                                     25.9  171.7  139.0      -     -     - 336.6
C. PRIVATE ESTATES
NPK 562.01                  SUN        0.1       0.5       0.4      -     -     -         155,315,000   4.3   2R.2   2'.8       -      -     -   55.3     0  0.07         0    0    A
ASS0RTED HERBICIDES 591.3  SUM         0.1       0.0       0.4      -     -     -         159,685,0Q0   4.6   38.4   74.6       -      -     -   59.7     0 8.7           0    0    0
POLYPROPYLENE BAGS 583.22   UNIT  30,800   204,000   165,200        -     -     -   400,000        21B   6.7   44.5   36.0      -      -     -   87.2     0  0.69     0.21  0.3    0
NINOR SPARES 695.1          SUN        0.1       0.5       0.4      -     -     -         1 2,645.000   0.2    1.3    1.1       -      -     -    2.s     0 OB7          0    0    0
Sub-Total PRIVATE ESTATES                                                                                   15.8  104.5  84.6       -     -     - 204.8
D, UGANDA TEA AUTHORITY
TASTINS COPS 665.2          SUN        0.1       0.5       0.4     -      -     -         1  1.495,000   0.1    0.0    0.6      -     -      -    1.5     n  0.87         0    0    0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                          56.5  374.4  303.2      -     -     -  734.2
/a EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30, BEGINNING 8ITH JULY 1. 913
/b EXCHANGE R9TE OF UO51.00 = U Shs 100
/c THE NUNBERS AFTER EACH RECURRENT IMPORT ITEM LISTED REPRESENT THE UN STANDARD INTERNATIONAL TRADE CLASSTFICATION COPF 1975 FD.
/d INPORTED IN BULK BY UTOC FOR SALE TO FARHERS
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
NONTRADTTIONAL /a EXPORTS /b
Base Costs
Ouantits                                            (U Shs Million)               Ph,-.                      Dos,
----------------------------------------               ----C-------------------------------------Cont. For.   Gross   Duts Tax
Unit B3/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total Unit Cost  B3/84 84/85 85/86 06/87 87/88 88/89 Total R'te ESrh. Tax R,ate Rate Rote
A. FISH PROBUCTS,NOOB PRDDUCTS,FRUITS
HIDES AND SKINS,ANIMAL FEEDS,SRAINS      SUN    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3      -     -     1 220,00,880 0   S.,0 55.0 5S.O  S5,0      -     -  220.0      0  0.91     0.89  0.1    U
/o EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30, BEGINNING WITH JULY 1, 1983
/b EXCHANGE RATE OF USSIU.D = U Shs 100
Januars 27, 1983



- 66 -
UGMAND
A9RICULTR9AL REHV ILIT6TIW6 PROJECT                                                                ANNEX  4
LItESTWX /a  S'JISECTC    /b                                                             Page  5 of  5
Base Costs
alsootits                                                         tI Shs Milliou)                  Ptw,                         Oo,,
------------------------------------------------------------                   --------------------------------------------Cont. For.   Gross   Outo Tax
unit        83/84      B4/85       65/86    B6/87 87/80 8B/09   Total    Unit Cost  03B84 94/'5  05/76  86?87 87/99 80/89 7otal  Rate  Exch, TaX Rate Rate Rate
A. VEHICLES FOR
LIVESTOCK SECTOR
TRANSPORT FOR RINISTRY
OF ANIMAL RESOURCES
4WD PICKUPS 782.1 /c                      UNIT             0.9         5.1         4.1      -      -     -           10  2.300.000   t,S   It.7       9,5      -     -      -   23.0      0  0.87          V    0    V
3 TO 5 TON TRUCKS 792.1                    LMIT            0.8         5.1         4.1      -      -      -          10  4,025,000   0.1   20.5   16,6         -     -      -   40.3      0  O.B7          0       0
Sub-Total VEHICLES FOR
LIVESTOCK SECIOR
TRANSPORT FOR MINISTRY
OF ANIMAL RESOURCES                                                                                                                   4.9   37.3   26,1        -     -      -   63.3
B. TSE TSE CONTROL EGUIPKENT
25H 0DTORB09 T ENOINE SPARES 793.2B         SUm            0.1         0.5         0.4      -      -                  1  3,450,000   0.3    I.B       1.4      -     -      -    3.5      0  0,8?          V          U
HAND SPRAYERS 721.0                         SUM            0.1         0.5         0.4      -      -     -            1  3,910.000   0.3    7.0    1.4         -     -      -    3.9      0  0.07          0    0    0
ENTOMOLOGICAL EQUIPMENT
AND CHEMICALS 591.1                     SUO             0.1         0.5         0.4      -     -      -           1  2,300,000   0.2    1.2    0.9         -      -      -    2.3      0  0.97          0    0    0
UNIPORT ACCOMODATION 659.24                SUm            O.          0.5         0.4      -      -     -            I  4,025V000   0.3    2.1    1.7         -     -      -    4.0      0  0.7          0    0    0
BUSH CLEARING TOOLS 645.1                   sum            0.1         0.5         0.4      -      -     -            1  4.600,000   0.4    2.3    I.9         -     -      -    4.6      0  0,87          V    V    V
Sub-Total TSE TSE CONTROL EGUIPMENT                                                                                                       1.4    9.3    7.6       -            -     B.3
C. D01RY FARM SUPPLIES
FOR PUBLIC USE
DAIRY FARM UTENSILS 692,41-42              SUM             0.1         0.5         0.4      -      -     -           I t3,050,000   1.0    6.7    5.4         -      -      -   t3.1      0  0.69      0.21  0.3    0
FENCIN6 MATERIALS 693.5                    SUN             0.1         0.5         0.4      -      -     -            1 19,550,000   1.5   10.0    9.1         -     -      -   19.6      0  0,87          0    0    0
MiATERIALS FOR WATER
SUPPLIES 635.99,692.41-42               SUt             0.1         0.5         0.4      -     -      -           1 54,000,000   4.2   27.5   27.3         -      -     -   54.0       0  0.74      0.15  0.2    0
PASIURE SEED AND HERBICIDE 591.3           SUiM            D.1         0.5         0.4      -      -     -           1 19T550,T00    1.5   10.O    8.1        -      -      -   19.6      0  0.87          0    0    0
Sub-Total DOTRY FARM SUPPLIES
FOR PU8LIC USE                                                                                                                        B.2   54.1   43.8       -      -      -  106.2
D. HIDES AND SKINS SUPPLIES 532                SUN            0.1          0.0         0.4     -      -      -           121,735,000   1.7   11.1    9.0          -      -     -   21.7      0  0.7          0    0    0
E. LABORhTORY SUPPLIES 665.81                  SUM            0.1         0.5         0.4      -      -      -           1 11,500,000   0.9    5.9    4.7         -     -      -   11.5      0  0.97          0    0    0
P. CATTLE SPRAY PUIMPS 721.9                  UNIT            300       2,040       1,452      -      -      -      4,000       11,201   3.9   22.9   18.5        -     -      -   44.8      0  0.07          0    0    0
B. SURGICAL KI0S 972.02                       UNIT            7,7          51        41.3      -      -     -          IO    10,911.2   0.1    0.6    0.5        -     -      -    1.1      0  O.B7          0    0    0
I. ANTHELMINTICS
NILZAN S LITER DRUMS 541.7                UNIT            96.3       637.5       516.2      -      -     -       1,250   10,421.3   1.0    6.6    5.4         -      -      -   13.0      0  0.97          0    0    0
PIG WORKER 205 NG 541.7                   UNIT           115.5         765       619.5      -      -     -       1.500       793.5   0.1    0.6    U.S        -      -      -    1.2      0  0.07          0    0    0
ZANIL S LITER DRUKB 541.7                 UNIT            201        1,530       1,239      -                    3,000   2,777.25   0.6    4.2    0.4         -      -     -    8.3       0  0.87          0    0    0
INJECTABLE 500 MO NILVERM 541.7            UNIT            385       2.550       2,065      -      -     -       5,000    1,322.5   0,5    3,4    2.7         -      -      -    6.6      0  0.87          0    0    0
Sub-Total ANTHELMINTICS                                                                                                                  2.2   14.9   12.0       -      -      -   29.2
1. TRYPANCCIDAL DRUGS
SAMORIN 541,7                             UNIT         115,500    765,000    619,500        -      -     -  1,500,000        21.B3   7.5   16.7   13.5        -      -      -   32.7      0  0.97          0    0    0
BERENIL 541.7                             UNIT         57,750    382.500    309,750         -      -     -    750,000        42.90   2.5   16.4   10.3                          07- .372  0  0.97          0    0    I
Sub-Total TRYPNNCIODAL DRU9S                                                                                                             5.0   03.1   26.9        -     -      -   65.0
J. hCARICIDES
GRGhNOPHGSPHOPOUS 541,7                5 LITRE CAN       1,040      12,240       9,912      -      -     -      24,000      11,354  71,0  139,0  112.5        -      -      -  777.5      0  0.07          0    D    0
K. ASSORTED VACCINES
RINDERPEST 541.64                         UNIT         192,500  1.275.000  1,032,500        -     -      -  2.500.000         5.29   1.0    6.7    5.5        -      -      -   13.2      0  0.97          0    0    0
CBPP 541.64                                UNIT        346,500  2,295.000  1,859,560        -      -      -  4,500,000        3,97   1.4    9.1       7.4      -     -      -   17.9      0  O.B7          0    0    0
FAC 541.64                                UNII         3B,500    255.90N       206,500      -      -     -    50,00           39.7   1.5   10,1    0.2        -      -      -   19.9      0  0,97          0    0    0
BLANTHhX 541.64                            UNIT         77,000    510,000    413,000        -      -     -  1,009,00          7.67   0.6    3.9    3.2        -      -      -    7.7      0  0.97          0    0    0
NENCASTLE 541.64                          UNIT         231,000  1,530,000  1,239,000        -      -     -  3.009.000         3.84   0.9    5.9    4.8        -      -      -   10.5      0  0.97          0    0    0
FOWL TYPHOID 541,64                       UNIT          77,000    510.000    413,000        -      -     -  1,000,000         12.7   1.0    6.5    5.2        -      -      -   12.7      0  0.07          0    0    0
RABIES 541.64                             UNIT          15,400    102.000       92,600      -     -      -    200,000        99.19   1.5   10.1    9.2        -      -          19.8      0  0.87          0    0    0
Sub-Total ASSORTED VACCINES                                                                                                              7.9   52.4   42.4        -     -      -  102.7
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                      56.7  375.4  304.0        -     -      -  736.1
/a EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30, BEGINNIIN 6IT JULY 1. 1993
lb EXCHANGE RATE OF USNI.O0 = D Shs 100
Kc THE NUMBERS AFTER EACH RECURRENT IMPORT ITEM LISTED REPRESENT THE UN STANDARD INTERNATIONAL TRADE CLASSIFITATION CODE 1975 ED.
J,an.gao  27, 1903



-,                 oo,c'  ooc,o      c,oooocoooo  0 too
>0 IF                                                                 0000000000  000
04   0014FF
F4-      IF       00000      0000   0000000   ooOOOoOoOO  0' coo              0000000000  000
0
O.FI    OF 0000     0000   0000 000   OOOOOoooOo  o 000              0000000000  coo
.414.   014
- IF     00000      oOoO   0000000   0000000000  o coo
- -            0000000                                  ooo0ooo CoO  00-
0000000                         0       0      00       00
-         00000      0000   0000000   0000000000  0 cOo               000000 0000  coo
F IF       00004    .000   -00-00 -00-.) I 000001400404  01 0010 I 0.   000.404440100 -,0 00011
14FF     000100-    o0..0  .0.0o..0oo 1000 OOOoooOo4    cOo I o    0000000000  0001
F .1 Fl    1000     ..l  0   0404040101001 o                   lo    0                   4
loll                                   F -'                     10
0- Fl      FIll      F F F I   F FILFFFFFFFFFIIFIFFFFFFF  F    I F F F
10FF      11111      F 0141    FF1 FIll F .,0000.0000 F 0 0401  0    1000.01 I 0 F F OF F I .0
C I 4                   00               F 000000000   0 00  10          0000   0    0       0
00 Ft- IF     FF11     F 0-oF   FF11 IF1 II 00000.0000 F 0 oO F 10    F OO.-o F F .01 I OF F I
CS  01011                 -                            -  -  -     F   -   -  .  -  .  -  -  I
0 I 0.11                00               I 000000000   0 00  F           0000   0    0   F
00 10FF       F 1FF    0lF0..O   IFIFIIFIF 000.000.000 I 0 000 I 0    F 0000 I F .0 I F 0.1 I I .0
0  Fl                .  -    -        F                 -   -    -  I  -  I  -  -  I  I  -  I
010.11                 0.000             I 000000000   0 00010           0000   0    0   I 0
oF 0 IF                                                          10
F IF      000 0-C   .0000   FF11 Ill lFoo 0000.0000  0 00010    000001 F o04t 0.14' F 0
F 0 II    - - 1 -.I .
lOU       00000      0000              F 00000 0000.0  000010         00000   000  00  I .0
I II       1000-C    0100   -00-000-0-0104.0 oooj F 01   00 0.0.000.0001  00 OF 0
-0  10FF   00000  0 00.0000000000000010  0000000000 0001 0
0       10FF                      0   00014 040401 I 0                  F 0    0                  I 01
0        011                                    10                      104
00       OIl       0000        00    0000000   0000  55555  o cOo              g0000000  000
00       0FF       0000        00    &Oooooo   00005             0 000             0000000  000
00       OIl      -C-C-c-C     00    0000000   0000000000  O 000               0000000000  000
00        II      .-.--'oo     00    0000000   0l0O0C04O00  0 04 04           00040.00. 0 000
00        II        000                0.0000
0 0      -- II     0    -C 0   0 0    0                                        0       01      0
00                0         00  .0    0       0      .00)  0 ocO
00       CF II                        .00.00000
I 00       loll                 .0000   00=0 000   0000000000  0 oO.             000000000=  0-CO
0.414 114FF 04041401 00..0-C-C-CO-C 0040000 '0o 1410000 0014 -o -
0100 lOll oOoOOO '14 .00.0 .0.0 00
'C 00.4     1011
00      lOU        11111      F I I   1111111    FFFlllFFFl   Ill I            1111111 FF1  Ill
4 00       104
.40     loll
Si        11111      1001    FF11111   0100)O4rlNOOOl I 0 .441       1000.11 0FF  OFF
I 0. II                                                                0040114  14   0
0       10)
0      l0FI       FF111      101.1   FF1111 F  000)0)000.04 I    001          10000 I 1141 I OFF F
0      010FF                                      000000-COO    0 00            001040   0    0
14 I -0 II
FOIl      111FF      00)140   FF1111 F  04000100000 I 0 OOo           101000 F 101 F OFF F
10. IF               0   0                              0 00          .001010  04    0
1011      00400)0    0000    11111FF   040)001*004 0000001401                I 1000  00)1
loll        000l    I   I                ..a...0oOoCFlOO0  0 00       01004040  01004 0 -
114 II    40040 OIl)    0 F 00   0000000   04010400040000  0 OOo.     .      .      0100
1011     .00.0.0 -    -   -  .000000.0   0000040-01)0-C  0 wOo        000400   01004 0 -
10.)            0    0   0
II     041440)0    011)   00)00000   000000)00                     00cn"o   0
II     0000         Oo    0000000   00000000                       00000   0
II      0000        01.    0001-000   001-004-00                   00000   0
0FF          00    0000   0000000   0lo000000-o  o0o-
>11      05000    0000   0000)000   00000)000.00.0.000                   00000.00000
CII      00.000    0000   0 or- 0.0.0   oo00-.o0000o0 00               0000000  000
0000000000  0 000               0000000  000
0FF      0000         00     1000 000                                    00   5
IF      0000        Co    -C-COO 0-CO   0-C 50  000                0000
I,      0000        AZ0    oroocor   or orrOr                      .00.0
00  0                           0                         o 0
0.0 0                                                     0 0
100 0       0            II-    .0                         = 0
10000       0                    0  0-                    . 0
010)000      0             0       0  0                     0
00)0   IC  -.4.1             0   0       0    .        o   0
00000        00 0       0       0  0            0          -C
0 0            0100  00    0 00 4        0       0 00                   0 0
Fl. 0          OF 00.4 0    0 00 -C-.   0        0 00        0   04       0
0 40 0         010  0000   .0.4.40.4    0       00  1-aIC     0   0   0       0)
0 0   Cl  .01  000  0   0 ..o 00    0 0   00  0            .4      0 0 CC 0
- -0 000. 001000000 -J 0-JO 0 .4 -Co 00
144000  144  100000   0.000.4.00   'o o   -o 00               0   0    0 .4
OF  00000  --0 0 OF  00(00    0-Co.0OO-.    0       00  444                    - 0
F 000000.00  00100000    0-JO-CO  .4   0               *
0 I 000  000000  01000000   0000.00           0 .0  00  00   0   0   04 -00 0 0
OF  o           O0I0C00           00.400       014-.>0  00   0   0   0  -0000
0   0   0 040 .0   0
0   00000. -0.4 010  00  0   0.-CO  -JO        000000   0   0   0   0 00  0 0 0
OF  00000I140000  010000.40   00000-Co    000000)0.4-4010   0   000  .000   o
01 OOOoOOo. 0 0100 01000000    000000    0000000  00.010   0 .00             00-C  00
01 00.1000.4.000  OF 000  =10-00  0.00140.10000  00  0 Oo 10   0 000004000   00
010  0 000 00.4o00 1000001000.40.4  00  0 000000  00010   0  1.400 0000   0
01 0.-400000)04.)00   0000000  00000.40  00.) .40000 Oo I          0)000000000  00
OF .000.0000 -0 00-I 0000000000.0-000 .400 1.4 -4000.40000 0 00
I 0 0.0 -040000 F 40000000000000 0000000000 00010 00000000000
O F 00-C 000100400000 I 0 0 000 01.-l-J0000 000.00 00 10 000000.4-Co O 0
OF 000000000000010000000  000000   00000 000  .000 100000.4 00000.4000
01000000000000                                  0 0    000100 0000010000000  00
0-- - -C. Co04000-000000 04 0000010 00 0000000
OF 00100100    000.1             0.000000000 004 04 040  100104001000004000  00  10              4/



Base Costs
guantita                                            (U Shs Million)                 Phs.                       Doe.
-- -- - -- - --  ---------------- -------- --------------Cant, For.   Gross   Dut, Tax
Unit   83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total Unit Cost 83/84  84/85  85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Rate Rate
C. MINISTRY OF COOPERATIVES AND MARKETING
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVES
2 ACCOUNTANTS                                         MANMONTHS    24      -     -      -     -     -    24   600OO00   14.4        -     -      -     -     -   14.4      0   0.8         0    0    0
2 ENGINEERS                                           MANHONTHS      -    24     -      _           -    24   600.000        -   14.4     -      -     -     -   14.4      0   0.8         0    0    0
SECRETARY                                             HANMONTHS    12    12    12    12    12       -    60      2,000    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       -    0.1      0     0         0    0    0
2 DRIVERS                                             MANHONTHS    24    24    24    24    24       -   120      27000    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0-0       -    0.2      0     0         0    0    0
10 ACCOUNTANTS                                        MANMONTHS    90      -     -     -      -     -    90      3,000    0,3       -     -     -      -     -    0.3      0     0         0    0    0
HOUSEHOLD FITTINGS 821                                  UNIT         2     -      -     -     -     -      2   2509000    0.5       -     -      -     -     -    0.5      0   0.1         0    0    0
CALCULATDRS 751.21                                      UNIT         2     -     -      -          _      2    10S000    0.0       -     -      -     -     -    0.0      0   0.8         0    0    0
HOUSE RENTS FOR EXPATRIATES                             UNIT        24    24      -     -     -      -    48    20,000    0.5    0.5      -      -     -     -    1.0      0      0        0    0    0
HOUSING ALLOWANCE FOR 3 LOCAL STAFF                     UNIT        36    36    36    36    36      -   180      2.000    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       -    0.4      0     0         0    0    0
OFFICE STATIONERY 895,642                               UNIT        24    24     -      -     -     -    48        330    0.0    0.0      -      -     -     -    0.0      0      1        0    0    0
MISCELLANEOUS COSTS                                     UNIT       0.4   0.4     -      -     -     -   0.8 1,00O,000    0.4    0.4       -     -      -     -    0.8      0   0.8         0    0    0
Sub-total MINISTRY OF COOPERATIVES AND MARKETING
DEPARTMENT OF COOPERATIVES                                                                                               16.2   15.4   0.1   0.1   0.1       -   32.1
D. UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK
PROJECT MANAGER                                       MANMONTHS    12    12    12             -          36   800,000    9.6    9.6   9.6                    -   28.8      0   0.8         0    0    0
ENGINEERING SURVEYORS                                 MANMONTHS    18      -     - 18   800.000   14.4                                   -     -            -   14.4      0   0.8         0    0    0
ENGINEERING (CONSTRUCTION) SUPERVISORS                MANMONTHS      4     3      3     3     3     -    16   800.000    3.2    2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4        -   12.8      0   0.8         0    0    0
PROCUREMENT AGENT/OFFICER                             HANMONTHS      4     3     3      3     3     -    16   700,000    2.8    2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1        -   11.2      0   0.8         0    0    0
4WD VEHICLES 781.0                                      UNIT         2     6      -     -     -     -      8 520B,000    5.7   17.1       -      -     -     -   22.S      0  0.47         0    1    0
HOUSEHOLD FITTINGS 821                                  UNIT         1     -     -      -     -     -      1   272,500    0.3       -     -      -     -     -    0.3      0  0.83         0  0.1    0
CALCULATORS 751.21                                      UNIT         2     -     2      -     -     -      4    12.400    0.0       -   0.0      -     -     -    0.0      0  0.65         0  0.3    0
2 SENIOR CREDIT ANALYSTS                              MANMONTH5    24    24    24    24    24       -   120      6,000    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       -    0.7      0     0         0    0    0
2 DEBT RECOVERY OFFICERS                              MANHONTHS    24    24    24    24    24       -   120      6.000    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       -    0.7      0     0         0    0    0
2 AGRICULTURAL ECONOMISTS                             MANMONTHS    24    24    24    24    24       -   120      6,000    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       -    0.7      0     0         0    0    0
AGRICULTURALIST                                       MANMONTHS    12    12    12    12    12       -    60      6,000    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       -    0.4      0     0         0    0    0
DRIVERS                                               MANHMONTHS    24    24    24    24    24      -   120      3,000    0.1    0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       -    0.4      0     0         0    0    0
TRAINING FELLOWSHIPS                                  MANMONTHS      5     5     5     -      -     -    15   200,000    1.0    1.0   1.0       -      -     -    3.0      0   0.6         0    0    0                       1
OFFICE STATIONERY 895,642                               UNIT       120   120   120   120   120      -   600        363    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       -    0.2      0  0.91         0  0.1    0                       a,
MISCELLANEOUS COSTS                                     UNIT       0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2      -   1.2 1,166,900    0.4    0.4   0.2   0.2   0.2        -    1.4      0  0.65         0  0.3    0                       0
HOUSING ALLOWANCE
FDR 8 LOCAL PROFESSIDNALS                            UNIT       96    96    96    96    96       -   480    10.000    1.0    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0        -    4.8      0     0         0    0    0
HOUSE RENT FOR PROJECT MANAGER                          UNIT        12    12    12      -     -     -    36    20,000    0.2    0.2   0.2        -     -     -    0.7      0     0         0    0    0
Sub-Total UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK                                                                                            39.2   34.4  17,2   6.3   6.3       -  103.3
292.9  132.8  47,5  11.5  10.8      -  495.4
PID
/a EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30, BEGINNING WITH JULY 1, 1983
lb  EXCHANGE RATE OF USS1.O0 = U Shs 100
c THE NUMBERS AFTER EACH RECURRENT IMPORT ITEM LISTED REPRESENT THE UN STANDARD, INTERNATIONAL TRADE CLASSIFICATION CODIE 1975 El'.
/d 3 OIlSCIPLINES EACH FOR 6 MONTHS
Januarv 27, 1903  10:27



- 69 -
Annex 6
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Projected Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA FY and            Calendar                Cumulative Disbursement
Quarter                 Year                          in US$ Million
Factory    Tech.    Agric.
Rehab.      Asst.    Imports       Total
1983
April-June               1983                 -       0.2        -           0.2
1984
July - September         1983                 -       0.4        -           0.4
October - December       1983                 -       0.6        -           0.6
January - March          1984                3.8      0.8        -           4.6
April-June               1984                5.0      0.9       3.0          8.9
1985
July - September         1984                6.3      1.0       8.0         15.3
October - December       1984                8.0      1.2      13.0         22.2
January - March          1985               12.0      1.4      18.0         31.4
April - June             1985               15.1      1.6      23.0         39.7
1986
July - September         1985               17.0      1.8      28.0         46.8
October - December       1985               19.1      2.0      33.0         54.1
January - March          1986               21.0      2.1      38.0         61.1
April - June             1986               22.4      2.2      39.1         63.7
1987
July - September         1986               23.0      2.3      39.1         64.4
October - December       1986               24.2      2.4      39.2         65.8
January - March          1987               24.7      2.5      39.2         66.4
April - June             1987               25.2      2.5      39.2         66.9
1988
July - September         1987               25.5      2.5      39.2         67.2
October - December       1987               26.3      2.5      39.2         68.0
January - March          1988               26.8      2.5      39.2         68.5
April - June             1988               27.2      2.5      39.2         68.9
1989
July - September         1988               27.2      2.5      39.2         68.9
October - December       1988               28.3      2.5      39.2         70.0



- 70 -                          Annex 7
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Allocation of the Credit
Amount of the Credit Allocated    % of Expenditures
Category                              (in US Dollars)               to be Financed
1.  Goods for Rehabilitation                      24,770,324                  100% foreign or 80%
2.  Consultant's Services under                       685,020                 100% of foreign ex-
the Rehabilitation Component                                             penditures or 70%
3.  Eligible Imports under the                     32,551,129                 100% of foreign ex-
Recurrent Imports Component                                               penditures or 80%
4.  Goods for Rehabilitation of                     1,486,493                 100% of foreign ex-
Tea Leaf Collection Facilities                                           penditures or 80%
5.  Eligible Imports under the                     6,001,753                  100% of foreign ex-
Recurrent Imports Component                                              penditures or 80%
for the Tea sub-sector
6.  Consultant's Services for                       1,479,643                 100%
Studies under the Project
7.  Technical Assistance and                        1,111,690                 100% of foreign ex-
Training                                                                 penditures or 75%
8.  Vehicles, Office Equipment                        413,948                 100% of foreign ex-
and Supplies                                                             penditures or 75%
9.  Initial Deposit into the                        1,500,000
Special Account
70,000,000



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
YEAR                                 1982       1983        1984        1985       1986         1987       1988
Quarter                            1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4
Project Manager
Engineering Surveyors
Director, Agricultural Secretariat
Two Economists (Secretariat)
Financial Analyst (Secretariat)
Agriculturalist (Secretariat)                                   -
Two Engineers (Min. of Cooperatives)
Two Accountants (Min. of Cooperatives)
Engineering Supervisors
Two Economists (Min. of Agriculture)
Construction Engineers/Rehab. of
Crop Processing Factories
Coffee Study
Cotton Study
Tea Study
Tobacco Study
Costs Study
Nontraditional Exports 
Livestock Study
Disbursements                                                       ____
Procurement Consultant



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PR0JECT
Cost & Returns of Crop Production
(in October 1982 Prices)
Robusta
Coffee       Cotton        Tea       Tobacco    Bananas        Maize    Groundnuts
Farmgate Price per kg
(October 1982)                       50.0       40.0          10.0      100.0          16.0        20.0          120.0
Gross Return/ha                   49,000.0   17,000.0    29,000.0   51,000.0   100,000.0   23,000.0             71,000.0
Cost per hectare (USh)
(1981 Costs)
Labor                              9,000.0    8,800.0    11,920.0   17,910.0          7,300.0    4,400.0         5,000.0
Inputs                                  -           -            -      10,012.0          -         600.0        9,000.0
- Seed                               (-)         (-)          (-)    (2,400.0)         (-)       (600)        (9,000.0)
- Fertilizer                     7,800.0    3,000.0            -     (7,612.0)         (-)      3,000.0            (-)
- Chemicals                      7,000.0    2,875.0       5,650.0         (-)          ()          ()              (-)
Implements                         5,000.0    2,500.0        1,000.0         -        1,500.0    2,500.0              -
Packing and Transport               3,300.0    1,500.0       4,350.0    1,037.0       1,500.0         -               -
Depreciation                            -           -            -       5,000.0          -           -               -
Total                             32,100.0   18,675.0    22,920.0   33,959.0          8,800.0   12,000.0        17,000.0
-j
Yield (kg/hectare)                    980.0       425.0      2,900.0       510.0    10,000.0    1,150.0             710.0
Cost per kg (USh)                      10.3        21.7         11.2        56.9         10.7         4.3            23.9
Labor Input (mandays/hectare)         180.0       220.0        298.0       597.0        146.0       110.0          125.0
Net Return/hectare                16,900.0   (1,675.0)    6,080.0   26,040.0    31,200.0   11,000.0             68,231.0
Net Return/manday
Assuming Family Labor              144.0         32.0         60.0        74.0        264.0       140.0          545.8
Comment
It is perhaps noteworthy that coffee, the only cash crop whose return per manday has consistently exceeded the
piece-work rate, is also the only export crop whose production is above 10% of its mid 1970s levels.  Tea, the
industry most affected by the decline of the 1970s still earns a negative return per manday, and is predictably
behind other cash crops in recovering.
Notes:
Robusta Coffee.  For a pure stand of established coffee, without perennial grasses and assuming hand weeding.
Labor input is valued at USh 50 per day (USh 75 per day for picking at piece-work rate).
Cotton.  Assuming no improvements in husbandry or purchase inputs.  Labor input is valued at USh 40 per manday.
Tea.  Average for first four-year pruning cycle of abandoned tea.  Labor input is valued at USh4O per manday.
Tobacco.  For flue-cured tobacco, using hand labor for primary cultivation.  Labor input is valued at USh3O per
day.
Bananas. For established banana garden using hired labor. Labor input is valued at USh 50 per day.
Maize and groundnuts. Assuming no improvements in husbandry or purchased inputs. Labor input is valued at USh 40
per manday. Seed costs are based on present market prices within Uganda.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL gOiABOLITATION PR0OECT
The Ginning  obk.ector,  Background Onf nration on Operating (-etine) Ctnn                   ina    ngd
DISTRICT                                             COOPERATIVE UNION                        _IN0 __lNERY                                                                      B_tl_ate of Pr _-
t6aae(n)6/                                 innrarage and Prodantino            Ginning Capanity4/        tinge         Owned       no  Feb/02       None6!    Ginning Cnpncioy5/    2000/00           1980/81l/82                    -        jand PtoductInon             n di fonIn
19EI/82             (Ron  of Gong)                         (90.1        (USh 85                 Inetallnd   mono 0  Portinond   Ginned  Pnroh annd CPnern-enni  Ongn.ed   afnsr Of          hbhgii.tinn   n Pririty
0972/73 Peak Year        Area        Eaie                                                                                                                                                 te.tiair of  SteektS/            (foank) hnnking
Enpe-ted                                                                                                                                        Year'T e Io1                  1984      0986 8/
ga'/    galon  Ginned2!  iRn   orh .ha_d in Gin   etalled  Ao-I                                                                                                                            C -nned
Aeon                        17,758      23,998          391      529      550         40       n.a.           Wect Nile       2           60.1           Rhino Coop   no.       no.         -         -         _            -        1,163         3,000       8,000         9
Poke-l         130      15       108       108       529          550        1',95         5,000       8,000          2
Adjoeai        0         .0 IO                                                  269        2,000       5,000          5
W. Atholtn 6 E. Anholi      44,326      59,900          340      462   5,000         47        39             Acholi          3           49.6           Con  R.n      27       20        762       762       283       4,000            283        4,000      15,000G         3
Gingan        On.    0.0.    139             -       014        0,000           039        4,000       7,0000         9
Porang       200        19       243       120        65            -         1,085       35,0         6,000          4
W. Langn   E. Lango         54,612      73,800        5,057   6,834   9,500          121       52            Ltagn            8           80.0           Jaber         10         9    1,576          -       863        3,50O         1,952        3 000       5 0OOn        11
Ngenna        20       -           -         -         -            -             -        3 000       8,0000         9
Abkke         18       14     1,191      1,150     1,352            -           868        5,000       8.0ooo         9
Ad oko        16        13    1,796        407       996        2,000         1,389        5,000       8,000          2
Naeo-ol        I0      no.         -         -       373          500             -        2,000       4,000          6
Odnk-olt      20        16    3,156      1,350     3,101        3,500         1,906        5,000       8,000          2
S. Teen 6 C. reeo           31,598      42,700        1,905   2,575   4,500         121         86            T.eo            9           68.3           Aropal        10        12      609        699       776        1,000           373        3,000       6,000          4
Bngondo       14       15        900       900       512        1,000           570        1,000       4,000          6
V'Rtong.ro    1 8       12    1,673    1,657    1,287           2,000           945        2,000       5,000          5
tobolobon       16    -           -         -         -            -             -        1,000       2o000n        12
Bukodi                      22,222      30,030        2,880   3,892    3,080                                  Bodsma           4          48.2           Tnkhpgo       n0       0         907       977    1'186          n.8.         1,032        2,000       3,000          0
nror          ta..   0.0.    006             -       766          880         1,472        5,000       6,000*        00
nhanl         20        10       258        92       849        1,206           359        2,000       4,000          6
B.aol-e       20        15    L,487        900     0,091        1,200           496        3,000       6,000          4
Buango                      58,440      78,973        2,206   2,982   3,080         154         79            B-nogo          7           54.8           Bulunbo       22        20       506       506       486          600           371         2,000      4,000          6
Nakivppbi    42        40    1,300       1,300     1,646        2,000           328        6,000      15,000          1
Loelogo       20        19       358       35h       850        1,000           486        2,000       5,000          5
Bnaenkneyn    20       n.a.        -         -         -            -             -        2,000       7,000          3
IaLoe..i      20       n.0.     200        200         -            -             -        4,000       8,000          2
Ngeendaa    10         0.a.       -.         -          -           -             -        1,000       3,000          7
Mbale                       19,169      25,905        1,474    1,993   4,000                                   N. Mbal        4          49.8           Tki-Tki        20       12     1,989       648     1,152        1,500         1,545         2,000      6,000*        10
Oakn          15        7      1,258       404       842        1,500         1,062        2,000       4,000         16
fi hko         10       0.0      712         -          -           -           991         1,000      4,000O
Mengo                       22,546      30,468          104      140                100         14             8uruii,         5           2.7           Be.nnonika    16        14         9         -        140            -            9         3,000      5,000          5
e.8 W. Menga
:unyoro                     16,390      22,148            -        -   1,250        40          36             Bonporo         2          46.1           nofn          20        10        53        53       122          750           122         2,000      5,000          5
M.niodi
Eubende                      0,886      12,000           68       92      300       46          24            Wa.aio           3          17.0           KLboga        20        15        27        27          2            -            -         1,000      3,000          7
Torn                        !9997       13,509          176      239    1,00        48          22            Nyakarozi        1           7.3           K-ogee        48        22       166       136       239        1,000            51         3 O0       6,000          4t
TOTAL                      305,944    413,439        14,602 19_738  32,260         717         302                            48         483.93/                      630       359   22,455    12,090    19,20         31,180        20,170       96,000   213,000
1/  Assu=ne a yield of 250 kg/ha
2/  Ona bhal  of lint - 185 kg
3/ .oclodn. dekie .oed by YIakol-ro Onion. 500 of thea debts tweoe oand no nnRBarn-a1 bhoka (520 ti 0C0).
The balancevas ned to the Ninlorry of Conpecotinen ond MarketinR.
4/ on- dnuble rnllnr gin In copoble of ginning 320 balee per year nhen operating at foil r-p-city.
The inatolied ginninBg  apacity  c ti=ate ioclode-  nhat of  esilnnt' g.onerli  and thono not intolded in tic I1 n b-oh .
5/  Clcl-1ed an - (1980/81 Unginnod Stocka) + (1981/02 Porchonen) - (1902 April Ginned Cotton).
6/  Non.n nay diffe-  feo= thoan  -urrently iOn neas they hove receontly bhee  chooged an a  -olt of  Ied   nerelog  On 1981.
7/ J One detailed  deacripiin.o of h  It-heBe glnnerie  are recorded Ino   -dy dnon  by nhe Britlsh Cocoon Grower 'a A ocl-- lno  (BCCGA)
In 1080 to beholf of nhe Gooernhent.
8/  The yrnjrrfions are mainly boned no the hiarorlcal p-oTnrnance of cto paroonIor gin.ary prior 00 1979, i.e. they are  --trapnin-fn..
of ohtt In likely no htppen on the bhgoi  of fhi  past nod In the  bh ence of a.c_nliy prnbeea.
o  Onlog rehabilitoted   lith AfDB foode; ahould only be included if rehabilitotion needa  -rg not f,.Ily  -en, ond afte- appronal
by the Cooperatliv Book (Iepl_nnnefng aggny), the AfD4, and IDA on until of-er the -onplenion oe thi AfD4 Project In 1985.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Price Projections for the Major Agricultural Products of Uganda
Which Would be Affected by the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project 1/
Coffee       Tea        Bananas        Rice         Maize    Groundnuts   Cotton    Tobacco           Cottonseed       Beef
US$/Kg      US$/Kg      US$/MT        US$/MT        US$/MT      US$/MT       US$/Kg      US$/MT          US$/MT       US$/Kg
World Prices
1981 Constant Dollars
Actual 1981               2.83       2.02          401          483          131         633           1.85      2047            288            2.48
Estimnated 1982           2.89       1.95          386          302          108         399           1.72      1863            237            2.43
Projected 1983            2.82       1.89          371          320          111         395           1.85      1910            232            2.37
1985          2.62        1.71         348           410         130          530          2.00       1960            314            2.39
1990          2.65        1.84         323           410         134          553          2.07       1998            360            2.37
In Current Dollars
Actual 1981               2.83       2.02          401          483          131         633           1.85      2047            288            2.48
Estimated 1982            3.12       2.11          416          326          116         430           1.85      2008            255            2.62
Projected 1983            3.28       2.20          432          373          129         460           2.15      2223            270            2.76
1985          3.51       2.30          466           549         174          710          2.68       2626            421            3.20
1990          4.75        3.30         578           735         240
Uganda Prices
Producer Prices           0.97       0.50          160         1200          200        1200           1.32      1000             202           n.a.
(Nov. 1982)
Ratio of Producer
Prices to 1982
Export
Prices (%)               34         26           41           397          185         301         77            54              8
1/ Prices are quoted FOB main port of export for each crop.
2/ Paid to ginners, not Carmers



- 75 -
ANNEX 12
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Price Structure of Major Export Crops in Uganda (October 1982)
USh/kg.
Coffee      Cotton      Tea      Tobacco 3/
(A) Price paid to:
Farmer I/                         96.0       120.0       50.0      100.0
Processor                         19.6        46.0       55.0        20.0
Marketing Board                   23.1        18.8        2.0        80.0
Total Payment                138.7       184.8      107.0      200.0
(B) Current Export Price
(US$/kg)                         1.6         1.66       0.94       1.89
- converted at the
official rate US$1.0 = 100    160.0          166.0       94.0      189.0
- converted at parallel
market rate US$1.0 = 280 2/    48.0          464.8      263.2      529.2
(C)  Explicit Export Tax (%) 4/        13.0        (11.3)     (13.8)      (5.8)
(D)  Exchange Rate Tax (%) 5/          71.0        62.9        62.1       64.7
1/ 1.92 kg of dry cherry is required to produce 1 kg of clean coffee; 3.3
kg of seed cotton is required to produce 1 kg of lint; 5 kg of green
tea is required to produce 1 kg of made tea.
2/ Reflecting the Second Window (auction) exchange rate in October 1982.
The rate is likely to settle at some level around UShs 200 = US$1.0
3/ Flue Cured.
4/ Calculated by the formula:
1 - Total payment to farmers, processors and marketing boards
Export price at the official exchange rate
5/ Calculated by the formula:
1 - Total Payment to farmers, processors and marketing boards
Export price at the parallel market exchange rate



- 76 -                    ANNEX 13
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Other Terms of Reference
Agricultural Secretariat
(a) Director
(b) Economic Statistician
(c) Agricultural Economist
(d)  Financial Analyst
(e) Livestock Marketing and Development Strategy
(f) Cotton Industry Strategy and Organization
(g) Coffee Marketing Technical Study
(h) Tea Industry Strategy and Organization
(i) Non-Traditional Exports Study
(j) Cost Survey of Export Crops
(k) Tobacco Industry Strategy and Organization
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(1) Agricultural Economists
Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing
(m) Accountants
(n) Engineers
Uganda Commercial Bank
(o) Project Manager
(p) Engineering Surveyors
(q) Engineering (construction) Supervisors
(r) Procurement Agent
(s) Construction and Mechanical Engineers



- 77 -                     Annex 13(a)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
Director, Agricultural Secretariat
Location          :  Bank of Uganda, Kampala
Duration of
Assignment        :  Two years from March 1, 1983
Qualifications
and Experience       An advanced degree in economics or agricultural
economics, with particular expertise in price and
market analysis for tropical products. He will also
have at least five years experience in high level
policy formulation or advise and have a solid
administrative background. Ability to communicate and
influence policy at high levels of Government is
crucial to this post.
Responsibilities    As Director of Agricultural Secretariat, he will be one
of the Government's top agricultural policy advisors.
As Secretary of the Agricultural Policy Committee
(APC), the top agricultural policy body in Uganda, he
will have specific responsibility to the Committee
(composed mainly of Permanent Secretaries) and its
Chairman for formulating coordinating and directing its
operations, including the work programs and the
submission of agenda for discussion. He will keep the
APC informed on the performance of the agricultural
sector, and assist it in the formulation of goals and
strategies for the sector. As Director of the
Secretariat in its early formative years, he will be
responsible for success in fulfilling all its functions
as the technical support unit of the Agricultural
Policy Committee. Duties will include administration;
supervision of 7 subsector studies to be conducted with
the help of consultants within the agricultural sector;
and the training of Ugandan counterpart staff in the
Secretariat. He will work closely with a counterpart
Ugandan Deputy Director.
Reporting            He will report directly to the Governor of the Bank of
Uganda. In addition, he will maintain close contacts
with all members of the Policy Committee, and
especially its Chairman.



- 78 -                     Annex 13(b)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
Economic Statistician, Agricultural Secretariat
Location             Bank of Uganda, Kampala
Duration of
Assignment           Two years from April 1, 1983
Qualifications
and Experience       A degree in economic statistics or economics with at
least five years experience in agricultural statistical
work at micro and subsectoral levels in a developing
country.
Position             He will report to the Director of the Agricultural
Secretariat, and will have a Ugandan counterpart
economist statistician.
Responsibilities    As the lead economic statistician in a
multi-disciplinary team of five expatriates and six
Ugandan counterparts, he will provide the data basis
for the Agricultural Secretariat. He will collect and
analyze data to enable the Agricultural Policy
Committee to monitor the performance and prospects of
the agricultural sector; collect data on cost/price
relationships in the sector; make projections of demand
and supply balances for Uganda's major agricultural
commodities and advise the Agricultural Policy
Committee on the policy implications; construct and
periodically update regional farm models and estimate
the availability and use of farm inputs and labor;
devise, test and implement a system for an annual
agricultural survey in close collaboration with the
Statistics Divisions in the Ministry of Planning and
the Ministry of Agriculture.



- 79 -                      Annex 13(c)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
Agricultural Economist, Agricultural Secretariat
Location             Bank of Uganda, Kampala
Duration of
Assignment           Two years from April 1, 1983
Qualifications
and Experience       A degree in Agricultural Economics or equivalent.
Minimum of five years experience in a developing
country. Minimum of two years experience in tropical
export crop production and/or commodity cost price and
market analysis.
Position             This officer will be the lead economist as part of a
team of four expatriates and six Ugandan counterparts
providing policy advice and technical support to the
Agricultural Policy Committee, a high level Government
sub-committee overseeing agricultural development in
Uganda.
Responsibilities    To examine data collected by the Bank of Uganda
Research Unit, the Agricultural Secretariat, the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Cooperatives
and Marketing, the Coffee Marketing Board, the Lint
Marketing Board, the Tea Authority and other commodity
marketing organizations which relates to development
policy, pricing, and resource allocation decisions
which the Agricultural Policy Committee will make; to
advise the Agricultural Policy Committee on the
adequacy and reliability of the data which relates to
export crops and commodity marketing and suggest what
modifications, addition or improvements are required to
the data collection and analysis process; to collate
analyze and present the data to the Agricultural
Secretariat in the format required by that body; to
make projections of demand and supply prospects for
major agricultural commodities; to advise the APC on
agricultural pricing and tax policies; to assist
Government in formulating goals for the agricultural
sector during and after the rehabilitation period and
on the appropriate strategies and policies. He will
work closely with a Ugandan counterpart Agricultural
Economist.



- 80 -                   Annex 13(d)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
Financial Analyst, Agricultural Secretariat
Location          :  Bank of Uganda, Kampala
Duration of
Assignment        : Two years from April 1, 1983
Qualifications
and Experience       Qualified Public Accountant.  Minimum of five years
professional experience in a developing country.
Experience with parastatals and Government accounting
and financial policies and procedures is necessary.
Responsibilities    The main responsibility of the Financial Analyst will
be to advise the Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) on
budget and financial policies relating to the
operations of the three agricultural ministries and
agricultural parastatals. Together with his Ugandan
counterparts, he will also advise the agricultural
ministries and parastatals on financial matters, with
emphasis on increasing their capacity to allocate,
administer and utilize local and foreign currency
resources. He will advise the APC on the financial
viability of major investment projects in the
agricultural sector and on the financial performance
and policies of key agricultural parastatals.



- 81 -                      ANNEX 13(e)
Page 1
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Livestock Development and Marketing Strategy
Study, Agric. Secretariat
Location                   Bank of Uganda, Agricultural Secretariat.  The
team will need to work closely with the Ministry
of Animal Industry and Fisheries, and with several
parastatals in the livestock sector.
Duration
of Assignment              Three months from July 1, 1983.
Responsibilities           The study will address two main inter-related
issues:
(a) Determination of the priorities in use of
funds, facilities and land, and manpower by
the Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
during the next five years.
(b) Examination of potential for improving
domestic livestock marketing strategies, and
promoting export earnings from the livestock
subsector over the medium- and long-term and
establishment of strategy guidelines for the
Ministry in order to maximize those earnings.
Specifically, the team will study and report upon the following:
(a) The role the Ministry should perform with a
constrained budget over the next five years
in providing the following services: animal
health, artificial insemination, breeding and
commercial livestock for sale, research and
husbandry extension. The possibility of
moving some of these services into the
private sector and/or for some of them to be
provided by producers' cooperatives should be
examined.



- 82 -                       ANNEX 13(e)
Page 2
(b)  Ministry's land and facilities at Entebbe and
on various units throughout the country would
be examined and recommendations on how these
facilities should be used, replaced,
improved, augmented or disposed of will be
made.
(c)  In the light of recommendations made under
(a) and (b) above, the mission will consider
the Ministry's manpower establishment and the
annual out-turn of trained staff and make
proposals for increases/reductions
accordingly.
(d)  The efficiency of the present methods of
marketing of hides and skins with
suggestions, if any, for improving export
earning from that source.
(e)  The comparative advantage relative to other
exporting countries which Uganda has in
supplying a potential export market with one
or more livestock products. If the team
considers that potential exists for
exportation in the medium to long-term, for
example of beef, goat meat or live slaughter
stock, the current constraints to the
development of such trade would be listed.
(f)   Recommend a strategy for the development of
the livestock sector over the next 5-10 years
in terms of production investments and
related human resource development.
Proposals for investments in the sector
should be such that they can be easily
prepared in some detail immediately
thereafter should funds be available in the
next five years.
Staffing
The following staff will be required to work
with Uganda professional staff in carrying
out the study.
(a)    Team Leader will be a livestock production
specialist with particular expertise in farm
management. He would have had experience in
mixed livestock/crop farming systems.



- 83 -                       Annex 13(e)
Page 3
(b)    A veterinarian with some experience in and a
wide knowledge of animal health and animal
husbandry research in Eastern Africa.
(c)    A livestock and livestock product marketing
specialist. Ye would have had experience of
export marketing into the Middle East and/or
Europe.
(d)    An agricultural economist with experience in
the livestock sector of a developing country.



- 84 -                   Annex 13(f)
Page 1
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a
Cotton Industry, Development Strategy and Organization Study
Location             Bank of Uganda, Agricultural Secretariat.  The team
will need to work closely with the Lint Marketing
Board.
Duration of
Assignment           Three months from July 1, 1983.
Responsibilities    (i)  Describe and analyze potential foreign exchange
earnings or savings from cotton and cotton
by-products over the next five years.
(ii) Describe and analyze the financial and economic
viability of cotton production in Uganda.
(iii) To determine, from an engineering and economics
point of view, the feasibility and desirability of
using imported lint in the domestic textile
industry and reserving Uganda-s lint production
purely for export.
(iv) To recommend the appropriate pricing policy for
cotton lint and cotton by-products used
domestically and exported; in particular to devise
an appropriate payments and incentive payments
scheme for producers, processors and the marketing
boards.
(v)  To recommend the appropriate production,
processing and marketing legal and institutional
framework, and in particular to review the role of
the Lint Marketing Board, the Edible Oil and Soap
Industries Corporation, and the National Textile
Board. The objective of this review will be to
increase competition and efficiency.
(vi) To recommend an appropriate development strategy
for the cotton industry over the next 5-10 years
and to identify and prepare documentation
justifying potential investments in the cotton
sector in the next five years.



- 85 -                   Annex 13(f)
Page 2
(viii) To prepare a proposal for the development of
technical, supervisory and managerial manpower
requirements of the proposed development strategy.
(ix) Recommend ways in which foreign and local private
investments can be promoted in the cotton sector.
Staffing
(i) The Team Leader will be a cotton marketing
specialist with a minimum of five years experience
in a developing country in technical and
managerial positions.
(ii) An Agriculturalist with a minimum of three years
experience in rainfed cotton production.
(iii) An Agricultural Economist with a minimum of three
years experience in the cotton industry of a
developing country.
(iv) A Financial Analyst or Cost Accountant with a
minimum of three years in the cotton industry of a
developing country.



- 86 -                   Annex 13(g)
Page 1
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a
Coffee Marketing Technical Study
Location                  Agricultural Secretariat, Bank of Uganda.  The
team will work closely with the Coffee Marketing
Board.
Duration of
Assignment                 Six months from January 1984.  The duration of the
assignment may be discontinuous.
Responsibilities
Coffee Quality and Liquoring Expert
1. To re-establish the routines and methods of
the Kampala and Mbale liquoring units -
identify remaining equipment requirements.
2.   To re-establish and re-introduce the
classification system for Mbale arabicas
initially and other deserving coffees
eventually.
3.   To introduce routines that will identify
locations producing robusta coffees of better
than average quality - producing qualities
that need no further refinement as such at
Bugolobi - identifying through this routine
cultivars that produce desirable qualities in
terms of liquor.
4.    To develop quality standards that are suited
to particular markets and in cooperation with
the marketing department of the Coffee
Marketing Board (CMB), re-establish regular
deliveries to roasters based on previously
agreed qualities.
5.    To assess and advise on the need for
specialist types produced by Bugolobi - to
determine the commercial returns such
activities show.



- 87 -                   Annex 13(g)
Page 2
6.    To re-establish a training program for
liquorers, design routines and advise CMB and
Bugihu Cooperative Union on the suitability of
trainees for further training abroad.
7.    To provide the export department of CMB with
adequate information as to the type, value and
likely market returns of specialist arabica
types being produced.
8.    To prepare for the re-establishment of
auctions for specialist coffees. To prepare
suggestions enabling re-introduction of a
second payment.
Qualifications: Coffee:
1.    Minimum 10 years experience in the coffee
industry - be proven and internationally
recognized liquorers with experience of both
robusta and arabica.
2.     Applications must be sufficiently mature and
have a background that will enable them to
successfully discuss, negotiate and initiate
policy at high level, especially with regard
to Government.
3.     Applicants must either still be active or only
very recently have retired from the coffee
industry - their independence from an existing
employer must be proven to ensure absence of
conflicts of interest.
Coffee Auctioning Expert
1.     In cooperation with the quality export and the
marketing departments of CMB and BCTJ, to
re-establish the auction system for specialist
type coffees worthy of inclusion in this
system.
2.      To design the systems that are required to
ensure proper stocking, auction preparation
and sampling of coffees, finalization of
sales, receipt of proceeds etc.



- 88 -                  Annex 13(g)
Page 3
3. To ensure methods proposed to satisfy
Government's needs in the areas of security,
guaranteed receipt of foreign exchange, timely
shipments and adherence to quota availability and
the need to fulfill all quota available.
4.   To advise on requirements for prospective
participants, to recommend licensing of coffee
buyers, brokers, auctioneers etc.
5.   To recommend training for proposed auctioneers
and where this may best be undertaken.
6.   Entry requirements are the same as those for the
quality and liquoring expert with the exception
that a reputation as a successful practicing
auctioneer in either coffee or tea is essential.
Liquoring ability as such is desirable but not
essential.



- 89 -                  Annex 13(h)
Page 1
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study of Tea Production in Uganda
Location          : Bank of Uganda, Agricultural Secretariat.  The team
will need to work closely with tea parastatals in the
country.
Duration of
Assignment        : Three months from July 1, 1983.
Responsibilities :  (i)  Describe the potential net foreign exchange
earnings during the next five years of the
existing tea acreage in estate and smallholder
tea.
(ii) Describe and analyze the financial and economic
viability of tea production in Uganda, and the
interdependence of smallholder and estate tea.
(iii) Recommend (a) the appropriate pricing policy, (b)
the appropriate production and marketing
institutional set up, and in particular review the
need for a national tea authority and if such a
body is needed, the definition of its role.
(iv) Recommend ways in which foreign and local private
investments can be promoted in the tea sector.
(v)  Recommend an appropriate development strategy over
the next 5-10 years and review the need and make
justifications for further investments in the tea
industry during the next five years.
(vi) To prepare a proposal for the development of
technical, supervisory and managerial manpower
requirements of the proposed development strategy.
Staffing
(i)  The Team Leader will be a tea production
specialist with experience of factory operation
and tea marketing. He would have had a minimum of
five years practical experience in managerial
positions within the tea industry.



- 90                     Annex 13(h)
Page 2
(ii)  An Agriculturalist with a minimum of three years
experience in tea production.
(iii)  An Agricultural Economist with a minimum of three
years experience in the tea industry of a
developing country.
(iv)  A Financial Analyst or Cost Accountant with a
minimum of three years experience in the tea
industry of a developing country.



- 91 -                      ANNEX 13(i)
Page 1
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study on the Prospects of Non-Traditional Exports
Location                      Bank of Uganda, Agricultural Secretariat.
Duration          :           Three months from July 1, 1983.
Responsibilities              1.  To assess the feasibility of increasing
Ugandan non-traditional exports (i.e. other
than coffee, cotton, tea, sugar and tobacco)
by:
(a) Determining the export parity prices of
crops or products which Uganda is able to
produce, and then defining the export
volume and quality which would warrant
export promotion; and
(b) Determining the physical feasibility and
economic costs, particularly in terms of
foreign exchange, of increasing the
quantity and quality to export levels.
2. If demand and supply conditions appear
favorable, to assess the requirements for
export promotion by:
(a) Determining what modifications in
Government policies and regulations should
be made to promote exports;
(b) Determining what further investments should
be made by way of processing, packaging,
and transport and communications to promote
exports. This is to be made following an
investigation of the experiences in export
marketing of Kenya, Senegal and Egypt;



- 92 -                        ANNEX 13(i)
Page 2
(c) Setting up an Office of Trade Facilitation
whose job will be: (i) to locate and help
remove impediments to exports arising from
public policies, government regulations,
transport problems, or from other sources;
(ii) to promote exports by exploring and
advising Ugandan businesses concerning
conditions in various export markets; (iii)
to design means of facilitating exports
while helping to guarantee the recovery of
foreign exchange, e.g. by advising
Government of "real" prices to avoid under
or over invoicing.
(d) Recommend a strategy for the development of
non-traditional exports from Uganda,
including: cereals, animal feeds,
beverages, oil seeds, fish, honey, forest
products, fruits and vegetables, spices,
with a view towards export diversification.
Staffing
(1) The Team Leader will be a Marketing
Economist with extensive experience in the
identification and preparation of export
projects in agricultural commodities not
currently important in Uganda's export
basket. He will have had at least three
years experience in successful agricultural
export diversification efforts of a
developing country in the private or public
sector. Expertise in actual marketing
activities or pricing policy is essential
for the Team Leader.
(2) An Agricultural Economist with at least
five years experience in successful
agricultural export diversification efforts
of a developing country in the private or
public sector. He must also have relevant
experience in marketing and price policy
formulation. Experience in project
identification is desirable.
(3) A Tropical Agriculturalist with broad
experience in crop and livestock
production. Experience in project
identification and preparation is
desirable.



-9                            Annex 13(i)
Page 3
3.  To ensure methods proposed to satisfy
Government's needs in the areas of security,
guaranteed receipt of foreign exchange, timely
shipments and adherence to quota availability and
the need to fulfill all quota available.
4.   To advise on requirements for prospective
participants, to recommend licensing of coffee
buyers, brokers, auctioneers etc.
5.   To recommend training for proposed auctioneers
and where this may best be undertaken.
6.   Entry requirements are the same as those for the
quality and liquoring expert with the exception
that a reputation as a successful practicing
auctioneer in either coffee or tea is essential.
Liquoring ability as such is desirable but not
essential.



- 94 -                     ANNEX 13(j)
Page 1
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Study of
Costs of Productions Processing and Marketing of Major Crops in Uganda
Location          :           Bank of Uganda, Agricultural Secretariat
Duration                      One year from July 1, 1983
Responsibilities              1.  To assess the true costs of production,
processing and marketing of major export
crops grown in Uganda (coffee, tea, cotton
and tobacco) including estimates of taxes
and subsidies. Also to assess the degree
to which farmers use hired labor, purchased
inputs and hired draft power in the
production of major export crops.
2. To recommend ways in which these costs can
be reduced and efficiency increased in the
production, processing and marketing of
these crops.
3. To estimate typical farm sizes, budgets and
incomes by agricultural zones; to estimate
typical acreage of cash crops and the
availability of family or hired labor and
the use of agricultural machinery and
credit at the farm level.
4. To assess the profitability of export cash
crops relative to that of competing
alternative crops and other economic
activities such as rural employment, and to
estimate the purchasing power of farmers
growing export cash crops in terms of their
ability to purchase consumer goods from the
proceeds of their cash crops.
5. To estimate the supply elasticities of the
major cash crops and of key competing
crops.
6. To devise and test a system for an annual
export crop survey which would assess
movements in costs of production,
processing and marketing costs; the
relative profitability of competing crops;
and the domestic agricultural terms of
trade.



- 95 -                       ANNEX 13(j)
Page 2
7. Carry out a comparative study of production
efficiency by farm size, type of
technology, the efficiency of crop
processing between cooperatively owned and
privately owned coffee factories and the
efficiency of estate versus smallholder tea
production at the farm, factory and
marketing level.
Staffing
1. The Team Leader will be an Agricultural
Economist with particular expertise in
commodity marketing. He will have at least
five years experience in at least one
aspect of the production, processing or
marketing of one of Uganda's export crops.
Experience in conducting field studies and
in examining the performance of marketing
parastatals is essential;
2. Econometrician or Agricultural Statistician
with at least three years experience in
conducting agricultural field studies;
3. A tropical agriculturalist with at least
three years experience in the production of
one or more of Uganda's export crops;
4. A Financial Analyst or Cost Accountant
familiar with the operation of marketing
boards and small-scale agro-processing
industries;
5. In addition, the successful team will need
to employ enumerators to assist its key
personnel in conducting the field surveys.



- 96 -
ANNEX 13(k)
Page 1
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a
Tobacco Industry Dev. Strategy and Organization Study
Location          :           Bank of Uganda, Agricultural Secretariat.  The
team will need to work closely with the
National Tobacco Corporation.
Duration          :           Three months from July 1, 1983
Responsibilities              1.  Describe and analyze potential foreign
exchange earnings or savings from tobacco
and the tax revenue earnings from
cigarettes.
2. Recommend a pricing structure for tobacco
farmers and the National Tobacco
Corporation that will provide an incentive
for efficiency and increased production.
3. Examine the role of credit and tractors in
the production of tobacco.
4. Examine Uganda's comparative advantage in
tobacco production.
5. Recommend an appropriate size to which
Uganda-s tobacco industry should be allowed
to grow.
6. Recommend a suitable strategy, and legal
institutional set-up for the tobacco
industry over the next 5-10 years, with
appropriate justifications for any proposed
investments in the sector.
7. Recommend ways in which local and foreign
private investments may be increased in the
sector.
Staffing
1. The Team Leader will be a tobacco
specialist with at least five years
experience in smallholder tobacco
production or marketing.



- 97 -
ANNEX 13(k)
Page 2
2. An Agronomist with at least three years in
smallholder tobacco productton in a
developing country.
3. An Agricultural Economist with at least
three years experience in the tobacco
industry in a developing country.
4. A Financial Analyst with at least three
years experience in the tobacco industry in
a developing country.



- 98 -                   Annex 13(1)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Two Agricultural
Economists/Statisticians, Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
Location          : Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Entebbe
Duration of
Assignment        : Two years from July 1, 1983
Qualifications
and Experience       An advanced degree in economic statistics, agricultural
economics, or economics with at least five years
experience in agricultural statistical work at micro
and sub-sectoral levels in a developing country with a
significant subsistence economy.
Position             The qualified candidates will report to the Chief
Agricultural Economist, Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry.
Responsibilities    Provide the data basis for the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry. He will collect and analyze data to
enable the Ministry of Agriculture to monitor the
performance and prospects of the agricultural sector;
make projections of demand and supply balances for
Uganda's major agricultural commodities and advise the
Ministry on the policy implications; construct and
periodically update regional farm models and estimate
the availability and use of farm inputs and labor;
devise, test and implement a system for an annual
agricultural survey in close collaboration with the
Agricultural Secretariat and the Ministry of Planning
and Economic Development. The successful candidates
will be required to prepare comprehensive programs
for their work which would be approved by the Ministry
and the Agricultural Policy Committee.



- 99 -                     Annex 13(m)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Two
Accountants to the Department of Cooperatives,
Ministry of Cooperation and Marketing
Location          : Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing, Kampala
Duration of
Assignment        : Two years from January 1, 1984
Qualifications
and Experience   :  Qualified Public Accountant.  Minimum of five year's
experience in financial training of cooperative society
officials or in accounting positions in cooperatives in
a developing country is essential. Experience of
cooperative auditing, supervision in Government or
banking would be an added advantage.
Position          : Based in the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing,
Kampala. The Accountants would be responsible to the
Commissioner of Cooperatives of the Ministry.
Responsibilities : Firstly, to bring up to date and audit the accounts of
the Cooperative Unions whose cotton ginneries or coffee
hulleries would be rehabilitated under the project.
Secondly, to conduct short training courses for
accountants and bookkeepers employed by Cooperative
Unions and Societies. The objective of the courses
would be to equip trainees to bring and maintain books
of account up to date. Finally, to train senior
officials of key Cooperative Unions and Societies in
financial management. In each of the above tasks, they
would be required to prepare comprehensive programs to
be approved by the Ministry and the Agricultural Policy
Committee.



- 100 -                       ANNEX 13(m)
Page 2
2. An Agronomist with at least three years in
smallholder tobacco production in a
developing country.
3. An Agricultural Economist with at least
three years experience in the tobacco
industry in a developing country.
4. A Financial Analyst with at least three
years experience in the tobacco industry in
a developing country.



- 101 -                        Annex 13(n)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for One Engineer (Ginneries) and One Engineer
(Hulleries) to the Department of Cooperatives,
Ministry of Cooperatives & Marketing
Location          : Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing, Kampala
Duration of
Assignment        : One year from July 1, 1984
Qualifications
and Experience   : Degree or diploma in mechanical engineering.  Minimum
of five years working with crop processing machinery,
at least three years of which will have been in a
developing country, in a training capacity.
Position         : Trainer responsible to the Commissioner of
Cooperatives, Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing.
Responsibilities : Training and supervision of mechanics and fitters
working in ginneries and hulleries, respectively. In
addition to machinery installation, maintenance and
repair, instruction will be given in spare parts
inventory management. The engineers will decide in
consultation with senior staff of the Ministry of
Cooperatives and Marketing whether the training will be
by course work or on-the-job. Most probably, both
forms of training will be needed. The successful
candidate will be required to prepare work programs
for approval by the Ministry and by the Agricultural
Policy Committee.



- 102 -                    ANNEX 13(o)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Project Manager
Location              Uganda Commercial Bank, Kampala.
Duration of
Assignment            Three years from April 1, 1983
Position          :   In-Line Executive Responsible to the Managing Director
of the Uganda Commercial Bank.
Qualifications
and Experience   :  Qualified Public Accountant and experienced Project
Administrator with at least five years experience in
dealing with engineering contractors in developing
countries and with international procurement firms.
Experience with installation, maintenance and/or
operation of ginneries or hulleries would be a
distinct advantage. This key post requires a
proven and self motivated operator with the ability
to work with senior staff of the largest commercial
bank in Uganda, government officials at all levels,
the Bank of Uganda, engineering surveying and
supervising firms, contractors, and a procurement
agent.
Responsibilities :  Will be responsible for planning and implementing
that part of the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
managed by UCB. This primarily involves rehabilitation
of crop processing factories estimated to cost about
US $28.3 million and the importation of recurrent
agricultural supplies estimated to cost about
US $39.2 million. In the execution of his tasks,
the Project Manager will:
(1) supervise the following firms in the performance
of their tasks related to the project (a) engineering
surveyors (b) engineering supervisors (c) construc-
tion engineers (d) procurement agent,
(2) supervise and train UCB staff assigned to work
exclusively for this project,
(3) maintain close contact with various Government
agencies and officials involved in the project, and
in particular with the (a) Central Tender Board and
(b) the Director of the Agricultural Secretariat
in the Bank of Uganda,



- 103 -                     ANNEX 13(0)
Page 2
(4) advise the Uganda Commercial Bank on (a) the
suitability of financing sub-projects proposed
under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
(b) awarding contracts for rehabilitation, and
procurement under the project,
(5) prepare semi-annual work programs and budgets,
identify problems and constraints for timely
adjustment of project activities,
(6) prepare progress reports for submission to IDA
and to the Agricultural Policy Committee of the
Government,
(7) prepare a completion report summarizing project
performance and its impact,
(8) train UCB staff-on-the-job in project management.



- 104 -                    ANNEX 13(r)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Procurement Agent
Location              Uganda Commercial Bank, Uganda.
Duration of
Assignment            About 13 months stretched over a three year period
starting from May 1, 1983.
Position              The firm or individual would be responsible to the
Managing Director of Uganda Commercial Bank to whom
it (or he) would report through the Project Manager.
Qualifications        The firm or individual will have at least five years
experience in International Procurement for Africa
and will be familiar with IDA procurement and
disbursement procedures. In particular, familiarity
with international competitive bidding is essential.
In the case of a firm, it will be an advantage for it to
be located or have a representative firm in Uganda as
knowledge of local conditions is essential.
Responsibilities      The procurement agent will maintain close contact with
the Central Tender Board and the Advisory Board of
Trade at all times. His principal responsibility is to
procure efficiently over a three year period a wide
variety of agricultural imports for use by farmers and
by marketing and processing organizations, to be
financed under the IDA credit. In doing so, the
procurement agent will:
(1) assess the recurrent import requirements of
farmers, crop processing factories and
marketing agencies,
(2) prepare specifications for import items, keeping
in view suitability to local conditions,
(3) draw up tender documentation consistent with
World Bank guidelines.
(4) place advertisements inviting bids,
(5) evaluate bids and submit recommendations for award
to UCB,



- 105 -                    ANNEX 13(r)
Page 2
(6) supervise and arrange (where necessary) expedi-
tious shipments, clearance of goods at forward
points like Mombasa and Malaba,
(7) verify suppliers invoices for payment,
(8) assist UCB in making disbursement applications
to IDA,
(9) maintain and operate appropriate accounting
records for procurement of recurrent imports,
(10) submit periodic progress reports at suitable
intervals to UCB,
(11) train UCB staff on-the-job in all aspects of
procurement operations relating to the Project.



- 106 -                   ANNEX 13(q)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Engineering Supervisors
Location              Uganda Commercial Bank, Kampala.
Duration of
Assignment            Eighteen (18) man months of field work for one
supervising engineer starting from January 1, 1984
spread over a three year period. The firm will
also make provision to employ a Ugandan Supervising
Clerk of Works throughout the period of factory
rehabilitation, expected to be three years.
Position          :  The firm would report to the Managing Director,
Uganda, Commercial Bank, through the Project
Manager.
Qualifications        (I) The Firm
Minimum of five years experience in installation
and/or operational maintenance of coffee hulleries
and/or cotton ginneries, preferably in East Africa,
and extensive experience in detailed preparation
and supervision of construction projects. A
consulting engineering background would be
necessary. It is probable that the Firm of
Engineering Surveyors will also continue as the
Engineering Supervisor, but this will not be
automatic.
(II) The Engineer
Qualified Mechanical Engineer with at least three
years experience in installation or maintenance
of cotton ginneries or coffee hulleries and in
consulting work as Engineering Supervisor.
Responsibilities :        The main responsibility of the Engineering Supervisors
begins after the award of each rehabilitation
contract. The Engineering Supervisors will
supervise closely the performance of each
rehabilitation contract under the project in
association with the Project Manager. In
discharging this responsibility, the firm will
do the following:
(1) make schedules for inspection of work in
progress and testing of structures to be built
under contracts,



- 107 -                    ANNEX 13(q)
Page 2
(2) carry out inspection and tests under above
schedules and report on technical correctness
of work in progress and at completion of
contracts,
(3) certify acceptability of materials, machinery
and spare parts which contractors propose to
order to fulfill contracts,
(4) arrange periodic review meetings with
contractors to discuss status of contract
performance,
(5) certify the correctness of invoices submitted
by contractors in respect of work-in-progress,
recommend payments and keep accounts of
contractor's work,
(6) assist in sorting out commissioning and
start-up problems,
(7) the firm's Clerk of Works will supervise the
operation of the construction engineers under
the project throughout the rehabilitation
period on behalf of the Supervising Engineers,
(8) train two engineers of UCB in all aspects of
their work on-the-job in connection with the
project.



- 108 -                    ANNEX 13(p)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Engineering Surveyors
Location          :  Uganda Commercial Bank, Kampala.
Duration of
Assignment            Eighteen (18) man-months starting from  >Iay 1, 1983 of
which three man-months would be spent in evaluating
tenders at the firm's home office towards the end of
the assignment.
Position              The firm would report to the Managing Director,
Uganda Commercial Bank, through the Project Manager.
Qualifications
and Experience        (I) The Firm
Minimum of five years experience in installation
and/or operational maintenance of coffee hulleries
and/or cotton ginneries, preferably in East
Africa, and extensive experience in identification
and detailed preparation of agro-processing
sub-projects.
(II) The Staff
At least three field staff will be required: one
with a minimum of three years experience in
installation or maintenance of cotton ginneries,
one with similar experience with coffee hulleries.
At least one of the two engineers should have
formal qualifications in mechanical engineering.
In addition one economist familiar with financial
analysis and with at least three years relevant
experience in East Africa will be required.
Responsibilities :        Broadly to assess rehabilitation requirements of
machinery and civil works at about 20 coffee
hulleries and about 12 cotton ginneries. In
selecting factories to be rehabilitated under the
Project, the engineers would assess the capacity
needs in production areas taking note of factories
currently operational and factories contracted
for rehabilitation using funds from other sources.
In the case of factories to be rehabilitated,
the surveyors will determine when and with what
capacity they are expected to become operational.
The programs for factory rehabilitation will be
made with the concurrence of the existing factory



- 109 -                   ANNEX 13(p)
Page 2
managers, will clearly specify the nature of the work
to be executed, the time schedule and cost.
Contracts will allow for cost escalation during the
rehabilitation period. The report on each factory
to be rehabilitated will also contain the following
information:
(1) current throughput,
(2) installed capacity throughput,
(3) condition of installed machinery, including
age and remaining life,
(4) list of materials to rehabilitate machinery
and buildings, with estimated costs. If the
engineer considers a factory not viable or
not worth rehabilitation or inappropriately
located, then he would report reasons leading
to that conclusion,
(5) list of materials and spare parts for two
years' operation, with estimated costs,
(6) estimate of staff and time required to affect
factory rehabilitation once materials are on
site,
(7) assessment of the existing management, the
financial condition and capital structure, and
recommended remedial action required.
The engineering surveyors will also be responsible for:
(1) preparation of detailed capital and operating
cost estimates, detailed engineering specifi-
cations and drawings, performance specifications
for contracts,
(2) preparation of rehabilitation contract packages
for procurement of spare parts and construction,
(3) drafting of rehabilitation contract, which would
include supply networks for efficient implementa-
tion, bonus and penalty clauses for early or
late completion, clauses to make provision for
performance guarantees, cost escalations and
liquidated damages,
(4) evaluating bids for the rehabilitation contracts,
including a comparison of their network with
that of bidders, and submitting recommendations
for awards,



- 110 -                    ANNEX 13(P)
Page 3
(5) preparing a network system and a breakdown of
each activity or significant milestone in the
network according to time and resources
required, showing calendar dates of commencement
and completion along with time coverage for
civil, mechanical and electrical work and
import of machinery and equipment.



- ill -                   Annex 13(s)
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for
Construction and Mechanical Engineers
Location          : Kampala, Uganda Commercial Bank
Duration of
Assignment        : One year from January 1, 1984
Qualifications   : Minimum of five years experience in installation and/or
operational maintenance of crop processing machinery in
East Africa. Most appropriately this would be a
Ugandan firm or firms provided that such a firm or
firms can be identified which has qualified and
experienced engineers on their staff and has adequate
financial status to execute contracts for the project
crop processing factory rehabilitation.
Position             The firm would be responsible to the Managing Director
of Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) to whom it would report
through the Project Manager and to the management of
the processing factories. The construction firm(s)
would be supervised by Engineering Supervisors retained
by UCB.
Responsibilities    To execute one or more of about five rehabilitation
contracts for hulleries and/or cotton ginneries under
the project. Imported materials required to execute
the rehabilitation contracts would be supplied by the
contractor(s).



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
COFFEE /a  SUBSECTOR  lb
Base Costs
UuantitY                                                    (U Shs Million)                   Phe,                        Don.
------------------Gr---------------------                   ------------------------------------------------Cont. For.   Gross   Dutk Tax
Unit 83/84 84/15 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total   Unit Cost    83/84 84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  88B/89  Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Rate Rate
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. COFFEE FACTORY REHABILITATION /c
CIVIL WORKS                            SUm      -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2        1    229.600,000      -   39.0   52.8   50.5   33.5   53.5   229.4        0      0         0    0    0
PLANT AND EQUIPMENT                    SUm       -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2       1 858,200,000.01      -  145.9  197.4  188.8  125.3  200.0   857.3         0     0         0    0    0
MACHINERY INSTALLATION  /d             SUm      -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2        1    368,110,000          62.6   84.7   81.0   53.7   85.8   367.7        0      0         0  0.3    0
Sub-Total COFFEE FACTORY REHABILITATION  /c                                                                     -  247.5  334.9  320.3  212.6  339.2 1,454.5
/a  EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30, BEGINNING WITH JULY 1  1983
/b  EXCHANGE RATE OF USSI.00 = U Shs 100
/c LINE OF CREDIT TO UCB. THESE FIGURES bRE ONLY ILLUSTRATIVE
Xd  INTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED FIRM
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TOBACCO /a  SUBSECTOR  /b
Base Costs
GuantitC                                              (U Shs Million)                Ph,.                        Doo.
-----------------------------------------                ------------------------------------------Cont. For.   Gross   Duty Tax
Unit 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  Unit Cost  83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/88 88/89 Total  Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Rate Rate
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CURING BARNS CONSTRUCTION ITEMS   SUM        -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2       1 210,000,000      -  35.7  48.3  46.2  30.7  48.9  209.8        0      0         0    0    0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                       -  35.7  48.3  46.2  30.7  48.9  209.8
/a  EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30, BEGINNING WITH JULY 1  1983                                                                                                                                    T.-
/b EXCHANGE RATE OF USSI.00 = U Shs 100
--    -  -  -  - -  -  - -  - -   - -  -  - -  -  -  - -  - -   -  - - _-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-                                                                            -
Januars 27, 1983



- 113 -
LISA                                                             AJI   14
A8RICULTURAf R1WILITATION PROJECT                                               Page 2 of 4
COTTON /a  SUFSECTOR  /b
DMs Costs
Uuantit4                                               IU Shs Klllion)                 Phv.                       DM.
Nut 83/84 84/85  ---         - ----- - ----            --------   - - - - ---- -s----o-------------Cont, For.  Gross   Duts Tax
Unit E3784 84/85 85/S6 e6/87 e7/8 88/89 Total Unit Cost 83/84 84/85  85/S6  86/87  87/88  88/89  Total  Rate  Exch. Ta,  Rate Rate Rate
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A, REhABILITATION OF COTTON
GSINERIES /c
CIVIL UORKS                    SUA      -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2       1 267,500-000     -   45.5   61.5  58.9  39.1   62.3  267.2         0      0        0    0    0
PLANT AND EQUIPNENT            SUN       -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2      1 642,300,000     -  109.1  147.7  141.2  93.7  149.6  641.4         0     0        0    0    0
TRANSPORT SPARES FOR UNION
LORRIES 784                 SUA       -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.0   0,2      1 73,500,000      -   12,5   16.9   16.2   10.7   17.1    73.4       0     0        0  0.4    0
MACHANERY INSTALLATION         SAN      -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.2       1 275,400,000     -   46.8  63.3   60.6  40.2   64.2   275.1         A     0        0  0.3    0
Sub-Total REHABILITATION OF COTTON
GINNERIES /c                                                                                    -  213,9  289,4  276.8  093.7  2.3.2 1.257.1
/a EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUNE 30. BEGINNING OITH JULY 1, 983
/b EXCHANGE RATE OF US81.00 = U Shs 100
'c LINE OF CREDIT TO UCE, FIGARES ARE ONLY ILLUSTRATIVE
U3OANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITAT0ON PROJECT
TEA /a SUBSECTOR /b
Rase Costs
Guantits                                             (U Shs Nillion)               Phb.                      Do%,
_  __ _ ___ ____---- - ----------  ---- ----------------------Cant. For,   Grass   Dut Tax
Unit 83/84 84/85 85186  B6/87  87/88 8/189  Total Unit Cost 83/84 84/85 85/86 86/87 87/08 88/89 Total Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Rate Rate
. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. LEAF COLLECTION /c
7 TAN LORRIES 782.1       UNIT     -      1    1.4    1.3   0.9    1.4      6  6,499,800      -   6.6   9.0   0.6   5.7   9,1   39.0      0     0        0    1    0
TRACTORS 7.4              UNIT     -  2.9    1.9    3.7   2.5        4      17  2,740,000     -   7.9  10.7  10.2   6.8  LO.9  46.5       0     0        0  03    0
G.L. TRAILERS 786         OMIT     -   5.8    7.8    7.5      5    7.9    34    310,300       -   1.8   2.4   2.3   1.5   2.5   10.5      0     0         0    0    0
NOT3RCYCLES 785.1         UNIT     -      2    2.8    2.6   1.8    2.8      12    362,200     -   0.7   1.0   1.0   0.6   1.0    4.3      0     0        0    1   0
RICYCLES 785.2            UNIT     -   850  1,150  1,100   730  1,165  4,895       14,400     -  12.2  16.6  15.8  10.5  16.8   71.9      0     0        0  0.3    0
4ND PICDOPS 782.1         UNIT     -   1.4    1.8    1.8   1.2    1.9       8  2,670,380      -   3.6   4.9   4.7  3.1   5.0   21.3       0     0        0    1    0
SPARES 785.78.39,786.89  SUN       -   0.2    0.2    0.2   O.1    0.2        1 40,770,000     -   6.9   9.4   9.0   6,0   9.5  40.7       0     0        0  0.4    0
Sub-Total LEAF COLLECTION  /c                                                                    - 39.9  54.0  51.6  34.3  54.7  234.4
/s EACH YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY 1 - JUNE 30. RE&INNINS AITH JUYR 1.1983
lb EXCHAN8E RATE &F US01.00 = U Shs 100
/c  FM UT8C, LINE OF CREDIT TO UCI AS THESE WOULD BE APPRAISE  ARND LENT L1OW  TERN
UGANDA
A6RICLLTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
N3NTRADITIONAL /a EXPORTS /b
Base Costs
uoantits                                            (U Shs hillion)               Phs.                      Dom.
---     -   - ----- ----- - ----------------- -  ----------- - ----- - ----- - ------    --------Cont.  For.  Gross  Outs   Tax
Unit 83/84 84/85 OS186 86/87 87/8S  88/89 Total Unt Cost 83784 84/85 85/16 86/S7 87/88 80/89 Total Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Rate Rate
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. FIEH PRODUCTSE,VOR PROIUCTS.FRUITS
HIDES AND SKINS,ANIMAL FEEDS,&RAINS      SLH    0.3   8.3   0.3   0.3     -      -     I 340,00.000  85,0  85.0  85.0  85.0       -     -  340,0     0  0.71      0.07  0.1    0
Total INUESTENT COSTS                                                                                       05.0  85.0  85.0  85.1      -     -  340.0
/a  EICA YEAR REPRESENTS A FINANCIAL YEAR JULY I - JUAE 30. BEGINNNG WITH JULY 1, 1983
/b EXCHAN&E RATE OF U41.00 = U Shs 100
Jaosars 27, 1903



- 114 -
00414014A                                                                  ANNEX  14
AORIEOLTORII   RFHA015170310W PROAFP'T                                                     Page  3 of  4
Son'.-u Account So Projert CrohFoncsl.
(LI SOs, M<lior~
TCr4TON'*TL 100TO.TOIF
TASHIr'6C     E1NI4
ASSISTANCE000 0   ASITE6CHNnr ir.AL 
000900          55375             TEA          710000A           109030        04PRC0P F6I TOO    rSVERO0T By  NnN-TPOO'10R641       -------
OCH401LIT4010N P.OHARIL1TAITON PFHA69111T4TT9  PFAABI~I1ATT06 OPFAAILITATION  000lErOT   TYIl PROJECT            EYPOPT0      rotol           Amcooft
03511f  WORKIS                                                329.4           2A7.2                                                                                                  406.        TA    A0
FiANT 460, 0851J06165                                         952.2           641.4                                                                                                1  ---    49R.7   0.0n      0.1
645614001 INSTALLATION  Io                                     67.2           UO9--                                                                                              -I092.9   0.1         I
656'I-T'A41'1T10N6L 0039$ P--  T34.    340.0   0.0n    0.0 C
TORO,PYF:T                                                        -            334             274.4           209.9                -                                                 9      00       I
T~ota  160E5T6ET COSTS                                         1.454,5         1.23 1             274,4           309.9                 -                                       40.11 3, 499.P  1l0       0.
Totol 1N51001MG CONTINGEN6CIES                                 145A.,S         1.257.;            234,4            209.0-                                                       540,0 3,40.    0.Q        5,
7,fe,                                         ~~~~~~~~73.,3     74.0            02,3                -                            --240 23.0 00                                          .
Ocreigo Exchange                                           t1248.0          1,0R1.9            19.1,9           090---149.0 '.',R'1                                                             0      I
I11. RECURPENT COSTS
0. GENEOA. 00000T169 COOTS
14010TIFJI'ES                                            ;0.               90.                                                                                                   495,9P  A,0.      0
DAIRY FARM SUPPLIES                                           -                                                               A.6           -              -                        '6A   0." 1   0l.0
50601C1005IE                                             '73_3             193---                                                                                                 91.i   IA       IA ' ~r
MIOCELI.0605U0 6A65 'OSLO                                573,             460. 1           519.4          203.4             54,4                                              I    41.400,0   01,0  0,0,
AILL 00PACSIMS ANMP 0400160 6447ER3010                   203.4            52, 171091-                                                                         Q1400 IO                              .0
HERBICIDES                                                    -               -           174.9            1 10,)6           9.6           -              -                     34.0 C) 0.0      IA
FO TIL1ER                                                    -                             1.0-                               3, -                         -                -    30.9   0,0       0.A
TRANSPORT                                                                                                   it  3.           66.2 7                                               97.7   0.0 0, 
V411905                                                       --                                                            192,7           -- 102.'   0.0                                        0.0r
NISCELLAMEOSS  IMPORTS                                        -                                             1 .  4,5          2,7---                                               04   0.         .
MTSCELLANEOUS COFFEE EQUIPMENT ANMP SPARES               141,0                -                                                                                             -   '41.0   0.0       0C.
WON-T9401IT1066L EXPORTS                                     --                                                                 ---230.0   220.0   0.0                                            C, 0
Sub-Total GENERAL OPERATING COSTS                         j.M970            .,446.1           71A,3           474,6            71A,1                                       '  20.0 4,903.0    M,0     0.
Sub-Total INCLUDING COWTI60E6CIE0                         I 2 925 I-            .             p4.             4T, '6.1 I                                                    2.   .0,          .        ,
Oases                             1~~~~~3.0        142.7            20~~"~.0F        36. 2            103                           -3.0 A 430.1   00
90regar, 032649095                                       055.           1,17336           61'.2            W921              30",9          -              -            30.0      .A1,    0.0~    0.0
0, TECANICAL ASSISTANCE                                                  -       ----                                                      105           3. -                       495,4   0.0       0.
Slob-Tite~l 19C010060 CONTIMOEMCIES                              -               --                                                -       9             049 0                     495.4   0,01      0',0
Taxes                                                         -               -                -                -               -                                           -           111 ",0    0,
Foreign Exchange                                                                                                                                       -  ---  39s               39.      .1       0.
Total RECURRENT3 COSTS                                        S.92.0           0,40.1 3l34,3                      A40.6            739,;I      i A  0505      '   0     ~      230.0 0.090,5   A,         0.0
Toal,8  INCLUDING CONTINOENCIES                               1.292,2          l,4.               '34.2           474-5            236.;        905            4  0)           230.05 p.199.     Ol       0.0A
Taves                                                        139.1            j4M,              28.5             36-             I l0.                      i.                20.-0   492.3   0.0       i
Foreign Exohan4e                                              055,5 -       1032.              161 3.2          91,1            Ai3'.9P     ipl            "r   139A20.0 4,30r4.1   0.0                0.0
Total 00001190 COSTS                                            3.396,4         2.037r'Q p. 94.5                    594.A4           30. 1       '5.            W.1~              A  04.0 0,904.3   0. I   'tO.r
Tofol PROJECT COGSTS                                            3746.4          2.753.3            069.5            084.4           7O6_1        100.0         3450              540.0 89.94,2   0.0,    T.0
Too eo                                                        266,5            317.5             Q5.2              6.             10,                        1                 44.0A  69I.o  0".0-    0,1 
Foreigso Etb~aoae                                             03.222,5         215.7 345.3                      4 95,o           6.30,0p     lp-            -r  s             4339.   *40.5t -TT25P   00  0.I
02 iNTER6ATIONALLO RECROITES 2106
J- - - -  - -- - - -  - -- --n-    -- -  - - - - - - - - - --o-    - - --  - - --o      - - - - -- - - -  - -- -  - - - - - - - - - --  - - - -  -- - 10--      - -  - --03-     - - - - - - - -  -- - - - -  -



- 115 -
184406                                                             60348AEX 14
A8RICLLTL8 3    80LI8TATION 0PRJECT TeT                                           8 e T0 4 08 
Suears Actou,t Os Tie
ase5
Costs +
Price
Coot. on
Base Costs                      Base
It Shs milli.o)                  Costs   Foreign Elchango
------------------------ -- __----------------- (DSs   ----------------
UIis      Snot Cost     No. of Units 83/94   84/85   85/a6 86/87 87/88  8/E9  Total   MallohI    0    Toist
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
CluTL WORKS                                       229,600.000-267,500.            2      -    84.5  114.3  109.4  72.6  115.8  496.6          5.0  82.8    461.1
PLANT AND E8U808E84                               642,00000-958.200,               2      -  255.0  345.0  230.0  219.0  349.5 1,498.7    15.0  92.9   1,3SI.6
6ACHINERY INST4LL6TIDN  /a                        275S,400DO0-609,110             2      -   109,4   148.0  141.6  94.0  149,9  642.9         6.4   66.5    427.3
NON-TR411TTDO41 0 EXPORTS 0340.000.00                                              1   5.0   E5.0   85.0  85.0         -      -  348.0        3.4  70.6    240.0
TR4NSPORT                                           14,400-210,000, 0         5075       -    88.1  118.2  114,0   75.6  120.7  517.6        5,2  5TO3      301.8
Total INVEDThENT COSTS                                                                   85.0   622,0  811.6  750.0  461.2  736.0 3,495,8      35.0  BO.7  2,821.7
Total INCLODISN CDNTIENCIES                                                              85.0  622.0  811,6  780.0  461.2  736.0 3.495.8    35.0  80,7  2.921,7
Taxes                                                                             -   6.0   42.6   55.6  53.4  31.5  50.2  239.3               -   e.0        0.o
Foreigo tEchanse                                                                  -   60.0  499.3  654.4  628.5  377.3  602.1 2,821,7           -    0.0       0.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. GENER4L OPERATINO COSTS
1NSECTOCIEAS                                         1,150-575,000       81.828   38.2  252.8  204.7        - -            5495,8        0.0  87.0    431.1
08RY FARM B138PLIES                            13,19 A000-54,000,00           3   6.7   44.2   35.8          -     -      -    86.6       0,9  76.2      66.0
FUhNICIDES                                       345,000-3,220,000          300   14.8    97,7   79.0       _             -   691.6       l,9  67.0    166.6
MISCEL.PNEOUS HAND TODLS                            73-191.406000       762,869  108.5  718.7  582.0        -      -       - 1,409.3    14.1  78.1   1.100.4
ALL P4CKASING AND  68001N4   60TERI8LS                 218-230 0,0    2.482,804   88.5  586.4  474.9         -     -      - 1,148.9      11.5   69.9    804.0
HE BICIDES                                         14-59,685,000      272,491   23.5  155.5  125.9         -     -       -  304.9      3.0  87.0    265.2
FERTILISERS                                         173-55,315,000       40,17  19.9  132.0  106.9         -      -      -   258.8      2.6  87.0    225.0
OTNER                                          1,495,000-21,735,000           4    3.0   19.8    16.0        -      -           38.8      0.4  8'.S      33.7
TRANSPORT                                     2,300,000-31,000,000           22    7.5   49.8   40.4        -      -      -    97.7       1.0  79S8      'S.0
VACCINES                                                3.84-99.19   12,700-000    7.9   52.4   42.4        -      -      -   102.7       1.0  86.9      89.3
ACARICIDE                                                   11,354       24,000   21.0  139,0   112.5       -      -      -   272.5      2.'  87.0    237.0
DRGSS                                                  21.83-42.9B    2.250,000    5.0   33.1   26.S        -      -       -    65,0      0.6  86.9      56.5
ANT4ELM9N01CS                                       793.5-10,421.3       10,70    2.2    14.9   12.0        -      -      -    29.2      0.3  87.0       25.4
MISCELLANEOUS IPORTS                          2,300,000-34,500,000           3    3.0   20.1    16.3       -      -      -    39.4      0.4  87.0       34.3
hlSCELLAlEOUS COFFEE EQUIPMENT AND SPARES         3,625-72,500,000        8,508   10.9   71.9   58.2        -      -      -   140.0      1.4  73.1    103.0
NIN-TRADIT00t6L EXPORTS                                220,000,000             1  55.0   55.0   55.0  55.O         -      -   220.0      2.2  90S.      200.0
Sub-Total 0ENER9L OPER0 TING COSTS                                                  415,6 2,443.3 1,989.I  55.0       -       - 4,903.0    49 .   79,9   3,915.i
Sob-Total INCLUDINS CONTINGENCIES                                                   415.6 2,443.3 1,999.8  55.0       -      - 4,903.0    49.0  79.9  3,915,.4
Tacos                                                                         -  36.7  214.7  174.B   5.0          -      -  431.1         -    0.0       0.0
Foreign txcoaxie                                                              - 336. 11,944. 81,584.4   5.0        -      - 3,915.4        -   0.0        0.0
P. TECHNICAL  8507s88T8E                             . 30-2.850,000          1,370  292.9  132.8   47.5    0.5  10.8         -  495.4       0.0  79,5      3S8.7
Sbt-Total ICLUDINS C3NTINSENCIES                                                   2792,9  132.8   47.5  81.0   10.8        -  495.4       5.0  78.5    388.7
Ta-es                                                                         -   2.8      8.2    0.1    0.0    0.0       -    11.1        -   0.0        0.0
F.mgon  Exchange                                                              -  236.4  101.0   39.6   6.2   5.5          -   38s.7        -    0,0       0.0
Total ECEURENT COSTS                                                                    708.5 2,576.1 2,036.6  66.5  10.8        - 5,398.5    54.0  79.7   4,304,1
Total INCLUDIl.l CONTINGENCIES                                                          708.5 2,576,1 2,036.6  66.5  88.8        - 5,398.5    54.0  79.7   4,304.1
Taco                                                                              -  39.5  222.9  174.9   51.0   0.0          -  442.3         -    0.0       0.0
For.eos Elchange                                                                  - 572.5 2,045.9 1,674,1   56.2    S.5       - 4.304.1        -     .0       0.0
Total BS040ELE C05TS                                                                     793.5 3,198.1 2.848,1  846.5  472,0  736.0 8,S94.2    88.9  9O.8  7.125.B
Total PRDJECT COSTS                                                                      793.5 3.198.1 2,848.1 846.5  472.0  736.0 B8E94.2    BS.9  88.1  7.125,8
Ta-es                                                                              -  45.5  265.5  230.4  5B.5  31.5  50.2   681.6              -    0.0       0.0
Foreign Occhasge                                                                   - 632.5 2,545.2 2.218,4  684.7  382.8  602.1 7.125.8         -   0.0        0.0
Ia 14TERNaTI NALLY RECRUITED F1Mi
AGRICULUR4L R84600LITATID8 PROJECT
Prot Coaronet bt Ti.n
N Ohs Milliton
Total
Base Costs                 ------__
----------------------_---------------            (uBs
B3/84   84/85   BS/96  86/87  87/88  88/89   0 Shs Nolloon)
a. CSFFEE REHAB9LIT00T8N                                 9s95 906.4  8685  370.3  212.6  339.2 2.746.4    27.5
8. C2TT0N REHABILITAT0IN                                 111.4  951.4  86.7  276.8  03.7  2793.2 2.703.3    27.0
C. 088 RE84BILITATloN                                    56.5  414.3  357.2  51.6  34.3  54.7  9Q6.5            9.7
B. TBBaACCOD 8EaB8L8TI00N                                36.5  277,8  244.3  46.2  30.7  89.3  694.4            6.8
8. L48EST10CK 8U58EC08R 8E88BL0T4T0 DN                   56.7  375.4  304.0        -      -      -  7T6.1       7.4
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I. 0EC4I40CAL ASIST3C1 CDUEREO BY EA4LIER PROJECT     61.0   58.8   27.2   2.1    1.4         -   150.5      1.9
2, T0ECKtIC6L ASS0T0ANCE C00RED 87Y T0IS FR3ECT      231.9   73.9    20.3    9.4   9.4        -   345.0      3.4
Sub-Sotal TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                          292.9  132.8   47.5  11.5  89.8          -   495.4      5.0
0. 404-TRADIT08 lAL EXPORTS                             140.7  140.0  1040.0   40.0       -      -  560.0       5.6
Total :,IBASEL     COSTS                                  793.5 3,198.1 2.848.1  846.0  472.0  736.0 8,894.2    B8.9
Total ROJECT CSTS                                         79325 .3198,1 2.84P,1  846.5  472.0  736.0 9,894.2    98.9
Tanes                                                   45.5  265.5  230.4  08.0  31.5  00.5  681.6            6.8
F-ago EOccha                                           632.5 2.545.22,7B8.4   684,7  382.8  602.1 7.125.      781.0
Janans 27, 1983



Annex 14
- 116 -                                     Page 5 of 5
UGANDA
AGRICLLTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Component b. Time
(U Shs hillion)
Total
Base Costs                   -----------
(US$
83/84   84/85   85/86  86/87  87/88  8R/89   U Shs  Million)
A. COFFEE REHABILITATION                                    99.5   906.4   S88.5  320.3  212.6  319.2 2,746.4        27.5
P. COTTON REHABILITATION                                   111.4   951.4   886.7  276.8  183.7  293.2 2,703.3        27.0
C. TEA REHABILITATION                                       56.5   414.3   357.2   51.6   34.3   54.7   9A8.5         9.7
D. TOBACCO REHABILITATION                                   36.5   277.8   244.3   46.2   30.7   4R.9   684.4         6.8
E. LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR REHABILITATION                       56.7   375.4   364.0       -       -      -   716.1       7.4
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COVERED BY EARLIER PROJECT       61,0    58.8    27.2    2.1    1.4        -   150.5      1,5
2. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COVERED BY THIS PROJECT         231,9    73.9    20.3    9.4    9.4        -   345.0      3.4
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                             292,9   132.8    47.5   11.5   10.8        -   495.4       5.0
t, NON-TRADITIONAL EXPORTS                                 140.0   140.0   140.0  140.0        -      -   560.0       5.6
Total BASELiNE COSTS                                         793.5 3,198.1 2,848.1  846.5  472.0  736.0 8,894.2       88.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          793.5 39198.1 2.848.1  846.5  472.0  736.0 8,894.2    B8.9
Taxes                                                      45.5   265.5   230.4  58.5   31.5  50,2   681.6          6.8
Foreign Exchange                                          632.5 2,545.2 2,278.4  684.7  3P2.8  602,1 7,125.8       71.3
January 27, 1983



UGANDA COMMItERCIAL BAiNK
ORGANISATION CHART
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
j~~~~~~~~~            -
I _ 2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



UGANDA AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION CREDIT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Presidential Economic                                                     Board of 
Advisory Committee                                                        Directors, UCB
(PEAC)                                                                          l
I                                                                 |Managing
Agricultural Policy                                                       Director, UCBI
committee (APC)                                                                 I
AgrIBanc                 and S    Chief Credit       E
2AgriculturalE          Agricultural                            Ua                                 Manager, UCB i
tistrics Di& iSecretariat                        Moiorn
rParastatals                    lt|aonlyecri
l            l               _            l     .r                                            Manager |I
AnaliA                                                      a Economic  P                    I                                                       en
ofalysis; coor d inationg            esoce
.of 6 sub-sector studies          Allocation     Rec irrent                   Engineering Surveyors    |Construction          UCB Appriasal|C
Agpriutur               land Supervisors      Si    Engineers       .Staff          JI
2 Agricultural Economists ia                                                                      A             E
_of Agriculture and FSoresMiistr             and Evaluation              I                   I/  STAFF COMPOSITION
Procurement                 Internationally Recruited
|2 Accountants to the Ministry|                                      Agent and                   - Director and Secretary of APC (Agricultural Economist)
.   fCooperatives and Marketing|                                    Officer                     - Agricultural Economist
- Financial Analyst
- Agriculturalist
2 Engineers to the Ministry                                                                      - Economist/Statistician
[of Cooperatives and Marketing
Locally Recruited                                                  H
- Deputy Director
- Economist/Statistician                                           x
- 2 Financial Analysts                                             m
- Evaluation Officer
- Agriculturalist
- Agricultural Economist
The Secretariat would be responsible for the following
components of the Project: (a) Pricing and Resource
Allocation; (b) Marketing Issues; (c) Technical
Assistance Coordination; apd (d) Training



29                    30                      il-O'                  32                    i33'*                                     NOVEMBER 1982
-4-                                           9- ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S U  D A  N  /(94
UGANDA                                           9f--. 
ANNUAL RAINFALL                         f-              .-M./    ,    <'_/3 ;    K E NYA
52   Spot Values, in  .nches                                                                                      KS_XSASoZ /o> 94 I 4\30,2KbonS
--SC0  [sohyets, in inches                                                          j5  6 84Z\7.* ta 4 4  z21  
-.-nte rnaOtilonaCl Bo u nda,es    _      
-3-~~~~                                  ~~~~~~~~~ OA  _an  _4                                                                        3-2 '  ir3{(t     - 3
-2-               A     i       /X  >--    48      <  ,'- /  2     Xt  5 X,\V 48      ,3446rV       3 2 $t)     <   2t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i   g r '   ;                    0                    0                                       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 52 2;6  :91 0k,0'ot
"i1   /   /50   tu   39     aDl   46             '/,,f,                              Ic          l~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
4  W  -~~~eMba  rj>  J0i /Jb! o t/ @ kb() ? ..... i \ SUDAN <: ETHlOPIA~~5   1
t   i   4   #'  t- .: t- 1/'i '. ,.( ....... , . j > \ c~~~~5
t ,5t \ tvt 0 5D 100 ' ..... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LSO8le ZIE-H'lENA 0
\XXt-4\u>Kabole j    %  T   A   z   ASN   I  A    o       30        60         90 MRes           RWAit 42           ,
29-   /   t30  RWANDAX  3ll-  t J 9"" /~~~~-"^ ~P--USo xv rldsEemen tX TANZANIAJ  tI    






IBRD 16789
29'                   3b.                     3'1                     3'2                     3'3'                   X                   NOVEMBER 1982
-4-              UGANDA                                          xoS  U   D    A    N                                                                 40-
FARMING  SYSTEMS                                                                            IN,,-     / >t    K E N Y A
i      Teso System             J                            W ''            , 
2    Plantr.ln- R.busTa Buqcnda)                                                                                  "Kaolb t'-'tS    \n' -
Syste,                                                                       K,tg-e
_  z!Plantai-Millet-Cotton Are.s       _     5     -       '\       '         Ktu''                       .  
|      Northe-n System                        +v                     I    ~                         -  - 
|8    West Nile System                      hn         -   />1            \I                              -  
~3  [ *d } Montane Syslem (Banana ond Coffeel      ra c m 5/_\                      \4,                   }0          043
X   8   Pasto,al System                                    r    J     }--/                                  
g   /  Xm ~~~ >    X  ~   OGulu         -.                   !              ) 
Ri vers                                                                                                             Mo ot l
--Internat onal Boundaries      p    |gPkah                                                                              ooo 
N1.9                       .    '                          '   \N/ 
Ji g                                                                                X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
-2-y                                                                                                                                             2 5 0    , j   .      ulz~    )i         X- 
X S6AMDAIA f f, * X S'~~~o
9   t  X   (    0   7   \  3      >//    ,   , .,   2 >                            . {_   X  S U D A N    <  E I I  0? A~~~~"Sorot
</)Fx   5     -  oMxbara>_                   (                                                  !     *            kt~~~~~~~~~~d  J
0  2  9  X < v 0 ! A rrio ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
~1   |     <             /    0   t               50         10         150 Kiloer;rs   Z A  R E    t 3sV rfcrED   t 
uy?< KCAbOle y  \  T  A a N   Z A IN I)            O         300                  90MlsRA                                 '
)~~~~~~~'                                                                                             T.&h>> / h h r &avsthlekrrdtde   \TNAI    Nn/
29/        ?    0                       1            -e          2  o  rscefsJhbd~e   V 1U o dyrVloyCdV  mdlsmolr,to,  






IBRD 16790
29'                     10'                       31'                       32                       33'                    /                      NOVEMBER 1982
UGANDA                                            S U  D A  N                                                                           4
COFFEE-GROWING AREAS
,~~  ~    /                      KENYA
Predo-ianily Robusra          Z*          f                                                                  ,  (Kacbong
Coffee Areas                        -        '        7    7.                                                      0KooJ
Predo-ionrly Arobico
Coffee Areos                   1                                              Kirgum                                      1 
Botb Rob.sta and Arobico        r                                ' I  '       -
Coffee Areas
ZAin Roads
Railways
- . z   RIversae o a    Boundar-es
-2-                                               \                    5-_         2       .).< 2-
2' 
t29- ~ ~~~~~~~~~                           =         Y        ~         \    \\                                     -      ~      c7oo 
-0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
T   A    N    ZA    N   I  A  0  30  60        9OMiIes~~~~~S UD   N               THIPI
Kab~~~~~~~
D\A/AI'I5sA              an,,,,,. an,i,,onrni, Oo,,vvi,u,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~211
29'  ,~~~'   2z






IBRD 16791
2C83091-A                                                                    3'2-          ~3-0/                                                      NOVEMBER 198,2
-4'                   UGANDA                                           '-S  U   D  A    N                                     o/        S4
COTTON-GROWING AREAS                                                                                    ._                        ;    KENY
9 10,000 Ac,es Cotton                 *y                        -_A.5*'                                                     ,Kcog
c_Rivefs                                         *t,Katg-                                                                           J    
- -Intemactional Boundalries            / ~ ,            \9(n(              ,     .(4                                  t   
-3                                                 OA,uo  Rhino:,                                                                                                   3  ( 
|     PgbkwachR.)         .                                                                      0 ,7 , ) XO \
-2                                                                                                                                                                  2   ;    - @@@/wX(2
X  gX  *  Mosinc,1O  5  o @ }M. , $,V1 Bis/E7 7 v X~~~~~~~~~~Ir
''  g    '/ /  f ' _  < "'; 'V' @ ,''' ','.'w.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s't' X                                         f 1 
<\> /   t)      /    g<c7olne    /-~~             @      prlo        A9PAL  *                    :      ./        S 
O.   }?(   *C_t,-'',;'S  '  ,   '/':",5'  |  '                                              '>t|\    /                          C'8~~~~(Kopch'~a(
/ ;7Are j:   X  /    McsclkcD   ;, ',   .                                           j3t      t  ~~~~~~_m .
AV                   0                             0Ml -de                          0          0           S  lomtr                       VIrra t
\9 <, Ke brile 2 ~~~~~~~\ T AN _,,5 A 9N1 1 AA o~~~~J,ni 30 DrwAlieRWN,  
> , 1 ,: Thss olX has bven r es5rMed br                  K#A'AL  Wol   0t weu V{lteCnVNCtuUD 
r   ~ Wt                                        }       buaar.70wo(e57pO8Ut@dl64Eh hdeanl*/esJeedte7                \TAZNI   <</dLr
2<7  /  X; 30 DA } 31 (z;'' " 32 acoeploncooshb>Utod Ih<=le7s3/5ttvsofanyB7sxJorsoranvsed7h7entso Vf3Od<d 7~~~~~~~~~D



I



IBRD 16719
20'<                                                \             32s                                                              /34_,                                                                     0(20_2' 0C 982
S U          F?-. A N
\'N S  U  D  A  N  .                   5   K E N Y A                                          'N
\   . 2   '\  ,/\'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t_  n  ~~~~~~~~  /                               \    '\                    2~~~~~~~~~~ A I R E   jG N A  
' / ~~~ 2 (3S >1 t !pModt Opel~~~5/                                    (0 0              DKsRIseg   zUt
)(  0ArvSa                                                                         IAL   510/A                              \,                      kt3-+cooiNsU2/'  )EANI4 
/                                                                                                             N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/V 1 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V4
Z     A      I     R     E        Q          -. R c //                          \          V    '       >fi        F A S 7  .4 C-//O//          9 /            \3RID 
Cs                                                                                                                        TMosf                                     A N Z 
4 / >(s 5 tNLosongla 0 trMbsblla / GANDA
'N- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -
/   )          '             )      t >                        g  '., sU f 2/Vs Ch ''.     ?        <     ty .s o    4  'a2oU                                                    2VV220VvkVV i
10  F t S  /                j,     -    ,               LZ                              4,            t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vui~,iv VVIiV
'@Mbo/                               roso    !,/,|    
,- + -*j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /  T                                  .         .          Si}XKome-2ndn r o~
( ~ ~    ~     ~ ~ 7   ARaKbae  t ,V                                            ' Ti  -   A Ni Z5                                                            KapcIAhoNllrnwo/4'
z-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7N                                                                                           tao jo RWANDA                 7'9                     UGANDAg(t<
KVLi-,vv                                \ PVRVI9EV                      Kvc<~~~~~~~~~~~~L
FortPortal          MobS/oVA                                                                          Tororoo  .0~~~~
Bvn<v A.~ I,k v\,/vviOHrPli  od
2                        -w~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
TN   ppl                  <27          9
pig~~~~~~~~j-mbl                                                                      UGn 9-      ItrAioabuNDA re
Masaka~~~~~~3s  7'V~~~~~---  ~~~~              I                     -     ~      ~     ~     ~     g-e6
F-t bPraraI                           OSEN1
/v Fa ", I I<
xJ baie1   I  T  A  N  Z   AN    I  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                               EN  Ab-.,e
I r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~'{5~~    ~   RWANDA                                   (02                                                              '                                                                            20'sak9






IBRD 16792
29                              30                              30                                32              ~33                                                                         NOVEMBER 1982
UGANDA                                                          -S  U  D  A  N
MAIN TEA- GROWING AREAS
Tea Areos g^ , jOX t/ .- ~~~~~ \ . _. / / ~K E N\ Y A
MkTea Areas 
*  AEL Factory  n Operation                           ..A    ,                         -
I Muzr              3. Mwenge            5. Kiko                                            -y           '        ,          '                                            Kaobang
2 Bugoibe           4 Ankole             6 Salanra                                                                             l~ \C
*  UTGC  Factory Under Construction:                                              C .,                                   Kitgun J;            I >                  9
7. Kyenloio         8 B,h.eju       R     . fttyon  s(%0:- |' 
X  UTGC Factory in Oper.r,on                                            R
10. Mpango           12. Igaro           14 KIb.lolo                    Rhino
11. Kayonza         13 Mabale                                 Aruf                                                                                                                                         3
*  Prop2oed UTGC  ftctory formeirly qnprGate osnerssip         \
15. Kisaru          17. Kaoko            19 Nym.era   /                                                                       .
16. N.kalasa        18 Meru Mer,
0  Proposed AEL factory fotmeerly 2pr vte osnership:                                                                                                                                M.rot a       \
20. Kasack. (5tre) 21. Kaka-de
A  Other factories formerly in yrivate ow n ership,                                      cTM"'0  4
22. S.saliya         24. Yamungu-Mengi 26. Kiian                                                                                        3\
23. Mengo           25. Reenzori         27 Lawsla
-2                                            28. Mutesa-KiwaluJ
V  Other factory abandoned
29. Hiitna (Mucobese)
Main Roads
Intern-t.onal
Boundares
S U DAN N         ETH  PiA
y) < gj)<~~~~Mba_ as                        L. Mbaro- 
ZAIRE   ,              KENYA   (0
0 _ =  f   D  50             100            150 Kdloretess .,                      /  Vmrtor.a
IA               0             30             60                   .sRWDANO~.                                
Af  <Kate/_t  A      T     A<l   , <             N      I ~~~~~~~~~~,'r's6noa abe~rng -andbrhs5'andOoeatr 6bv0,nis'sin' POf tilezevns           ByRA_s OI
NDA  tnsnv,,,o,ais,dh ior,o h, pnt                                                                    s,iJeo,k.,ia,ss                 V    TANZANIA
29                                                               313                              32 ,tr'i,ssstrirhio n'agi l5lrt 5      tos,  invo ers emsd t                     '                  pOro,I



