Document of e
The World Bank   h                   iU  w
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
i '' AtL CO' Y 
Report No. P-3455-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$70 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 1, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                     Uganda Shilling (USh)
US$ 1.00                =         USh 100.0 (First Window)
US$ 1.00                =         USh 250.0 (Second Window)
USh 1.00                =         US$   0.01 (First Window)
USh 1.00                =         US$   0.004 (Second Window)
On August 23, 1982, the Government introduced a dual exchange
rate coupled with a 5% devaluation of the official (First Window) exchange
rate. The exchange rate in the Second Window is market determined through
weekly auction and subject to fluctuations; it has steadily fallen from
USh300 to the Dollar in August 1982 to USh250 to the Dollar in mid-November
1982. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal and President's Report have been
made at the First Window rate, which is applicable to all external
assistance projects.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Uganda  :        July 1 - June 30
Uganda Commercial Bank:        October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APC          =   Agricultural Policy Committee
AS          =   Agricultural Secretariat
CMB         =   Coffee Marketing Board
CTB         =   Central Tender Board
GDP         =   Gross Domestic Product
LMB         =   Lint Marketing Board
NTC         =   National Tobacco Corporation
UCB         =   Uganda Commercial Bank
UDB         =   Uganda Development Bank
UTGC        =   Uganda Tea Growers' Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Uganda
Beneficiaries:  Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB) and Bank of Uganda
Amount:          SDR 63.5 million (US$70 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Relending        (a)  Government to UCB:  up to 15 years, including 5 years
Terms:                of grace, at 6.5% annual interest; maturities
eventually to match the aggregate of sub-loan
maturities; and
(b) UCB to sub-borrowers: up to 10 years, including grace
periods of up to 3 years, at not less than 14% annual
interest.
The Government would carry the exchange risk against a
charge of 1% per annum to be paid by the sub-borrowers.
Commitment Fee: Standard
Project          The Project's objective of increasing foreign exchange
Description:    earnings from agricultural exports would be achieved
through:
(a) rehabilitation, financed through a line of credit to
the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB), of: about 20 coffee
factories; 12 cotton ginneries; smallholder tea leaf
collection facilities for the Uganda Tea Growers'
Corporation (UTGC); tobacco curing barns; and
processing facilities of non-traditional exports;
(b) provision of imports, in line with the Government's
Recovery Program 1982-84, required to sustain and
increase the production of agricultural exports and
livestock;
(c) strengthening of the Government's pricing and resource
allocation mechanisms by establishing and staffing an
Agricultural Secretariat; and
(d) improving marketing for coffee, cotton, and non-
traditional export crops, including livestock, through
detailed studies of their institutional framework and
policy prerequisites.
Risks:           The main risk facing the project is the unstable security
situation in Uganda. However, security has already
improved considerably during the last year and is expected
to improve further, especially as the economy recovers.
The second risk is the possibility of delays in delivery of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- It -
project items and implementation of the project. The
proposed implementation procedures, organization and
management structure of the project are, however, designed
to minimize the risk. The use of professional engineering
surveyors and rehabilitation contractors within UCB are
specifically important.
Estimated                                            Local   Foreign   Total
Costs:                                               -----(US$ million)…
Coffee Subsector                     5.4       22.0      27.4
Cotton Subsector                     4.9       22.2      27.1
Tea Subsector                        2.0        7.7       9.7
Tobacco Subsector                    2.0        4.8       6.8
Livestock Subsector                  1.0        6.3       7.3
Non-Traditional Exports              1.2        4.4       5.6
Technical Assistance                 1.1        3.9       5.0
Total Project CostlJ               17.6       71.3      88.9
Financing                                            Local   Foreign   Total
Plan:                                                -----(US$ million)-----
Proposed IDA Credit                   -        70.0      70.0
IDA Tech. Asst. Credit
(Credit 1077-UG)                  -         1.3      1.3
Government of Uganda                 0.3         -        0.3
UCB                                  4.6         -        4.6
Beneficiaries of Imported
Agricultural Inputs             12.2         -       12.2
Bank of Uganda                       0.5         -        0.5
Total Project Cost                  17.6       71.3      88.9
Estimated
Disbursements:                              ----------(US$ million)---------
IDA Fiscal Year FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89
Actual         0.2   8.7  30.8  24.0   3.2   2.0   1.1
Cumulative    0.2   8.9  39.7  63.7  66.9  68.9  70.0
1/ Including taxes and duties totalling US$6.8 million equivalent.



- iii -
Iate of
Return:           Not applicable.
Appraisal
Report:          No. 4150-UG dated January 26, 1983.
I



0          a
I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR AN AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Uganda for the equivalent of SDR 63.5
million (US$70 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an
agricultural rehabilitation project.  The Government would channel US$25.1
million of the proceeds of the credit to the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB)
for a maximum of 15 years at 6.5% per annum interest. The Government would
bear the exchange risk against a fee of 1% per annum to be charged to sub-
borrowers. UCB would on-lend the funds to final beneficiaries for the
rehabilitation of coffee, tea, tobacco and cotton production and processing
facilities, with appropriate maturities (depending on the subproject) not
exceeding 10 years and at 14% per annum interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in August 1981 and its report,
entitled "Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 3773-UG) dated
March 31, 1982, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages: a favorable climate (with two rainy seasons in most parts of
the country); fertile soils; a well-established indigenous smallholder
sector producing a widening range of export crops (coffee, cotton, tea, and
tobacco) and an ample domestic food supply; a small industrial sector con-
tributing exports of textiles and copper; a well-developed transport infra-
structure; an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity; and one of the most
advanced education systems in East Africa. Uganda's complement of skilled
and trained manpower was greater than that of either Kenya or Tanzania.
With those two countries it shared well-developed services: the railways,
ports, airline, posts and telecommunications. These favorable initial con-
ditions, combined with competent economic management, resulted in a steady
2% per year growth in per capita GDP (1963-70), and an average savings rate
of 13%, which in turn permitted a high level of investment without infla-
tionary pressure.  A balance of payments current account surplus was main-
tained in most years, and central government revenue increased faster than
recurrent expenditure, contributing a significant proportion of development
outlays.
4.        Uganda's political situation was less felicitous.  Long-standing
conflicts between the largest single kingdom (Buganda), the other kingdoms
/  This part is essentially the same as the corresponding part in the
President's Report for the Third Education Project dated February 1,
1983.



-2-
and the rest of the country continued during the 1960s, and became further
complicated by ideological and social rivalries. This led to increasing
dependence on the military, and in 1971, a coup by the army brought a
military regime to power.
5.        From 1971 to 1979, (the year when the military government fell),
the economy declined drastically. GDP stagnated and per capita incomes
fell. Deterioration occurred in almost every sector of the economy.
Savings and investment, exports and government revenues declined in real
terms. Government and balance of payments deficits increased, arrears were
accumulated and blackmarketing and corruption flourished. Only subsistence
agriculture continued growing in response to both food security needs and
the curtailment of earning opportunities in the monetized sectors. The
coffee boom in 1977 provided temporary respite and for a time imports reco-
vered. But by 1979, the combined impact of the previous years' depre-
dations and the damage and looting during and after the war had reduced the
economy of Uganda to ruins. Crops were damaged, livestock killed, many
buildings and factories gutted and portable goods of all kinds -- ranging
from school books and office records to tools, equipment and vehicles --
were stolen (frequently to be smuggled into neighboring countries).
6.        A Commonwealth team of experts that reviewed the Ugandan economy
in May 1979 recommended a rehabilitation program of administrative and
policy reform supported by the infusion of foreign exchange. The reforms
proposed included: the raising of agricultural producer prices and the
relief of bottlenecks in the transport and marketing systems; the strength-
ening of foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing; a moratorium on
parastatal and cooperative indebtedness to enable banks to advance import
credit while this indebtedness was being studied; and the relaxation of
price controls coupled with either devaluation or a combination of foreign
exchange auctions and higher taxes.
7.        Until 1981, no action was taken on any of these proposals, except
the raising of agricultural producer prices, the value of which was soon
wiped out by inflation. This failure to undertake policy and administra-
tive reform, coupled with continuing political instability, drought, the
1979 oil shock and world recession led to even nore rapid declines in out-
put and incomes from 1979 to 1981 than had occurred previously. Taking the
deteriorating terms of trade into account, per capita income in 1980 was
some 27% below its 1978 level. Although there has probably been some reco-
very in 1981, especially in the agricultural sector, average incomes are
still depressed. Capital productivity is severely constrained by inade-
quate maintenance, a drying-up of raw material and spare part supplies, and
the looting of workshops and tools during and after the war.
8.        By 1981, the estimated volume of merchandise imports was 30%
below the 1978 level (and nearly 60% below the 1970 level). This was de-
spite an increase in official grant and loan disbursements from US$63
million per year in 1977-78 to US$200 million per year in 1979-81, an in-
crease in payment arrears of US$140 million during 1979 and 1980 and a
US$100 million drawdown of gross foreign exchange reserves. The main
factors responsible for this were a sharp fall in export volumes during



- 3 -
1980 (part of a long-term decline evident since the early 1970s) and a
deterioration in the terms of trade by 55% from 1978 to 1981,  Capital
flight, though unquantifiable, was probably substantial and imports may
also have been under-recorded. The severity of the present balance of pay-
ments constraint highlights both the difficulty and critical importance of
foreign exchange management, in particular the need to scrutinize carefully
the Government's own import requirements.  The Government is taking ste-s
to improve its procedures for foreign exchange allocation
9.        Uganda's external debt was inadequately monitored and controlled
during the 1970s, and it is therefore difficult to present clear data. The
World Bank's estimates, based on data from the Uganda Treasury and the Bank
of Uganda, show total external debt outstanding of US$920 million at the
end of 1981, of which US$620 million was disbursed. IBRD's share of tla½s
was 4.2% while 9J9% was due to IDA.  Official development loans accounz lor
less than two-thirds of outstanding debt, The balance is fro-. private
sources or war-related commitments to Tanzania and Zambia. A large part of
the debt is in arrears:  some US$84 million of debt outstanding at the end
of 1981 was principal arrears. (Total arrears, including short-term debt
and current payments are estimated at US$150 million at the end of 1981)
The debt service ratio was moderately high for a low-income country at
17.5% at the end of 1980, but rose sharply to more than 50% in 1981.
Furthermore, more than one-third of debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1981 was to have fallen due over the next two years. Successive
meetings of the Paris Club in November 1981 and December 1982 rescheduled
obligations of US$12 million falling due in 1981/82 and US$22 million in
1982/83. Rescheduling of debts owed to non-participants in the Paris Club
(accounting for US$i18 million of principal repayments in 1981/82 and about
U$106 million of total debt service in 1982/83) has been carried out on
comparable terms.
The Government's Program
10.       The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second only to this, how-
ever, is the goal of rehabilitating the directly productive sectors, with-
out which, the Government recognizes, there can be no economic development,
nor expanded socia' services.  The first step towards rehabilitation wae
the introduction of a financial program for 1981/82, supported by a 13-
month stand-by arrangement (SDR 112.5 million) with the IMF, as well as by
the release of the balance (US$75.0 million) from the First IDA Reconstruc-
tion Credit. A second stand-by arrangement for 1982/83 (another SDR 112.5
million) was approved by the IMF in August 1982. These two programs are
intended to stabilize the economy and eventually revive investment and pro-
duction through restoring a measure of confidence in the currency, reducing
price distortions and improving fiscal and monetary discipline. In partic-
ular, since mid 1981, the Government has taken the following actionss
(a)  it devalued the official value of the Ugandan shilli-ng by
approximately 92%, from USh8 to the US dollar in Apr.i" '' `,
to around UShlOG by August 1982.  In addit-ion, the Bank o
Uganda has now opened a secondi window, where foreg.em
change will be more freely traded in an auction system.  bte



- 4 -
rate established at the second window has steadily fallen
from USh300 to the US dollar in August to USh250 by mid
November 1982;
(b) it raised the official producer prices for major export
crops by 400%-700% and retail prices for petroleum products
by 1400%-1900%. Similar adjustments have also been made in
public utility tariffs. Most other price controls have been
removed (although in practice, many goods are still sold
through parastatals at below market prices);
(c) it rationalized the taxation structure by converting import
duties and some excise duties to an ad valorem basis, and
raising the effective tax rates on a number of major
revenue-producing items. In the 1982/83 budget, government
employees were exempted from PAYE (in lieu of wage and
salary increases) and the incidence of personal income tax
was reduced;
(d) it agreed to ceilings -- subsequently met for 1981/82 -- on
government borrowing and domestic credit expansion; and
(e) it introduced a more realistic and flexible interest rate
structure.
11.       It has now been more than a year since the first measures under
the IMF programs were introduced, and the initial impact on economic per-
formance has generally been favorable. First and foremost, there has been
a significant increase in official purchases of coffee, the major export
crop, from 98,000 tons in 1980/81 to 165,000 tons in 1981/82. A large pro-
portion of this growth probably came from reduced smuggling and farmers'
stocks, rather than increased production. But, even so, it enabled Uganda
to meet its ICO export quota for the second year in a row, and provided a
major source of budgetary revenue. Second, there are indications that out-
put of other products is beginning to recover. Cotton production, for ex-
ample, is expected to more than triple to nearly 20,000 tons in the 1982/83
marketing year. Output from a number of key industries also rose signifi-
cantly during 1981 (admittedly from a very low level of capacity utiliza-
tion): cement by 8%, matches by 13%, textiles by 14%, sugar by 24%, ciga-
rettes by 27%, and blankets by 142%. As a result overall GDP is estimated
to have grown by 8% in 1981 and is expected to rise again by at least 5% in
1982. Finally, the impact of the program on consumer prices has been mod-
erated somewhat by the fact that many goods were already being sold at in-
flated "magendo" prices. Prices did rise sharply in May and June 1981 (re-
flecting in large part the increases in administered prices), and there has
been a resurgence of price inflation around the Kampala area in recent
months, apparently due to the impact of security and transport bottlenecks.
However, the available data indicate a significant decline in the overall
inflation rate from around 100% per annum during 1979-81 to 50% in 1982.
Even so, real wages remain extremely low. The minimum wage, which was
raised by more than 100% in August 1981, still only buys the equivalent of
about six kilograms of sugar or three bars of soap per month at prevailing
market prices. Civil service salaries are so low that, despite subsidized



- 5 -
housing and other benefits, officials are forced to pursue other occupa-
tions. The removal of price controls and privileged access to limited sup-
plies of goods has probably resulted in hardship for certain groups, possi-
bly including some poorer ones. While wage and salary restraint is surely
necessary, the success of the program will also depend on its maintaining a
*            minimum standard of living and adequate work incentives.
12,       The Government's Recovery Program, released in April 1982, is in-
tended to provide a broader framework for the development of the economy
over the next two years. This Program includes proposals for further
policy and institutional reforms as well as a project-specific investm~ent
plan for 1982/83 and 1983/84. The total size of the investment plan is
US$737 million (including a "tail" of expenditures in 1984/85), of which
about 80% is in foreign exchange. This cost is barely one-third of the
original project submissions, and could hardly be cut further without jeop-
ardizing the Program's modest goals. The basic strategy of the Recovery
Program is also well suited to present conditions in Uganda, focussing on
the short-term revival of the economny's productive sectors, and was strong-
ly endorsed by the Consultative Group meeting held in May 1982. While the
Program recognizes the importance of social sectors, on both humanitarian
and development grounds, actual allocations to these sectors have been
sharply curtailed, pending progress on rebuilding the productive base of
the economy.  In all sectors, priority is given to rehabilitation and im-
proved utilization of existing capacity, with expansion limited to certain
well-defined areas, such as production of agricultural implements and bal-
ancing investments. There are, in fact, very few new projects included in
the investment plan. Consistent with this strategy, appropriate criteria
have been used to help screen and select projects. For the productive
sectors, primary emphasis has been given to projects which promise rapid
foreign exchange benefits through either increased export performance or
judicious import substitution. The Recovery Program also reiterates the
Government's intention to encourage the development of a "mixed economy",
by allowing former owners to reclaim their property or claim compensation,
and by inviting private investment in a number of areas.
13.       While there are important areas in which further steps are
needed, a decisive start to recovery has now been made. With the exception
of some export crop prices, which will require adjustment, the major policy
changes needed have been made. Now, the main areas of action are largely
institutional and will necessarily take time to implement. Moreover, the
Government has responded promptly to the evolving situation by continuing
the process of price adjustment and by initiating a number of institutional
changes in the key areas of foreign exchange management, budgeting and
planning. The Program itself and the Government's evolving policies merit
support and encouragement.
Sectoral Priorities
14,       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels, es-
pecially exports. This entails the highest priority initially being given
to export crop production, to the supporting transport and communications
infrastructure, and to the production of basic consumer goods, building ma-
terials and agricultural requirements by the industrial sector. Other
sectors, especially the social sectors, also require urgent rehabilitation.



-6-
But in the near future, the rehabilitation of these sectors must be limited
to the extent of their potential contribution in the shorter term to the
recovery process.  Improvements in medical services, the repair of damaged
classrooms and the rehabilitation of hazardous urban water systems, for ex-
ample, may be expected to provide an important, if unquantifiable incentive
to producers.
15.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandan economy, providing livelihood
to 90% of the population and supplying almost all Uganda's exports in
recent years. Ugandan agriculture is largely dependent on small- and
medium-scale peasant farms; no attempt was ever made to encourage expatri-
ate settlements, and even today, large-scale estates are only significant
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, though areas like Karamoja
in the north-east, which are vulnerable to drought and which depend on a
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered serious food shortages
in recent years as a result of low rainfall and insecurity.
16.       The rehabilitation of agriculture is the top priority for
Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could
all grow rapidly within the next three years (although the previous peak
levels are not likely to be reached until later in the 1980s). In addi-
tion, food exports to neighboring countries are a distinct possibility.
The revival of cotton and other agricultural production would also supply
some domestic industrial needs.  The central constraint to recovery is the
incentive system. Prices for export crops must be remunerative, the effi-
ciency of the marketing system must be improved, and payment to farmers
must be prompt. Closely related to this is the supply of inputs, imple-
ments, spares for processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate
the production of surpluses. Over the longer term, agricultural services,
including research and extension, will also need more attention.
17.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g. textiles
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, since 1971, the per-
formance of the sector has been disappointing. Now, many industries have
closed down while others continue to operate at very low levels of capacity
utilization. At present, the most obvious and generally binding constraint
is the severe shortage of foreign exchange. However, the longer-term
decline in the sector reflects more fundamental constraints which could
well re-emerge as the foreign exchange situation improves. These include:
shortages of qualified managerial and technical expertise, problems of
creditworthiness (resulting from ownership uncertainty, financial indisci-
pline, and, more recently, the impact of the 1981 devaluation on costs),
and over-expansion and political interference in the management of the
parastatal sector. As noted above, the Government has now declared its in-
tention to follow a "mixed economy" strategy, with only essential public
services reserved exclusively for the public sector. In other areas,
domestic and foreign private enterprise is to be encouraged, either wholly
owned or in joint ventures with the Government. The Government expects to
close down or sell off a number of the existing industrial enterprises,



-7-
while the financial viability of the remaining parastatals is to be res-
tored through increased tariffs, asset revaluation and injections of new
capital. However, the modalities for this restructuring process are still
to be worked out.
18.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined
earlier: the departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and
inadequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the East African Community (EAC) in 1977 had a
serious effect, especially on Uganda's access to international trade
routes: as a result Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and
aircraft and her part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya
and Tanzania. This both necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda, and
seriously disrupted international traffic movements while
increasing their cost. Transport was moreover the sector possibly most
seriously affected by the war and the widespread looting which followed.
The vehicle fleet in particular was decimated. Rehabilitation of the
transport system thus becomes a key requirement.
19.       Energy use in Uganda is primarily based on electricity, petroleum
and woodfuels. At the present time, Uganda's electric generating capacity
is underutilized. However, the surplus could be quickly absorbed as the
economy recovers and the opportunities are taken to substitute for more ex-
pensive fuels (such as petroleum products) and to secure long-term export
agreements with neighboring countries. Petroleum imports are likely to
remain a major drain on the country's foreign exchange for the foreseeable
future. The Government has taken decisive action to curb consumption and
smuggling through the recent increases in retail petroleum prices. How-
ever, the effective control of petroleum marketing and costs remain with
the oil companies. A major source of energy for domestic heating and cook-
ing is woodfuel, and thus concern is mounting that uncontrolled development
of charcoal and firewood will eventually deplete the most accessible forest
resources and lead to further soil erosion problems. The Bank Group is un-
dertaking an energy assessment for Uganda to identify major institutional
and policy issues in the sector and provide a basis for pending investment
decisions.
Assistance Needs
20.       If recovery is to be sustained in 1983, Uganda's merchandise im-
ports must rise at least 40% over 1981 levels, to about US$570 million in
current prices, with most of the increase allocated for inputs and spare
parts for agriculture, industry and transport, and for basic consumer
goods. Over the subsequent two years, imports are expected to increase
less rapidly, by about 5% per annum, since there appears to be ample scope
for reestablishing domestic supply sources and reducing the import content
of production. If these higher import levels can be financed and if prog-
ress continues on the economic management and institutional issues dis-
cussed earlier, GDP could grow at 5-6% per annum on average from 1982 to
1985, with monetary agriculture and industry as the leading sectors.
21.       The other major claim on available foreign exchange is debt ser-
vice. Principal repayments are projected to total US$191 million in 1983



- 8 -
and US$40 million in 1984. Invisibles may be expected to be a net drain on
foreign exchange during the 1980s, even if there is some revival in
tourism. Uganda also should provide for a reduction in arrears and some
buildup of external reserves. The total financing requirement -- for mer-
chandise imports, invisibles and reserve accumulation -- is expected to be
US$0.75 billion in 1983, rising to US$1.0 billion by 1985.
22.       Exports can be expected to make an important contribution towards
meeting this requirement.  For the next two to three years at least, agri-
cultural exports will be the key to recovery. Provided prices are remuner-
ative, marketing becomes more efficient and the supply of agricultural
inputs and consumer goods improves, merchandise exports could grow by about
9% per year on average from 1982-85. Although high rates of growth in all
of the main agricultural exports (coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco) can be
expected, coffee will remain dominant for some years. Beyond 1985, the
prospects for other exports, including maize, groundnuts, animal feed,
hides and skins, copper, cobalt and cotton textiles are promising, provided
the exchange rate is maintained at an appropriate level.
23.       Over the next three years, some US$470-560 million per year over
and above export earnings will be needed to meet requirements. If official
grant and loan commitments are maintained in real terms and disbursements
and debt service follow a normal pattern, these could provide some US$330
million per year on averad6. A fuiLhter US$70 million (net) per year could
be available from the IMF, if Uganda remains eligible for further resources
under future stand-by arrangements. This leaves about US$110 million per
year over the next three years to be met from new resources.
24.       Uganda will not be able to finance this gap on commercial terms.
If the amount needed were borrowed at 11.6% for nine years, with four years
of grace (terms far better than those available on the market at present),
Uganda's debt service ratio, including IMF obligations, would remain around
40% through 1985, and reach 69% by 1990. Some short-term non-concessional
borrowing may prove unavoidable, given the bunching of principal repay-
ments, but care must be taken to ensure that the resulting debt burden is
manageable. Without additional external financing, GDP growth would have
to be cut to levels that would allow no significant recovery in per capita
terms. Uganda will therefore need additional financing on concessional
terms to achieve its much-needed recovery. This financing will, moreover,
have to be fast-disbursing, in the form of balance of payments support or
projects which focus on immediate and urgent requirements. New investment
for the next three years and possibly longer must be limited to urgent
rehabilitation needs.
25.       The participants at the Consultative Group meeting endorsed the
Recovery Program, both as a framework for government action and as a
vehicle for mobilizing and allocating external assistance. However, many
donors indicated that any additional support would be conditional upon an
improvement in the internal security situation in Uganda. The resultant
delays in finalizing new aid commitments, coupled with a deterioration in
market conditions for Uganda's major export crops, has meant that there is
likely to be a shortfall in the resources required to fully implement the



first year of the Recovery Program. This will force rephasing of the
planned investments from 1982/83 to 1983/84, some additional spillover into
1984/85, and possibly an extension of the recovery period into 1985/86.
Nevertheless, the Recovery Program remains an extremely useful summary of
the Government's immediate priorities, and the Bank Group's lending program
for the next two to three years would be designed taking these priorities
into account.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 2/
26.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for projects in
education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching). In
addition, Uganda has benefitted from 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which have been extended for the development of the common services and the
East African Development Bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda through their association in the former East African Community
(EAC). Annex II contains summary statements and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. IFC's first investment in Uganda, in a textile company,
was sold to the Government in 1970. The second, to help finance two lodges
in the national parks was cancelled in 1972 before construction began. IFC
approved a new investment in the Toro and Mityana Tea Company in November
1982.
27.       There was a hiatus in Bank Group operations from 1971 until
February 1980, when a Reconstruction Program of US$72.5 million (including
a participation of US$17.5 million by the Netherlands) and an EEC Special
Action Credit of US$20.0 million were approved (Nos. 983/983-1-UG and
54-UG). The Association is also acting as Administrator of a Can$3.0
million grant from the Government of Canada and of a US$5.0 million program
loan from the OPEC Fund. The Reconstruction Credit originally experienced
delays and disbursements were slow. By the end of September 1982 US$67.0
million had been disbursed, the balance being fully committed. Commitments
have started under the Second Reconstruction Credit of US$70.0 million
equivalent (No. 1252-UG), approved in May 1982. In addition, the
Association has provided US$56.0 million through a Technical Assistance
Credit (No. 1077-UG), a Water Supply Engineering Credit (No. 1110-UG), a
Phosphate Engineering Credit (No. 1228-UG), and an Industrial
Rehabilitation Credit (No. 1248-UG). There has been continued progress in
the implementation of the Technical Assistance Project. The first
sub-projects have been completed and disbursements have commenced. Several
large sub-projects are under consideration and it is likely that the credit
will be fully committed before the end of FY83. Disbursements under the
Water Supply Engineering Credit are continuing and they have started
satisfactorily under the Phosphate Engineering Credit; there are none yet
under the Industrial Rehabilitation Credit. The Bank Group also
administers an Agricultural Reconstruction Program of US$20.0 million
equivalent financed by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development. In the immediate future, Bank Group operations will remain
2/ This Part is essentially the same as Part II of the President's Report
for the Third Education Project dated February 1, 1983.



- 10 -
focussed on rehabilitation projects.  The emphasis will shift gradually
into traditional projects in agriculture, industry, transport and energy
sectors. Rehabilitation projects are under preparation for education,
telecommunications, and roads.
28.       The developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States' decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's institutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the Mediator's proposals for the three
Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the Mediator's proposals. Negotiations
started in December 1981 in Arusha, continued in April 1982 in Jinja, in
September 1982 in Nairobi, and in December 1982 in Kampala. The
discussions have meanwhile passed the fact finding stage and are now
focussing on details of a division formula for assets and debts. While it
is generally accepted that both location of assets and the principle of
equal rights of all former EAC partners should be taken into account, the
weight to be attributed to these principles from case to case remains the
major issue in the continuing negotiations.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
29.       Uganda has a size of 241,000 km2 and a population of 13 million.
With an altitude of between 1,000 and 1,500m, it enjoys a mild climate.
Except for a few areas in the northeast, the country has moderately good to
fertile soil and receives adequate rainfall for successful crop production.
Average rainfall of 1,270 mm occurs mainly from March to June in the cen-
tral and eastern parts of the country and from September to November in the
south and west; the north and east have one long rainy season when about
760 mm fall between March and August. The soils around Lake Victoria,
known as the Fertile Crescent, are mainly alluvial and can sustain almost
continuous cultivation of bananas, the staple food in the area. Alluvial
soils extend to the northern part of Uganda, but due to increased rainfall
variability and longer dry seasons, they are less productive than in the
Fertile Crescent. Volcanic soils are to be found in the western part of
the country dominated by the Ruwenzori Mountains, and in the eastern part
around Mount Elgon. These volcanic soils are also fertile and sustain high
yields of tea and coffee.
30.       Out of a total land area of 20 million hectares, only 28% is
cultivated; but most districts have already put to use the lands best
suited to crops.  Crop and livestock smallholder mixed farming is the domi-
nant form of land use in Uganda. There is limited use of fertilizer in
crop farming, because where the more remunerative cash crop coffee predomi-
nates, fertility is sustained by crop residues and cattle manure, while in



- 11 -
zones where cotton and annual crops predominate, yields have been sustained
by using simple rotations. Coffee is mostly grown in Buganda (robusta) and
in the mountainous areas in the extreme east and west of the country
(arabica). Tea is also a dominant crop in the western highlands. The most
important cotton growing area is east of the river Nile in a wide belt from
*           Busoga to Acholi.  In the last few years, when cotton has been unprofitable
to grow, there has been a big increase in cassava plantings. Bananas and
finger millet, respectively, are the prevalent staple crops in the coffee
and cotton areas.  While in coffee producing areas most cultivation is done
by hand, in the cotton areas, because of a much greater acreage of annual
crops needing timely planting, ox cultivation is used extensively. From
the crop zones in the north and east, about 150,000 cattle for slaughter
are exported to the towns and densely populated areas of South Buganda.
Role and Performance
31.       Uganda's agriculture contributes 75% of GDP, 95% of the country's
exports, and provides a livelihood to about 93% of the population. Direct
agricultural export taxes account for over 27% of the Government's tax rev-
enues. Industrial activity is largely agro-based: cotton ginning, ciga-
rette manufacturing, sugar refining, and processing of coffee and tea. The
transport and banking sectors also have important links to agriculture.
32.       In the 1960s and early 1970s, Uganda produced and exported sig-
nificant quantities of coffee, cotton, tea, tobacco, and sugar; but produc-
tion of cash crops declined precipitously in recent years, leaving coffee
as the only significant export crop. The latter's share in export receipts
inreased from 53% in 1971 to over 95% in 1981, despite a decline in offi-
cial coffee exports from 175,000 tons in 1971 to 97,000 tons in 1981. The
main causes of this decline have been: the lack of basic agricultural
tools and inputs; a greatly diminished processing capacity (as hulleries
were looted or broke down and were not repaired); a pricing policy that
discouraged official sales of cash crops; and the overall impact of ineffi-
cient marketing boards in the exports sector. As the volume of coffees
cotton, tea, and tobacco exports will increase following the rehabilitation
of the economy, the share of coffee in total exports should again decrease.
The production of foodcrops also declined in the 1970s, mainly because of
marketing and price controls and the lack of basic agricultural tools and
inputs such as seeds and fertilizers. However, since the decontrol of
foodcrop prices in 1977 and the removal of the domestic marketing monopoly
of the Produce Marketing Board in 1981, foodcrop production has shown signs
of rapid recovery, and Uganda may be able to export foodcrops in the mid-
1980s.
33.       Uganda is well endowed for livestock production.  It has better
pastures than other Eastern African countries due to generally well distri-
buted and ample rainfall. The only serious constraint to livestock produc-
tion is control of animal health. In 1978, Uganda had 5.5 million head of
beef and dairy cattle and was not only self-sufficient in most of its meat
requirements but had some export potential. The beef and dairy cattle pop-
ulation has since declined to an estimated 4.5 million head. The main
causes of the decline are the looting of cattle populations during and
after the war of 1979, particularly on developed ranches, and the serious
outbreak of epidemic diseases after the breakdown of the annual health



- 12 -
control program. Tsetse flies have reinfested large areas previously
cleared, particularly in the eastern and northern areas.
34.       The importance of fish is demonstrated by the fact that 50% of
the country's animal protein comes from fish. In the 1960s frozen, dried
and smoked fish were exported to Kenya, Tanzania and Zaire.  The recent
decline in fish production in Uganda is largely explained by the breakdown
of the fishnet factory in Kampala, of boat repair services, and of ice
plants.
Organization and Supporting Services
35.       The agricultural sector is served by three Ministries, numerous
cooperative societies and several parastatals. The Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry is responsible for the development and implementation of crop
production and forestry policies and programs. Five parastatals come under
its direct supervision: Uganda Tea Authority, Uganda Tea Growers
Corporation (UTGC), National Sugar Works (Kinyala Factory), Wood Industries
Corporation, and Uganda Agricultural Enterprises. The Ministry has a large
extension service comprising about 2,300 agents, of whom some 700 are uni-
versity graduates, posted at district, county and parish levels. The lack
of most agricultural inputs and implements in the last five years made the
work of extension agents irrelevant as farmers could not apply recommended
inputs or farm practices. The Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing is
responsible for the development and implementation of policies and programs
in the cooperative movement and agricultural marketing. It supervises the
activities of the Coffee Marketing Board (CMB), the Lint Marketing Board
(LMB), the Produce Marketing Board, and the cooperative movement. Member-
ship of cooperative societies in 1980 was over 1.0 million families, about
half of the families in the country. There are about 3,500 registered pri-
mary cooperative societies in Uganda, of which about 2,300 are single pur-
pose cooperatives concerned mainly with marketing and processing coffee and
cotton. The development of the livestock and fisheries subsectors is the
responsibility of a special Ministry, which also supervises the Uganda Meat
Packers Factory, the Uganda Dairy Corporation, and indirectly the Uganda
Livestock Industries.
36.       Agricultural research in Uganda has concentrated heavily on
cotton, because of its early economic importance. It was undertaken by the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Faculty of Agriculture of Makerere University
and the Commonwealth Cotton Growing Corporation. The Ministry of
Agriculture also carried out research on practically all major crops, on
pasture and on livestock husbandry. Many local and foreign research scien-
tists left the country during the last decade due to the decreasing import-
ance which the Government attached to research, the worsening security sit-
uation, and the lack of funds and materials with which to work. Many fa-
cilities, equipment and materials need replenishment before research can
again play a significant role in agricultural development.
37.       Except for annual crop marketing credit to cotton and coffee
growers, agricultural credit has traditionally played a minor role in
Uganda's agriculture. Currently, agricultural credit is provided to



- 13 -
farmers mainly through the Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB), which typically
accounts for about 70% of total agricultural credit, while the cther six
commercial banks operating in the country share the remaining 30%. UCB
would be the intermediary for US$29.1 million of the proposed credit ear-
marked for the rehabilitation of export crop processing facilities,  tech-
nical assistance and training; its organization and operations are de-
scribed below (paragraphs 68 to 73).  The maximum interest rate on agricul-
tural loans is fixed by the Bank of Uganda in agreement with the
International Monetary Fund; at present it stands at 14% per annum. Matu-
rities vary between 5 and 8 years.  Over 90% of agricultural loans are r2-
paid on schedule.
Constraints and Policy Issues
38.       The main causes of declining agricultural production and exports
are the lack of foreign exchange to finance capital and recurrent imports
needed for production, processing and marketing, a price policy that has
discouraged the production of cash crops, and inefficient marketing para-
statals. The agricultural sector is only a minor consumer of foreign ex-
change (US$25-30 million per year out of an annual national import bill of
over US$500 million). Gross foreign exchange earnings from the sector in
1981, almost entirely from coffee exports, were US$220 million, which makes
the sector a substantial net earner of foreign exchange. The lack of
adequate processing capacity, which is a direct result of the shortage of
foreign exchange, is a major physical constraint to the recovery of
Uganda's agricultural exports even at current low levels of production.
The proposed project would address this constraint through the provision of
foreign exchange for the rehabilitation of processing facilities for major
export crops.
39.       An additional impediment to speedy recovery of the agricultural
sector is a serious disarray of the sector's policy and institutional
framework. Prominent among such detrimental policies are various monopo-
lies, such as that of the Uganda Central Cooperative Union for the import,
wholesale, and retail of most agricultural inputs and implements, or that
(just repealed) of the Lint Marketing Board (LMB) for the collection, mar-
keting and export of cotton, lint and seed products. A corollary of the
latter has been a system of fixed prices for producers, processors and
Marketing Boards which was intended as a shelter from fluctuations in in-
ternational crop prices but often provided disincentives to producers to
improve their performance. There is a need for closer policy coordination
between the three Ministries directly concerned, so as to ensure that they
do not pursue conflicting policies and objectives. The establishment,
under the proposed Project, of an Agricultural Policy Committee, supported
by a technical Secretariat (see paragraph 53 below), is aimed at redressing
this problem.
Government Objectives and Priorities
40.       The Government's objectives and priorities for the agricultural
sector are stated in the "Recovery Program - 1982-84" (paragraph 12 above)
and give high priority to the increase of Uganda's export earnings through



- 14 -
the revival of export agriculture. In the short run (next 2-3 years) uti-
lization of existing capacity needs to be increased through improvements in
the availability of inputs, and through repair and replacement of broken
down and obsolete plant and equipment where justified. It is unlikely,
however, that the Government can raise enough resources to reactive agri-
cultural exports back to their former highest levels within the period of                 A
the Recovery Program. The Government has therefore set priorities for
agricultural rehabilitation which would reinforce and complement its over-
all priorities and strategy for rehabilitating the economy.  The broad
agricultural priorities are: recurrent imports to increase or sustain pro-
duction; the selective rehabilitation of processing facilities for cash
crops; policy and institutional reforms aimed at increasing farm level
production; processing capacity utilization and efficiency; improved
marketing efficiency; and proper allocation of scarce resources to
agriculture. In the Recovery Program, which is also the Government's
foreign exchange budget, the cost of these priority measures for the
agricultural sector have been estimated at US$220 million for the two-year
period beginning 1982.
Bank Group Lending for Agriculture
41.       The Association has financed two agricultural smallholder
projects in Uganda: one for tea in 1968 (No. 109-UG) and one for tobacco
in 1971 (No. 212-UG). The Smallholder Tea Project appears to have been a
success, although tea production declined precipitously due to low producer
prices in the late 1970s. The Tobacco Project, however, failed to achieve
its objectives. The Project Completion Report for this project, issued in
June 1982, and the Project Performance Audit Report both identified
defective project organization and management, low prices paid to farmers,
political turmoil in the country, and interference with project
implementation following the 1971 coup as the main reasons for the
project's failure. The Association also financed a smallholder Beef
Ranching Project in Uganda in 1969 (No. 130-UG), which was administered by
UCB together with the Uganda Development Bank (UDB). The credit was fully
disbursed in five years, and 98% of the sub-loans were recovered. Beef
ranches, developed under this project, were eventually affected by the
general decline of the economy and the 1979 war. The March 1982 Completion
Report for this Project attested to its early success. Because of the
project's good performance, a follow-up project was prepared and appraised
in 1970, and a US$6.6 million credit negotiated for it. This project, how-
ever, was never implemented due to the worsening political situation in the
country. The Bank Group is the executing agency for an IFAD-financed
project (declared effective in March 1982) which aims at increasing food
production in the eastern and northeastern parts of Uganda. The project
includes preparation for a follow-up project with similar emphasis on food
production and rural development in the same area, also expected to be
funded by IFAD in 1984.
42.       Bank Group assistance to Uganda is presently focused on rehabili-
tation and reconstruction of the economy, especially the directly produc-
tive sectors. In line with this strategy, the program in agriculture is
aimed mainly at rehabilitation and is consistent with the Government's
Recovery Program. The Bank Group has already provided financial assistance



- 15 -
for the import of agricultural inputs and spare parts through the First and
Second Reconstruction Credits approved in FY80 and FY82 respectively
(Credit Nos. 983/1252-UG). About US$19 million of the US$95 million First
Reconstruction Credit has been spent on the agricultural sector. Of the
US$70 million Second Reconstruction Credit, US$17 million has been ear-
marked for agriculture (import of inputs, spares, packing materials, trans-
port, etc.).  Imports are selected on the basis of their potential to
quickly earn or save foreign exchange. This assistance will enable the
agricultural sector, in the short run at least, to improve the utilization
of existing capacity.  However, the sector's foreign exchange needs far
exceed the level of support which the Bank Group expects to provide during
the period of the Recovery Program. Medium term increases in agricultural
output and efficiency will require further support from other donors. A
second objective of Bank Group assistance in the sector is to improve
sector planning, resource allocation, and the capability to analyze, formu-
late and implement policies, and to help solve institutional and manpower
problems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The proposed Project was identified in July 1981 by the Bank's
Appraisal Mission for an IFAD Agricultural Reconstruction Program (para-
graph 41 above). It was pre-appraised in February 1982 and appraised in
May 1982. Two post-appraisal missions visited Uganda in August and
September 1982 to follow up on measures to be undertaken by the Government.
A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Uganda - Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project", Report No. 4150-UG dated January 26, 1983, has been distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet
is provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in January
1983. The Government of Uganda and the Uganda Commercial Bank were repre-
sented by a delegation led by H. E. Ambassador E. Kamuntu, Ministry of
Finance.
Project Formulation and Objectives
44.       The Government recognized the need to address the problems of the
agricultural subsector (paragraphs 38 and 39 above) immediately after the
war of 1979. But nothing could be done until the wide ranging economic re-
forms implemented in June 1981 (paragraph 10 above) together with improved
prospects for political stability opened the possibility for economic reco-
very, the key to which was seen to be the quick revival of coffee, cotton,
tea, and tobacco exports. The acute shortage of foreign exchange and the
resulting lack of adequate processing capacity for export crops, combined
with a variety of poor and inconsistent agricultural policies, remain the
most prominent obstacles to a speedy rehabilitation of the agricultural ex-
port subsector. The proposed Project is designed to contribute to this re-
habilitation by financing most urgently needed imported capital goods and
inputs for the export crop subsector and by providing assistance in agri-
cultural policy formulation and coordination. Moreover, the Project -



- 16 -
especially its focus on policy and institutional reforms, supported by
studies that may lead to subsequent agricultural projects - will be a plat-
form for the resumption of more project specific lending in the sector and
will strengthen the ongoing dialogue on agriculture between the Government
on the one hand and the Bank and other donors on the other.
45.       All investments proposed under the Project are geared to facili-
tate levels of produiction that are consistent with the long-term viability
and international market prospects of the export crops, especially coffee
and tea, and conform to the Bank's lending guidelines for such commodities.
In the case of coffee and tea, all incremental production is expected to be
sold within Uganda's market quotas. No new plantings of coffee or tea are
proposed.
46.       The inclusion of a livestock component in a Project whose empha-
sis is on export crops is logical and justified for various reasons, in-
cluding the following: Livestock are an integral part of the farming
systems in the export crop growing zones. They provide necessary draft
power, manure, protein, and supplemental income through the sale of meat
and milk. They provide an investment opportunity (and therefore a strong
incentive for cash crop production) to farmers.
Project Description
47.       The main components of the proposed Project are:  the rehabilita-
tion of processing facilities for coffee, tea, cotton and tobacco, combined
with the expansion of non-traditional agricultural exports; and the provi-
sion of agricultural imports required to sustain and increase the produc-
tion of both traditional and non-traditional agricultural exports as well
as livestock. In addition, the Project would assist the Government's
efforts to improve the process of resource allocation and pricing decisions
for agricultural exports, and to increase marketing efficiency for cotton
and coffee. The Project would also provide training for local staff
involved in Project implementation, and technical assistance in the
implementation of price and marketing reforms, the formualtion of sector
development strategies, and the identification of subsector projects.
Rehabilitation of Crop Processing Facilities
48.       Recent increases in producer prices for export crops are expected
to result in production increases of nearly 100% in 1982/83 compared to the
previous year, except possibly for coffee, where a lower 1982/83 quota may
lead to lower exports than in 1981/82. But efforts to increase production
and to improve marketing remain futile, if the existing processing bottle-
necks cannot be relieved simultaneously. For example, Uganda's stock of
processed coffee declined steadily from an estimated 129,000 tons at the
beginning of coffee year 1977 to about 88,000 tons as estimated for the
start of 1982. It is also estimated that about 250,000 tons of coffee
delivered or ready for delivery between 1978 and 1982 have not been
processed.
49.       The major rehabilitation requirements of the tea industry are
expected to be covered by: a proposed US$16 million project, to be financed



- 17 -
by the European Development Fund, whose focus will be on smallholder tea; a
proposed US$8 million project of the Commonwealth Development Corporation
focusing on tea estates of Agricultural Enterprises Ltd.; the IFC-sponsored
US$5.5 million investment in the Toro-Mityana Tea Corporation; and US$1.2
million earmarked under IDA's Second Reconstruction Credit to the tea in-
dustry. Not covered by these operations, however, would be the rehabilitr
tion of smallholder tea leaf collection facilities of the Uganda Tea
Growers' Corporation (UTGC), which therefore has been included in the pro-
posed Project. At present, UTGC is over-indebted, not creditworthy, and
therefore unable to buy foreign exchange. The arrangement, by the Gov:,.-
ment, of a minimum 3-year debt moratorium for UTGC on its local curren:y
loans would be a condition of disbursements for the tea subsector component
of the Project (paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement).
50.       About US$29 million from the Credit would be earmarked as a line
of credit for the rehabilitation of crop processing facilities. UCB, de-
scribed in detail in paragraphs 68 to 73 below, would act as intermediary
for the implementation of this Project component. The capital investments
whose foreign exchange cost would be eligible for financing from this line
of credit include: the replacement of obsolete, worn out or damaged equip-
ment such as gins, hullers, presses and press pumps, conveying systems, and
electrical equipment as well as balancing equipment; up to two years' stock
of spare parts for plant and machinery; and repairs of existing structures
and civil works. Foreign cost of small tools and equipment for maintaining
rehabilitated processing factories, up to two years' requirements of im-
ported packing materials, and transport equipment such as lorries and wheel
carts, would also be eligible for financing. Subprojects under this
Project component would be selected and appraised on the basis of agreed
criteria (Schedule to the draft Project Agreement), which focus on the sub-
project's technical, economic and financial feasibility as well as the
creditworthiness and managerial competence of the subproject's sponsor.
Included in the proposed Project are also investments for increasing non-
traditional agricultural exports, especially those of an agro-industrial
nature, such as cereals, oilseeds, spices, sugar, fruits and vegetables,
eucalyptus oil, gum arabic, wood products, flowers and smoked or dried
fish.
Imported Agricultural Inputs
51.       In order to sustain production increases for coffee, tea, cotton
and tobacco expected as producer response after the rehabilitation of pro-
cessing facilities described above, and in order to increase the production
of non-traditional exports (paragraph 50 above) and livestock, it is essen-
tial to ensute the availability of a variety of implements and chemicals
that are not produced locally. The proposed Project therefore includes the
provision of US$39.2 million worth of such agricultural inputs. All im-
ports proposed to be financed under this Project component and their pro-
portional distribution among subsectors conform with the Government's
Recovery Program. A detailed list of all eligible imports has been pre-
pared by the Government and the Association (Attachment to Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement). Of the US$39.2 million available for
the purpose, the Project allocates US$11.3 million to the cotton and US$9.6
million to the coffee subsectors; the tea and livestock subsectors receive



- 18 -
US$6.1 million and US$6.3 million, respectively, while the balance of
US$5.9 million will be shared between the tobacco and non-traditional
exports subsectors.
Improvement of Agricultural Pricing and Resource Allocation
52.       In its Recovery Program 1982-84 and by agreement with the
Association under the Second Reconstruction Credit, the Government under-
took to establish a unit with the capability to support and rationalize
policy making in pricing, marketing of export commodities, and resource al-
location in the agricultural sector. The unit would also assist the
Government in evaluating agricultural policies, in allocating foreign ex-
change budgeted for the sector under the Recovery Program, review the
sector's foreign exchange budget and monitor the allocation of foreign ex-
change to the sector. The Government has assigned the responsibility for
carrying out these functions to an agricultural committee of the
Presidential Economic Advisory Committee, to be known as the Agricultural
Policy Committee (APC). The APC, formed in August 1982, consists of the
Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of Planning and Economic
Developoment, Commerce, Agriculture and Forestry, Cooperatives and
Marketing, and Animal Industry and Fisheries, as well as the Governor of
the Bank of Uganda and the Managing Director of UCB. It is expected to
have a major input in the June 1983 budget process in matters relating to
agricultural prices and allocation of foreign exchange to the sector. The
Government has also agreed to allocate adequate foreign exchange for the
agricultural sector's recurrent import needs throughout the implementation
of the proposed Project (Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
53.       The APC needs to be supported in its analytic functions by an
Agricultural Secretariat (AS). The AS would consist of economists (one of
whom would be its Director), agriculturalists, and financial analysts,
five of whom would initially be expatriates. In addition, the Government
would appoint the following Ugandan staff to the AS: a Deputy Director;
two financial analysts or accountants; two economists or statisticians; one
evaluation officer; one agriculturalist; and support staff. The Government
has already created, and budgeted for, the required staff positions and has
employed the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation to screen quali-
fied expatriate candidates and hire those selected on behalf of the
Government. The establishment and staffing of the AS would be completed as
part of the proposed Project. The employment of the Secretariat's Director
would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Credit (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       Furthermore, the Statistical Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture
would be strengthened under the Project through the provision of funds for
hiring two expatriate agricultural economists, and the Government would
hire consultants to conduct a comprehensive study of costs of production,
processing and marketing of major export crops so as to improve the infor-
mation base for the Government's decisions affecting the sector (Section
3.05(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 19 -
Marketing of Export Crops
55.       In addition to the general technical assistance described in
paragraph 64 below, the proposed Project would provide for a series of
studies by consultants, to be employed by the Government, of crop-specific
*          marketing constraints and possible improvements.  Such studies would cover:
coffee, cotton, tea, tobacco, non-traditional agricultural export crops,
and livestock.
56.       The importance of coffee to the Ugandan economy is paramount, and
changes in the Coffee Marketing Board's (CMB) structure or marketing poli-
cies must be approached gradually over the next 2-3 years. Such necessary
changes may include: (i) reverting CMB's ownership and control to produc-
ers; (ii) revising CMB's role from sole buyer to sole sales agent for the
coffee growers of Uganda; (iii) creating a two-payment system that would
provide grower incentives to produce higher quality; (iv) improving the
Government's taxation system for coffee; (v) reviewing and diversifying
marketing methods, including auctioning of those coffees whose quality
aspects merit this, with adequate safeguards to protect national economic
interests.  The CMB also needs to increase its ability to assess the quali-
ty and thus value of coffee through the provision of equipment and training
of Ugandans. Under the proposed Project, the Government would employ con-
sultants to assist in preparing suitable proposals for coffee marketing re-
forms (Section 3.05(a) and Part C.2 of Schedule 2 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
57.       Since the major problem facing the cotton industry is its mar-
keting system, the same recommendations as for coffee marketing (paragraph
56 above) apply for cotton and the Lint Marketing Board (LMB). The
Government would therefore hire consultants to study the desirability of,
and prepare detailed proposals for, appropriate reforms for cotton market-
ing (Section 3.05(a) and Part C.3 of Schedule 2 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The study would also consider Uganda's comparative ad-
vantage in cotton and the optimal size of the cotton industry.
58.       In 1973 LMB acquired most oil and soap factories in Uganda pre-
viously owned and operated by Asians who were deported. The profits and
losses of these oil and soap mills affect the finances of LMB, and their
value bears no relation to the performance of the Board as a marketing
organization. The Board's financial obligations with respect to these
mills cloud attempts to assess or to enhance its efficiency as a marketing
organization. The Government has therefore decided that LMB should divest
itself of the oil and soap factories as soon as possible. To implement
this decision, the Government has recently announced that Edible Oil and
Soap Industries Inc., currently a parastatal controlled by LMB, shall
become a legal entity separate from LMB, with the objective that this in-
dependent enterprise selects viable oil and soap factories for possible
joint ventures with interested previous owners. Mills that are not viable
will not be continued in the public or joint sectors.



- 20 -
59.       Uganda has lost its reputation for quality tea in the world
market and her tea fetches very low prices. The causes of the decline in
tea quality include faulty processing equipment, poor liquoring and grad-
ing, and mass marketing through the Uganda Tea Authority, the parastatal
that has the official monopoly for the export of all tea from Uganda. The
Government recently considered further centralization of the production,
processing and marketing of tea under one organization but has postponed it            4
pending the resules of a broader study of the tea industry which would be
carried out as part of this project (Section 3.05(a) and Part C.4 of
Schedule 2 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  The study would
consider Uganda's comparative advantage in tea, the optimal size of the
industry, its future organization and financial structure.
60.       The National Tobacco Corporation (NTC) has the responsibility for
processing and marketing all tobacco grown in Uganda, including exports,
which have virtually ceased. Until the 60% increase in producer prices an-
nounced in June 1982, much of the country's tobacco production bypassed NTC
and was sold through unofficial channels. Given the recent boost of pro-
ducer prices, the situation should improve considerably very soon and
Uganda may be able to regain some of its tobacco export markets.  Under the
proposed Project, consultants to be hired by the Government would carry out
a study of Uganda's comparative advantage in tobacco, the optimal size of
the industry, and an appropriate organizational and financial structure of
the subsector (Section 3.05(a) and Part C.7 of Schedule 2 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Uganda earned US$13 million in 1975 from minor agricultural ex-
ports (cereals, sugar, spices, fruits and vegetables, forest products,
smoked and dried fish). However, there is considerable scope for diversi-
fying and increasing these earnings. They will probably increase consider-
ably as a result of the dual exchange rate introduced in August 1982, but
only if the export licensing procedures can be simplified considerably. As
part of the Project, the Government would therefore hire consultants to
conduct a detailed feasibility study to determine the potential for these
minor exports and to identify the necessary policy and institutional meas-
ures that would promote them (Section 3.05(a) and Part C.5 of Schedule 2 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       A good export potential also exists for hides and skins and pos-
sibly for beef. The Government would hire consultants to examine such pos-
sibilities, the policy and institutional prerequisites for promoting such
exports, and to identify appropriate production and marketing strategies
(Section 3.05(a) and Part C.6 of Schedule 2 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).



- 21 -
Training
63.       Training would be provided for staff directly involved in the
Project in: the Agricultural Secretariat; the rehabilitated ginneries and
hulleries; the Ministries of Agriculture and Animal Industry; UCB; and key
staff of the Coffee Marketing Board (CMB) who are involved in quality
assessment of coffee. The typical length of the training period would be
six to nine months. Credit funds allocated for training (US$0.3 million)
would be channeled through the respective organizations.
Technical Assistance
64.       In addition to the technical assistance mentioned in paragraphs
53-62 above, the proposed Project would also contain more general technical
assistance for the purpose of strengthening the capacity of UCB to imple-
ment the Project. A Project Manager, a Procurement Specialist (paragraph
81 below), engineering surveyors and supervisors would be hired by UCB for
coordinating Project implementation. Their appointments would be condi-
tions of effectiveness for the proposed Credit (Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In addition, funds equivalent to about 12
man-months would be made available for the Agricultural Secretariat to
recruit consultants for specific tasks as they arise. Vehicles, office
equipment, and supplies would also be provided under the Project to UCB,
the AS, and the Ministries of Agriculture and of Cooperatives.
Project Implementation
65.       At the policy level, the APC and the AS would coordinate plan-
ning, resource allocation, execution and monitoring of activities in the
agricultural sector. The APC would also be the Steering Committee for the
Project. Its responsibilities under the Project would also include project
monitoring and evaluation (paragraph 84 below). The AS would be responsi-
ble for the sector studies under this Project (paragraphs 56-62 above).
66.       The responsibility for training would lie with the Director of
the AS. Assisted by the training officers of the various organizations in-
volved in the Project where training needs have been identified, his train-
ing responsibilities would include assessment of specific staff training
needs and identification of suitable training opportunities. The AS would
prepare and submit to the Association detailed training proposals includ-
ing: (i) main objectives; (ii) types of training to be provided; (iii)
training needs in terms of number, categories and levels of personnel over
time; (iv) candidate selection criteria; (v) plans to utilize newly ac-
quired skills; (vi) arrangements for the administration, monitoring and
evaluation of the training program; and (vii) budget and financing propos-
als. A comprehensive program for the training component of the Project
would be submitted to the Association not later than December 31, 1983
(Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
67.       The allocation of foreign exchange for the imported agricultural
inputs component would be the responsibility of the Foreign Exchange
Allocation Committee, and all imports would be imported at the managed
(Window One) exchange rate. Importers are required to pay 100% of the



- 22 -
local currency equivalent for foreign exchange purchases. Once an importer
has been allocated foreign exchange, he has to obtain an import license
from the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade, a process which results in a
second review of his request and causes further delay. Since all items
being imported under the agricultural inputs component of the Project would
be only those contained in an agreed list (paragraph 51 above), the dupli-
cate review process of the Board of Trade would be eliminated for imports
under this Project, and Board of Trade import licenses would be issued
within a week of foreign exchange allocation to importers.
Uganda Commercial Bank (UCB)
68.       The primary responsibility for implementing the rehabilitation
component of the Project would lie with UCB, specifically the Chief Credit
Manager, the Credit Division, and the Project Manager whose specific
responsibility would be all aspects of physical implementation of the
Project. For importers who wish to use the services of UCB's Procurement
Specialist (paragraph 82 below), UCB would also supervise the imported
agricultural inputs component of the Project on behalf of the Bank of
Uganda.
69.       UCB was established in 1965 by Act of Parliament as successor to
the Uganda Credit and Savings Bank. Since its beginning, UCB has grown
steadily, despite the difficult environment in Uganda during the 1970s, to
become the predominant banking institution in Uganda. As of July 31, 1982,
it had about UShl3.7 billion in total assets, 2,570 employees, and 54
branches located throughout the country. UCB is by far the largest commer-
cial bank in Uganda and accounts for over 80% of total banking activity in
the country. In addition to general commercial banking, UCB engages in
small scale industrial and agricultural term lending and administers four
Government agricultural development funds on a trust basis.
70.       UCB's present authorized capital is UShl.5 billion, of which
UShl3O million is paid up. The Government, UCB's sole shareholder, plans
to increase its paid-in subscription to USh500 million in 1983. UCB's
debt:equity ratio is forecast to remain better than 20:1 throughout the
implementation period of the Project, which is acceptable for a commercial
bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
71.       UCB is managed by a nine-member Board of Directors, whose chair-
man is the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director with responsi-
bility for day to day administration of the institution. All Directors are
appointed by the Minister of Finance, except for the Chairman who is
appointed by the President of Uganda. UCB, whose headquarters are located
in Kampala, is organized into eight operating and support divisions, each
headed by a Chief Manager. Its 54 branch offices are directed by four area
managers. Of its 2,570 employees, 141 are senior level professionals, in-
cluding bankers, engineers and lawyers. It has its own training school for
staff development. For its present level of business, UCB is adequately
staffed.
72.       The most important general policy followed by UCB in its lending
is that all advances be adequately backed by sound security. Specific



- 23 -
lending guidelines tailored to the features of each sector and subsector of
lending exist and are being observed. UCB follows normal commercial bank
practices in regard to approval, disbursements, control and recovery of
advances. However, UICB has yet to develop a satisfactory system of follow-
up on loans. Accounting records need to be restructured and proper systems
to be put into place to provide timely and accurate statistics on the
number and value of overdue loans in relation to the total size of the
portfolio and in relation to other portfolio characteristics such as loan
size, enterprise size, lending sector, and loan maturity.  UCB would recti-
fy this shortcoming during the implementation of the Project (Section 2.05
of the draft Project Agreement).
73.       Because of the nature of its operations, growth in UCB's re-
sources and lending depend mainly on developments in the economy. Since
such developments are difficult to forecast, the medium-term operational
and financial projections for UCB have to be read cautiously. It should be
expected however that if the economy picks up, demand for credit would in-
crease and lending opportunities would expand for commercial banks, espe-
cially UCB. If the economy stagnates, UCB is still likely to retain a
large share of the limited commercial banking business. Its financial
prospects are therefore fairly good, provided it continues to obtain an
adequate spread. To ensure that its financial performance does not dete-
riorate, UCB would be allowed a spread of at least 7.5% on the rehabilita-
tion portion of the Credit, especially because the Credit would finance
subprojects with above average risks in the agricultural sector and would
represent a large proportion of UCB's resources and operations over the
next five years.
Project Cost and Financing
74.       The total Project cost is estimated at US$88.9 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$71.3 million or 80%. Taxes and duties
amounting to US$6.8 million or 8% are included. The coffee and cotton sub-
sectors (rehabilitation of processing facilities and imported inputs)
account for US$27.4 million and US$27.1 million, respectively, of Project
cost. The tea and livestock subsectors make up US$9.7 million and US$7.3
million, respectively. The balance of total project cost is US$6.8 million
for tobacco, US$5.6 million for non-traditional exports, and US$5.0 million
for technical assistance.
75.       The proposed Credit of US$70.0 million would finance 98% of the
Project's foreign exchange cost or 79% of total Project cost. The remain-
ing US$1.3 million of foreign exchange cost would be financed from the
ongoing Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1077-UG). Beneficiaries of
imported agricultual imports and UCB would contribute US$12.2 million
(including US$6.7 million of taxes and duties) and US$4.6 million
equivalent, respectively, towards local cost. The balance of local cost
would be borne by the Government (US$0.3 million equivalent, including
US$0.1 million of taxes and duties) and the Bank of Uganda (US$0.5 million
equivalent). UCB would advance from its own resources the foreign exchange
cost of technical assistance necessary to prepare subprojects between
January 1, 1983 and the date of Credit signing. Up to US$300,000 of these
costs would be eligible for reimbursement from the proposed Credit.



- 24 -
76.       Of the US$70 million Credit, the Government would onlend US$29.1
million (equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost of the factory
rehabilitation component of the Project as well as training and technical
assistance for UCB) to UCB at 6.5% annual interest. The Government would
bear the exchange risk and charge sub-borrowers through UCB a fee of 1% per
annum on their subloan balances. UCB would onlend the IDA funds to
sub-borrowers at not less than 14% interest per annum. In addition, UCB
would charge sub-borrowers a 1% commitment fee on undisbursed balances.
These onlending rates are similar to those agreed under the Industrial
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1248-UG) and are considered reasonable.
77.       The US$29.1 million that Government would onlend to UCB would be
amortized in accordance with the aggregate of the amortization schedules of
the subloans UCB makes from this amount, with a maximum of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace. UCB's policy limits the maturity of mDst of
its loans to 10 years, including an appropriate grace period. Accordingly,
sub-borrowers under the proposed Project would have a maximum period of 10
years and a maximum grace period of 3 years.
78.       The Government of Italy is considering a contribution of US$10
million equivalent towards the purposes of the Project, in addition to the
proposed credit of the Association. If the Italian contribution should
materialize, it would be used to finance a corresponding expansion of the
proposed Project, in particular a substantial increase of the livestock
subsector component, which had to be curtailed under the proposed Project
for lack of IDA funds. It is anticipated that about US$6 million
equivalent of the Italian funds would be earmarked for the livestock
subsector (in addition to US$7.3 million from the proposed IDA credit),
while the remaining US$4 million equivalent would be utilized for imports
of safes for rural marketing, pumps, tractors, rice/maize hullers and
milling equipment, rotary tillers, and motorbikes and motorcycles.
Procurement
79.       The rehabilitation of processing facilities for major export
crops would be done by engineering contractors selected on the basis of
international competitive bidding and unit price quotations. To attract
international contractors and to encourage competition, all rehabilitation
works would be grouped into about 5 major contracts of roughly equal size.
Interested firms may bid for one contract or for a combination of con-
tracts. Contracts would be awarded, after prequalification, to the lowest
evaluated bidder in accordance with the Bank Group's Procurement Guide-
lines. Local contractors would be entitled to a 7.5% preference for the
purpose of bid evaluation. Tender documents would specify this preference
and the manner of its application. The selected contractors would also
provide all materials for their respective rehabilitation works.



- 25 -
80.       Agricultural inputs, tools, packaging and bagging materials,
veterinary supplies, equipment, and spares, totaling US$39.2 million, would
be grouped to the extent practicable to increase competition in bidding.
Packages of US$500,000 or more would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's
Procurement Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% or the prevailing
customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Items that cannot be grouped into packages of
at least US$500,000 would be procured in accordance with the Government's
normal competitive bidding procedures, which have been reviewed by th,_
Association and are acceptable. Small packages with values below US$'0,000
would be procured directly by the individual beneficiaries.
81.       Consultants' services would be procured following the provisions
of the Bank Group Guidelines for the Employment and Use of Consultants.
82.       The Central Tender Board (CTB) in practice supervises all pro-
curement in the country, a load it is not equipped to carry, with the
result of unacceptably long delays in procurement. In order to ensure that
procurement under the proposed Project is as efficient as possible, and to
lessen the load on CTB, UCB would engage a Procurement Specialist to handle
bulk procurement and disbursements for those importers allocated foreign
exchange under the Project who wish to use the agent's services for a fee.
The recruitment of this Procurement Agent would be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Importers of items under the agricultural inputs component of the Project,
who prefer not to use the services of the Procurement Specialist, would
have to procure their goods through CTB (for possible grouping of tenders).
Disbursement
83.       The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be disbursed against
100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported goods, 100% of the
ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods, and 80% of local
expenditures for goods procured locally but previously imported.
Disbursements for civil works as well as for vehicles, equipment and
supplies needed for technical assistance and training would cover all
foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures. Disbursements for
consultants would cover 100% of expenditures, except for local expenditures
for factory rehabilitation consultants where disbursements are limited to
70%. For technical assistance and training, disbursements would be made
against all foreign and 75% of local expenditures. Full documentation
would be required for all disbursements. All withdrawal applications would
be cleared by the Bank of Uganda before their submission to the
Association. In order to expedite disbursements, the Association would
advance to the Government US$1.5 million to be deposited in a Special
Account "Revolving Fund" administered by the Bank of Uganda. The Bank of
Uganda would make payments to suppliers from this fund, which would
subsequently be replenished, as complete withdrawal applications with full
supporting documentation would be submitted to the Association.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by December 1989.



- 26 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
84.       The APC, together with the Governor of the Bank of Uganda and the
Managing Director of UCB, would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation of the Project (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). It would discharge its responsibility through the AS, which
would appoint a senior evaluation officer in charge of these activities
(Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Not later
than June 30,1983, the APC would submit to the Association a monitoring and
evaluation system which, after the Association's approval, would be put
into operation by September 30, 19831 The AS and UCB would prepare reports
every six months, summarizing Project progress and performance, and submit
them to the APC. They would be reviewed by Bank staff during supervision.
Not later than six months after Credit closing, a Project Completion Report
would be prepared.
Benefits and Risks
85.       The main benefit to be derived from the Project would be an
increase in Uganda's principal exports (cotton, tea, tobacco, and coffee),
reduction in livestock mortality, and improved decision making and resource
allocation within the agricultural sector. It is estimated that by the end
of the rehabilitation component of the Project, coffee hulling capacity
would increase by about 15,000 tons, ginning capacity by about 18,500 tons
of lint, and tea leaf collection capacity of UTGC by 2,400 tons. Also, the
capacity of about 1,376 tobacco curing barns would be restored. Livestock
mortality would be reduced, resulting in an incremental livestock popula-
tion of 200,000. The principal benefits from the input imports component
of the Project are likely to be increased production of all crops at the
farm level, including food crops, and increases in delivered produce from
the farm level to factories and from factories to export marketing boards.
The Government's information base for sector pricing decisions and resource
allocation would be improved by the creation of the APC and the AS, the
completion of the studies, and the strengthening of the Statistics Division
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Because of its nature as part
program credit and part DFC-type operation, no overall rate of return cal-
culation has been made for the Project.
86.       The principal risk facing the project is the security situation
in Uganda. This is expected to improve over time, especially as the econ-
omy recovers and, to the extent that the proposed Project improves the
state of the economy, this risk would be reduced proportionately. The
second risk is the possibility of delays in delivery of Project items to
Uganda, and a possible delay in the implementation of the Project. For the
imported agricultural inputs, the risk of delays in procurement and dis-
bursement is considerably lower since the Project would benefit from the
experience of the First and Second Reconstruction Credits and the Technical
Assistance Project. The proposed implementation procedures, strict adher-
ence to the agreed appraisal and selection criteria, and the proposed or-
ganization and management structure of the Project would further minimize



- 27 -
the risks. UCB would be taking major financial risks in its onlending to
rural based hulleries, ginneries and to the tea parastatals. The
half-yearly supervisions and monitoring that UCB would receive within the
context of the Project, the close supervision of the policy and
institutional aspects of the Credit (also to be made within the context of
the Second Reconstruction Credit) would significantly reduce these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
87.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Uganda
Commercial Bank (UCB) and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
88.       The appointment of a Director for the Agricultural Secretariat,
of a Project Manager and of a Procurement Expert, and the employment of
construction engineers to supervise the rehabilitation of processing
factories on behalf of UCB are conditions of effectiveness. Special
conditions of the Project are listed in Annex III.
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
90.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 1, 1983
Washington, D. C.



-28 -                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL           236.0                                   MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     106.1               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  140.0        230.0     300.0                 250.8                  1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       38.7        84.9       38.7                  66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 7286.0         9758.0   12630.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.2            8.0       8.7                  17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        24.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          72.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        30.9         41.3      52.1                  27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      77.7         97.7     116.0                  86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.3        44.4       45.2                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                          53.6        52.6       51.7                  52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1          3.1'      3.1                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          2.9       2.6                   2.7                     2.8
URBAN                               7.1          7.1       3.4                   6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0         44.6      44.7                  47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      20.3         16.6      13.7                  19.5                    15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.0          3.0       3.0                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         3.8      16.1/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          107.0         99.0      86.0                  88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    96.5         98.1      93.4/d                90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           50.9         55.3      58.87T                53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        21.1         23.7      26.87d                18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      29.5         22.3      17.8                  26.7                    23.9
iEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.7          48.7      53.7                  45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           138.9        113.2      97.2                 129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         22.0      35.0/c                23.9
URBAN                                ..         88.0     loo.o7Tc               54.9
RURAL                                ..         17.0      29.0/c                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         76.0      94.0/c                25.8
URBAN                                ..         84.0      82.07T                63.1
RURAL                                ..         76.0      95.O7W                20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          15053.7/e   14666.2/e 26811.9/d              32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10025.47;    2704.07  4175.07WT               3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             749.8        638.0     611.5/c              1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                              76.7         82.9      99.57W-              249.5                   430.8                            4
RURAL                            1713.5       1818.4    1596.57W              1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..       154.1/f
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                *-          4.8
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..              .
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



- 29 -                                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 49.0         39.0      50.0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                  65.0        48.0       58.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE               32.0         31.0      41.0                   50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0          4.0       5.0                  10.2                    15.3
MALE                   4.0         6.0        7.0                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0        3.0                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 11.6            7.4       5.4/d                 7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.7         33.5      35.0/d                47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          17.8         19.8      25.57;h               26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        34.9/          ..      47.9                  34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.5          3.0       2.5/h                 3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.4         23.6      20.3                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1/i        1.4       5.8                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   7.3          8.5       1.6                   2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            ..       0.1/d                 1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3254.6       4187.0    5133.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.1         34.6      33.9                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0         86.0      83.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0          5.0       6.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7         42.9      40.6                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 58.8         56.8      54.2                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                               31.0         29.3      27.3                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1       1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         20.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          46.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          6.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         16.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0/d                60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e Registered, not all practicing in the country; /f Government establishments only;
/g 1962T /h 197rT /i 1963.
May 1982



-    -30ANNEX I
swMrnux om 500m. WO                                                                          Page  3 of 5
Ntor..  AlOthoo,N lh0 dat. 4.0  d1em  foe. e.000 p-.m.ly J.40.4 tbo met .o.bmortut. a0d r.4111.. it m*.ox  .1.. b. -.od  h.. 007 my -t 00 1..0-
WdALLT .-p ..~s1   *otmO,   of  ht. 1.ok .f  Uo..dl.o4  f&..Ioouso   o.d o        o    egd by 4tgfm..so oomot.o  0.                 h.lal.      4".1o  TM. ge.  o.  m
001..   mfol  do-L00.1. ocdeor  of mmi.4I,d. 10414.0.000.. e.W ohate090le  omlll02.   1 difete.am  bm.Cft   oeoo AAo.
f00 r:f  4.0  1000*-o.0 (11 Ott bam 000t01 S,0`P of the a*.4Ot 0.0001 40  (2) . 000.007 Sr%* 1th -e.m*e0 bt0hml 00.o0010  Iee  o                    lb. m  dootamy 10.0
of Oh  j. o0)o   o.:o t   op .Potf  'Ris  Ifom   011  Op    .    n.* f00   tAl e      d II I-Oft00  4.050 Atli.. 0d 55441. 10.C-1"    a-Obs  b"o.-b o0 oo.e.o
-  L._ 1I ..oiIofstlm.t o.rffmOmo.w Aet. ch. eo.ttg.. o   p.9.I.010  0.iGbCd AriO0-t10  -mo. f.. -ot  1041.0.004dAN    -ely A-4
.o-looo  o f oh.  _t,ol. to  o.g,   he. A     f ta.o   toag Imdlomt..  limo. th. ow.eof oomtCle.  -          t, 1041...... dep.Poo   - the o,.tluktIt  or dot.
-L  ot   .-lol.  -oo..o -m. beooo Itma    -0roototIU&      .    of o-  10di-to  to .bttt 104. A-, n .. i. oyt  -.L..  10lr hin00 I0o
on  oIOo   o   :.0 e.-mg ta. ligtly oat rm.moe  moo...
T.t1    - Tooo.4q.L-A.1                                                                      Pe..1ottp  omo bLhel -et   total 0d0..91.9  .t.1- PpIoltoe  toal
Ad0,      00   o0.0o.  o,eo   1.  00e411   mit;17   s.                                         -irbl.. L.0  ponI  diolo  Op titoI  ts-..L i0 ..h.r       oeL,.  bd
MtooOo.1 - tatimos of eOoIOt1t.0"e.  I-po ...il.y or p.t..omtIy                           ..1*.1  01o.4900.e.tO.4m.lI.4hIo    0   o
toocoo..  oetto.  mo.:   i  looh.b mt.  st  h. 0 allot; 1979 Goi....hI tool  050.emlooO*  001.OOo900                                                   .m.f 1.
by Io .0.  oem. pby.L.L0.  lecobli '   A. Pto,ILeg pOmI.pA1Iy  0.0.. .
IMP PSI CAPITA (UlS) - Gol Pa, ..Pt. oeolt..0o ..oo,ot  maooe                                   Allo    .a-A.0 ..1 to .L   mom  ~II0d.  a00 .. 9010   0..0   414000
lolotOOy me  oom-Uto  00.w0 A. World A..  ola Illy(97-64 booLo); 19*0.                   a*010om:tmap. .tImdfdhiC9yim(bOya
19)0,.0 17915 41.:.                                                                           -dIOl aL.m1-cm. ..oe. .14.1. otc.) .otfth .1.l-PoI.: ettmo
4.ti. .04 po.tm4  . 1L.1:4t.0eI.. ot *0db.)i P.10:. .,t etm
0E0NERGY    J09IO  0  CIT    A-I00.   -o.po' 1. of  oto              -I..gy  00..I              tlo-l P.patio..  .004    -10.  000." SM   pI1000.a 711#.to  ho09t.etm
..d 1100.   000t,  ooi-po.0   700.I010 g.. -.0.l01.0-                                         .0  -url   olO      L -.loI 00  -.ra  b..,Itto.L 4 md = 4oot 0  metm...Itp
0101011 ) 1. 01101000  of  -ta  .q.1o.le.  p.. -1i.;1.  1.940. 1975  .0  1979-00tm-   5p.0110d ho."9t0L  .0. 001,W.4 ooly -000  -.I.1
opt..                                                            0400001o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.      -it,oa   -  - To-l  -67r  of olOoeto or400.r
1ro.h     t.Itlo  1id1"04b,  h.0  U.N.  of bod..
-1001dool.lo. 94-0 "0(OlhomOd.) - 4 of J.ly 1; 1960, 1970. Ao  1900                      9915
b.00. P00                                                                                          0.  f9a.0.1.t.... bo-,mefobo- .,WIfId t.r- 0,0.1.i_L  .o.... .040001
11  O.0Ifotlot  di ob4 so.., m   .2 ffoot .~,0Llity of dots                        A04 t000 moLX  -I...  A b".r  .f 0  10t0   my a, 017 000 *5 lcIood 10
L.0    oobo   9600  I070. .0d ISO dOo.                                             oh. hoo.e*0ld toe mOo1.tosI    909044
Po--4slo  L, Yot 2900 - C.0,0   pOoto  y-rol.00100  -o  booe do 00100htofb.:.                                  Uo L0  whom. ..    iiooo  oe,t E .vote
0-I0.1Poplaolo  by s. e.g .oU  adg 0001, Norslittp 0        f99 OotIy 00004.             hmtlIto. r.momAoml,.  OmLIUps mAwlod    w,a-taom     .ooootr.  o.d
70.10: to  .o.tO0 fto  I0.10  000   0000.U  of 0*0.0 l.-L. 4o--                    .fooovl.  p.0..
lo  10..Ooooy £  birth lnoo.0.ln   rot coftoymPe, o..1it  Lmot-                    ...t  Iotol   no.   fdoltOe      oa.uh.  0   o
I.00, 0L 4   to. 11f0 0090P_ 0  00011t:  a  77.) pY-.   ?h-  o.                           o.0toml4110.00 P....loSy                     100040 _.00  40  W-000005
e000for f-oOlIlty  0t. .1.  b.o. tboe. lO-o. .4.0.1     d-cim   . 10f00  .0..1. sok-, .04 toOa 40.1100.  .aoluy
f_.0: t10  oOo4   0.0 1r.0,   1.01 0.4 p0.0 f0.11  plosmOo  V.1f. -00
0000  -0000  10 Obm  moot... 0   or Oh... :10.004.00.t             of o0,t011t1      0D01AT194
004 fotl1ilty tro4.. Eo, pootortio.  .paroom                                           Ad2i9!10A.._~_Ol90.L "0&
St40L.l0.       IrootO    . .o .tjObOO-y popmL*t00o 000. bouoi   10                        Pr).,,00001    toal         L.004            C o -0.. total, *01. .4d tomat
lh. 01i00hrot. L. q.91 tO t00 40.0* 0g.e.d .1.. oh.. .6  0000000                              ttl.   or  l   gma   0   .m    lo.al - p-o000009   of t.:p.0010.
0.0   oOaT. 100 Lm Ob..hI-   0.10  f100  hm1110   0:   d.lloe to                  p0imfl .0l001-0m   Popootooloos  0004.11  t.o dodm   hkldo.. AgNd b-t
I*.-yoOOtloI of -10 00- .0do0             o..oh -. tot gmo.o-toO                   Yo0.  otad-sod Eot dLffo.0. teg.*b  of prImly  d.400010; f0
ogOt.4cotO.00..ff o.-p. prhlote  c.tOt. d-e,iof00  Los.to                              10.0 . tpl   ro*W0  00000 00011           .111000-1 *0  LOG9-0.
10 o. yoo  000  00  0*  00h.o  dm01. o             I.ottyt     borrlo-L0-040 ...oo P- 000.1. oa.1  .04 000.1- f009000   b-SoW;mtod
I10  oill b. ooooh,o4                                                                      stoLly of 12 to 11 7-00  of  PO; 00rr00004000    pmm    m oto-oipy
D-ob011  .010                                                                             ooWod..
La o.  0. "- 91-10.0 PopoL tlat    .0 W0.40   "ilo.0-0  112a oOoOaooO  of              00-t10001 aoolm   0.eto  .o                      - footoolo   i... 1,.1000.i
0.100   0    1960, 197504 w1979 do..                                                     10.104. omorblst.  14.00.0000 r.e  60   yt0   1400-A
n.  0   5.  aaloltool1.0 L   - UCemdt  oa. f   tguL..L:oto  104                          sotly o.o  4w.* 0-t. of .otor4ot  L. i.OtoOlo
mI; 1940,I       U,0.0  1#17  S..                                                     af1-m.e   01.--tmo.04                  o4.    To0000  00040:. Z.01011     U
P0.110-100 Am. it00000  p.-4) - CbLld,- (0-14 1000). oo1,SO-49. (15-                         p040   a   4040   ao1    11.  y                    -0 f t4.hor   . O
0      d p001.04rolO  (*7.::-d00)a po.e.ts...  of ol4-yot Pop,-                       -,,ot..podm   Iya
1."Irot ,,*. 1970. .04 L94b400                                                           A4ot IL                   ....00010000L - L100-.0  0401:. (04. 00  -od -.4 01
00010000 ro.obbSor,I          oet-_0.t.  - A.0L000001   ret., of 00001 044-                  4opre0          oftalmltom11m0.41p00040..
100  .OoOtrO00   90-40. ~194.7,0  1970-W0.
"Pop"',to  Co-, RAI  (.00.0) - 0000  - A_-Io 30000  00t00 of wha Popo-                   CONSUM0PTION
fopolOOoIo; 100.P.9,.'04090of0...                                                  m110.h....loI.d
:,od. 00.0,h RoIm  C-,0 01h0000)   A- Ool boat. 900 000-.00   If "-Y-.aco0.41  &-.I000  I'll Ohoooo. 0o1:0 ) - A11 0y".o of                                        III0.. o  00001
L.t141o; 1940. 1970, .04 1950 d000.                                                      E   4.oo.. to eam-m  poIl  000 ft        "Ao of  P,potILo-  a01a40 
Gon- oooAotoo0..   0 .01  0,0.0  of d-99*t.00                     iLo 01  b-t  L0             110.00.0 p01.00           - Uo0000   W0 W0 Y.-.   Istmoro          f 0041
toono.a  o.toooIOo potd if oh.                 P'oOoa   p -C00  a.-Stpo"`fI 0for-     L..m    ao1foo-  A.to f..   -.00.0 p0t.0  000 00 0o90.b0              .1
01l10y ta.-; o.ooLy flo-yOO .a....as   a041.  10 1940. 1970. .d 1940                  .    oa0.00010.0*01b .4l lo.a.
toollo Plaoolo   - Ab.tOO.-  A.0.1             V,aodt- A_-I .0.00l of  .0.V.-.1..000(0   *004  00a10     1   040t   00todt00
of bill h-.oot1 A.M1.. 0. 00000   4  0100  fom.l I-"-.010  Pt-mBr".                      T0000   ob1   `00                   ML ee.   yooltlo  ` -I,.    felors    70 0..10d
P.0110 IIpg019-lo.l.o. ol.00.  aa                      Ptem."0   of -.0000                    10 co W00        . .1 00000 obO  00014000liod of TV ol00  -0  00 .0.00
0000 o  oh1d-,oot0oag.(15l.Ap0.0)  0 a. *00t-oo000   40010  to              losoe   1s.t0o  ot0000400100) - Om   the 400000  01
011 .-1014 0011 J. .  ap Sr.".0100   fdly1000   0*000.900.   414.4Uo  00   9.10 -
po &aoa    00.4d 01L.00117 to  oodo   --ao..  -ma   LI L. comOotoo
FOOD AND 15T0JT101                                                                             b0e4 04.1y0 if 10 .ppao-  At 1..              .000  0
1.0400 .f Food P0p- Olo   I. .0       119-710  - U`do  of P.. 0..,0  00o.                  C100-  -oo40,.4.00.o    1                    0         I-*.0 I0 40t.40  50
prdo ,Os   f.1ft4lall..Pooto  Oolo.a0.4.                          014 -  food Im010.04 4-.010o.10.-                              ..  .400..0   0  d,10-WIlo-biA
10.014.0 00  b000.  C.-dLLo     .-0  pI-aly aoId. (..S. -ma          a             00  hmbIl  00100
1000004 of oopr) 0*10  ot. 040010 a4 o.-C.t  aoiorl.:  (..S. 0 ff..00
'00100.  .0.a.P p.odooa  poLo. -.10h,.; 1941-45. 1970,  04 1950dm.tos  .   boo. 100000.W4o  - !.-oOSioOtt  001. 9000, 1.01-0.0
P.t 0.0:0 .oout ofI     bt.  ao:of..I.  PXo   -  0000. fom                                    OW A    rbena0   0o0    o  0140.*0000    ooo   0
9000  09.100-L- f00  0400910  01.                      - t1 omOy P-0 0`910.                000010  poy..oo.1   of .1I  p...  Seft*.loom   is 0.11.,  ... 10,Ola 
P., day.  AosLlIol. o.pptLs.oo9o   d04.001  p00t10. 109n.0  1000                           001 00094-00.; 1960. 1970 ..  1990400.
0000.00   9.001 90.      S.0   "  U*1.a 001040.10.1 04.4.  0..40,                          1.011, 1p000000  - BANAL  1040  for.. 04 90000.0050 0f 0001- 00
900.00100..4 L. 0f04 pr000010. .04 L.0.L. 0 glottlho:0..  1Aqot.- L_                              11J   os:  -lao  f1e.o  LA  h..01   .. -0,000,  .o
UA~oooo .0.0o   bp PTM b05.  -0971000 0,       .04LrI   o. for orml.0  00t1-          01.0       PA9.0 W10 de0 00001 1ab.t foot.  1960, 1975004.d1990, 000.
t100.   000  .0o -ift0  -.ooI_"a tm-.Co.V. body  040.1                              igM140.        00   - Labor foot. L5.01ig. 0000100010. o0ol.   -Ids
004 000tUtlib.otlo  of oo - La:1..   .1d 'loO   10 0oofra.0                                  -tII.001t00  -tAlt    S-t5 U .0 .00 t.00     0f totat 10*00 00000;
-hold01   1001; 1961-65. 1970 .d  9177 dot.                                                 19.175S   1940 4.0..
P.o o   it. .-L,1 of  -000. (o,m  ds)-P0.*000 f p5 .9100-io Pm-OOO..000  .0                                         ...001  ~- t .  -.1.t 00   oo. - P-OOOclOtO   00
0I ol   ffodpody A1I.O   091of f00.4    Wia              o 41 .00 040..   0               00000007 oa1  A04 000.10400 lot. .0..eg    a. 1".h. f.... U
9010t0  00 011  000:t9- =.b.lUeb.  by 90009000140 for  .as                             OOoo   ftta,aa0.    ol lop10010  of .11 om.  -                       IpoooLy;
slloo.o.  of '60 gbma of to.l p-001  pot d.y -i  20 ot-i  of -solo   00d                   1940. 1970. .04 1900 4ocs.  Th.ao  -0  bs..d 00 ED'.0  P.0101i00-. 0-00
I..   0,00   f ohLob  101.01 0*.1f00 0.41-900000..  T1.0. .0a04.                   rOfl.o01US  Sm--a  I0.0         f thm  ooe.P.toto0. e.gI.., It   0.0.
I10  r    -Ibot -.ah. of 75   r   of- I ...1 bpotols .923 p.m  of                  f-0 .. tta,ao0e. 0 oN ootlsoOl 00000.
_01.0  p000010.-  U   ~r.. f., lb. 0.014. Prp009 d by ?AG L. 100 Thi04rd                 U.PT            L0I1.- 1:0  of ppi.0.100   .04.0 15 .d4 65 .4O
W0014 pFood S.-Yo; 1961-63. 1970 ..d 1977 bo. .t.Ab1hofm.
Pot 0.01t. 000-0  A.PP10 fooUSOIs.   oo   10.1. opyLy of food d0-
000.4 fto..o0-10 04 p.oO. 1  Sre  p.o  o;19* 1-5190                  1977 Is...        1191009 20511111001
Ch11d (mo1-4) 5.ht to.! (         t0. 000.4) - A--.5  d#.Ih. 900 tt,o0000  L.Pr0:e  0   oo..fy-Illbotlh 10  -be  .d 0210) - -0.1004 by0000
ooStop1.4 fOp. _ 00*1              th"1 01  000  000; for  -tO  d-.olp1. 000                 ro.o0. ILt.0 20 potoo.  ot_t2 000 .:.d~ poo.-I ;0 polle0I
0000  ot  40104  oo  10 0000.;  9*0. 197  0-4 1950 d4.0.                         o   ooh
L00.     . 9IV"f11f.-bA;01                                                                  I0901 h0517Id091
of    'Y .   btoo  Ily."bob;1. M U   197  ".041    4400. I f-0  p000                                           II0.          'U" .0.   0.4   00   00001*aoom
bat of%  po(00.0*0  0   utl  0*000.0  000t 0it00 If fooA ,*1.9. p                                         t     .o.
000  oply(00..0o.t0  arao   0000000000411  00001004                               01004  .000 -ovolly         d.00. 1.00  119     0000001               L 0   0  0001-
0*00a.h  4  ko  fotp.0.0.  *05010  5915.a4moOo   ..1)a                             os   ..1.yoOO    o.  to   aoaooo   f000070 90
40 otba.to  90 *11L    4109opp0000  paoof. - -p  I-  Atho  00bI.                          -I 0  -.
.00=. 0  00000  0005000  10t00.00-fb000.=10   000.1 h-           00 004 -.00J -             t-
-Id  o  poyO   0. y1 thO0. 04Orl)000 h.       a0      Ifo ffi.pOa 80h1              dIC1 Pl-I    .T..(.                             I      I       bL
100 I.llto..  ip I    .                   t tf:                       
P00010poPhlgigija      dooo..1   401.  b,  -h-.0  If p0.-1.1:1 phyel-                                                   0000.11 .0d 000.1 D.t. 0110100
F..ro!loo. F0     g l.0.1   P.0.0-   doollt 41014. by r.bo  of pl-t..llo                                                                    lay 1992
L000410.1  00*04-  0tm.   0000000.0o 00000 -700000  0100- e-d
000990011000



Page   4  of 5
- 31-
MniC  VU''r D    - 
PFM CAPIrA IN 1980 a! - LS280
QRSS nATCEL PR r LN 1980  !                                  AaM      RAIE OF GR! (%, Contmat Prices)
tlS ?¶iTx      Z               1967-71   1971-79    1980
GNP at market Prices           3,536      100.0               4.4        -1.7      -8.1
Gross Doestic Investmn           120        3A4               4.0       -13.0      21.9
Gross National Savi-Es          -128       -3.6               3.8          .
Current Accnt Balarce           -248       -7.0       .
Export of Goods, NTS             332        9.4               0.4       -10.6    -22.4
Iort of Gos, NE                  572       16.2              -0.1        -7.5      18.0
VAUlZ  ADE  IN 1980 (At 1966 Prices) 1/                    GWM',ZM  F M
Central Gav     t
s$(LE  lh Mill                                                                    ('nof GDP)
T980/F    19s/801    1971/72
Agriculture                     424        51.7            Current Receipts                     3,096         1.0      13.5
Industry                         46         5.6            Current Fxpeniiture                  9,996        3.1       13.5
Services                        350        42.7            Current Surplus                      -6,900      -2.1         -
Total                         82       100.0            Capital Expediwtre                   3,400        1.1        86
'MEY,  =IT AM) PRICES                      1976    1977      1978       1979       1980      1981 d/
TuSh MAl=on Outstanding fn-PeriodT
-owy Supply                               4,492    5,787     7,051     10,620     13,905    34,600
Bank Credit to Goverrnet                  4,790    5,522    7,199       9,198     14,848    29,300
Bsk Credit to Other Sectors               1,937   2,885     3,221       3,658      5,849    11,500
1976    1977      1978        1979      1980       1981 d/
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
)Dxy as Z of AP                            17.0    10.6      10.1         9.0        5.9         8.5
General Price Irdex (1966 - 100) c/         601   1,133    1,546        4,894      5,474      10,058
Aninal percentage charges in
General Prire Index                        46.6    88.5      36.5       216.6       11.9       83.7
Biak Credit to Public Sector               32.9.   15.3      30.4        27.8       61.4       97.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector              14,3    48.9      11.6        13.6       59.9       96.6
M- Ite Per Ca:pita _C? estimate is calculated br the se conversion techmiw as the World Baric Atlas (adlustirc for the oer
valued ecea-ge rate buc mt for my underrecordirg of -magendo' transactions). The C>e at current prices in LB dollars
is derived by -iltiplying tne per capita figure by population. Tne gross investrEnt rate is assuc)si to be the same as in
the Ugadain shilizS estimates. Givea the balane of pyments data frcm page 2, gross national savir.gs is derived as a
residual.
bI Up-to-date figures an emplynenr ard productivity are uravailable.
4 RKapala l        e cost of living irdex. Irdices prior to 1979 may be understatel as sow cotrolled  rices were u1a  In
the calculatiao of ti-e indices. Indices for 1980 and 1981 are ixsamplete as cost-of-livirg data wre mt collecti from
Ortober 1980 to Jly 1981. In particular, the increase In the irdex for 198) is grossly utnerstateI, especially for the
food    p
d/ Estimates.
.t appliable
..wt vavible



BMXM{C tEVELOP'MT JATA - UGEANDA
EALAN  OF PAMeS                                                                           HANDISE EXPCRIS (Average 1978-81)
US$ Million      yd
1978      1979      1980      1981 a/
(US$ Million)                   Coffee                            329      95.4
Cotton                              9       2.5
Exports of Goods, NMS                      332       412        332       240         Tea                                 3       0.8
Imports of Goods, NES                     -458      -391       -572      -490         Tobacco                             1       0.3
Resource Gap (deficit - -)                -126        21       -240      -250         Other Exports                       3        1.0
Factor Services and Transfers (net) b/     -12       -25         -8         -           Sub-Total                       345     100.0
Balance on Current AMount                 -138        -4      -248       -250         AdjuStimnts e/                    -30      -8.6 
Total                           315      91.4
Official Grants                              9        24         85       110
Public MLT Loans (net)                      38       104         84        10         EXERNAL EBT,    EMIER31, 1980
Disburserents                            (66)     (145)      (131)     (120)                                             U$ Mllion
AMrtization                             (-28)     (-41)      (-47)    (-110)
Use of Fund Credit (net)                    -2        -4         26       125
Other Items n.e.i. (net)                    50      -182       -123        96         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed             612 f/
Overall Balance of Payments                -43       -62       -176        91         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstandirg and Disbursed           612
Net Reserves (end year)                     72        17        -24       -24         NrET EET SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 &
Payment Arrears (end year)                  94       100        235       144                                                      2            I
Petroletm Imports c/                        43        63        124       114         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed               17.7
Petroleun Exports cl                         -         -          -         -         %nn-Guiranteed Private Debt
Total Outstandirg and Disbursed             17.7
RATE OF EXCHANGX                                                                      I1RDIA LNDJI  (Dec. 31, 1981)  (tU$ Mil]ion)
IBRD f/   MA
Anmral Averages        End Period
1979    1980   Jan.-Sept.1981   Oct.1981          Outstanding and Disbursed            25        58
US$1.00 - Lrh                     7.4686  7.4242      39.8020        78.700           Undisbursed                          1         58        >
UShl.00 - LBS$                    0.1339  0.1347      0.0251          0.0127          Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed      26       116        >x
'J'I-4
.a/ Estimates.                                                                                                                              -
b/ Exeluides official grants.
C/ Uganda imports all petroleua in the fonm of products and has no petroleun exports.
d/ % of unndjusted merchondise exports.
e/ Includes errors and omissions, anfd adjUStmlntts for valuLation, coverage and timing.
f/ Inclides Ugi)da's notlonal share (15%) of FlYC lomns.
Debt service pApymets (,axrtizatloan anil lnt:erest) as a percentage of cxports of goods and NES.
w.nt avatlable.                                                    .......March 31, 1982



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year   Borrower   Purpose                 Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and seven credits fully disbursed         8.40    48.031
983-UG   1980    Uganda    First Reconstruction
Program                      72.502     24.86
1077-UG  1981    Uganda    Technical Assistance              8.00       7.68
1110-UG  1981    Uganda    Water Supply
Engineering                   9.00       7.48
1228-UG  1982    Uganda    Phosphate
Engineering                   4.00       4.00
1248-UG  1982    Uganda    Industrial
Rehabilitation               35.00      35.00
1252-UG  1982    Uganda    Second Recon-
struction Program            70.00      70.00
Total                                    8.40   246.53       149.02
of which has been repaid               8.40      6.73
Total now outstanding                    0.00   239.80
Amount sold:                      8.32
of which has been repaid        8.32
Total IIow held by Bank and IDA          0.00    239.80
Total undisbursed                        0.00    149.02    149.02
lIncludes exchange adjustment.
2Includes participation of US$17.5 million from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands. In addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of $20.0 million
and a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 million (approximately $2.6 million
equivalent) has been made available toward the reconstruction program.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
Nil                                                    D
.C. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES INVOLVING
KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year  Borrower    Purpose                 Bank3         Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                          135.80
638-EA   1969    EAHC        Second Harbours        35.00             0.52
865-EA   1972    EAHC       Third Harbours          26.50             0.35
914-EA   1973    EAPTC      Third Telecommuni-
cations             32.50             0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB       Second Development
Finance             15.00             1.30
Total                                  244.80              2.45
of which has been repaid              78.19
Total now outstanding                   166.61
Amount sold                    24.36
of which has been repaid   24.36       0.00
Total now held by Bank                 166.61
Total undisbursed                        2.45              2.45
3Net of exchange adjustments.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
UGANDA
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
t                        There are currently six projects under execution:
Credit No. 983-UG - Reconstruction Program I: US$72.5 million
Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective Date: May 1, 1980;Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Along with the IDA credit, which includes US$17.5 million
participation from the Government of the Netherlands, a US$20.0 million EEC
Special Action Credit, a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 million and a loan of
US$5.0 million from the OPEC Fund have been made available to the
Government in support of its reconstruction program. The IDA credit was to
be released in two tranches. Changes in the Government and delays in
carrying out agreed financial and economic policy reforms caused delays in
the use of the credit. In June 1981, after the Government adopted policy
measures the Association required, it was agreed that the total amount of
the credit would be released. The closing date was postponed twice, the
second time to December 31, 1982 to allow for full disbursement of the
proceeds of the credits and the grant. The credit is now fully committed
and about US$66 million have been disbursed.
Credit No. 1077-UG - Technical Assistance Project: US$8.0
million Credit of January 21, 1981; Effective Date: March 26,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There has been continued progress in the implementation of this
line of credit. The first sub-projects have been completed and
disbursements have commenced. Several large sub-projects are under
consideration and it is likely that the credit will be fully committed
before the end of FY83.
Credit No. 1110-UG - Water Supply Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: October 5, 1981;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
A manpower and training study, and the feasibility studies on
expansion of water supply and sanitation activities in the seven towns were
completed in mid 1982. However, modifications have to be made to the
feasibility reports to correspond to the probable availability of funds.
The construction of six staff houses and procurement for the supply of
vehicles, water meters and equipment are in progress. The Project



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Coordination Unit (PCU) was established and efforts are under way to fill
two vacancies and to find a replacement for the late project coordinator.
Credit No. 1252-UG - Reconstruction Program II: US$70.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1982; Effective Date: July 28, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The Government has allocated the total amount to potential
end-users. The process of importation is thus about to start. The
progress continues in the programs for institutional strengthening
supported by the credit; an agricultural secretariat and external debt
management offices are being established at the Central Bank, while
programs for strengthening the Ministries of Finance and Planning and
Economic Development are being reviewed by the Association. Technical
assistance for the parastatal accounting study and the Central Tender Board
is being negotiated.
Credit No. 1228-UG - Phosphate Engineering Project: US$40.0
million Credit of June 14, 1982; Effective Date: September 2,
1982; Closing Date: October 31, 1985
The progress of the project is satisfactory during the ongoing
first phase, expected to be concluded by mid November 1982. Disbursements
are substantially on schedule. A project team of three members is working
full time on the project. The quality of the consultants, Bearden-Potter
and SEMA, is highly satisfactory. All covenants under the agreements are
being complied with, except for the reporting requirements: monthly reports
are not regularly submitted.
Credit No. 1248-UG - Industrial Rehabilitation Project: US$35.0
million Credit of June 29, 1982; Effective Date: September 15,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
Appraisal of subprojects for rehabilitation is getting started
and initial commitments under this credit are expected by February 1983.
E. EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY PROJECTS INVOLVING UGANDA
In addition to the projects described above, Uganda also benefits
from lending to the East African Community. Following the disintegration
of the East African Community, the allocation among the Partner States
(Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda) of the undisbursed balance of loans to the
East African Community Corporations at October 1, 1977 was approved by the
Executive Directors on January 12, 1978 on the basis of recommendations



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
made in a report dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312). Agreements in line
with those recommendations were subsequently signed by each of the Partner
States on January 25,, 1978. A portion of the undisbursed balances under
two loans (Loan 674-EA - East African Railways Corporation (now fully
4        disbursed), and Loan 914-EA - East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation) was allocated to Uganda. Although the closing date for Loan
914-EA has expired, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each
Partner State is clearly defined under the terms of the agreement of
January 25, 1978, disbursements continued to be made. Industrial projects
in Uganda are also eligible for financing under the ongoing East African
Development Bank Project (Loan 1204-EA).
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and about US$13.7 million has been
disbursed to date. The closing date has been postponed a third time to
June 30, 1983 to allow for completion of the project.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First presentation to the Association             April 1980
(b)  Pre-appraisal mission                             February 1982
(c)  Appraisal mission                                 May 1982
(d)  Completion of negotiations                        January 1983
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness                     June 1983
II., Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.  Special Conditions
(a) The Government to allocate adequate foreign exchange to meet the
agricultural sector's recurrent import needs during the imple-
mentation of the Project (paragraph 52);
(b) The Government to hire consultants for a comprehensive study of
costs of production, processing and marketing of major export
crops (paragraph 54);
(c) The Government to employ consultants to assist in preparing
suitable proposals for coffee marketing reforms (paragraph 56);
(d) The Government to hire consultants to study the desirability of,
and prepare detailed proposals for, appropriate reforms for
cotton marketing (paragraph 57);
(e) The Government to carry out a study of the tea industry (para-
graph 59);
(f) The Government to hire consultants to carry out a study of the
tobacco subsector (paragraph 60);



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) The Government to employ consultants to study potential and
constraints of the non-traditional agricultural exports and
livestocks subsectors (paragraphs 61 and 62);
(h) The Government to submit to the Asociation by December 31,
1982 a comprehensive program for the training component of the
Project (paragraph 66);
(i) UCB to develop a satisfactory system of follow-up on loans
(paragraph 72);
(j) The Government to maintain an Agricultural Policy Committee with
responsibility, inter alia, for project mDnitoring and evalua-
tion (paragraph 84);
(k) The Government to maintain an Agricultural Secretariat (para-
graph 84).






IBRD 16789
|   29-                      3b                             iD                             32                             3M- /3                                                  NOVEMBER 1982
UGANDA                                                              S U  D A  N
FARMING SYSTEMS                                                                                    f,                                               /             KENYA
Teso System                       .J        9 .   % .            °.*OMo-Yo.                                            .
PTo-rrasm   Robusto Ryganda)             -                      ,        "          SKoabocgJ
C)                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pl-cra,-MilIest-Cotto- Areas      iK¾ togmo
North-er  System                      I                       -/                                                            -              F       ,
West Nde System                                    RhlioJ
*                                                                                            '3                  Mactone System  (BaRooc  ace Caflee) *Ar-         Camp3                                                                                           /
; Pastoral System                      N                         *-'      '        °Gulu                                  J o                            -
-*  -    Icrercotocal Bo-sdories              |I                                    I ;,r 9                                                .                     Moroto0
\ >//   ' ~ I'            -la # .
b                >    S                              /                          0   (                                   ] ( 2
J <~~~~~~~~~'                                //          0    )                                                   So  ..... r-r                                 (i  ,.......     1;
rf>  j4/'   4                                                              -                                                                                h
P                         r                                                 , J                                                   Toror%        f H-a NO
Jic1a0~~~~~~~
f   t  X  ,  _a Mbara , < , a > ~V, 
5'                   '                              JOo r  _     ~              'eiq                               KAMPALAgo --                                    AI E    }   sL aporfNY 
\ Ž~r/ ,J             tI
*     S   ;                                        N              /                                                                   j      N f t e r a   f t S r o   o w i h l #   t   c a   h d f n z       s U r   n   hT                         
29) i                0/         N DA                                    F i
Poo.I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~0                                    10              5    eetr                       R~ol
N                                                        AM beAd
29'    ~ ~ ~         RVVANDA~,e                 3M.~   I                                ~                                                                   iN
i/  39'   I    ~             ~              ~             ~            ~            ~            ~            --



