CREDIT NUMBER 1328 UG
DCU M E NTS
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK
Dated               6-4      4      , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1328 UG
PROJEC AGREEME
AGREEMENT, dated    )7/      -               , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT SSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK (hereinafter called UCB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Uganda (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixty three million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 63,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that UCB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and UCB, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to UCB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS UCB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) UCB shall carry out Part A of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and investment standards


﻿-2-
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and in
accordance with the UCB Act and the provisions of the Banking Act
(Act Z  of 1969) relating to loans-to-deposits ratio.
(b) For the purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Pro-
ject, UCB shall:
(i) apply the appraisal and selection criteria and the
allocation procedures set forth in the Schedule to
this Agreement;
(ii) make Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises at an
interest rate of at least fourteen per cent (14%),
with an amortization period of a maximum of not
more than ten years. The interest rate on Sub-
loans shall be adjusted from time to time in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.04 of
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(iii) assign three debt recovery officers, two senior
credit analysts and two agricultural economists
each with at least three years relevant experi-
ence, to work full-time on the implementation of
the said Part.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist UCB in the preparation
of detailed cost estimates and contracts for Part A of the Pro-
ject, UCB shall employ an engineering surveyors' consultant.
(b) In order to assist UCB in the supervision of the
Investment Projects under Part A of the Project, UCB shall employ
a consulting engineer.
(c) In order to assist UCB in the implementation of Part A
of the Project, UCB shall employ a development financing expert
who shall be the Project Manager.
(d)  In order to assist UCB in the preparation of bidding
documents and to provide assistance in the procurement of goods
under Part B of the Project, UCB shall employ a procurement
expert.
(e) The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment of the consultants and experts referred to in the
preceding sub-paragraphs of this Section shall be satisfactory to


﻿-3-
the Association, and such consultants and experts shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. (a) In accordance with and subject to the pro-
visions of this Agreement, UCB shall submit Sub-loans for Invest-
ment Enterprises to the Association for approval or for authori-
zation of withdrawals to be made from the Credit Account.
(b) When submitting a Sub-loan in an amount exceeding the
equivalent of $1,500,000 to the Association for approval, UCB
shall furnish an application, in a form satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, which shall include a description of the Investment
Enterprise and of the Investment Project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed, and an appraisal of
the Investment Project) and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(c) Each request by UCB for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a Sub-loan in an
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,500,000 shall be accom-
panied by a statement which shall contain a summary description
of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (includ-
ing a description of expenditures proposed to be financed under
the Sub-loan for such Investment Project), and the terms and con-
ditions of such Sub-loan, including the Schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and unless the
Association and UCB shall otherwise agree: (i) shall not extend
beyond ten years from the date of approval by the Association of
such Sub-loan or, in the case of a Sub-loan not exceeding
$1,500,000, of authorization by the Association to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof; and (ii)
shall provide for approximately equal semiannual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(e) Except as    the Association   and UCB shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Association on or before December 31, 1988.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) UCB undertakes that, unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms
whereby UCB shall obtain, by written agreement or other appro-
priate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Association and of UCB, including, in the case of any such
Sub-loan: (i) the right to require the Investment Enterprise to
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
the right to require that the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) the right of the
Association and of UCB to inspect such goods and the sites,
works, plants and construction included in the Investment Pro-
ject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
ments; (iv) the right to require that the Investment Enterprise
take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks and in
such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice
and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insur-
ance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery of the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity thereunder be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v)
the right to obtain all such information as the Association or
UCB shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing, to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Projects; (vi) the right of UCB to suspend or terminate the
right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of
the Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to
perform its obligations under its agreement with UCB; (vii) the
right of UCB to require that the rehabilitation needs of the
Investment Enterprise shall be determined by UCB's engineering
surveyors; and (viii) the right of UCB to require that the
Investment Enterprise shall be rehabilitated by construction
engineers retained and supervised by UCB.
(b) UCB shall exercise its rights in relation to each In-
vestment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and of UCB; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project.


﻿-5-
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for Part A.1 of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. UCB shall, by not later than December 31,
1983, prepare and implement a loan follow-up system for Sub-loan
supervision, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.06. UCB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, UCB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and UCB shall other-
wise agree, UCB: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its property or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and (ii) shall take all action necessary to
maintain its corporate existence and right to carry on its opera-
tions and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, pri-
vileges and franchises necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 2.08. (a) UCB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Part A of the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) UCB shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of Part A of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in Part A of the Project;
and (ii) furnish to the Association annually beginning March 31,
1984, and on every March 31 all such information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request concerning Part A of the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-6-
(c) Upon the award by UCB of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Part A of the Project, the Association may publish a
description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of'Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between UCB and
the Association, UCB shall prepare and furnish to the Association
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project, its
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the per-
formance by UCB and the Association of their respective obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
(e) UCB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of UCB and any relevant records and docu-
ments.
Section 2.09. (a) UCB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) UCB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by UCB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) UCB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition..


﻿-7-
Section 3.02. UCB shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, UCB shall not incur any debt, if after the incurrence
of such debt the aggregate amount of debt of UCB then incurred
and outstanding would be greater than twenty times the equity of
UCB. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness or liability of
UCB arising from its operations as a commercial bank in any
fiscal year.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; (ii) under a guarantee
acceptance or indemnity agreement, on the date the agreement pro-
viding for such guarantee acceptance or indemnity has been enter-
ed into but only to the extent that the guaranteed accepted or
indemnified debt shall be outstanding; (iii) when UCB accepts any
form of deposits; and (iv) on dividends declared but not yet
paid.
(c) The term "equity of UCB" means the sum of total unim-
paired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of UCB not
allocated to cover specific liabilities.


﻿-8-
(d) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, a
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, UCB shall:
(i) by not later than December 31, 1983, undertake a
revaluation of its fixed assets starting from its
1982 fiscal year in accordance with sound and
consistently maintained methods of valuation and
revaluation acceptable to the Association; and
(ii) from its 1983 fiscal year, incorporate the results
of its fixed asset revaluations in its financial
statements.
(b)  In order to assist UCB in the valuation of its fixed
assets as required by paragraph (a) of this Section, UCB shall
employ an accounting firm, whose qualifications and experience
shall be satisfactory to the Association. For the purposes of
this Section, the term "fixed assets" means all movable and
immovable assets held by UCB and used in its operations.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of UCB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿-9-
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
shall promptly notify UCB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For UCB:
Chairman/Managing Director
Uganda Commercial Bank
Head Office
P.O. Box 973
Kampala, Uganda


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                    Talex:
UGACO BANK                      61149 (UC BANK)
61073 (UGACO BANK)
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of UCB may be taken or executed by its Manag-
ing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing
Director shall designate in writing, and UCB shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
UGANDA COMMERCIAL BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Appraisal and Selection Criteria
and Allocation Procedures of UCB with
respect to Part A of the Project
A.   Appraisal and Selection Criteria
1.   Each project proposed to be financed by a Sub-loan shall be
appraised by the engineering surveyors' consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement.
2.   Each Investment Project shall meet the following economic
and financial requirements:
(a) Each Investment Project shall meet normal criteria of
technical, economic and financial feasibility, credit worthiness,
and managerial competence of the Investment Enterprises.
(b) Each Investment Project shall provide satisfactory
financial rates of return.
3.   In appraising Investment Projects, particular regard shall
be paid by UCB to the availability of adequate labor, cotton,
coffee or other raw materials, as the case may be, in a particu-
lar area served by a factory and their competitiveness relative
to other crops grown in the same area.
4.   The appraisal and selection criteria applied shall be con-
sistently and systematically documented in the form of an apprai-
sal report.
B.   Allocation of Sub-loans
In allocating the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part A
of the Project, UCB shall take due account of the needs of the
facilities eligible for rehabilitation under the said Part A
which are owned by companies or partnerships incorporated or
registered under the laws of the Borrower.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198  .
FOR SECRETARY


