                                           LOAN NUMBER 7860-MX




     Loan Agreement
   (Social Protection System in Health Project)


                     between


         UNITED MEXICAN STATES


                       and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
          AND DEVELOPMENT




      Dated A A, a rL^ 3 p , 2010
                                    LOAN AGREEMENT


        Agreement dated March 30, 2010, between UNITED MEXICAN STATES ("Borrower")
as represented by Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Piublico, its Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit (SCHP), and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT ("Bank").

         Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as set forth
in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and for purposes of supporting the
Project described in Schedule I to this Agreement), shall be used in conformity with the
requirements of the Borrower's income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this
Agreement, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:


                ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
       integral part of this Agreement.

1.02. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
       the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
       Agreement.


                                    ARTICLE H — LOAN

2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
        to in this Agreement, the amount of one billion two hundred fifty million Dollars
        ($1,250,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement ("Loan"), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
        Agreement ("Project").

2.02. The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement. The Borrower's Representative for purposes of taking any
        action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section shall be notified in
        writing to the Bank by the Borrower.

2.03. The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent
       (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04. The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to
        LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a
        Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable
        by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in
        accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
        Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains
	




           unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the
           interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02
           (d) of the General Conditions.

    2.05. The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

    2.06. The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of
           Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

    2.07. (a)	     The Borrower may at any time request or cause NAFIN to request any of the
                   following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt
                   management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the
                   principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                   Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of
                   the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from a Variable
                   Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable
                   Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
                   withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or
                   Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate.

           (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is
                   accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in the
                   General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of
                   Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.

           (c)     Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                   Collar for which the Borrower has requested, or NAFIN (at the request of the
                   Borrower) has requested, that the premium be paid out of the proceeds of the
                   Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                   Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in
                   accordance with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
                   allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of Schedule
                   2 to this Agreement.


                                     ARTICLE III — PROJECT

    3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project. To this end, the
           Borrower (through SSA) shall carry out the Project and shall ensure that the States
           collaborate with the Borrower in order for the Borrower to fully comply with the
           obligations set forth in this Agreement, all of this in accordance with the provisions of
           Article V of the General Conditions. Except as the Borrower (through SSA) and the Bank
           shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in
           accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.




                                                    -3-
                       ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01. The Additional. Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely, any of the parties
        to the Contrato de Mandato or to any of the Coordination Agreements shall have failed to
        perform any of its obligations under the Contrato de Mandato or under the relevant
        Coordination Agreement Without limitation to the provisions of Section 7.02 of the
        General Conditions, the Bank may suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
        to make withdrawals from the Loan Account.

4.02. The Additional Events of Acceleration consist of the following, namely, that any of the
       events specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period
        of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


                   ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01. The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following:

        (a)     the Contrato de Mandato has been duly executed by the parties thereto; and

        (b)     the Borrower, through SHCP and SSA, and NAFIN (in a separate legal opinion
                satisfactory to the Bank, issued by NAFIN counsel acceptable to the Bank),
                indicate that the Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by,
                and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NAF1N and is legally
                binding upon the Borrower and NAF1N in accordance with the Contrato de
                Mandato's terms.

5.02	   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline
        is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the
        eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on September
        16, 2011.


                    ARTICLE VI— REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

 6.01. Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower's Representative is
        the Titular de la Unidad de Credito Publico of SHCP. The authorized representative to
        make requests for Currency Conversions on behalf of the Borrower shall be the Titular de
        la Unidad de Credito Publico of SHCP or any person or persons whom he or she shall
        designate in writing for this particular purpose.




                                                -4-
6.02. The Borrower's Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:

               Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
               Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
               Palacio Nacional
               Edificio 12, segundo piso
               Colonia Centro
               06000 Mexico, D.F.
               Facsimile: 011-52-55-3688-1216


 6.03. The Bank's Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:	         Telex:	               'Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD	              248423(MCI) or	        1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.	        64145(MCI)




                                              -5-
                                                                                          T




AGREED at 	   o (2 < <^              , Q u ' t ( p , as of the day and year first above
written.



                                                  'ATES



                 By
                                                Authorized Representative
                   G^.cVG2t          cS 0	                           4o'v   cSDZCz
                   Ti	    lce	           cle	         UUCL'CCceCP c(E CrecLc' 0 fLJb<<Cc'
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                 I   ,   VI V `VV i
                 By
                                                             Representative
                                                                CD G-

                                                                  :r €c	      i




                                     0
                                         SCHEDULE 1

                                       Project Description


        The objectives of the Project are to (i) initially preserve and later expand the Popular
Health Insurance's coverage of people without contributory social security, and (ii) strengthen the
capacity of the Commission and State Health Systems to effectively administer the entitlements
of the Popular Health Insurance.

        The Project consists of the following parts:

Part 1: Popular Health Insurance's Coverage of People without Contributory Social
Security

        Financing of Eligible Federal Social Contributions to the premium of the Popular Health
Insurance to initially preserve and later expand the Popular Health Insurance's coverage of
Eligible Beneficiaries.

Part 2: Capacity of the Commission and of State Health Systems to Administer the Popular
Health Insurance Entitlements

(a)     Financing of technical assistance to the Commission and to State Health Systems to (i)
                                              .



        support enhancements in performance management in the administration of the Popular
        Health Insurance, and (ii) support State Health Systems in preparing and carrying out
        reforms in the administration of the Popular Health Insurance; said technical assistance to
        include, inter alia, the review and refinement of the federal monitoring and audit system,
        (including Coordination Agreements), assessments of the capacity of State Health
        Systems to monitor the delivery of health services to different groups of beneficiaries
        (including vulnerable groups), the development of instruments to capture and validate
        information, the development of performance benchmarks, the design of a disclosure
        policy for the Popular Health Insurance, the development of platforms to transfer
        experiences and knowledge across State Health Systems, and the development of
        financing mechanisms for technical assistance to State Health Systems to effectively
        carry out key health system functions, specially, their responsibilities as the
        administrators of the Popular Health Insurance.


 (b)     Financing of technical assistance to the Commission and to State Health Systems to
         improve the knowledge of Eligible Beneficiaries about their entitlements under the
         Popular Health Insurance; said technical assistance to include, inter alia, the design of a
         communication strategy with a focus on vulnerable groups, consultations with
         stakeholders, the development of communication tools, implementation support to State
         Health Systems, including training and supervision of the implementation of said
         communication strategy, the evaluation of communication pilots as well as evaluation of
         said communication pilots and communication strategy, including the review and
         development of surveys, data collection and data analysis.



                                                  -7-
(c)   Financing of technical assistance to the Commission and to State Health Systems to
      strengthen their capacity to manage health risks; said technical assistance to include, inter
      alia, the design of a health risk management program, consultations with stakeholders,
      training and implementation support to State Health Systems, including the supervision
      of the implementation of said health risk management program, the evaluation of health
      risk management pilots and said health risk management program, including the design
      of surveys, data collection, and data analysis.

(d)   Financing of technical assistance to allow the Commission coordinate and manage the
      Project; said technical assistance to include, inter alia, the training of staff in fiduciary
      and safeguard matters, the carrying out of annual external audits, and the carrying out of
      the activities included in the IPP.




                                                -8-
                                            SCHEDULE 2

                                          Project Execution

Section I.	      Implementation Arrangements

A.	      Institutional Arrangements.

1.       Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as
         the Borrower (through SSA) and the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower (through
         SSA) shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and shall
         ensure that the States collaborate with the Borrower in order for the Borrower to comply
         with the obligations set forth in this Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
         agree, the Borrower (through SSA) . shall not amend, waive or fail to enforce any
         provision of the Operational Manual without the Bank's prior written approval. In case of
         any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement,
         the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

2.       The Borrower (through SSA) shall maintain an operational manual, satisfactory to the
         Bank, containing, inter alia, specific provisions on detailed arrangements for the carrying
         out of the Project, including:

         (a) the procurement, disbursement and financial management requirements for the
          .	 Project;

         (b) the IPP;

         (c) the Performance Indicators;

         (d) the eligibility criteria of Eligible Beneficiaries;

         (e) the model form for, and key provisions of, the Coordination Agreements; and

          (f) transparency and anticorruption provisions, including a provision stating that part of
              the funds for the Popular Health Insurance are provided by the Bank through this
              Agreement, and therefore establishing that all parties involved in the Popular Health
              Insurance agree to comply with the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

 3.       The Borrower (through SSA) shall coordinate Project implementation through the
          Commission, and the Borrower (through SSA) shall assign personnel to coordinate the
          implementation of the Project in sufficient numbers and with experience and
          qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.

 4.       The Borrower (through SSA) shall maintain a separate Coordination Agreement,
          satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the States, whereby:

          (a) the Borrower (through SSA agrees to, inter alia, provide funds to assist in the
              financing of the premium of the Popular Health Insurance (including the Eligible
              Federal Social Contribution) within each State under Part 1 of the Project; and

                                                    In
      (b) the State agrees to collaborate with the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project by,
             inter alia:

             (i) providing its share of financing for the premium of the Popular Health Insurance,
                 and

             (ii) providing the services covered under the Popular Health Insurance.

      The Borrower (through SSA, through a notification (officio), satisfactory to the Bank, to be
      issued by the Commission) shall cause the States to abide by the IPP and the Anticorruption
      Guidelines and to collaborate with the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project.

6.	   The Borrower (through SSA) hereby declares that each Coordination Agreement has been
      duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered by the Borrower (through SSA)
      and each State and is legally binding upon the Borrower and each State in accordance with
      the relevant Coordination Agreement's terms.

B.	   Contrato de Mandato

      The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de Mandato),
      satisfactory to the Bank, among SSA and NAFIN, whereby, inter alia:

      (a)      the Borrower (through SSA) agrees to carry out the Project in accordance with the
               provisions of this Agreement (including the IPP and the Anti-Corruption
               Guidelines), and in the Operational Manual (including, the Project's financial
               management and procurement arrangements);

      (b) NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with regard to the Loan,
          meaning that, inter alia, NAFIN agrees to represent the Borrower vis -a -vis the Bank
          for purposes of submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form and
          substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to the Borrower of Loan
          proceeds and agrees to maintain and operate the designated account (referred to in
          the additional instructions cited in Section IV.A.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement)
          in compliance with the terms of this Agreement;

       (c)     NAFIN agrees to abide by the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;


       (d) the Borrower, through SHCP, shall have the right to, in case of fraud or corruption
           (as defined in the Anti-Corruption Guidelines) provide for the early termination of
           the Contrato de Mandato, or temporarily suspend its effects, or, if applicable,
           require the restitution of funds transferred to NAFIN under said Contrato de
           Mandato; and

       (e) the Borrower (through SSA) agrees to cooperate fully with NAFIN to ensure that
             NAFIN is able to comply with all of NAFIN's obligations referred to in Section
             I.B.1(b) above.


                                                S[Ill
2.	      The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the Contrato de
         Mandato in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the
         purposes of the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
         amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato de Mandato. In case of
         any conflict between the terms of the Contrato de Mandato and those of this Agreement,
         the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

C.	      Anti - Corruption

         The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
         provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. In this regard, the Borrower, through SSA
         or through any other entity as the Borrower may deem appropriate, shall, inter alia,
         ensure compliance with paragraph 9 (d) of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines as follows:

          (a)    by requiring the States, through a notification (officio) to be issued by SSA (through
                 the Commission), to take appropriate measures to prevent, inform on, respond to
                 and investigate corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive and obstructive practices
                 with respect to the Project;

          (b)    by allowing the Bank to inspect accounts, records and other documents of any/or
                 all the States relating to the Project upon the Bank's request and in the company of
                 the Borrower's representatives (through SSA);

          (c)    by allowing the Bank, at its request, to have such accounts, records and other
                 documents audited by or on behalf of the Bank, using the Bank's terms of reference
                 for such purpose, with the collaboration of the Borrower, through SSA; and

          (d)    by agreeing to obtain restitution from any/or all of the States, as the case may be, of
                 any amount of the Loan with respect to which fraud and corruption has occurred;

           all the above pursuant to audit, transparency, control, restitution and information sharing
           clauses within the Coordination Agreements and/or any other means (including, but not
           limited to the Borrower's rights under the Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility
           Law, the General Health Law, the General Public Debt Law, and the Monitoring and
           Accountability Law).


  Section II.	     Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

  A.	      Project Reports

           The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project
           Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and
           on the basis of Performance Indicators. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one
           calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days
           after the end of the period covered by such report.




                                                   -11-
B.	    Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

       The Borrower (through SSA) shall maintain to maintain a financial management system
       in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions.

       Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower (through
       SSA) shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end
       of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the
       semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.

       The Borrower (through SSA) shall have the Project Financial Statements audited in
       accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit
       of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower,
       commencing with the fiscal year in which the Project becomes effective. The audited
       Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
       months after the end of such period.

4.	    The Borrower (through SSA (through the Commission)) shall prepare Statements of
       Affiliation Registry. The Statements of Affiliation Registry shall contain a list of all
       people registered as Eligible Beneficiaries in the Popular Health Insurance aggregated by
       month and by State. The Statements of Affiliation Registry shall be submitted by the
       Borrower to the Bank each time that the Borrower submits to the Bank a request to
       withdraw proceeds of the Loan as stated in Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


       The Borrower (through SSA) shall have the Statements of Affiliation Registry audited.
       Each audit of the Statements of Affiliation Registry shall cover the period of one fiscal
       year and shall be carried out by independent external auditors satisfactory to the Bank
       and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank. The audited Statements of
       Affiliation Registry for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six
       months after the end of such period.

 Section III.	Procurement

 A.	   General

       Goods and Non-consultants' Services. All goods and Non-consultants' Services
       required for the Project and to be financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in
       Dollars provided under the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements
       set' forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the
       provisions of this Section.

 2.     Consultants' Services. All consultants' services required for the Project and to be
        financed out with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the Loan
        shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I
        and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

 3.     Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular
        procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts refer to

                                               -12-
       the corresponding method described in •the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant
       Guidelines, as the case may be.

4.	    Special Provisions. The Borrower (through SSA) shall: (a) supply the SEPA with the
       information contained in the initial Procurement Plan within 45 days after the Project has
       been approved by the Bank; and (b) update the Procurement Plan at least once a year, or
       as needed through the duration of the Project, to reflect the actual Project implementation
       needs and progress and supply the SEPA with the information contained in the updated
       Procurement Plan immediately thereafter.

B.	    Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non Consultants' Services

       International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2
       below, goods and Non-consultants' Services shall be procured under contracts awarded
       on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.

2.	    Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non Consultants' Services. The
       following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
       Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and Non-consultants' Services. The
       Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be
       used.

        Procurement Method
        (a) National Competitive Bidding
        (b) Shopping
        (c) Direct Contracting

 C.	Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services

       Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below,
       consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality
       and Cost-based Selection.

       Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants' Services. The following table
       specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
       which may be used for consultants' services. The Procurement Plan shall specify the
       circumstances under which such methods may be used.




                                               -13-
        Procurement Method
        (a) Quality Based Selection
        (b) Selection under a Fixed Budget
        (c) Least-Cost Selection
        (d) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
        (e) Single Source Selection
        (f) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for
           the selection of Individual Consultants

D.	Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

        The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank's
Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.


Section IV. 	Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.	     General

        The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions
        of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional instructions as
        the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the "World Bank
        Disbursement Guidelines for Projects" dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
        the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions).

2.	     The Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account on or after
        the Effective Date and pay to itself the Front-end Fee payable pursuant to Section 3.01 of
        the General Conditions. The remaining proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed in
        Dollars unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank and so reflected in
        the additional instructions referred in Section IV.A. I immediately above. Consistently
        with Section 2.05 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall use an amount
        equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the Loan Agreement to finance
        Eligible Expenditures.

        The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
        financed with an amount equivalent to the amount in Dollars provided under the Loan
        ("Category"), the allocation of amounts as a result of the Loan to each Category, and the
        percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category.




                                               -14-
          Category                    Amount of the Loan           Percentage of Expenditures
                                           Allocated                      to be financed
                                      (expressed in USD)               (inclusive of Taxes)

(1) Eligible Federal Social                1,239,000,000                        70%
Contributions to Health
Insurance Premium under Part
1 of the Project

(2) Goods Consultant                         7,875,000                          100%
Services, Non Consultant
Services, Training and
Operating Costs under Part 2
of the Project

(3) Front-end Fee                            3,125,000             Amount payable pursuant to
                                                                   Section 2.03 of this
                                                                   Agreement in accordance with
                                                                   Section 2.07 (b) of the General
                                                                   Conditions
(4) Premia for Interest Rate.                   -0-
Caps and Interest rate Collars
(amounts due under section
2.07 (c) of this Agreement)

TOTAL AMOUNT                               1,250,000,000

4.	     For purposes of this Section IV:

        (a)     the term "Eligible Federal Social Contributions to Health Insurance Premium"
                means the Eligible Federal Social Contribution under Part 1 of the Project;

        (b)     the term "Non Consultant Services" means the services required for printing,
                reproducing, publicizing and disseminating information materials under Part 2 of
                the Project;

        (c)     the term "Operating Costs" means the reasonable cost of recurrent expenditures
                for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project (excluding salaries) such as
                lodging and per diem and transportation costs, which would not have been
                incurred absent the Project; and

        (d)      the term "Training" means reasonable expenditures (other than those for
                 consultants' services) incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of the Part 2 of
                 the Project and directly related to training activities described in Part 2 of the
                 Project, including, inter alia, costs related to workshops, seminars, conferences,
                 study tours, training registration fees, facility and equipment rentals, and local
                 travel costs and per diems for the Borrower's staff or consultants.

                                                -15-
B.	   Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

      Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be made:

      (a)     for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
              up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000,000 equivalent may be made
              for payments made before that date but after July 1, 2009 (but in no case made
              more than twelve (12) months prior to the date of this Agreement).

      (b)     under Category I unless the notification (officio) referred to in Section I.A.5 of
              Schedule 2 to this Agreement has been sent to the State to which Eligible Federal
              Social Contributions will be made.

2.	   The Closing Date is December 31, 2013.




                                             -16-
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
