Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7163-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 6, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



Currency and Eauivalent Units
Currency Unit = CEDI
US$1          - CEDI 186 (Auction Rate on May 13. 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE     -         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CDR      -         Committee for the Defense of the Revolution
DEL      -         Direct Exchange Line
ERP      -         Economic Recovery Program
GOG      -         The Government of Ghana
GPT      -         Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
ICB      -         International Competitive Bidding
IDA      -         International Development Association
JCC      -         Joint Consultative Committee
LCB      -         Local Competitive Bidding
LIB      -         Limited International Bidding
MOTC     -         Ministry of Transport and Communication
OECF     -         Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PABX     -         Private Automatic Branch Exchange
PMBX     -         Private Manual Branch Exchange
PPF      -         Project Preparation Facility
SOE      -         State Owned Enterprise
TMS      -         Telecommunications Master Plan
UHF      -         Ultra High Frequency
VFT      -         Voice Frequency Telegraph
F?scal Year
Government : January 1 - December 31
GPT        : January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
GHANA
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......            ...........................     iv
I.    INTRODUCTION ..........................................                 1
II.  THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR .........................                  2
1. BACKGROUID
A. General .........................................                 2
B. Access to Service ...............................                2
C. Usage of Service ................................                3
D. Existing Facilities and Quality of Service    ......              3
E. Demand for Service ..............................                 4
2. THE ENTITY
A. Organization and Management .....................                 5
B. Staff and Training ..............................                6
C. Accounting System ...............................                8
D. Billing and Collection ..........................                8
E. Audit ...........         ................................        9
3. DEVELOPMENT
A. Sector Goals ....................................                 9
B. Sector Development Constraints .....             .............    10
C. Bank's Role and Strategy ........................    10
2III. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT ...........................    12
1. DESCRIPTION
A. Project Concept .................................               12
B. Project Objectives ..............................               13
C. Project Description .............................    13
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission to Ghana in November
1987, comprising Messrs. R. Kayani (Task Manager), D. Lomax, R. Pradhan and
P. Adams. Mr. S. Brushett participated in the preparation of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No
2. COSTS
A.  Project  Costs  ...................................                             17
B.  Contingencies  ...................................                              18
C. Project  Financing  ...............  ..............                              i8
3. PROCUREMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Procurement  .....................................                               20
B. Disbursements ...............                                                    22
C. Implementation  ..................................                               23
D. Overall Project Management  ......................                               24
E.  Performance  Indicators  ..........................                             24
IV.  FINANCIAL AND  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  ........................                                 25
1. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Past  Financial  Performance  ......................                            25
B.  Past  Financial  Position  .........................                            27
C.  Future  Financial  Performance  ....................                            28
D.  Financing  Forecast  ..............................                             29
2. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Tariffs ........                                                                 30
B.  Benefits  ........................................                              31
C.  Return  on  Investment  ............................                            31
D.  Risks  ...........................................                              32
E.  Least  Cost  Solution  .............................                            32
F.  Environment  .....................................                              32
V.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND  RECOMMENDATION  ............                                      33



- iii -
ANNEXES AND CHARTS
Page No
2-1    Basic Telecommunications Facilities  (1976-1987)                 ......    36
2-2    Existing Telecommunications Facilities  ....                 ...........   37
2-3    GPT Organization Chart  ...............................                    41
2-4    Staffing .           ............................................          42
3-1    Investment Program (1987-1992) ........................                    43
3-2    Telephone and Telex Facilities Over
the Project Period (1987-1992)  .......................                   46
3-3    Detailed Project Description .........................                     47
3-4    Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services  ....                ......    53
3-5    Schedule of Disbursements .............................                    73
3-6    Implementation Schedule ...............................                    74
3-7    Action Plan for Consultancy Services  ....                 .............   75
3-8    Overall Project Management Organization Chart .........                    76
3-9    Technical Performance Indicators  ......................    77
4-1    GPT Income Statements (Historic) ......................   78
4-2    GPT Balance Sheet  (Historic)  .........             .................    79
4-3    GPT Projected Income Statement  ........              ................   80
4-4    GPT Balance Sheet  .....................................                   81
4-5    GPT Funds Flow Statements  ...........             ..................    82
4-6    Financing Plan .......................................    83
4-7    Notes and Assumptions on the Financial Forecasts  ......   84
4-8    Primary Indicators .....................................   86
4-9    Telecommunications Tariffs .............................   87
4-10  Return on Investments  .................................    88
6      Selected Documents and Data
Available in Project File  .............................    91
Map
IBRD No. 20626



_ iv -
GHANA
SECOND TELECOMMUNlCATIONS PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:        Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
(GPT).
Amount:              SDR 13.8 million (US$19.0 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity.
On-Lending Terms:   The Government of Ghana (GOG) will onlend the credit
proceeds to GPT at the interest rate of 7.72Z (the IBRD
rate at the time of negotiations) fcr a period of 20
years including five years of grace. GPT will assume
the foreign exchange risk.
Project             The proposed project aims to support a program of
Description:         institutional and management improvement of the
telecemmunications sector and to improve the quality
of telecommunications service. The project comprises:
consultancy services for reorganization, corporate
planning, and telecommunications master plan;
management assistance for operations and maintenance,
planning, financial management, and project management;
fellowships and equipment for training; and
rehabilitation of the existing telecommunications
network focused on Accra, Kumasi, Tema, Tamale,
Koforidua, Cape Coast, Sekondi and 26 rural towns.
Proijct Benefits    All sectors of the economy will benefit from the
and Risks:          project. Well functioning telecommunications
services are esser,tial to support GOG's objectives
under the Economic Recovery Program. In particular,
fuel costs will be saved due to a more efficient use of
transport; markets for agr'-ultural and export goods
will work more efficiently, and GOG's administration
will be more efficient. Investments under the project
will lead to rehabilitation and limite. expansion of
the telecommunications network consistent with
expressed demand in the largest towns and with least
cost technical solutions. The principal risk is that
past weaknesses in sector management and organization
and staff shortages will persist and project benefits
will not be fully realized.



- v -
This risk is however mitigated by the
upfront commitment of GPT and GOG to an action
plan for strengthening the sector and entity
management, and for manpower development.
Proiect Costs (USS million equivalent)l/
Foreign as
Local2/     Foreign    Total  Z of Total
Switching equipment                     1.6          30.6       32.2      95.0
External cable network                 10.1          52.9       63.0      84.0
Radio and multiplex equip.              1.0          14.9       15.9      94.7
Satellite Earth Station                 0.1           6.6        6.7      98.5
Telephones, teleprinters
PABX and PMBX                        0.1           2.8       2.9       96.6
Power and airconditi.ning
equipment                            0.1           1.7       1.8       94.4
Vehicles                                0.0           1.5        1.5     100.0
Computer, tools and
test equipment                       0.1           1.4       1.5       93.3
Civil works                             2.0           3.4        5.4      63.0
Technical Assistance
(Consultancy and training)           0.8         18.8       19.6       95.9
Base cost                           15.9         134.6     150.5       89.4
Physical contingency                    1.6           6.7        8.3      80.7
Price contingency                       5.2           9.0       14.2      63.4
Total proiect cost                     22.7         150.3     173.0       86.9
1/ Equipment costs are inclusive of spares for new and existing equipment.
2/ GPT is exempted from customs duties for equipment.



- vi -
Project Financing Plan:
LOCAL            FOREIGN              TOTAL
SOURCE             -------------Us$ Million Equivalent--------------
IDA                     0.7               18.3                19.0
France (CCCE)11          --               21.8                21.8
Hollandt/                 --              18.8                18.8
Japan (Grant)             --               9.2                 9.2
Japan (Exim)              --               7.0                 7.0
Japan (OECF)3/          6.7               69.5                76.2
Ireland (Telectron)4/   --                 1.7                 1.7
GOG                     9.8                1.5                11.3
GPT                     5.5                2.5                 8.0
22.7             150.3               173.0
I/  US$10.7 million equivalent of CCCE loan is yet to be confirmed.
2/  Consists of 50Z soft loans and 502 commercial credit.
3/ OECF has appraised the project. The credit amount is expected to be
confirmed by the end of September 1988.
4/ Supplier's credit.
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY:            1988        1989        1990     1991    1992    1993
------------------US$ Million Equivalent-----------------
Annual             0.2          1.8         7.0       5.2     2.8      2.0
Cumulative         0.2          2.0         9.0      14.2    17.0    19.0
Economic Rate of Return: 212



GHANA
SECOND TELECOMMUWICATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
;.01     To rehabilitate the economy and reverse the economic deterioration
suffered over the past decade, the Government of Ghana (GOG) with support
from International Development Association (IDA), the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), and donor countries, introduced an Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) in April 1983. To broaden the policy reforms, GOG further
developed a comprehensive structural adjustment program which was supported
by a Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1777-GH approved in April 1986).
A major element of GOG's structural adjustment is a comprehensive reform of
the stace-owned enterprise (SOE) sector. A Public Enterprise (PE) project
(Credit 1847-GH app-,oved in October 1987) provides critical assistance
needed to implement the agreed reforms and also to lay the groundwork for
longer-term reforms by str ,-gthening the key institutions and developing
further SOE reform and restructuring measures. Reforms in the larger and
important SOEs in sectors such as telecommunications are being reinforced
and implemented through individual sector operations. In the case of Ghana
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (GPT), there is a need to:
(a) develop restructuring programs to achieve financial self-
sufficiency and implement immediate operational and managerial
improvements to increase autonomy; and
(b) revise legal framework and institute performance and investment
monitoring procedures.
1.02     GPT, one of the strategically crucial enterprises in the public
enterprise (PE) sector, is responsible for operating all public
telecommunications services in Ghana. Given the importance of well
functioning telecommunications services for the ERP and on the basis of its
financial and budgetery importance, GOG has assigned a high priority to the
rehabilitation program of GPT. GOG has requested IDA assistance in the
development of the telecommunications sector. In line with GOG and IDA
strategy in the SOE sector reform, GOG's objectives in the
telecommunications sector are to rehabilitate the network and improve sector
management. The project will improve the quality and increase the quantity
of telecommunications services, and result in GPT being financially self-
sufficient by 1991. It will also ease some of the constraints on economic
improvements in Ghana. Currently, significant costs, especially additional
fuel costs, are being incurred in key sectors of the economy, such as mining
and agriculture, because of deficiencies in telecommunications services.
1.03     GPT's investment program for 1987-1992 amounts to US$173.0 million
equivalent, including US$150.3 million in foreign exchange. The overall
investment program, which is identical with the project, will be financed as
follows: US$11.1 million from Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique



- 2 -
(CCCE) of France, US$18.8 million from the Netherlands (mixed credit and
soft loan), US$16.2 million equivalent from Japan (grant and EXIM loan),
US$1.7 million from Ireland (supplier's credit), US$76.2 million expected
from Japan (OECF), additional US$10.7 million expected from CCCE, US$11.3
million f-om GOG, US$8.0 million from GPT's internal generation, and the
balance will be financed out of the proposed US$19.0 million IDA credit.
1.04       The main thrust of the proposed project is to strengthen the
sector and entity management, and improve the quality of service of the
existing network. This will be achieved through appropriate technical
assistance and training, and provision of equipment for rehabilitation and
maintenance. The components of the project identified for IDA financing
will help remedy the institutional problems and provide spares and
complementary assets to optimize the utilization of those installed under
the Bank's First Telecommunications Project (para. 2.30;.
II. THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
1. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01     GPT, an autonomous government-owned corporation established by
decree in November 1974, provides all public telecommunications and postal
services in Ghana. In addition to the public telecommunication services,
dedicated networks exist to meet the specialized requirements of the police,
military, railway and civil aviation services. Private users a'so operate
radio link services in areas inadequately served by the public network, upon
obtaining a license issued annually by GPT. GPT also carries out some
regulatory functions such as setting equipment standards and granting of
equipment type approvals. Management of the radio frequency spectrum is
carried out by the Ghana Frequency Registration Board.
B. Access to Service
2.02     With about 38,0001/ direct exchange lines (DELs) at the end of
1987, Ghena had a telephone density of 0.3 DELs per 100 people. Ghana is
cne of the few countries in the world where telephone facilities have
decreased over the past seven years. Telephone density in 1981 was 0.4 DELs
per 100 and the number .-f DELs were higher than in 1987 (Annex 2-1). The
existing facilities are not only inadequate for the present level of
economic development but their distribution between urban and rural areas is
unbalanced. Telephone service is presently concentrated in the ten regional
headquarters, which account for 752 of the total DELs but only 1OZ of the
population. Accra alone (with 6Z of the population) has 452 of the DELs, a
density of 1.8 DELs per lOO people. The remaining regional headquarters
1/ On average, less than 50X of the DELs were working at any one time during
1987.



have 302 of the DELs, an average density of 1.4 DELs per 100 people. The
remaining 252 of DELs serve the rural areas (with 902 of the population
giving a density of only 0.07 DELs per 100 people, which is low.
2.03     About 90% of the subscribers are served from automatic exchanges
located in 21 towns, and the remaining lines are provided by 413 manual
exchanges scattered over the whole country.  At the end of 1987, autom.tic
telex service was available to 472 subscribers of whom 350 (74Z) were
located in Accra.
C. Usage of Service
2.04     Current statistics do not directly distinguish between the
different categories of users of the telecommunications network nor the
traffic composition, but billing information indicate that the government
and the parastatal sector together make up about 50X of the users. The
remaining users could be categorized into business and residential but in
Ghana, like many developing countries where telephone service is
underprovided, many of the residential telephones are used for both business
and private purposes.
D. Existing Facilities and Quality of Service
3.05     As of December 31, 1987, total switching capacity was 55,900 lines
consisting of 45,000 automatic and 10,900 manual lines. Total telex
capacity was 780 lines. The average exchange utilization (fill) for
telephone and telex were 682 and 602, respectively, which were low
(para. 2.06) due to defective manual exchanges and the una-ailability of
external cable plant. Ghana is served by an extensive long distance network
comprising of high capaci  microwave systems connecting the large towns and
small capacity systems (radio and land line) to the smaller towns.
Ix,ternational services are provided through a standard A earth satellite
station located at Nkutunze in Accra with direct circuits to 5 countries.
Ghana does not have an automatic international telephone exchange. As a
result, all international calls from Ghana must go through an operator.
Details of all the existing facilities are given in Annex 2-2.
2.06     The quality of service is poor.  On average, less than 502 of the
connected lines were working at any time during 1987. Of the 413 manual
exchanges with capacity of 10,900 lines, only 46 of them (3,300 lines) were
in service; the rest have been out of service for more than three years
mainly due to the lack of spares for power supplies and faulty overhead
trunk transmission routes, leaving the areas served by these exchanges
without telephone service. The telephones work intermittently. On average,
each telephone is down for more than six months a year and fault clearance
time averages more than 30 days. While the average call completion rate of
60Z for local service is barely accepta. le, the rates for subscriber trunk
dialing (STD) and international are low at about 202 and 122, respectively.
Outgoing international telephone service is manual and waiting time for
calls usually exceeds six hours. On average, 402 of all calls are cancelled
because of the long waiting time. Currently, the call completion rate from
England, Ghana's main international correspondent, is only about 122
resulting in loss of potential foreign exchange revenue to Ghana.



- 4 -
2.07     The poor quality of service is attributed to the following:
(a) frequent breakdown of the local cable network due to old age,
non-standard installations and use of improper materials;
(b) congestion in exchanges caused by old, obsolete, defective
and insufficient equipment and long distance circuits;
(c) inadequate international facilities for switching and
transmission;
(d) inadequate operations and maintenance organization;
(e) lack of spare parts, tools, test equipment and vehicles; and
(f) lack of trained staff.
The project will address the above shortcomings (para 3.03).
E. Demand for Service
2.08     Despite substantial investments in switching and transmission
equipment, the actual number of subscribers fell between 1981-1987. The
historical data for connected subscribers is shown in Annex 2-1. At the
end of June 1987, only 55Z of expressed demand (connected subscribers plus
registered waiting applicants) was satisfied. The registered waiting list
of 30,000 applicants was about 82Z of existing working subscribers and the
actual unsatisfied demand is likely to be much higher considering potential
subscribers who have been discouraged from applying for telephone service
because: (a) the average waiting time for connection is long (exceeding
five years); and (b) the quality of service has been poor (para 2.06). In
the absence of reliable data, it is difficult to estimate the actual demand
for telephone service. With the prospect of sustained economic growth, and
the improvement in the quality of telephone service as a result of this
project, demand will be stimulated and the total expressed demand is
expected to increase substantially. The waiting list at the end of the
project in 1992 is expected to remain at the present level, despite an
average modest subscriber growth rate of 1O per annum during 1987-1992.
One of the objectives of the telecommunications master plan study (para.
3.06), under this project, is to estimate long-term demand and strategy for
meeting such demand.
2.09     The demand for telex service has the same characteristics as that
for telephone service. At the end of December 1987, only about 36Z of the
expressed demand was satisfied. The growth in telex connections over the
next five years is estimated te be ajout 15Z per annum. Although the
demand for telex service i8 declining worldwide, the situation it. Ghana is
different due to substantial hidden demand and a lack of alternative
services at present such as telefaceimile, teletex and data. Until these
options are fully established, which is unlikely over the next five years,
demand for telex service is expected to grow.



-5-
2. THE ENTITY
A. Organization and Management
2.10     All public telecommunications services in Ghana are provided by
the GPT, a government owned corporation established by decree in 1974. GPT
falls under the supervision of the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MOTC), which is responsible for approval of investment programs, budgets
and changes in tariffs. Under the decree, GPT enjoys considerable autonomy
in financial and administrative matters, but has limited control over staff
remuneration which have to fall within the framework of all parastatal
organizations. However, GPT's continued dependence on financial support
from the government has eroded GPT's autonomy and made it function as if it
were a government department. This has not been conducive tn efficient
operation of GPT, especially when there is lack of consistent development
and operational policies from the government. Under this project, a
telecommunications advisor will be employed to assist MOTC in the
formulation of sector development and operational policies (para. 3.07).
The advisor is expected to be appointed before September 30, 1988. The
lack of a Board of Directors since 1982 has also contributed to the weak
sector management. A Board of Directors has just been appointed.
2.11     GPT is managed by a Director General, with two Deputy Director
Generals for Posts and for Engineering (Telecommunications). Management
decisions are subject to discussions at an internal Joint Consultative
Committee (JCC) consisting of top management, the Union and the Committee
for the Detense of the Revolution (CDR). The organization structure of GPT
is given in Annex 2-3. In the past four years, there have been frequent
changes in top management (three Director Generals) which have weakened the
institution's capacity. In addition, there has been a severe shortage of
skilled manpower at all levels of the organization (para. 2.14).
2.12     GPT's organization structure and procedures are inadequate to
manage the current telecommunicaticins assets and the vital rehabilitation
program, or to administer a viable and sustained growth of the sector.
GPT's present management systems are not only inadequate, but also
fragmented. Because of the lack of management information systems,
management is unable to obtain pertinent information when needed. Planning
is virtually non-existent in GPT at the moment. The poor quality of
services is partly due to the lack of proper operations and maintenance
systems (para 2.07). Substantial improvements are required in management
information systems, planning, operations and maintenance, finance, billing
and collection, procurement and project implementation.
2.13     GOG has recognized the need to strengthen GPT's operations and
organization; improve efficiency to maintain and operate the existing
network; undertake rehabilitation; and plan for future expansion. GOG has
decided to split GPT into separate legal entities for postal and
telecommunications services and to strengthen these entities to make thpm
more responsive to the needs of individual sectors. A preliminary report



containing proposed organization structures and job descriptions of senior
management positions has been prepared. However, there still remains a lot
of work to be done before the split and reorganization are implemented. In
this project, IDA is providing the necessary assistance through the P?F
advance for working out the modalities for the reorganization, including
preparation of detailed action plans for execution of the reorganization
and support in the implementation phase (para. 3.06). Agreement has been
reached with GPT that the consultants will submit their recommendations by
September 30, 1988. GPT will discuss the consultants' recommendations with
IDA by December 31, 1988, and implement agreed recommendations by June 30,
1990 according to a schedule acceptable to IDA.
B. Staff and Training
2.14   The single most important issue in GPT is the severe shortage of
trained and experienced manpower at all levels, especially in the
engineering and financial areas. Telecommunications staff at end-1987 were
4,038 (Annex 2-4). Out of 76 positions for engineers, only 21 positions
(28Z) were filled. In the finance department, non-qualified personnel
occupy positions that ought to be filled by qualified accountants; out of
the 91 occupied positions, there is only one qualified accountant. During
the past seven years, GPT lost about 1,500 skilled staff, mostly from the
engineering cadres. The loss in skilled engineering staff has been largely
due to poor economic conditions in Ghana, poor remuneration and lack of
incentives. The poor economic conditions are being addressed through GOG's
ERP. Improvement in the manpower situation can only be achieved over a
long period of time during which intensive training at managerial and
technical levels will be undertaken. In the interim period consultants,
working with Ghanaian counterparts, will be employed to fill key skill gaps
(para. 2.32). GPT has initiated action for developing a manpower plan. A
manpower rationalization committee has been created to look into the
present staff utilization and propose ways of improving staff efficiency.
The data collected and the reorganization work under the PPF advance will
serve as essential inputs for a manpower study to be carried out under the
project. Consultants will assist GPT in identifying long-term manpower
requirements, and draw-up a manpower development plan including training
programs and incentive schemes. It was agreed that the letter of
invitation for proposals to prepare the manpower development plan will be
issued by September 30, 1988 (para. 3.08(h)). GPT will discuss the
consultants' recommendations with IDA by October 31, 1989, and begin their
implementation by December 31, 1989.
2.15     Since a key factor for the success of GPT will be its ability to
attract and retain trained staff, the consultants will also assist GPT in a
review of staff emoluments and benefits and recommend appropriate incentive
schemes. Housing has been identified as an important incentive to attract
and retain trained personnel. GPT is currently unable to provide housing,
because of a severe shortage of building materials. The project will
finance building materials for about 100 residential units. GPT has also



- 7 -
embarked on a new recruitment and training scheme where GPT would finance
students to acquire relevant professional and technical qualifications in
universities and technical colleges. In the scheme, in-service trainable
staff and other trainable recruits would be sponsored by GPT with the
provision that they work for GPT for a fixed period of time of at least
five years (depending on the duration of training) after completion of
training. An average of 15 trainees will be sponsored every year
commencing in 1989. The project will provide support for this scheme.
2.16     GPT operates a school dedicated to basic telecoirmunications and
postal training. The school has been in existence since 1949, but postal
craining did not start until 1982. Through UNDP financing, it was
modernized and fully equipped in 1965 to provide up to mid-level technician
training. Since then, no investments have been made to update its
facilities to match the growth in the size of the GPT network and the
changes in technology. Teaching facilities are inadequate, antiquated and
in most cases different from the facilities actually installed in the
field. Currently, there are no facilities for the digital equipment which
is already in operation in Ghana. Like the rest of GPT, there is severe
shortage of trained manpower (teaching staff) and the few available staff
need urgent training in the latest digital and other (e.g. optical fiber)
technology. The project would provide modern training equipment and
sponsor instructors for overseas training in the digital technology. GPT
will employ outside instructors in tne interim period while undertaking
intensive training of local instructors.
2.17     GPT's in-house facilities are supplemented by established national
training institutions (universities, technical schools and management
schools) and attachments with overseas telecommunications administrations,
universities and manufacturers. The overall (in-house and external) annual
training volume has averaged about 7,300 student weeks over the past five
years, a figure that is expected to increase to 16,000 by 1992 as a result
of the project.
2.18     GPT's training function is currently under the Director of
Internal Services, but arrangements are being made to transfer it to the
Director of Personnel and General Services. The management of the training
function needs urgent attention in two areas: there is no capacity for
systematic assessment of training needs of GPT staff; and for preparing and
implementing staff development plans. This capacity is expected to be
built during the project through recruitment and training of suitable
personnel.
2.19     GPT has no regular program for managerial, administrative and
financial training. Training in these areas is done on an ad-hoc basis
using external institutions such as the Ghana Institute of Management and
Public Administration (GIMPA) and overseas facilities. The project
provides for about 93 man-months of fellowships for these disciplines.



-8-
C. Accounting System
2.20     GPT prepares commercial accounts based on an accounting system
that was installed in 1975-76 under the Bank's First Telecommunications
project, but the accounts are not yet fully on accrual basis. Although
separation of postal and telecommunications accounts under this system is
possible, there have been weaknesses in the implementation of the system
due to insufficient trained staff and poor financial management. In
addition, tha accounts are consistently late and subject to audit queries.
There is little coherent and timely financial information prepared for
senior management. In order to improve its financial management and the
commercial accounting system, GPT has, through OECF financing, employed
expatriate financial consultants since September 1985 to fill the positions
of Financial Controller and Deputy Financial Controller. There have been
some improvements, most notably in billing and collection; but many of the
problems remain. The project provides for consultants to continue once the
current contract is over, and additional consultants to implement an
accrual accounting system. It was agreed with GPT that by June 30, 1989,
proposals would be submitted to IDA for the introduction of an accrual
accounting system and that the consultants' recommendations acceptable to
IDA will be fully implemented by December 31, 1989.
D. Billing and Collection
2.21     Separate billing is performed for domestic and external services.
For external services separate bills are produced for each of the three
services (telephone, telex and telegrams). Customers without external
services accounts have to pay in cash at the post offices to use the
external facilities; about 40Z of international telephone calls made from
Ghana are cash calls.
2.22     GPT has centralized billing for all regions except for Ashanti and
Eastern Regions. From April 1987 billing, all bills in Accra have been
prepared monthly. For Ashanti and Eastern Regions, bills are still
prepared on a quarterly basis.
2.23     Collection performance of GPT has been consistently poor in the
past with collection rates at about 30? in Dec--ber 1986, as compared to an
average of over 65Z in most West African telec    nications entities.  Poor
collection was due mostly to delays and inaccuracies in the billing. About
90? of the bills had wrong charges, and incorrect subscriber names and/or
addresses. This was due to inadequate coordination among the various GPT
units involved and to staff not following standard operational procedures.
GPT's financial consultants are assisting in reducing the billing and
collection problems. This has resulted in trebling of the collection rate
to about 90Z in the third quarter of 1987. To sustain this performance,
the billing and collection will be strengthened through continued
technical assistance under this project.  It war  agreed with GPT that an
action plan would be submitted to IDA to reduce the outstanding subscriber
receivables from 4 months in 1987, to 3 months in 1988, and 2 months of
revenue equivalent, thereafter.



-9-
E. Audit
2.24     GPT established an internal audit system as required under the
First Telecommunications Project (Loan 1122-GH). The Chief Internal
Auditor reports to the Director General. The internal audit service has a
staff of 43, none of whom is a qualified accountant. The department has
not successfully addressed the major accounting problems of GPT,
concentrating instead on matters affecting cash. A considerable part of
internal audit time is spent on carrying out a pre-audit of cash vouchers.
The role of the internal audit depart-went will be redefined by the
consultants working on the reorganization of GPT to focus on reviewing the
effectiveness of the accounting system and ensuring compliance with laid
down policies and procedures.
2.25     GPT's accounts have been audited by a local accounting firm since
1975/76. The quality of audit reForts has been generally poor. The
standard of management reports 4.eiued by the auditors needs to be improved
if GPT is to receive sound advice on how accounting systems and accounts
presentation can be improved.  In addition, the audited accounts have
consistently been late. This has been due mostly to delays by GPT in the
preparation of draft accounts for each fiscal year caused by the lack of
qualified staff to prepare the accounts. The draft FY86 accounts were
completed in March 1988. This delay is due to the lack of qualified staff
to prepare the accounts. Under the project, consultants will be provided
to assist GPT in the implementation of an accrual accounting system and in
the preparation of accounts. The draft FY86 financial statements have been
submitted to IDA and the submission of audited FY86 financial statements is
a condition of credit effectiveness. The Association has also agreed with
the Borrower that the FY87 unaudited and Rudited financial statements will
be submitted by September 30, 1988, and December 31, 1988 respectively.
For FY88, unaudited and audited financial statements will be submitted to
IDA within six and nine months, respectively. For FY89 and onwards,
unaudited and audited financial statements will be submitted to IDA within
four and seven months, respectively.
3. DEVELOPMENT
A. Sector Goals
2.26     A well functioning telecommunications network has been identified
by the GOG as being strategically crucial to the success of ERP. The GOG
is aware of the need to optimize the utilization of existing assets through
the execution of effective rehabilitation programs and installation of
appropriate maintenance systems. The main sector goals are to:
(a) improve the quality of service and operational efficiency
through network rehabilitation and expansion, installation of
an effective operations and maintenance program, and improved
management and staff development programs;



- 10 -
(b) ensure that installed assets are optimally utilized through
installation of complementary assets; and
(c) improve sector financial performance to eliminate existing GOG
subsidies and eventually generate revenues for GOG.
B. Sector Development Constraints
2.27     The main constraints to sector development are:
(a) lack of management capacity and trained manpower to operate
and maintain the existing facilities efficiently and to plan
and implement development programs; and
(b) lack of funds (local and foreign) which limits GPT's ability
to procure essential equipment and materials for maintenance
and expansion.
2.28     To overcome some of the current institutional deficiencies and to
develop an information base for detailed planning and implementation of the
proposed project, GPT will appoint consultants under the project to carry
out these tasks (para 3.05) and assist in training to build in-house
capacity.
2.29     Due to poor financial performance, GPT has been dependent on GOG
subsidies for its operations and development work (para. 4.02). Delays in
obtaining local funds from GOG was one of the main constraints to timely
completion of the Fir.t Telecommunications Project. In addition, GPT has
had virtually no access to foreign exchange for essential spare parts and
routine operational requirements due to the severe shortage of foreign
exchange in general and the relatively low priority accorded, until
recently, to the telecommunications sector by the GOG. The project would
pro-ride urgently required services, equipment and materials for
rehabilitation and maintenance.
C. Bank's Role and Strategy
2.30     Past Involvement.  IDA has been associated with the
telecommunications sector in Ghana since 1971. Under the First
Telecommunications Project (Loan 1122-GH), a loan of $23 million was
approved in June 1975. The project was a slice of the 1976-80 investment
program whose objectives were to improve the quality of service, extend
services to new subscribers and strengthen the newly created GPT.
Unfortunately, these objectives were not met, in fact there has been a
serious decline in the sector's performance since 1980 manifested by the
deteriorating quality of service, and the long list of waiting applicants
and poor financial performance. The main causes for the failure of the
first project are discussed in detail in the Project Completion Report
(PCR) dated April 18, 1986 and are summarized below:



- 11 -
(a) difficult economic conditions in Ghana;
(b) lack of adequate staff and management at GPT;
(c) initial delays in what was an overly optimistic implementation
schedule, in retrospect;
(d) local unavailability of key construction materials;
(e) large overruns in local costs that GPT could not finance
without GOG support; and
(f) delays in meeting a cost overrun in foreign exchange due to a
decision to change switching technology from electromechanical
to digital electronic.
2.31     Besides 2.30(c) and 2.30(f) above, the other reasons could be
linked in one way or another to the difficult economic conditions in Ghana,
which were the result of poor economic policies, mismanagement, the
troubled international economic environment and prolonged drought. Due to
these difficult economic conditions, many skilled staff had to seek
employment outside Ghana, resulting in a braindrain for the country,
especially in the fields of engineering and finance. The large staff
turnover was also due to poor remuneration and lack of incentives. A
severe shortage of foreign exchange led to shortage of materials, and
delays in obtaining funding for the foreign component of the cost overruns.
GPT could not finance local cost overruns because of poor financial
performance (para. 4.01).
2.32     Implications of Past Experience for the Proposed Proiect.  The
lessons learnt under the first project have been taken into account in
designing the proposed project. The difficult economic conditions are
being addressed through the ERP. All other issues are being addressed
under the project to ensure its successful and timely completion. To
compern-ate for management and staff shortages, consultants are being hired
to fill in the gap. Some of these consultants will be employed at key line
management positions for about four years while intensive training of
Ghanaians is being undertaken at all levels. When GPT staff are fully
trained, or qualified new staff available, the consultants will be
replaced. Consultants will be retained in those areas where no suitable
Ghanaians are available.
2.33     The implementation period of the five year program has been
extended to six years and delays will be avoided by ensuring that project
management consultants are selected before credit effectiveness. All works
will be implemented on turnkey basis, where suppliers will also be
responsible for installation and commissioning.
2.34     Financial performance of GPT will be improved through: (a) proper
management by financial consultants to be employed under the proposed
project; and (b) the increase in revenue expected due to the improvement in



- 12 -
quality of service and network expansion as a result of this project.
However, GPT will still require financial support from GOG for project
implementation up to 1990 (para. 3.12). GOG will provide local funds for
the project through 1990 (para. 4.08). Employment of financial consultants
is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 3.08(b)).
2.35     IDA's Role.  IDA has three main roles in the telecommunications
sector in Ghana. IDA is in a unique position to assist the government in
improving the sector management and organization, financial management,
investment planning and staff training. Second, IDA's involvement is
needed to maintain a balance between physical and institutioual development
of the sector. Without IDA's presence, adequate attention to setting
appropriate policies and goals, management improvements, strengthening
technical and financial systems and maintenance is unlikely; efforts would
instead focus on network expansion and many of the past mistakes would be
repeated. IDA's third role is to help focus and coordinate the various
sources of bilateral assistance. IDA's involvement in this sector has been
catalytic in attracting cofinancing from Japan, France, and Holland and in
directing available resources into priority areas such as rehabilitation of
subscriber cable networks.
2.36     Strategy.  Given the experience under the first project and the
sectors' goals and constraints (paras 2.26 and 2.27) IDA's strategy is:
(a) to provide technical assistance for institution building
including supporting sector reorganization, setting a policy
framework, designing and implementing a management improvement
program, planning and training;
(b) to finance urgent equipment rehabilitation and maintenance
needs including spare parts;
(c) to ensure through consultations with donors that available
funds are initially directed towards priority rehabilitation
needs rather than pure expansion.
III. THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
1. DESCRIPTION
Proiect Concept
3.01     The project is identical with GPT's investment program for the
period 1987-1992 (Annex 3-1). The program, prepared by GPT with the
assistance of IDA, has been designed within the framework of GOG's overall
Economic Recovery Program and is consistent with the sector goals (para
2.26). The program is not sufficient to meet the rising demand for
telecommunications services (para 2.08), but reflects the resource
constraints (para. 2.27). The program consists of the following main



- 13 -
components: rehabilitation, including limited expansion of the local
external cable network, national switching system, long distance, and
international networks; civil works, procurement of vehicles, power,
airconditioning and subscriber terminals; enhancement of GPT's
institutional and management capacity; and training. Facilities to be
added to the network over the project period are given ir. Annex. 3-2.
3.02     The cost of the program is estimated at Cedis 35.3 billion
(US$173.0 million) including Cedis 30.6 billion (US$150.3 million) in
foreign exchange.
B. Proiect Obiectives
3.03     The project has the following main objectives:
(a) to support a program of institutional and management
improvement for the telecommunications sector;
(b) to improve the quality of service offered to
telecommunications subscribers through, inter alia,
rehabilitation and replacement of old obsolete assets,
improving maintenance and providing complementary assets to
enable optimum utilization of existing assets; and
(c) to improve GPT's financial performance so as to eliminate
existing government subsidies and enable GPT to eventually
become a net contributor to the GOG.
C. Project Description
3.04     The project described in detail in Annex 3-3 consists of the
following components:
Part 1 - Rehabilitation and Expansion
(a) provision of spare parts for existing telecommunications
equipment;
(b) replacement of 23,400 lines of obsolete and defective
exchanges and cables in Accra, Kumasi, Tema, Takoradi, Tamale,
Koforidua and Cape Coast, and expansion to meet excess demand
in these towns;
(c) replacement of old manual exchanges by automatic exchanges in
26 rural towns;
(d) provision of a 330 line international exchange and
rehabilitation of the satellite earth station to improve
international services;



- 14 -
(e) provision of a 1000 line telex exchange;
(f) provision of 20,OOC telephones, 500 teleprinters, 500 Private
Manual Branch Exchanges (PMBX), 200 Private Automatic Branch
Exchanges (PABX), and 500 Public Call offices to cater for
replacement of old instruments and to connect new subscribers;
(g) replacement equipment for digital trunk exchange, microwave
equipment, multiplex equipment and power plant damaged by
floods;
(h) replacement of 3 old microwave and 7 UHF transmission systems,
provision of: a Coast Station, rural transmission facilities
including cables for 62 District Centres, VFT/TDM Systems and
sub base band insert equipment;
(i) provision of 150 vehicles for planning, construction operation
and maintenance works;
(j) provision of power and air conditioning equipment;
(k) provision of building materials to support GPT's construction
program of equipment and residential buildings and
construction of flood protection works; and
(1) provision of computer, tools and test equipment.
Part 2 - Technical Assistance and Training
(a) for strengthening GPT's management capacity (organization,
financial and engineering) to plan, maintain and operate the
network efficiently, and MOTC's capacity to set clear policies
and create an appropriate regulatory and operating
environment;
(b) for improving the training school including provision of
modern training equipment, development of appropriate
curricula and provision of instructors;
(c) for training of staff in telecommunications management,
digital technology, finance, accounts and procurement. This
training is exclusive of factory training which will be
undertaken for all new equipment to be procured under this
project; and
(d) sponsorship for technical and other professional
qualifications in universities and technical schocls in Ghana.
3.05     The technical assistance under IDA financing pro'vides for a total
of 636 man-months of consultants' services for .echnical, financial, stores
and institutional strengthening (Annex 3-3). In addition, there are 6 man-
months of an ongoing financial management contract financed by OECF. In



- 15 -
this project, OECF is financing an additional 200 manmonths of consultancy
service to implement the portion under its financing. The large technical
assistance will assist GPT to fill skill gaps at various management and
technical levels (para. 2.14) initially, while recruitment and training is
being undertaken. Consultants under IDA financing will be provided in
three phases:
Phase I
3.06     Consultants have been selected under  PPF I (50 man.-months),
approved in May 1987, to assist GPT in preparatory tasks (para 2.28) for
the project including preparation of action plans for the split and
reorganization of GPT, preparation of a telecommunications master plan and
corporate plan. The terms of reference are detailed in Annex 3-4.
Phase II
3.07     A second PPF (PPF2) was aprroved in May 1988 to meet the cost
overrun under PPF1 (due to appreciation of the Yen and the Sterling Pound
relative to the US dollar), and to ensure that key consultants (under phase
III - para 3.08) will be selected prior to credit effectiveness. These
will include 34 man-months of: (a) consultants for project management team
to prepare technical specifications and bid documents; (b) Chief
Accountant to replace the incumbent who is departing in September 1988;
and (c) telecommunications advisor at the MOTC. The terms of reference for
the assignments are included in Annex 3-4.
Phase III
3.08     This phase which is expected to commence after credit
effectiveness will provide 552 man.-months of management assistance to:
(a) establish a Project Management Team to assist GPT in the
implementation of the total project and continue with the task
commenced by project management team under PPF2, including:
(i) design work, detailed engineering, procurement, supervision
of installation, acceptance testing and commissioning of all
equipment and civil works;
(ii) coordination of implementation of different physical
components of the project; and
(iii) physical project management including supervision ot
contractors.
The Project Management Team will require four experts in external cable,
switching, transmission, power and airconditioning to work with Ghanaian
counterparts throughout the implementation period of the project (240 man-
months in total). The letter of invitation for proposals was issued on May
6, 1988. The selection of consultants is a condition for credit
effectiveness.



- 16 ^
(b) Provide expertise in financial management. The financial
function is now being managed by two experts financed by OECF.
This arrangement will need to continue after the current
contract expires in September 1988. In addition, financial
expertise will also be required to design and implement
financial management systems, including improvement of the
accounting system, budgeting, forecasting, cost cont,ol, etc.
to ensure that the financial objectives of the projeLt are
achieved (120 man-months in total). The letter of invitation
for proposals was issued on May 6, 1988. The selection of
consultants is a condition for credit effectiveness.
(c) Provide expertise for network planning. Four experts (96 man-
months) in traffic engineering, external plant, switching and
transmission will be employed. The letter of invitation for
proposals for the four experts will be issued by September 30,
1988.
(d) Draw up operations and maintenance systems. Experts will be
emploved for 24 man-months to control and coordinate
operations and maintenance; implement standards for quality of
service set in the Telecommunications Master Plan (TMS);
update engineering instructions aj.1 produce operations and
maintenance statistics. The letter o. "-ritation for
proposals for these experts will be issued by September 30,
1188.
(e) Provide expertise in materials management. Experts will be
required for 24 man-months to set-up comprehensive and
integrated materials and stores management control procedures.
The letter of invitation for proposals will be issued by
September 30, 1988, and consultants' agreed recommendations
will be implemented by June 30, 1990.
(f) Assist GPT in reviewing tariff levels and structure and
preparing a tariff policy proposal and a resource transfer
policy (10 man-months). The letter of invitation for
proposals wiill be issued by September 30, 1988 and the
consultants' final recommendations will be discussed with IDA
by September 30, 1989 and agreed recommendations will be
implemented by December 31, 1989.
(g) Establish an appropriate management information system to
enable delivery of relevant data to management for timely
performance monitoring. Experts will be required for 24
months to undertake this task. The letter of invitation for
proposals will be issued by September 30, 1988, and
consultants' recommendations will be discussed with IDA by
December 31, 1989, and agreed recommendations will be
implemented by June 30, 1990.



- 17 -
(h) Identify long-term manpower requirements and draw up a
manpower development plan including training programs and
incentive schemes. An expert will be employed for 12 months.
The letter of invitation for proposals will be issued by
September 30, 1988 (para. 2.14). Consultants recommendations
will be discussed with IDA by October 31, 1989 and
implementation of agreed recommendations will start by
December 31. 1989.
(i) Assist MOTC in formulating sector development and operational
policies (para. 2.10). An expert will be employed for 24
months. Appointment of this expert is expected before
September 30, 1988.
(j) Assist GPT in preparing a financial restructuring plan. The
letter of invitation for proposals will be issued by September
30, 1988 and by December 31, 1989, GPT will submit an action
plan acceptable to the Association for the implementation of
the restructuring plan.
Detailed terms of reference for the tasks have been discussed and agreed
upon with GPT. GOG and GPT will identify counterpart personnel for each
assignment, at the time of the issuance of the letter of invitation for
proposals. GPT will review with IDA each year the impact of technical
assistance, including counterpart staff training and agree on the
implementation objectives for the following year. The implementation of
the consultancy services for the project and financial management wil' be
done in two phases.  The first phase will cover the first 24 months  aId the
second phase will cover the remaining period of the project (24 months). A
comprehensive review of the staff situation in GPT will be carried out
after the first phase to determine the extent to which further consultancy
services will be required for the second phase.
2. Costs
A. Project Costs
3.09     The total cost of the project is estimated at Cedis 35.2 billion
(US$173.0 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange cost of Cedis 30.6
billion (US$150.3 million equivalent), i.e. about 872 of total cost. The
base cost estimates are based on equipment prices and installation costs in
May 1988. Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1.



- 18 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY1/
ForeIgn as
Loca12 Foroign  Total Local Fore gn  Total X of total
-Cedis mill        --   US----S11-----
Switching equipment         a6a   6,318  6,671   1.6   86.6   82.2    95.0
External cable network    2,600    10,660 12,660  16.1  52.9    68.6    84.0
Radio A Multiplex
equip.                   220    3,186  8,856   1.6   14.9    15.9    94.7
Satellite Earth station      23    1,286  1,259   6.1    6.6    6.7       98.6
Telophones, teleprinters,
PABX and PMBX            la      623   653    6.1    2.8      2.9    96.8
Power and sirconditioning    15      867    872   6.1    1.7      1.8    94.4
Vehicloe                      0      304    804   0.6    1.6      1.6   166.6
Computer tools and test
equipment                 14     294    868   6.1    1.4      1.6    98.3
Civil works                 893      769  1,102   2.0    8.4      5.4    6380
Technical assistance
(consultancy and training) 174    8.922  4 098   0.8   18.8   19.6    95.9
Bes cost                  8,206   27,849 3086,4  TU i9l1    156          89.4
Physical contingoncy        821    1,867  1,689   1.6    6.7      8.8    80.7
Price contingency          1 112    1 899  8 611   6.2    9.0    14.2    68.4
Total groi ct cost                  TH1Ts ats;2 4 W     T        713:    86.9
p/Equent costs are Inclusive of spares for now and existing equipment.
CT is exempted from customs duties for equipment.
B. Contingencies
3.10      Physical contingencies are 52 on local and foreign costs for
equipment, !0O on local and foreign costs for services and 1O on civil
works. Price contingencies are based on annual inflation rates as follows:
for local costs is 2O  in 1988, 1OZ in 1989, 8.02 in 1990, 7? in 1991 and
51 thereafteri and for foreign cost is 32 for 1988 through 1990, and 42
from 1991 and thereafter. It was further assumed that exchange rates will
vary during the period to adjust for the difference between local and
foreign inflation.
C. Proiect Financing
3.11      The sources of project financing are detailed in Annex 4-6 and
summarized in Table 3.2.  The project's foreign costs of US$150.3 million
equivalent will be financed by CCCE loaui, Dutch soft loans and export
credit, Japanese grant and export credi;, OECF credit, Telectron (Ireland)
supplier's credit, and IDA credit. The OECF credit and the third CCCE loan
are yet to be confirmed. OECF has appraised the project and its credit is
expected to be effective by end April 1988. A condition for IDA credit
effectiveness is the confirmation of the effectiveness of the OECF credit
(US$76.2 million), since it constitutes 44? of the total project financing.
The GOG has also approached Denmark to finance additional cables and
subscriber equipment.



- 19 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
Source               Local           Foreign               Total
---------US$ Million Equivalent-
GOG                    9.8               1.5                11.3
GPT                    5.5               2.5                 8.0
France                 --               21.8                21.8
Hollandl/              --               18.8                18.8
Ireland                --                1.7                 1.7
Japan2j                6.7              85.7                92.4
IDA                    0.7              18.3                19.0
TOTAL                 22.7             150.3               173.0
11  Includes US$9.4 million export credit and US$9.4 million soft loans.
2/  Includes US$7.0 million export credit, US$9.2 million grant and US$76.2
million OECF credit.
3.12     The financial projections show that GOG would need to continue
financing the local costs of the investment program until 1990. Local
costs of the project are estimated at US$22.7 million equivalent. The GOG
will finance US$9.8 million in the first four years and GPT will
subsequently finance US$5.5 million through its internal cash generation.
Local costs for the T.A. component will be financed from IDA and OECF
credits, and OECF is also expected to finance the local costs for the
physical components under its financing. GOG is currently meeting all
local costs of the ongoing projects.
3.13     The IDA credit of US$19.0 million equivalent wou'd be onlent to
GPT at the interest rate of 7.72Z (the IBRD rate at the time of
negotiations) for a period of 20 years including five years grace. The
execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the government and GPT,
acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Due to
the poor financial performance and the large debt burden of GPT (para
4.02), there is a need for financial restructuring of GPT (para 4.06). In
the financial projections, it has been assumed that the terms on the
credits and soft loans (excluding IDA) will be at the concessionary terms
charged to the government. GPT will bear the foreign exchange risk. GOG
will formalize the existing arrangement and provide a moratorium on
interest and principal on its loans to GPT, until consultants'
recommendations on financial restructuring have been finalized and
implemented.



- 20 -
3. Procurement and Imolementation
A. Procurement
3.14     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3.  Equipment
for US$5.0 million (including contingencies) to be financed by IDA would be
procured through international competLtive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Proprietary items totalling US$1.4 million covering
spares and rehabilitation equipment will be procured from sole source by
direct negotiations with original suppliers. Given the limited number of
suppliers, limited international bidding (LIB) would be used to provide
training equipment, test equipment and tools (US$0.5 million). IDA
financed contracts for more than US$250,000 equivalent, expected to cover
73Z of the total value of IDA financed contracts would be subject to IDA's
prior review of procurement documentation. Selection of IDA financed
consultants including instructors (about US$11.5 million equivalent) would
be in accordance with IDA guidelines. Local and overseas fellowships
estimated at US$0.6 million would be provided by direct negotiations with
the academic institutions concerned. Contracts for consultants to be
employed under PPF I, 5Z of total consultancy contracts under the project,
have already been executed under IDA guidelines. Letters of Invitation for
consultancy services for the project management team and financial
consultants were issued on May 6, 1988. Selection of these consultants
will be a condition of credit effectiveness. Goods and services to be
financed by the Dutch, CCCE and OECF will comply with the guidelines of the
individual donor country; currently GPT has already signed contracts worth
US$37.9 million (22Z of project cost) with Dutch, French, Irish and
Japanese companies.



- 21 -
Table 3.3:  PROCUREMNT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ millions),[
Negotiated
Project Item             ICe          Purchase        LIS          ICB      Other              Total
External Cablo
networks            6.6             84.0          --          S-.02/                        78.6
Switching equipment     --              17.7(0.7)     --            --     19.12/               88.8(0.7)
Radio and multiplex
equipment           --               1.2(0.2)     --            --     1S.8!i18.0(0.2)
Satellite earth
station             --               7.6          --           --      --                    7.6
Telephone instruments
PABX, PMBX          1.8(1.6)         --           --            --     --                    1.6(1.6)
Teleprinters            --               1.7          --            --     --                    1.7
Power & airconditioning
equipment           --               2.2(0.6)     --           --      --                    2.2(0.6)
Vehicles                0.6(0.6)         1.8          --            __     __                    1.8(0.5)
Computer, tools and
test equipment      1.0(1.0)         --           0.5(0.6)      --     --                    1.5(1.5)
Civil works             1.9(1.9)         2.2          --             2.0  --                     8.1(1.9)
Training                --               4.8          --            --      2. 8(2. 8)/          7.1(2.8)
Consultancy             --               --           --            --     16.1(9 .8)/          16.1(9.3)
TOTAL                  11.5(5.0)        72.2(1.4)    0.6(0.6)        2.0  86.8(12.1)           178.0(19.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis represent the amounts financed by the
proposed IDA credit.
1/ Including contingencies.
2/ Japan has not yet decided on whether OECF credit will be tied to
procurement in Japan or open to ICB.
S/   Fellowships and instructors.
4/ Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.



- 22 -
B. Disbursement
3.15     The proposed IDA credit of US$19.0 million would be disbursed
against 1002 of foreign expenditures for equipment, civil works and
vehicles, and 1002 of total expenditure for training and consultancy
services, as shown in Table 3.4. The estimated disbursement schedule is
shown in Annex 3-5. If the Bank's standard disbursement profile for all
projects in West Africa is used, disbursements would be completed in
December 31, 1996. However, due to the advanced state of procurement
activity (para 3.14), disbursements for this credit are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1993. Two disbursement accounts will be opened.
Firstly, a special account in foreign currency of US$2.0 million equivalent
will be established in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable
to IDA. This amount represents four months estimated disbursements during
the peak disbursement period of 1989 and 1990. The special account would
be used for disbursements against all eligible expenditures and it will be
replenishable on application by GPT. Secondly, a project account in local
currency would be opened by GPT. This account will receive GOG
contributions and will be used for local counterpart funds. GOG will
promptly effect quarterly payments against expenditures as set forth in
GPT's approved annual budget, and delays would not exceed three months.
All disbursements applications would be fully documented with the exception
of reimbursement applications related to contracts and expenditures of less
than US$20,000 equivalent, which would be disbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditure (SOEs).
3.16     GPT will establish separate accounts in accordance with accepted
accounting principles, to record all project expenditures and to maintain
records on commitments, reimbursements and the status of project funds.
With respect to the amount withdrawn on the basis of SOEs, GPT will prepare
and maintain records such as contracts, invoices and evidence of payments
readily available for inspection. Audits of the Special Accounts, Project
Accounts and SOEs, and the reports will be submitted to IDA with audited
financial accounts for each fiscal year.
3.17     The proposed IDA credit of US$19.0 million will be disbursed as
shown in Table 3.4.



- 23 -
Table 3.4: DISBURSEMENT OF PROPOSED CREDIT
Amount    Z Financed by
Category                       (US$ Million)       IDA
1.        Telecommunications Equipment:         2.2        100Z foreign
switching, transmission                       expenditure
and subscriber terminals
2.        Vehicles, civil works                 3.9        10O  foreign
materials, power,                             expenditure
airconditioning, tools and
test equipment
3.        Training: instructors,                2.5        10O  total
training school                               expenditure
equipment and fellowships
4.        Consultancy                           6.6        10OZ total
expenditure
5         Refinancing of PPF                    1.5
6.        Unallocated                           2.3
TOTAL                               19.0
C. Implementation
3.18     The project implementation schedule is given in Annex 3-6.  GPT's
implementation capacity at all levels has been depleted by the massive
loss of qualified staff due, inter alia, to general country economic
environment and unfavorable remuneration by GPT. In order to implement
this project successfully and avoid mistakes made in the first project, a
number of steps will be taken:
(a) all contracts will be executed on turnkey basis;
(b) consultants will be employed to implement the project
including preparation of technical specifications and bid
documents, evaluation of all bids, contract award, supervision
of installation and acceptance testing;
(c) GPT management will be strengthened through, inter alia,
reorganization and training; and



- 24 -
(d) a manpower development plan will be implemented involving
recruitment, training and motivation of staff.
3.19     The efficient implementation of the management consultancy
services is critical to the success of the project. The action plan for
implementation is detailed in Annex 3-7. To ensure timely appointment of
key consultants, the selection of consultants for project management and
financial management will be a condition of effectiveness of the credit
(paras. 3.08(a) and (e)). Thus, by effectiveness, about 70Z of the
consultants under IDA financing would have been selected.
D. Overall Project Management
3.20     The project will be managed by five functional units consisting
of:
(a) manpower development and training;
(b) physical project implementation;
(c) network planning;
(d) network operations and maintenance (including traffic
operations
(e) finance, supplies and MIS.
An organization chart for overall project management is shown at Annex 3-8.
Each of these units will have a team head who will report directly to the
head of the branch in charge of that function in GPT. For instance, the
manpower development and training team head will report to the Director of
Personnel and General Services, who will be his controlling officer. A
directorate of projects will be created to coordinate the entire project.
Each team head will be required to issue monthly progress reports to the
director of projects through his controlling officer. The director of
projects will convene regular monthly meetings to discuss these reports and
issue consolidated monthly progress reports. It was ar6ed that the
directorate of projects will be established by September 30, 1988.
E. Performance Indicators
3.21     Performance indicators to help GPT and IDA to monitor project
implementation and GPT's operational and financial performance are shown in
Annex 3-9 and 4-8, respectively. For instance, during the project period,
1987-1992, the number of connected lines is expected to increase from
38,000 to 61,000 and the proportion of defective lines is expected to
decrease from 50Z to lOZ. The increase in working lines will elicit better
financial performance, including improvement in debt service from 0.6 to
1.9 and in current ratio from 0.8 to 2.2. While the targets for later
years are indicative, those for 1988 represent desirable and feasible



- 25 -
levels of attainment. Targets for each of the subsequent yea.s together
with corrective measures will be agreed to with IDA by November 30, of the
preceding year. GPT will report progress against the physical and
implementation indicators in quarterly project reports and against
financial indicators in annual financial statements.
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1. Financial
A. Past Financial Performance
4.01     The past financial performance of GPT has been poor with low
profits and losses during the FY82 to FY86 period. The historical income
statements for FY82 to FY86 are given in Annex 4-1, and balance sheets for
FY82 to PY86 are given in Annex 4-2. The financial statements are not yet
fully on accrual basis. Under the project, consultants will be employed to
design and implement commercial accounting system (para. 2.20). For the
purpose of this analysis, the statements have been adjusted to reflect
accruals. Table 4.1 summarizes GPT's financial results during FY82-86.



- 26 -
Table 4.1s GPT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
(Cedis Millions)
FY Ending December 31                     1982       1993      1984       198b      1986
Unaudited
Operating rev-nue (Telecoms)1/              73        169       278        612     1,875
Operating cost (Telecomo)                  a8         118       219        499     1,088
Operating Income (Telecomo)                (12)        42        69        118       287
Interest                                     4        A4         64        1S9       314
Net Income (Teleeo q)                      (16)        (2)        (5)      (26)       (28)
Net Inc*me  (Posts) I                       18         11        20        (69)      127
Current (Cedi)
Tl-eoms revenue/DEL3/                   4,814     9,682    16,809    86,264    76,510
Caoh operating cost(t.lecoms)/DEL        4,828     6,897    18,121    29,831    60,429
Conssnt (1985) (Cedi)
T l-cems revenue/DEL                    17,775    16,809    20,172    86,264    60,429
Cash operating cost(telecoms)/DEL       19,892    11,688    15,746    29,426    48,498
Rate of return(telecoma)4/                -8.7X      16.6%     11.7X       9.1X     12.38
Current ratio (times)                      1.0        1.0       0.8        1.0       0.9
Debt-equity ratio (X)                       48X        77X       78X        8ex       84X
Total debt outstanding5l                    74        664       939      2,736     8,896
Debt service coverage (times)               --        0.6       0.7        0.2       0.8
Accounts r*celvable (billing days)         292        814       816        248       218
1/  Effectiv- June 1, 1988, tariffs were Increased by 80OX for external
telecommunication service-  (ETS), and internal telecommunication
serviceo (ITS). ETS tariffs are currently adjusted to reflect changes In
the exchange rate. ITS tariffs were lost increased by about 80ox In
March 1988.
3 Oovornment subvention for postal serviees was Cedi 227 million In FY86.
It was Cedi 20 million in FY85.
#1 Revenue and cost per DEL are with respect to working DEL.
Net operating Income before Interest as a pereentage of average book
value net fixed assets plus work In progress.
!/ Foreign currency loans converted at the year-end exchange rate. OPT
bears the foreign exchange risk.



- 27 -
GPT incurred losses in its telecommunication services during the FY82-86
period. The continued poor performance, even after tariff increases of
about 3002 in internal services in June 1983, and again in March 1986 and
adjusting tariffs for international services to reflect the changes in
exchange rates (para. 4.01), i8 due to the poor quality of service
(para. 2.06) and the large interest obligations. The quality of service
will improve only after complete network rehabilitation for local and
international services under this project, resulting in substantial
increase in revenue.
4.02     GPT has acquired a large foreign debt obligation over the past ten
years to finance its investment program. This foreign debt originally
amounted to about $50 million and is now worth about US$70 million due to
appreciation of foreign currencies in relation to the US dollar. The
devaluation of the Cedi in relation to the US dollar has aggravated the
debt situation, as GPT bears the foreign exchange risk. In addition to
foreign debt, GPT has accumulated local debt to government to finance the
local portion of its investment program and to service its foreign debt.
B. Past Financial Position
4.03     A summary of GPT's provisional balance sheet as at December 31,
1985 is given in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: GPT AUDITED BALANCE SHEET AS OF DECEMBER 31. 1985
Cedis
Millions                   Percentage
Assets (Book Value)
Net fixed assets                         42                           1Z
Work in progressl/                    1,808                          462
Deferred expenditure2/                1,406                          35Z
Current assets                          715                          18Z
Total assets                          3,971                         1002
Liabilities
Equity                                  450                          112
Long-term debt                        2,735                          69Z
Others                                   47                           12
Current liabilities                     739                          192
Total liabilities                     3,971                         1002
Current ratio (times)                  0.97
Debt: equity ratio(Z)                    86
1/ Some assets already in use are still classified under work in progress.
2/ Includes interest capitalized and foreign exchange loss.



- 28 -
4.04      The absence of asset revaluation distorts the balance sheet of
GPT. Consultants hired under the PPF will provide the necessary accounting
and financial inputs to establish an opening statement of affairs for
telecommunications and postal entities, taking into account asset
obsolescence and asset and liability current values.
C. Future Financial Performance
4.05      GPT's consolidated projected financial statements for the period
FY88-FY92 have been prepared in close consultation with GPT. The financial
statements with accompanying assumptions are given in Annexes 4-3 to 4-7
and principal elements of the projection are summarized in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: SELECTED INDICATORS OF PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
(Cedis Millions)
1987     1988      1989     1990      1991      1992
Estimate
Operating revenue          2,093    3,360    8,081    9,045   11,498   14,612
(To I ecoms)
Operating costs            1,494    2,166    3,687    5,467    7,089    8,803
(Telecoms)
Not income (Telecoms)        599    1,194    2,494    3,587    4,429    6,708
Net income (postal)         (40)        0       (3)       (6)      ( 9)     (12)
Non-qperating costsa/        697      778    1,170    1,642    1,809    1,919
Tax2'                          0      188       694       918    1,176    1,700
Not profit                  (38)      230       726    1,222    1,438    2,077
Current (Cedi thousand)
Tolecoms revenuo/DEL        11       151       212       284      281       289
Direct cash operating
coats/DEL                   77       9f       109       131      135       134
Constant
(1988 Cedi thousand)
Telecoms revenue/DEL          84       96       123       142      141       139
Direct cash operating
costs/DEL                   58       57        63        70       67        84
Rate of return on revalued
assets (%)                   -      8a6       9.6      10.0     10.2      10.4
Current Ratio (times)        0.8      0.9       1.0       1.6      2.0       2.2
Net internal cash generation
as percentagi of
construction /             (2)       0          0        3        40        e1
Debt service coverage
(times)                   0.8       1.1       1.3      1.8       2.0       1.9
Accounts recoivable
(billing days)            121        90        e0       80        60        80
1/ Includes interest charges.
O2/  PT is currently liable fer income tax of 46X.
_/ Net of debt service and change in working capital excluding cash.



- 29 -
4.06     The financial performance of GPT is expected to improve
substantially after 1990, reflecting expected improvements in the quality
of service and expanded service. For the long term viability of GPT and to
ensure that it achieves financial self-sufficiency by 1991, financial
restructuring is essential. The level of restructuring would depend on a
study and recommendations by the consultants (para 3.13). GOG and GPT will
submit to IDA an action plan acceptable to IDA latest by October 31, 1989
for the implementation of its financial restructuring plan. Tariffs will
be reviewed annually and adjusted regularly, to ensure that GPT's internal
cash generation net of debt service in any year shall not be less than the
local funds required for GPT's approved investment program in the following
fiscal year or 402 of total investment program from 1991 onwards, whichever
is greater. It was agreed with GPT that no new works exceeding in
aggregate the equivalent of US$1.0 million per year outside the agreed
investment program will be undertaken without prior consultation with IDA.
Internal telecommunications tariffs were increased by 702 effective May 1,
1988 to restore them to 1986 levels. The financial performance indicators
will be monitored through selected indicators shown in Annex 4-8.
D. Financing Forecast
4.07     Forecasts of GPT's sources and applications of funds are given in
Annex 4-5. Table 4.4 summarizes GPT's financing plan for 1987-92. The
plan shows that internal cash generation could finance about 172 of the
total cost of GPT's investment program and working capital needs.
Table 4.4: OPT - FORECAST SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
1987-1992
Cedi millions                         Percent
Sources
Net income before interest         13,366
Depreciation                        5,274
Internal cash generation           18,640
less: debt service               11,789
Net cash generation                 6,851                               17
Borrowings and Others              33,508                               83
Total sources                   40,359                              100
Applications
Investment program                 35,254                               87
Working capital & others            5,105                               13
Total applications              40,359                              100



- 30 -
4.08     To ensure that GPT's financial position remains satisfactory
throughout the project period, GOG will provide local funds required for
GPT's approved investment program through 1990; and formalize its
moratorium on GPT's obligations to pay the interest and principal on GOG
loans until GPT's financial restructuring plan is implemented.
2. Economic Analysis
A. Tariffs
4.09     Telecommunications tariffs in Ghana compared well with those in
many other countries after increases of about 300Z in internal services in
June 1983, and again in March 1986, and increases in external services of
185Z in September 1984, 302 in March 1985 and 70Z in March 1986. There is
provision to adjust tariffs for external services to reflect changes in
exchange rates, thus enabling GPT to maintain international tariffs at
acceptable levels. However, there is no provision for adjusting tariffs for
internal services to reflect increases in costs.   Tariffs for internal
services were adjusted effective May 1, 1988 by 70? to reflect increases in
costs since 1986. A summary of GPT's telecommunications tariffs is at
Annex 4-9.
4.10     The initial connection charge for a new telephone in an autonuitic
exchange area in Ghana is relatively low at US$48, given the excessive
demand for telephones in Ghana. An increase in this charge could ensure
that telephone lines are made available on a priority basis to those who
would use them most productively. The annual subscription charge for
businesses is twice that applied to private residences for both manual and
automatic telephones. This partly reflects the lower price flexibility in
demand on the part of business subscribers.
4.11     Local calls are untimed.  For long distance calls, two billing
categories are used; a standard day rate and a lower rate for nights. The
night and weekend rates reflect the lower marginal cost of carrying traffic
outside of the busy periods. The higher daytime tariff ensures that those
subscribers (primarily business and government) who have the greatest
demand at peak times will pay a price which more closely reflects the
actual costs which they impose on the system.
4.12     Under the project, consultants will be employed to review tariff
structure and levels, and prepare a tariff policy proposal including a
mechanism for periodic tariff review, to ensure automatic tariff increases
for both domestic and international services (para 3.08 (f)). The terms of
reference for the tariff study are at Annex 3-4.



- 31 -
B. Benefits
4.13     Compared with alternative means of communication,
telecommunications are more efficient in terms of capital, energy
consumption, and user time. With adequate facilities, the level and
variety of productive communication can be increased considerably, and
activities which would otherwi2e not be feasible can be realized. In terms
of the specific constraints on Ghana's economic and sociai development,
telecowrmunications services can be expected to play a significant role in:
(a) increasing the efficient use of existing transport
infrastructure to alleviate domestic and international
transport bottlenecks in delivering inputs to agriculture and
industry and produce to markets, both domestic and exports,
and to promote energy conservation;
(b) improving the operation of the market mechanism by axpediting
and extending Lccess to information, encouraging more
efficient markeving of agricultural products and supporting
export trade;
(c) improving the efficiency of government and parastatal
administration, including extending the coverage of advice and
supervision by scarce middle and higher level technical and
management personnel and reducing administrative bottlenecks
and unnecessary travel; and
(d) improving the delivery of health care and emergency services.
C. Return on Investment
4.14     The estimated internal financial rate of return of the proposed
project is 13Z (Annex 4-10). Adjusting for taxes from financial costs and
benefits and shadow pricing local labor costs, the minimum estimated
economic rate of rtAurn is 211. This underestimates the benefits to be
derived from the investment, because it does not take into account consumer
surplus and indirect as well as external benefits received by non-users of
telecommunications services. Sensitivity analysis shows that a 102 increase
in capital costs combined with a 102 reduction in benefits would reduce
the estimated economic rate of return to 132. This is, however, unlikely
because: (a) the cost of telecommunications equipment will continue to
decrease in real terms, due to advances in technology; (b) no new works
exceeding in the aggregate of the equivalent of US$1.0 million per year
outside the agreed program will be undertaken without prior consultation
with IDA (para. 4.08); and (c) benefits will be ensured through timely
implementation of the project (para. 3.18) and maintaining tariffs at
appropriate levels (para. 4.09). On balance, there is a good prospect that
the project will earn a high economic return.



- 32 -
D. Risks
4.15     The principal risk is that the project may fail to fatisfactorily
address the sector institutional problems.  This wll be minimized by up
front commitment by GOG and GPT to recruit necessary management assistance
from external consultants to fill in staff gaps in management and technical
positions in the interim period (paras. 2.14 and 3.08).
4.16     Given GPT's initial dependence on GOG for local funds required for
the project, there is a risk of the lack of timely allocation of funds by
the government. To minimize such a risk, GOG will be required to pay its
quarterly contribution promptly (para. 3.15). In addition, bilateral
donors are expected to finance local costs for their components.
4.17     A related risk is that funds for equipment committed by
cofinanciers could be dissipated. This will be minimized by IDA through
coordination of all donors involved in financing the project.
E. Least Cost Solution
4.18     The investment program (para. 3.03) is the leact cost solution for
providing the service levels planned, within the constraints imposed by the
existing configuration and technology of the telecommunications network.
The timing and dimensioning of elements in the system are based on accepted
engineering practices for the selection of technology and equipment.
Existing old analogue equipment will be replaced by modern, cost-effective
digital equipment.
F. Environment
4.19     The project is expected to hsve no adverse environmental or health
impact. Improved telecommunications will enhance the efficiency of the
delivery system for routine and emergency health services. Increased use
of telecommunications services produces more efficient use of thA
transportation system, reduces costs, environmental pollution and energy
consumption.



- 33 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
5.02     During negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a) issuance of letters of invitation for proposals for experts to
assist in network planning (para. 3.08(c)), operations and
maintenance (para. 3.08(d)), materials management (para.
3.08(e)), tariff and resource traasfer policy (para. 3.08(f)),
management information system (para. 3.08(g)), and manpower
development plan (para. 3.08(h)) before September 30, 1988;
(b establishment of a directorate of projects in GPT (para.
3.20), before September 30, 1988;
(c) discussion with IDA of consultants' recommendations on the
reorganization of GPT by December 31, 1988, and implementation
of the agreed recommendations by June 30, 1990 (para. 2.13);
(d) discussion with IDA of consultants' recommendations on
manpower development plan, including training programs and
incentive schemes, by October 31, 1989 and implementation of
agreed recommendations start by December 31, 1989 (para.
2.14);
(e) discussion with IDA of consultants' recommendations on
implementation of an accrual accounting system and
implementation by December 31, 1989 (para. 2.20);
(f) action plan to reduce outstanding subscriber receivables to 3
months in 1988, 2 months in 1989 of revenues thereafter
(para. 2.2Z);
(g) submission to IDA of FY87 unaudited and audited financial
statements within nine and twelve months, respectively, of the
close of the fiscal year. For FY88, unaudited and audited
financial statements will be submitted within 6 months and 9
months, respectively. For FY89 and onwards, unaudited and
audited financial statements will be submitted within 4 months
and 7 months, respectively (para. 2.25). Audits of Special
Accounts, Project Accounts and SOEs will be submitted with
audited financial statements (para. 3.16);
(h) discussion with IDA of consultants' recommendations on
materials management and implementation of agreed
recommendations by June 30, 1990 (para. 3.08 (e));



- 34 -
(i) discussion with IDA of consultants' recommendations on tariffs
and resource transfer policy by September 30, 1989 and
implementation of agreed recommendations by December 31, 1989
(para. 3.08 (f));
(j) identification of counterpart personnel for each assignment
when letter of invitation for proposals for the assignment is
issued (para. 3.08);
(k) provision by GOG of local funds required for GPT's approved
investment program through 1990 (paras. 3.12) and 3.15);
(1) formalization by GOG of moratorium on GPT's obligations to pay
the interest and principal on GOG's loans until GPT's
financial restructuring plan is implemented (Para. 3.13);
(m) submission of action plan to IDA by October 31, 1989 for
implementing the agreed recommendations for financial
restructuring (para. 4.06);
(n) performance targets for 1988, and detailed action plans
designed to achieve them.  Targets for subsequent years,
together with an action plan to improve performance, if
necessary, will be agreed upon by November 30, of the
preceding year (para. 3.21);
(o) progress against physical and financial indicators will be
provided by GPT in quarterly progress reports to be submitted
within six weeke of the end of each quarter, and against
financial indicators in annual financial statements (para.
3.21);
(p) maintenance by GPT of an annual level of net internal cash
generation net of debt service not less than the local funds
required for GPT's approved investment program, or to cover at
least 40Z of total investment requirements in each year,
whichever is greater (p&ra. 4.06) from 1991 onwards; and
(q) consultation with IDA before any new works outside the
approved investment program exceeding in the aggregate the
equivalent of one million dollars per year (para. 4.08) are
undertaken.
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
5.03     Conditions for credit effectiveness are as follows:
(a) submission of audited FY86 financial statements (para. 2.25);
(b) the selection of consultants for the project management team
(para. 3.08 (a)) and financial consultants (para. 3.08 (b));



- 35 -
(c) the effectiveness of OECF financing for the project (para.
3.11); and
(d) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the government
and GPT acceptable to IDA (para. 3.13).
Recommendation
5.04     On the basis of the above agreements, the project is suitable for
an IDA credit of US$19 million on standard terms, with 40 years maturity
including a 10 years grace period.
AF4IE
June 6, 1988



CHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Basic Tolecommunications Facilities
(197B-1987)
As of Decombor 31                      1976      1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982      1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
1. TELEPHONE SERVICE
- Telephone exchange capacity    44,400                  44,700    44,700    44,700    44,700    44,700    44,863    46,863    46,919    56,880    65,880
- Direct exchange lines - DELs   38,791    36,008    37,008    37,476    38,931    38,129    37,360    38,100    37,40S    36,600    38,046    38,046
- Exchange fill X                    82.9       80.1       82.8       83.8       82.6      86.3       83.6       80.6       80.2       78.0      68.1       68.1
2. TELEX SERVICE
- Telephone exchange capacity         200        200        200        200        200        SOO       600        784        784        784        784        784
- Telex lines connected                193       193        190        190        19B        197       198        268        308        316        316       472
- Exchange fill X                    86.6       88.6       86.0       86.0       88.0      39.4       39.6       32.7       39.0       40.3       40.3      60.0
3. INSTITUTIONAL
- Total telecom staff                                                          6,630      6,300      5,448      4,730      4,7e1      4,652     4,038      4,038
- Telecom staff/1,000 DEL                                                         177        185        147       131        127        124        106        106
z



- 37 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Existing Telecommunications Facilities
December 31. 1987
Source: GPT
1. TELEPHONE SERVICE
- Total Number of exchanges                                  440
of which automatic                                         27
of which manual                                           413
- Total capacity of exchanges                            55,880
of which automatic                                     45,000
of which manual.                                       10,880
- Total number of direct exchange lines (DELs)           38,046
of which automatic                                     34,736
of which manual                                         3,310
2. TELEX SERVICE
Number of telex exchanges - 1
Telex switching equipment capacity: 784
Capacity
No.        Line Category              (Lines)
1          Subscriber                   585
2          Trunk                         96
3          Gentex                        50
4          System terminal               53
Total              784



- 38 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 2 of 4
3. VFT EQUIPMENT
No. of  Channels  Channels  Year of
Destination                 VFTs    Equipped  Working   Installation
Domestic Destination
1    Accra-Tema                   2         48         21
2    Accra-Kumasi                 2         36         16
3    Accra-Takoradi               2         48         20
4    Accra-Koforidua              1         12          2
5    Accra-Akosombo               1         12          2
6    Accra-Tamale                 1         12          1
7    Accra-Bolgatanga             1          6          0
8    Accra-Wa                     1          6          0           1986
9    Accra-Cape Coast             1         12          5           1986
10   Accra-Swedru                 1         12          1
11   Accra-Sunyani                1         12          1
12   Accra-Ho                     1         12          2
13   Accra-Denu/Aflao             1          6          0           1985
14   Accra-Keta                   1          6          0           1985
15   Accra-Ada                    1          6          0           1985
16  .'Kumasi-Koforidua.           1         12          1
17   Kumasi-Tamale                1         12          2
18   Kumasi-Sunyani               1         12          1
19   Koforidua-Ho                 1         12          2
20   Takoradi-Cape C.             1         12          1
21   Takoradi-Axim                1          6          0           1985
Total                            24        312         78             -
4. International Destination
1    USA                          1         24         18
2    UK                           3         72         39
3    France                       1         12          9
4    West Germany                 1         24          9
5    Italy                        1         12         10
6    Nigeria                      1         12          0           1986
7    Togo                         1         12          0           1986
8    Ivory Coast                  1         12          0           1986
9    Burkina Faso                 1         12          0           1986
Total                            11        192         85



- 39 -
ANNEX 2,2
Page 3 of 4
4. EXISTING AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE EXCHANGES IN GHANA
Equipment   Year of        Sub.Lines   Number of   Utill-    Waiting   Total
No.  Exchange            Type         Installation  Capacity    Sub. Lines  zation    List         Demand
Connected      %
1  Accra North           UR49a       1968             10,000         8,323     83.2       6,064    14,387
2  Accra Central         HDX10       1986              8,000         4,727     69.1       8,694    13,423
3  Accra Cantonments    HDX1O        1986              6,000         3,325     65.4       S,133     6,460
4  Tesh;-/Nungua         HDX1O       1986              1,000            67      6.7          32         89
6  Tema                  EDMFS       1961              3,000         2,734     91.1       3,046     5,780
6  Kumasi                BPO 4000   19S7, 1966         4,600         4,581     89.8         913      S,494
7  Mampong               UD          1977                200           200    100.0           6        205
8  Konango               UR49a       1971                200           174     87.0          10        184
9  Obuasl                HDXIO       1986                300           159     63.0          58       217
10 Bekwai                HDX10       1986                200           136     68.0           8        144
11 Takoradi I            SPO 4000   1961               1,800         1,787     99.3         417     2,204
12 Takoradi II           HDX10       1986              1,000             0      0.0           0         0
13 Sekondi               BPO 4000   1981               1,000          688      68.8          6e       748
14 Tarkwa                HDX1O       1986                400           291     72.8          39       330
15 Koforidua             UR49a       1968              1,000           998     99.8       1,119     2,117
1e Akosombo              UR49a       1971                600           323     63.8         248       671
17 Tamale                UR49a       1969              1,000           963     96.3         260     1,223
18 Bolgatanga            UR49a       1972/1978           800           620     77.5          26       646
19 Bawku                 UD          1977                100            89     89.0           9        98
20 Cape Coast            BPO 4000   1S83               1,000           974     97.4         662      1636
21 Swedru                UR49a       1967                300           291     97.0         176       466
22 Dunkwa                HDX1O       1986                300           177     59.0         118       295
23 Sunyani I             UR49a       1989                S00           484     98.8       1,199     1,883
24 Sunyan; II            HDX1O       1986                400             0      0.0           0         0
25 Ho I                  UR49a       1967                600           554     92.3       1,264     1,818
26 Ho II                 HDX1O       1986                400             0      0.0           a         0
27 Aflao/Denu            HDX10       1986                300           123     31.0         197       320
Total              -          -                45,000        32,780      72.8     27,766    60,535



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-2
Page 4 of 4
5. EXISTING MANUAL EXCHANGES
Total Number of   Total Capacity
Region                     Manual Exchanges    Installed
1  Greater Accra                        7               174
2  Upper                                4               270
3  Northern                             9               226
4  Central                             73             1,541
5 Western                              44            1,058
6  Brong-Ahafo                         39            1,105
7 Ashanti                              74            1,019
8  Eastern                             99            3,294
9  Volta                               64            2,193
Grand Total                        41311         10,880
1/ Only 46 exchanges (3,310 lines) were actually in service at
the end of 1987. The rest of the exchanges have beer, closed
because of various reasons,such as lack of trunk transmission,
power supplies and spare parts.



GHANA
POSTS & TELECOMMUNKCATIONS CORPORATION
Ouganizcatlon chad
UutsbV co
L5. II
I mu conu aiiiicaffon s
CiO    CSO          VGA~~c         SML                          O           CS           &(S3                         DIS 0        DIXIEisI       WCs                   .4*-UUAIb &OicItto(
OG    Ovoclox Genmi0I                                       IC c    km  .04 Cmu.jtw
OOrAf I Dp.ty DmecS0. GwmmeiQIn   koW                        55    sbCLccm SecIdOevy
D0G(P) Dokd Dueac. G.iIe04 4PoiAi)                           "AI   Ow"ty LUeicOCi (n6VMsMLlVli                                                                                              P'JL
DEUIIS) Okecici bfegwwuQ IbnIenn0 IoldccwT !w.K7viv%         LJVPS  Da~xft Doeckos Po"Ic Seivwco
DE(EYSI Olieckx Er0gWU6wmQ #xuficM le4ecumw Swvx;us          COA  C#w  ol AdgjwmbiIcc*o
UP    Okeckci Po"I Setvkboi                                  LGS  CINeA of Gensie;.     ..Syce                                                                          I4
CPG.S  Dovclas of Pessoevial & CuesioA Sww~ckn               CA    Chval AccounJonil
WM    WIhkgW  kMQWog                                         uCLA  L*4wtv ChmWas )erio AUUIIOI                                                                         .&onm~ Ahi$C 
sJ    SU~PIas MCmaQe                                         lAAM   *P lie uly Oselld1C04W SWV,cQ%Ass 
CIO   CNOI bswelajbos OfibL.                                Id)    kegme  isol 0usd.lw
CSo   ChId seculy omcae                                      op!   .ptt4canSal
CIA    ChIiai k*mn(A Audici                                  Pt    I1cxnu                                                                                                           Aig
wow Bur* - 1*232



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-4
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Number of Staff at
December 31, 1987
Source: GPT
Positions
Category of Staff                                 Filled
Engineers                                            21
Engineering Technicians                              15
Technicians                                         351
Telecoms Superintendents                            335
Linemen                                           1,337
Telephonists                                        634
Aerial Riggers                                       11
Radio Officers                                        3
Telegraph Messengers                                 10
Draughtsmen                                          11
General Services                                    350
Administration                                      440
Audit                                                18
Legal Branch                                        300
Finance                                             201
Public Relations                                      1
TOTAL                                             4,038



- 43 -
am,U,                                       AIINM   3-1
-   AS     w=mwoA       R   U3oRATmI   (cm)                 Pape 1 of 3
|                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEOMl TllEIXCI
Xmu-t Phep (19U7-1992)
(Ce6is William)
-19-                      -1988-                     -1989-
By Ite0ear                            J     al Fonei.   Tota    local  Fozeiu   TO         Local  Foreign  Total
1. Tele p       de
1.1 Itemticml                                    0      182      18        18     684      702        2      123      125
1.2 42,QQ0 Limfor Acct,Tm,                       0        0        0        0       0        0        0      533      533
Kai, Rbfurdua, T1e an
(4pe Coast Edab. ad bmp.
1.3 4,100 Limsfor wal                            0        0        0        0       0        0        0      103      103
hut~autic Batmns
1.4 A a Nrth Terti:y                             0        0        0        0    .0          0        0      379      379
1.5 Spme Pacts for E1uI.n                        0        0        0       0       76       76        0      349      349
2. Telexk  &gemh   f    i                        0        0        0        0       0        0        8       41       41
3. bExtm  FNhmk                                350    1,221    1,571      350   2,052   2,402       400   3,239   3,639
4. &Az cribr1 tst.uoi,   P Ag                    0        0        0        0       57      57        0      215      215
5. Radio and ST    usswi                         0       33       33        0      114     114       30      718      748
Fom           iol-tdi;g 8poe
6. Satellite laehSatia8                          0      231      231       20      779      799       3      226      229
7. Telprimten                                   11       99      110        2      152      154       0        0        0
8. Pow  E4d          ud Air-coiitimmr            0        0        0        0       0        0        0       51       51
9. V-deles aSpes                                0        0        0        0      48       48        0      256      256
10. nood Protectonlior                           0        0        0       0        0        0       21      185      206
11. &ildivp                                      0        0        0       88      38      126       95      297      392
12. Train;g                                      0        0        0       0       38       38       32      287      319
13. Cou     qmcy                                 0        0        0        8     285      293       13      820      833
14. nliselum s(c       ater, tol aet".)          0        0        0       0        (        0        3       62       65
Bee Cat of Project                         361    1,766    2,127      486   4,323    4,809      599   7,882    8,481
Pbysical Coati gDq                          36       88      124       49      216     265       60      394      454
Price Ctiiecy                                0        0        0       53       68      122     171      376      547
TOL POMAM  0SS                             397    1,854   2,251       588   4,607    5,195      830    8,653    9,482
- --                  -                                   -



- 44 -
A-= 3-1
Page 2 of 3
(Cedis Mill)
-199-                    -1991-                    -1992-                                1987-92
local  Foreiln  Total   local  Foreip   Total   local  Fore*g   Total                l1al  Foein  Total
o       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0                20     989   1,009
90   1,281    1,371      50      756      806     108      438      546              248   3,008   3,256
25     252      277      20      216      236       8       66      74                53     636      689
11     368      379       8      216      224       3       88      91                22   1,050   1,072
0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0                 0      Q5      425
4      84       88       4       65       69       2       22       24               10     212      222
350   2,310   2,660      300      972   1,272      250      756   1,006             2,000  10,550  12,550
0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0                 0     272      272
50     945      995      60      648      708      80      679     759               220   3,163  3,356
0       0        0       .0       0        0       0        0        0               23   1,236   1,259
0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0                13     251      264
13     273      286       2       32      34        0        0       0                15     357      372
0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0       0                 0     304      304
21     189      210       0        0        0       0        0       0                42     374      416
84       0       84      84        0       84       0        0       0               351     335      686
32     294      326      32      302      334      30      241     271               126   1,162   1,288
13     840      853       8      486      494       6      329     335                48   2,760   2,807
10     168      178       1       65      66        0        0       0                14     294      308
703   7,004   7,706      569   3,758   4,327       487   2,617   3,104              3,205  27,349  30.554
70     350      420      57      188      245      49      131      18D              321   1,367    1,688
288     565      853     298      452      750     302      437      739            1,113    1,899   3,011
1,061   7,919   8,980      924   4,398   5,322       838   3,185   4.024              4,638  30,615  35,254
- - - - -- - -                                                 --



- 45 -
G                                         AM  3-1
FMS AND TaMHINICGATM  aKIWI  (GPT)                        Page 3 of 3
SUWD T     E UOM ICAT S   WRET
_wstes   PzvSa (1987-1992)
7OIAL                    TOT~~~~1UAL
(Cedi Hll)                       (US$ Htill)
-         1987-92-                         1987-92
By ItwYear                                           Loca   Foreiy   Totl              local  Foreip   Total
1. Telep*e   aSE
1.1 Iltermatimal                                               20     989   1,009               0.1     53       5.4
1.2 42,000 LirAs for Accr, Ter,                              248   3,008   3,256               1.2    14.2    15.4
llmi, Kofudua Tale 6d
Cape Coat Rehb. al ERp.
13 4,100 Lines for Rural                                       53     636      683              0.2     3.0      3.2
Autaetic adub hs
1.4 Acra North Tertiary                                        22   1,050   1,072               0.1     5.0      5.1
leplaca_t
1.5 Spae Parts for Ehacges                                      0     425      425              0.0     2.1      2.1
2. Telex Exdea                                                 10     212      222              0.0     1.0      1.0
3. Externl Network                                          2,000  10,550  12,550              10.1    53.0    63.1
4. Subscriber insutma, a= & PAS                                 0     272      272              0.0     1.4      1.4
5. Radio ani Trnnsiasic                                       220   3,136   3,356               1.0    14.9    15.9
Brilaut inb4incg Spars
6. Satellite larth Station                                     23   1,236   1,259               0.1     6.6      6.7
7. Teleprinters                                                13     251      264              0.1     1.4      1.5
8. Pa Epiut and Air-citimss                                    15     357      372              0.1     1.7      1.8
9. Vehicles and Spres                                           0     304      304              0.0     1.5      1.5
10. Flood Ptection Works                                       42     374      416              0.2     1.8     2.0
11. luildings                                                 351     335      686              1.7     1.7     3.4
12.  rsinirg                                                  126   1,162   1,288               0.6     5.5     6.1
13. Coasultancy                                                48   2,760   2,807               0.2    13.3    13.5
14. Hiscellanous(Capxer, tools etc.)                           14     294      308             0.1      1.4     1.5
Base Cost                                               3,205  27,349  30,554              15.9   134.6   150.5
Phpsical Coitipocy                                        321   1,367   1,688               1.6     6.7      8.3
Price Comti'eny                                         1,113   1,899   3,011               5.2     9.0    14.2
TUIAL 1R0M1 COST                                        4,638  30,615  35,254              22.7   150.3   173.0



- 46 -                   ANNEX 3-2
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telephone and Telex Facilities Over the Project
Period 1987-1992
As of December 31              1987       1988       1989       1990      1991       1992
(Actual)
1.  NUMBER OF EXCHANGES        440        440        440       440        446        446
- of which automatic        27        27         27         27         59         59
- of which manual          413       413        413        413        387        387
2. TELEPHONE EXCHANGE
CAPACITY             55,880    55,880    55,880    55,880    76,300    76,300
3. NUMBER OF DELs           38,046    39,050    42,500    45,500    53,500    61,000
- DELs connected
during year                0     1,004      3,450      3,000      8,000     7,500
- Accra                      0       830      3,000      1,980      3,400     3,300
- Kumasi                     -          -         -          -      1,700     1,500
- Cape Coast                 -         -          -          -        380        300
- Tema                       -          -         -          -      1,100     1,000
- Koforidua                  -          -         -          -        380       300
- Takoradi                   -         -        300        500        380       300
- Rest of Ghana              -       174        150        520        660       800
4.  TELEPHONE EXCHANGE FILL   70           70         80        80         70         80
5.  TELEX EXCHANGE CAPACITY  784          784        784       784      1,784      1,784
6. NUMBER OF TELEX
SUBSCRIBERS             472        560        630        630        830       930
7.  TELEX EXCHANGE FILL Z       60         71        80         80         46.5       52
8. TOTAL NUMBER OF
INTERNATIONAL CIRCUITS    41          50        100        120        150        165
9.  DELs/100 POPULATION       0.29       0.27      0.29       0.31       0.35       0.39



-  7-                          ANNEX 3-3
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Description
1. Rehabilitation and expansion of switching network
There are four elements in this project component.
(a) Replacement and expansion of Accra North, Kumasi, Cape Coast, Tema,
Tamale, Koforidua, Sekondi and Takoradi old obsolete switching
equipment:
Capacity of      Capacity of
Existing         Proposed             Existing
Exchange         E. change       Expressed Demand
Location                (Lines)           (Lines)      (DELs + Waiting List)
Accra North            10,000             18,000              14,387
Kumasi                  4,600              9,000               5,494
Cape Coast              1,000              2,000               1,636
Tema                    3,000              6,000               5,780
Tamale                  1,000              2,000               1,223
Koforidua               1,000              2,000               2,117
Sekondi                 1,000              1,000                 784
Takoradi                1,800              2.000               2,204
Total             23,400             42,000              33,625



ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 6
(b) Replacement of rural manual exchanges by digital exchanges:
Capacity of       Capacity of
Existing          Proposed            Existing
Exchange          Exchange        Expressed Demand
Location                 (Lines)           (Lines)      (DELs + Waiting List)
Winneba                    240                500                  324
Nkawkaw                    270                500                  275
Nsawam                     240                500                  254
Mampong Akwapin            120                200                   67
Wa                         500                500                  214
Aburi                       70                100                   70
Amedzofe                    10                 50                    7
Asankragua                  10                 50                   25
Atebubu                     25                 50                   38
Berekum                    110                200                  204
Bole                        20                 50                   28
Damango                     30                 50                   29
Formaa-Athenkro             50                200                  174
Ejura                       25                 50                   22
Enchi                       25                 50                   19
Gambaga                      -                 50                   20
Kete Krachi                 30                 50                   18
Mpraeso                     80                100                   67
Odonkwakrom                  -                 50                   10
Prang                       12                 50                   18
Salaga                      30                 50                   27
Samreboi                    25                 50                    5
Walewale                    12                 50                    7
Buipo                        -                 50                   10
Elubo                       10                 50                   24
Akim Oda                   360                500                  321
Total                2,154               4,100               1,899
(c) Replacement of Accra North, Tertiary Centre
- 2,000 trunks of Hitachi HDX 10 Switch
(d) Spare parts for Tertiary Centre



- 49 -
ANt4EX 3-3
Page 3 of 6
2.  Rehabilitation and expansion of external cable network to match
the switching component under (1) above i.e. provision of enough
cable pairs for local and junction networks, junction
transmission links including digital microwave systems and
optical f4bres. Cable network for Accra Central and Cantonments
would also be rehabilitated.
3.  Rehabilitation and expansion of long distance transmission.
There are seven elements in this project component:
(a) replacement of three old Phillips microwave/UHF systems,
installed in 1966 by digital microwave links: Koforidua-Ho-
Akatsi-Amedzofe, Bolgatanga-Navrongo-Wa, and, Kumasi-
Sunyani-Techiman-Wenchi-Kintampo/Bui;
(b) replacement of Accra North Tertiary Centre transmission
equipment;
(c) installation of New 7 UHF links: Tamale-Yendi, Salaga-
Bimbila, Mpraeso-Oda, Nauli-Half Assini-Felubo, Pokukrom-
Tepa, Gambaga-Bawku and Ejura-Mampong;
(d) spare parts, tools and test equipment for transmission
equipment;
(e)  installation of VFT systems at 12 stations: Accra, Kumasi,
Cape Coast, Koforidua, Tamale, Takoradi, Sunyani, Berekum,
Swedru, Tema, Akosombo and Ho;
(f) installation of sub-base band drop-insert equipment at 12
stations: Jindabuo, Grupe, Diari, Palbusi, Akatsi, Sege,
Weija, Swedru (Afransi), Amuaba Hill, Kisi, Awiabo and
Nauli;
(g) installation of Coast station at Tema.
4.  Expansion of telex exchange by 1000 lines.
5.  Procurement of 20,000 telephone sets, 500 PMBX and 200 PABX for
replacement and expansion including spares.
6.  Procurement of 500 teleprinters.
7.  International Services:
(a) procurement of 330 line digital international exchange;
(b)  rehabilitation and upgrading of satellite earth station.



- 50 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 4 of 6
8. Procurement of power equipment and spares including replacement
of diesel generators by solar power system at 12 radio sitest
Cape Coast, Amedzofe, Akatsi, Sege, Weija Swedru, Amuaba Hill,
Kisi, Kanyankaw, Awiabo, Nauli,Tarkwa, Kukruku, Dunkwa and
Kankanfriasi.
9. Procurement of 150 vehicles for planning, operations and
maintenance.
10. Civil works and air-conditioning:
(a) construction of flood protection wall for Accra North
Tertiary Centre;
(b) construction of exchange buildings for Kumasi, Tema and Cape
Coast; and
(c) material for construction of 100 residential units for
staff.
11. Miscellaneous equipment including computer, office equipment,
tools and test equipment.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 5 of 6
12. Training:
(a) Total 1,233 manmonths of fellowships:
Type of training               Manmonths
Overseas             Local
Management             45
Engineering            60                    400
Finance and Accounts  30                     400
Stores                 18                    400
153                  1,200
(b)  Training equipment: electronic training modules,
training equipment for switching, transmission,
line plant, telephones, teleprinters. tools, test
equipment, and vehicles for the school.
(c) Instructors: employment of five instructors for
24 manmonths each to draw-up course curriculum
and run digital courses in switching, transmission
and external plant: and traffic.
13. Consultancy:
Estimate
I T E M                                Manmonths
(a) PPF 1
Reorganization                            18
Corporate Plan                            20
TMS                                       12
50
(b)  PPF 2
- Employment of Project                   24
Management team for
preparation of specifications
and bid documents
- financial controller                     4
- Telecommunications Advisor               6
34
==



- 52 -
ANNEX 3-3
Page 6 of 6
Estimate
I T E M                     Manmonths
(c) During Project
(i)   Project Management Engineers
Team Leader                           42
Switching                             42
Transmission                          42
External Plant                        42
Power and Airconditioning             48
(ii)  Network Planning Engineers
Transmission Engineer - Leader        24
External Plant                        24
Traffic                               24
Switching                             24
(iii) Finance, Accounts and Stores
Chief Accountant                      44
Management Accountant                 24
Co-n- erc4ial ,Ma-nager 4
Supplies Accountant                   24
(iv)  Management Information Systems        24
(v)   Restructuring & Asset Revaluation   12
(vi)  Tariff Study                          10
(vii) Materials Management                  24
(ix)  Operations and Maintenance            24
(x)   Manpower Planning and Development   12
(xi)  Telecommunications Advisor            18
TOTAL                           552
GRAND TOTAL                            636



- 53 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 20
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Terms of Reference
A. Consultancy Service to be Financed under PPFI
GPT Reorganization
1.       Background:  The Government of Ghana (GOG) wishes the present
GPT to split into two separate legal entities for posts and
telecommunications services. The Ghana Institute of Management and
Public Administration (GIMPA) has done some preliminary work in this
regard and their report will be made available to consultants in Ghana.
2.       Obiectives:  The principal objectives of the task are to
prepare detailed proposals for the split of GPT in two legal entities
for postal and telecommunications services and action plans for
execution.
3.       Scope of Work:  The main elements of the task are as followq
(a) Prepare and obtain agreement of the Government and GPT to the
following aspects of the organization;
-   the legal structure of the organizations and the respective
powers of government, Board and management;
-   the organizational structure of the entities, together with
job descriptions;
-   the staffing of the entities after identifying critical staff
gaps in key positions, and thus the initial recruitment and
training requirement; and
-   the initial procedures, policies and manuals for the operation
of the two entities.
(b) Provide the necessary accounting and financial input to establish
an opening statement of affairs for the two entities which
recognize asset obsolescence and asset and liability values which
take into account currency realignment, having particular regard
to:
-   the separation and valuation of assets;
-   the separation and valuation of liabilities; especially
supplies and debt service; and



- 54 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 20
GPT Telecommunications Corporate Plan
1.       Background:  Under the terms of the World Bank Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL), GOG has agreed that corporate plans should be
prepared for all the major parastatal organizations in Ghana. GPT is
expected to produce a five-year corporate plan, against which performance
is to be monitored through the revived State Enterprise Commission (SEC).
The strong focus of this plan is expected to be the short-term financial
performance of GPT.
2.       Following the Government's decision to split GPT into two
entities, two corporate plans will have to be prepared, one for the
telecommunications entity and the other for postal entity. A
telecommunications corporate plan will be prepared under this task.
3.       Obiective:  External consultants are to work closely with a GPT
working group to produce a corporate plan. The plan would establish
fundamental objectives at the five year horizon together with a detailed
program and resource requirements to meet these objectives.
4.       Scove of Work:  The main elements of the task are as follows:
(a) Establish the fundamental policies and objectives for the
telecommunications entity at least in the following areas:
-   tariffs;
- adequate internal cash generation levels;
-   elimination of direct GOG support;
-   improvement in billing and collection performance;
-   improvements in quality of service; and
-   realistic growth targets.
To undertake the above, the consultants would need to take into
consideration the work of consultants undertaking the telecommunications
masterplan study expected to be completed by February 1988.
(b) Define the main elements of a strategy to carry out the policies
and realize the objectives to include, inter alia:
-   timely and cost effective execution of ongoing and new network
rehabilitation works;
-   revised outlines for management information and performance
monitoring systems;
-   review of adequacy of tariff levels, through full projection
and supporting analysis to 1991; and



- 55 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 3 of 20
-   review of adequacy of manpower levels and quality for the
indicated program.
(c) Identify and cost the means necessary for the realization of the
stated objectives:
-   manpower and training requirements;
-   financing requirements; and
-   technical assistance requirements.
4.       Requirements:  An economist, financial analyst, engineer,
organization and management expert, and lawyer would be required for a
combined total of about 40 man-months to work with GPT counterpart team.
Telecommunications Master Plan Study
1.       Backaround.  A substantial program of network rehabilitation is
ongoing.  However, due to staff shortages and lack of coordinated
telecommunications planning function in GPT, no long-term master plan or
articulated network development strategy exists.
2.       Obiectives.  On the basis of any preparatory work undertaken by
GOG, GPT and other consultants, and on the basis of broadly stated
objectives, the consultants have principal objectives in three areas:
(a) to establish long-term development targets for the sector;
(b) to establish target standards of service for the sector at 5, 10
and 20 year horizons; and
(c) to determine key policy decisions that must be made for a
consistent long-term network development including digitalization
policy.
3.   Scove of Work.  The main elements of the task are as follows:
(a) Demand:
-   in the light of broad economic and  ocial development in
Ghanao, forecast at the 5, 10 and 20 year horizons the probable
demand for various telecomnunications services at prevailing
constant prices.
(b) Network Development:
-   catalogue of existing telecommunication facilities, their
location, condition and age;



- 56 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 4 of 20
impact on these facilities on short-term plans for retiring
assets and acquiring new assets through the proposed 1987-91
rehabilitation program (close liaison with the World Bank);
key short-term decisions on network digitalization including
strategy, choice of number and type of switching svstems and
manpower training;
review of fundamental plans for routing, transmission,
signalling, numbering and synchronization; and
network optimization including optimization of Accra and
Kumasi networks. The Accra multi-exchange area network will
be reconfigured according to long-term demand distribution.
Kumasi will be optimized for a multi-exchange area.
(c) Quality of Service:
-   analysis of existing service quality performance, status of
various measures to improve it, and estimate of short-term
improvements likely;
-   assess adequacy of existing operations and maintenance
structures and procedures, including vehicles, and short-term
improvemen.ts likely;
-   establish target levels of service quality (with particular
regard to frequency and duration of faults, and call
completion rates) at the 5, 10, and 20 year horizons; and
-   identify in the light of future equipment supply, particular
instrumentation, practices and policies to better monitor and
improve service in the long run.
(d) Financial Analysis:
-   at the 5, 10 and 20 year horizons, establish the key financial
objectives in terms of inter alia, revenue and cost of
operations and capital per subscriber, rate of return and
assets and internal cash general; and
-   provide necessary input to enable consultants carrying out
Assignment I to prepare the detailed five year short-term
financial plan.
(e) Manpower Planning:
-   for the given supply and demand characteristics of the future
network, broadly estimate manpower and training requirements
for telecommunications;



- 57 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 5 of 20
provide necessary input to enable consultants carrying out
Assignment I to prepare the detailed five year short-term
manpower plan; and
liaise as necessary with consultants carrying out Assignment I
in the area of adequacy of staffing and training in the new
entities.
4.       Requirements.  An economist, financial analyst and engineer would
be required for a combined total of 12 manmonths to work with GPT
counterpart team.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 6 of 20
Terms of Reference
B. Consultants for Project Management
Obiectives
1.       The Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (GPT) is
executing a 1987-1992 investment program for Rehabilitation and Technical
Assistance. The program is being financed by IDA and bilateral sources
including Japan, Holland and France. The broad tasks for which the Project
Planning, Engineering and Management Consultants are proposed to be
employed to assist the GPT in implementation of this program are as
follows:
(a)   carry out design, detailed engineering, procurement, supervision
of installation, acceptance testing and commissioning of all
equipment items (switching and transmission equipment, outside
plant network and subscriber facilities) and civil works;
coordination of implementation of different program components;
and in general project management including supervision of
contractors and coordination of consultants under bilateral
financing; and
(b)   Lransfer know-how to GPT staff in planning, design, techno-
economic evaluation, engineering and project management for all
program components through direct class training and/or on the
job training, etc.
Scope of Services
2.       The scope of services to be provided by the consultants are
grouped as follows:
(a) design and detailed engineering;
(b) procurement;
(c) supervision of installation, acceptance tests and commissioning;
(d) transfer of know-how and training; and
(e) project management.
However, all the project components may not necessarily require all the
above services or in the same degree. Consultants will be employed under
bilateral financing to undertake tasks (a), (b) and (c) above for
components under bilateral financing. In such cases, the role of the
project management consultant will be to coordinate the work of these
consultants.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 7 of 20
Detailed Engineering
3.       The consultants shall prepare detailed equipment design and
detailed engineering to achieve:
(a) the least-cost solution appropriate to the component;
(b) effective integration with existing facilities;
(c) satisfactory grade of service; and
(d) adherence to appropriate CCITT/CCIR recommendations.
4.       The consultants will be required to undertake full field/site
surveys and test measurements or make spot checks to verify GPT's data and
minimize implementation risks due to deficient basic data.
Procurement
5.       The consultants shall prepare all the required tender documents
(including commercial conditions, technical specifications, schedules of
requirements and delivery, draft contract) for procurement of all equipment
items and for civil works, through international/local competitive bidding
for new items or sole source repeat orders for extensions to existing
equipment.
6.       The consultants' role in the procurement cycle shall include, but
not be limited to the following:
(a) preparation of tender documents. The documents shall include the
procedure for repeat orders, if the long-term development program
includes such recommendation, and the formula for future pricing
of such repeat orders that takes into account inflation,
technology advances induced economies in manufacturing costs and
i.ternational market situation at time of ordering;
(bj assist GPT in answering bidders' queries on tender documents and
participate in bidders' conferences, when scheduled, for
complicated cases;
(c) evaluation of bids, and preparation of technical and financial
evaluation reports with recommendations on contract award;
(d) after GPT managements's decision on selection of the contractor,
drafting contract and assisting in contract negotiations and
award; and
(e) prepare amendments/addenda to contracts as may become necessary
during program implementation.
Installation, Acceptance Testing and Commissioning
7.       The consultants shall provide detailed support and actively assist
GPT in administration of GPT's contracts for equipment supplies and civil
works, through:



- 60 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 8 of 20
(a) review and approval of all contractor's submission in respect of
engineering designs, plans and schedules; lists of main equipment,
installation and maintenance test equipment, tools and spare
parts; installation and acceptance test procedures, etc.;
(b) monitoring of delivery and installation/construction schedules;
(c) undertaking factory testing when called for;
(d) checking types and quantities of equipment, materials,
documentation, software, etc. supplied by contractors to ensure
conformation to contracts;
(e) coordination in implementation of different program components and
resolution of problems that may arise in interaction between
contractors of different components;
(f) supervision of equipment installations and civil works
construction par contractors to ensure quality and completeness;
(g) preparation of schedules for and conductance of acceptance tests;
(h) commissioning of equipment; and
(i) assist GPT in resolution with the equipment contractors of
problems that arise in the commissioned equipment during the
warranty period.
Transfer of Know-How and Training
8.       An essential item of the consultants' total assignment shall be
the upgrading and development of GPT's human resources through transfer of
know-how and training of GPT staff in all aspects of the work undertaken by
the consultants in Ghana. The transfer of know-how and training of GPT
staff shall cover but not be limited to techniques and methods of planning,
design and detailed engineering; technical and economic evaluation of
different alternatives; preparation of technical specifications;
procurement documentation and procedures; installation, acceptance tests
and commissioning of equipment; general project management etc.
9.       The consultants shall prepare a detailed plan for transfer of
know-how and training which is a major task of their assignment. The
transfer of know-how can be through training courses to be conducted in
GPT's training school and/or through on-the-job training. The training plan
should be designed with the objective that, on completion of the
consultants' assignment, the GPT staff shall have developed inherent
capability of implementing independently a significant proportion of GPT's
future development programs without substantial further external technical
assistance.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 9 of 20
10.      The consultants shall review the availability of GPT staff to act
as counterparts, specify the required qualifications for each such staff,
assist GPT in selecting such staff from within GPT or through outside
recruitment and, if ne^essary, recommend foreign training of GPT staff in
specific disciplines. The consultants are expected to include capable local
consultants for local work in general and civil works in particular.
Project Management
11.      The consultants shall provide the organization, staff and
infrastructure necessary for management of the total scope of work as
detailed above. They shall establish and maintain necessary project files
and records (including records of all expenditures) which shall be
accessible to GPT during project implementation. Such reports (or copies
thereof) shall be turned over to the GPT on project completion and
termination of consultants' contract.
12.      The consultants shall appoint a team leader who will assume
overall responsibility for the total assignment and liaison with GPT for
all activities and performance of other consultants' personnel and
settlement of all accounts in Ghana.
13.      The consultants shall prepare and submit to GPT within five days
of the' end of each month, a composite and detailed report on each task
preceded by an Executive Summary for the information of the senior GPT
management.
Staff Requirements
14.      It is estimated that the following  : pertise will be required
during the implementation of the project:
(a) Systems Engineer - Project Leader;
(b) Switching Engineer;
(c) Transmission Engineer;
(d) External Plant Engineer;
(e) Pcwer and airconditioning.
The duration for each engineer will be different, but the expertise will be
required for about four years.
Terms of Reference
B. Planning and Operations and Maintenance Engineers
Background
1.       The Government of Ghana through the Ghana Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation (GPT) has embarked on an investment program
aimed at improving the quality of service and strengthening of GPT
institutionally.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 10 of 20
2.       To implement the investment program, the GPT intends to employ a
firm of consultants to assist in the process of institutional reforms in
the areas of planning, and operations and maintenance.
3.       The firm will be required to provide suitably qualified personnel
to work with Ghanaians as counterparts in undertaking the following tasks:
-   development of detailed network plans for Ghana in light of
digitalization;                         i
-   establishment of an operations and maintenance organization.
Task 1 - Network Planning
Objective: to prepare detailed network plans for Ghana.
Scope of Work
1.      lusing the demand data, fundamental plans and digitalization policy
articulated in the masterplan study, develop detailed plans for switching,
transmission and local network needs of the 1987-1992 development program.
2.       Prepare a planning manual (engineering instructions) containing
rules and procedures for rational development of the network.
3.       Review the engineering planning organization of GPT including
staffing and propose suitable changes.
4.       Identify training needs for planning staff in light of
digitalization.
5.       Propose suitable courses for planning staff.
Requirements
It is estimated that a total of about 72 man-months will be
required for three engineers with prerequisite knowledge in network
planning, local line planning, switching and transmission planning.
Task 2: Traffic Engineering
Obiective: to set up a traffic group in the GPT and establish systems for
monitoring the traffic performance of the network.
Scope of Work
1.       Propose a suitable organization for a traffic planning and
monitoring group in GPT.
2.       Draw up systems for monitoring traffic flow for local, national
and international traffic, including a suitable management information
system.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 11 of 20
3.       Prepare technical specifications and recouwend list of test
equipment for measuring traffic.
4.       Identify training needs for traffic engineering personnel and
reccommend suitable courses of study.
5.       Prepare and conduct initial courses in traffic engineering for:
(a) exchange supervisory staff with emphasis on practical application
of traffic measurement, monitoring and analysis in maintaining
quality of service;
(b) managerial staff to be given a better understanding of the network
and the importance of traffic engineering in its planning, design
and operations.
Requirements:
The task will require the services of a traffic engineer for a
minimum of 24 months.
Task 3: Operations and Maintenance
Objective: to improve the current maintenance and operations organization
and procedures.
Scope of Work:
1.       Review current operations and maintenance organization at
headquarters and regional levels and propose suitable changes.
2.       Review current maintenance and fault clearance practices and
procedures for exchange equipment, outside plant, subscriber plant,
domestic long distance and international transmission facilities and
propose necessary changes in light of new technology.
3.       Review existing standards of quality of service and propose
realistic standards for GPT.
4.       Review existing subscriber plant record keeping systems and
propose suitable changes.
5.       Review existing test and repair facilities for subscriber plant,
switching and transmission equipment and recommend suitable changes.
6.       Review existing maintenance and repair facilities for motor
vehicles and recommend steps for improvement.
7.       Establish an appropriate system for management information at
different levels of management.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 12 of 20
8.       Review transport facilities for maintenance staff and propose
optimum provision.
9.       Review current procedures for procurement of spare parts and
propose necessary improvements.
10.      Review the existing training facilities for operations and
maintenance staff and propose necessary improvements.
Requirements: a total of 24 man-months will be required for three engineers
(external plant, switching and transmission).
C.  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Background
1.       GPT has embarked on an investment program aimed at improving the
quality of service and strengthening of GPT institutionally with financial
assistance from the World Bank and other bilateral sources.
2.       To ensure that GPT achieves its financial objectives and targets,
GPT needs a well functioning, consistent, accrual accounting system, with
sufficient controls, to produce timely and accurate financial reports to
management. To achieve this, GPT will need to employ financial experts in
'he -nterim period to hold the posts of chief accountant, commercial
manager, management accountant, and stock and stores accountant in the
Finance Department. GPT has employed, through OECF financing, two
expatriate financial consultants, since September 1985, to fill in the
position of Financial Controller and Chief Accountant. Their assignment
will be completed in September 1988.
3.       The assignments will include a requirement to field train GPT's
counterpart staff and assigned officers in the expert's activities to the
maxim'in extent possible while performing his tasks.
4.       The headquarters Finance Division currently employs about 320
staff. The division has responsibility for the preparation of financial
accounts, budget cad forecasts, the preparation and production of bills for
telecommunications services and financial management of the regional posts
office network. Currently, consultants have been appointed to prepare
detailed proposals for the split of GPT into two legal entities for postal
and telecommunications services and action plans for execution, and to
prepare corporate plan for the telecommunications entity. The specific
tasks and the responsibilities associated with these positions are set out
below.



- 65 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 13 of 20
Task 1: Chief Account
Scope of Work
-   assistance to the Financial controller in the management of the
accounting functions, and in particular in
-   setting financial targets for short and medium term
-   preparing recruitment and training needs of financial staff
-   preparation of plan for financial restructuring
-   reviewing billing and collection policy
-   reviewing accounting policies, pract-ices and systems
-   reviewing procedures for the preparation of financial and
management reports
-   debt management
-   control of fixed assets
-   reviewing internal procedures for budget preparation control and
establishing timetable for preparation of GPT annual budget.
Requirements:
A qualified accountant from a recognized professional body, with at
least five years experience in financial management in a telecommunications
entity and relevant experience in a developing country. The assignment is
expected to start at the latest by September 30, 1988 and will last about
24 months. As the position will require an unusual amount of time and
resources for staff development and training, candidates with a track
record and/or capabilities in this area would be preferred.
Task 2: Commercial Manager
Scope of Work
- billing and collection
- annual review of tariffs
- marketing and demand analysis
- accounts receivableslaging analysis
- preparation of settlement statements for international
inpayments and outpayments
- monitoring the incoming and outgoing transactions
- review of accounting rates
- monitoring the inpayment/outpayment ratio



- 66 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 14 of 20
RequLirements!
A business graduate or person holding equivalent financial or
commercial qua11qIfications with over five years experience as commercial
manager in a telecommunications entity and relevant work experience in a
developing cotlutty. The assignment is expected to start at the latest by
September 30, '988 and the duration of the assignment will be about 24 man-
months. Ac tlh.o position will require an unusual amount of time and
resources for staff development and training, candidates with a track
record ard/lor capabilities in these areas would be preferred.
Task 3: ManaRement Accountant
Scope of Work:
- prepare management accounts
prepare financial projection model with full capacity
for sensitivity analyses to test financial objectives
prepare m.onthly and annual operational and development budgets
and five year financial forecasts.
Monitor actual versus budget estimates
- prepare monthly cash flow budget, trial balances and
managements incorporating appropriate variance analyses for a
12-month period quarterly
- review the management information requirements of GPT and
ilmplement an appropriate system related to GPT's lorporate  Plan.
Requirements:
A management accountant with over five years experience in a
telecommunications entity and relevant work experience in a developing
country. The assignment is expected to start at the latest by September 30,
1988, and the duration of the assignment will be about 24 months. As the
position will require an unusual amount of time and resources for staff
development and training, candidates with a track record and/or
capabillties in these areas would be preferred.
Task 4: SpjEies Accountant
Scpe o_f_Work
-   evaluation of existing stock control and inventory accounting
procedures and establishment of an appropriate system
-   planning and monitoring of all receipts and stocks, and
establishment of appropriate systems for recording of stock
transections
-   physical verification of stocks
-   stock pricing
-   lepi3Js for individual stocks, their records and needed levels



- 67 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 15 of 20
-   establishment of proper provisions against slow moving, damaged or
obsolete stocks and provisions for disposal where appropriate
-   reconciliation of accounting stock records with store records
-   preparation of stores vocabulary
-   all other matters concerning stores accounting
Requirements
A person with over five years experience as Supplies Accountant in a
telecommunications entity, and relevant work experience in a developing
country. The assignment is expected to start at the latest by September
30, 1988 and the duration of the azsignment will be about 24 man-months.
As the position will require an unusual amount of time and resources for
staff development and training, candidates with a track record andlor
capabilities in these areas would be preferred.
D. TARIFF STUDY
Obiective: Develop principles and procedures to guide formulation and
implementation of appropriate levels and structure of tariffs, apply these
to existing tariffs and recommend changes as appropriate.
Scope of Work:
(a) Description and analysis of present tariff structure, its
evolution and changes in the recent past.
(b) Determine appropriate pricing methodologies to adopt for GPT.
(c) Data collection on the economic and financial costs and benefits
of the different telecommunications services offered. Includes
full analysis of subscriber characteristics, pattern and trends
of usage.
(d) Tariff formulation on the basis of available data and selected
methodology.
(e) Financial impact analysis of recommendations, with assessment
in particular of cross subsidy an,1 foreign exchange implications.
(f) Identify further data collection necessary and how this might
be done.
(g) Determine appropriate tariff review process and procedure.
Requirements: a team of three consultants (engineering, finance,
economics), for a total of ten man-months over a four-month period, working
with counterpart staff.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 16 of 20
E. ASSET REVALUATION AND FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING
Objective
(i) To review and propose realistic asset replacement costs, including
depreciation rates and life expectancy;
(ii) To review GPT's local and foreign debt obligations and to propose a
financial restructuring plan aimed at making GPT financially viable
in the long run.
Scope of Work
(a) Using the inventory of existing fixed assets established in
the TMS:
(i) determine original costs and actual depreciation values of
existing property and costs of replacements;
(ii) review rates of depreciation and where appropriate propose
revised rates; and
(iii) review GPT's policy for charging expenditure to capital
account versus maintenance accounts.
(b) Make an inventory of existing stock, examine its general
condition and give recommendations about action to be taken.
(c) Examine the general condition of the fixed assets which are not
in operation and give recommendations about actions to be taken.
(d) Develop a system for future evaluation.
(e) Determine the status of local and foreign debts of GPT including
actual repayment schedules.
(f) Considering financial projections contained in the Corporate Plan
and the longer term perspective contained in the Appraisal Report
for the Second Telecommunications Project, review the proposed
cut-off date of 1990 for GOG subsidies to GPT.
(g) Propose a financial restructuring plan to ensure, GPT's long term
viability.  The options to be examined would include, but not
limited to:
(i) moratorium on existing loans;



- 69 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 17 of 20
(ii) conversion of some of the existing loans to equity;
(iii) rescheduling of existing loans; and
(iv) future onlending arrangements for funds given to the GOG
as grants or as loans.
Requirements: An economist, financial analyst and an engineer would be
required for a total of 12 manmonths to work with GPT counterpart staff.
(F) MANPOWER PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Objectives: To develop optimum level of productivity and cost
effectiveness of human resources in GPT through the design of appropriate
remuneration and incentive schemes.
Scope of Work:
(a) Review the manpower planning and development organization within
GPT and propose suitable changes.
(b) Review manpower requirements data contained in the Corporate
Plan and the Telecommunications Master Plan.
(c) Review trends in time for which vacant positions are filled
internally and through external recruitment.
(d) Review availability of skills in GPT and within Ghana for vacant
positions.
(e) Examine skilled staff turnover in the last 10 years and
establish causes for the large turnover.
(f) Compare GPT's remuneration and incentive schemes with other
parastatals and the private sector.
(g) Review the scope, nature and quality of training programs
available in GPT and propose appropriate changes.
(h) Propose most effective methods of recruiting skilled personnel
(i) Considering the economic and social environment in Ghana and the
projected technical and financial performance of GPT, propose
suitable incentive schemes to ensure:
(i) timely recruitment of required skilled personnel;
(ii) retention of available skills in GPT;
(iii) attraction of external skills to GPT;



- 70 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 18 of 20
(j) Propose suitable schemes of service for the various
disciplines in GPT; and
(k) Propose action plans for implementing these schemes.
Requirements: A manpower planning and development expert working closely
with a GPT counterpart for a period of about 12 months.
G. TELECOMMUNICATIONS ADVISOR
Background
All public telecommunications services in Ghana are currently
provided by the Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (GPT), a
government owned corporation established by decree in 1974. GPT falls under
the Ministry of Transport and Communication (MOTC) which is responsible for
approval of investment programs, budgets and changes in tariffs. In
addition to the public telecommunication services dedicated networks exist
to meet the specialized requirements of police, military, railway and civil
aviation services. Private users also operate radio link services in areas
inadequately served by the public network upon obtaining a license issued
annually by the GPT. Currently the MOTC lacks the capacity to address the
regulatory and policy making role including: (a) regulating tariffs and
setting financial targets; (b) ensuring that the sector is responsive to
broader national development objectives, such as rural and regional needs;
(c) licensing and monitoring the use of the radio spectrum, a scarce
natural resource; and (d) setting appropriate service targets for various
types of customers. Due to the growing importance of the sector, the MOTC
has realized the need to build up the necessary capacity required to play
its role properly. The MOTC has therefore decided to employ a
Telecommunications Advisor who will assist the PNDC Secretary for Transport
and Communications to formulate sector policies and oversee the operation
of the sector as a whole. The need for the advisor is particularly
important now at a time when an exercise to split GPT into two entities for
postal and telecommunications is going on. The exercise is being carried
out by a group of consultants who have been charged with providing the
necessary modalities for the split and detailed implementation plan.
Scope of Work:
(a) To advise on the recommendations of the Consultant regarding the
new telecommunications sector structure, legal structure of the
new entity, the roles of MOTC, Board of Directors and the entity.
(b) To set sector development objectives consistent with overall
national development plan including balanced development between
the urban and rural areas, bearing it mind that the sector must
operate commercially.



- 71 -
AVNER 3-4
Page 19 of 20
(c) Analyze and advise on short and long term teleconauuniiications
development programs.
(d) Monitor implementation of approved investment prvu6afisA.
(e) Review tariff policy for the sector and monitor "ip]emepnation.
(f) Set and monitor implementation of operational objectives,
including quality of service, financial performance, and katanpotler
development.
(g) Advise Ghana Frequency Registration Board on matters related to
frequency management, a scarce and natural resource.
(h) Advise on matters related to international telecowusuications
organizations such as: ITU, INTELSAT, INMARSAT, CTB, etc.
(i) Carry out any other duties that may be assigned by the Chie.
Director Planning.
Requirements
It is estimated that the Advisor will be employed for a period of
two years. The individual to be appointed will have twenty yeats experience
in the sector, including at least five years as chief executive of a
telecommunications entity or a similar position at government level in a
developing country. Preference will be given to an individual with
experience in the postal sector as well.
H. MATERIALS MANAGEMENT
Obiectives:  To establish a comprehensive and integrated mateLials management
and control which would meet the specific requirements of GPT both now and for
the future.
Scope of Work:
(a) Assist in the installation of practices and procedures for the
procurement, storage and distribution of capital project and
maintenance materials.
(b)  Assist in establishing the stores management and personnel
structures including redeployment and staff training as
necessary.
(c) Assist in maintaining proper classification of stock and stock
location codes, including remote locations.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 20 of 20
(d) Assist in reorganizing the layout and storage of stocks in order
to allow access to frequently used items and control and
identification project materials.
(e) Assist in re-establishing purchasing routines including "he
maintenance of stock specification files, supplier files and set-
up re-order levels and quantities. Set up order progressing
files. Observing the corporation policies and limits of
authority.
(f) Assist in establishing proper stores receipts routines and
procedures including the maintenance of stores record cards and
stores rejection routines.
(g) Assist in maintaining an adequate stock costing systems for local
purchases and project purposes.
(h) Assist in improving the computer based stock recording and
valuation.
(i) Assist in providing regular information to management on stock
levels, outstanding orders and receipts including constant
liaison with other Departments.
(j) Assist in establishing proper stores issue routines and stock
distribution to project sites for remote locations.
Requirements: About 24 manmonths will be required for two materials
management experts working with Ghanaian counterparts.



- 73 -
ANNEX 3-5
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMKUNICATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
I D A                               Cumulative                    Bank's Profiles
FY/Semeater      Disbursement          Through               For all sectors  Telecom Sector
Ending         in Simestsr           Semestor.!            in West Africa   World Wide
Yun8 30, 1988             0 2!                  0.2                   0.2                 0.2
FY 89
De. 31, 1988              0.8                   1.0                   0.9                  0.6
june 30, 1989             1.0                   2.0                   2.1                  1.3
fY go
Dec. 31, 1989             4.2                   6.2                   3.4                  2.6
June 30, 1990             2.8                   9.0                   6.0                 4.2
FY 91
Dec. 31, 1990             2.6                  11.8                   6.7                 6.0
June 30, 1991             2.8                  14.2                   8.3                 8.0
PY 92
Dec. 31, 1991             1.6                  15.7                  10.1                  9.8
June 30, 1992             1.3                  17.0                  11.7                11.7
FY 93
Dec. 31, 1992             1.1                  18.1                  13.3                13.3
June 30, 1993             0.9                  19.0                  14.7                14.8
FY 94
Dec. 31, 1993              --                  19.0                  16.7                 16.0
June 30, 1994              --                  19.0                  16.8                16.9
FY 95
Dec. 31, 1994              --                  19.0                  17.8                 17.8
June 30, 1995              --                  19.0                 18.2                 18.5
FY 98
Dec. 31, 1995              --                  10.0                  18.8                 18.8
June 30, 1998              --                  19.0                  19.0                19.0
1/  Bank's disbursements profile modified for Chana because: (a) all
implementation will be on turnkey basis; (b) a project management team
consisting of consultants and local Ghanaians will be formed to ensure
timely implementation of the project.
2/  Disbursement under PPF.



GHANA
Posts & Telecommunications Corporation
Second Telecommunications Project
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year    1986         1987         1988         1989        1990         1991         1992
Quarter       1 |2  3  4  11 2 | 31 4    2           1 2 1 3     11   2 | 31 4 | 121 3 14 2112 1 3 14
A. Consultancy
B. Training
C  International
Services:                                        V`
Switching &            v
Earth Station
D. Local Network:
Switching                                                                    - - - - - - - - ____,
Cables
E. Long Distance
Transmission
F. Subscriber
Plant:                                                                    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
Teleprinters                                .
Telephones
G. Civil Works
H. Vehicles                                                                  T
Tools
Legend: 0  Tender        4 Contract  z  Delivery  --  Installation  * End of
Announcement VAward           in Ghana                     Installation
or call for                                                 or Assignment
quotations                                                                                    cakIW3 1258



ACTION PLAN FOR CONSULTANCY SERVICES (LATEST DATES)
CALL FOR        SELECTION OF       COMMENCEMENT      FINAL               IMPLEMENTATION
TASK                      PROPOSALS       CONSUI'%NTS        OF WORK            REPORT                    OF
RECOMMENDATIONS
1. PPF 1
Reorganization             April 1987      October 1987       March 1988         September 1988      June 30, 1990
Corporate plan             April 1987      October 1987       Uarch 19P8         December 88         Start April 1, 1985
TMS                        April 1987      October 1987       March 1988         September 1980      Start November 1, 1988
2. PPF 2
Project management         March 1988      September 1988    November 1988       Monthly reports    throughout the project
(before credit
effectiveness)                                                                                     _t
Financial management       March 1988      September 1988    November 1988       Monthly reports    December 31, 1989                          in
(before credit
effect; veness)
Telecommunications
Advisor                  March 1988      Before             October 1988       Monthly reports    June 30, 1990
Septamber 30, 88
3. Planning engineers        Sept. 30, 1988  February 1989      April 1989         Monthly reports    June 30, 1990
4. Operations and
maintenance                                        a                           Monthly reports    June 30, 1990
S. Supplies management              '                                              Monthly reports    June 30, 1990
6. Manpower development
and training                                      3                           Monthly reports    December 31, 1989
7. Tariff stuly                              October 1988       January 1989       September 19e9      December 31, 1989
8. Restructuring and
asset revaluation              '                  '        January 1989       September 1989     June 30, 1990
W



- 76 -
ANNEX 3-8
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Overall Project Management Organizatlon Cho
cm                 cimra/pa_ t -[Mfw                  -'I 
I    I  I                               S.~~~~~~~~cCMomnoMIS
m doing                    !
ko -                            lA
0~~     ~
LI -     -v?W  --tw     ----E- SF---NctI-i---



7 77 
ANNEX 3-9-
TO CIL Paue           aM CA
/a&l of 7                    191M.0   19M.0  1989.0   1990.0  1991.    19A    19"
1. TOWtelehf S   1  hm:l   Cqpu        SSID   58111  55M1.0  7SWO76a              6300.0 763M.0
2. Total Dire   bd_Linsd(              38M.0  39050.0 62SfiO  45500.0 53500.0 610M.0  663M.
3. bz_m   fill                              6d      1=9      76      uz       7M       an      9
4. To*&l 1mb    of Ym MSc1
&TRiz  tb T                                0.0  1004.0  3450.0  3000.0 00.0 750.0A 55 00
-A=a                           ~~~~ ~~~~~~0.0   8S0.0  3000.0  1900.0  3400.0  3M)0A   23M.0
-921m         .                         o       0.0      OA0      0.0  1700.0  15M0D LO 1O.0
_Te3                                       0. o      .o     0.0      0.0  11W.0 .1X0.0   7W.0
-Cp   ca                                    .0     0.0      0.0      0.0   34D.0   3M0.0   2DO 0
44forida                       ~~~~~~~0.0  0.0   0.0      0.0   38D.0   300.0   2MD O
-Talod                                     0.0     0.0   300A0   500.0   38D.0   300.0   20.
-etoftbm                                0.0   174.0   150.0   S.0A t60.0    M0.0   68D.0
S. Toa   owo  mtuim   imt                 41.0    50      10.0   IODO.0   150.0   165D0   161.0
6. Tta Tex &cmpcsct                      78.0   784.0   784.0   784.0  L784.0  1784A   1760
7jw        a Tol   MI1ier tit_           4t2.0  560.0   630.0   630.0   IDDD 900.0 lCQO O
B. Imber at Nw T               Cuce
Uwm Ye                                    57.0    80.0    70.0      OA      MO200.0 IOD        OA
9.  _mo Ri ul  pr CIL pr yw4A0                     3D0      2A0      1A0     l O      1A      1A
- 2 dn tosic;                             15D0    15.0    15.0    10.0 IOD0 lOA0 lOD
- 2 du to- oaa cbe  I                    70.0    ".A    55D0    50.0    50D0    50.0    50A0
- 2f dk to suscbr   plm                   15A0    15A0    20A    40.0    40.0    40A0    40.0
10. A   S o, b ofM     ott my ti          50.0    35.0    25A0    2D.0    15.0    10.0    10.0
II. P     _ct    of fmis lu el
-ihn24  SAm       l       S       A       15       50A0    60.0    65A0    65A0    65.0
-cihi 4 1                            WAn 0.   50D0    70.0    75.0    OLO    80A        8DA
-i      7 as"                    2D0D    70.0    9D0    9fA         ff.O    ffA      ffA
Waimh 30do                           40A0  t5.0    9ff  O  lOOA 10DA  lOO IO O0.
12.  11nq  call Smltc  ae
iom:  0A2t                      -        -    40.0    40.0    4i5.0    SO O    50.0
~~~~~~~18D0    40D0    40.0    45.0    50Q0    50.0    50.0
N=tic         g1D                    30D0    30.0    40.0    50.0    60.0    60.0    60.0
10160.0    65.0    7.                                          75.     75.0    75.0  S   ,5.0
13. km    Opmt   im it   ti  foer
bto      call ( 2 withi 10 s_md)-
1ewim                                60.0    70.0    90.0    90.0    9D.0    9.0         D.0
inn                                   SL       S0.O    BLO    85.0    90.0    90.0    9D.0
14. Taul  xdw otele     fof             4n8.0  3730A0  3690.0  3550.0  3360.0  3460.0  351D O
-     1 Oxm1r .0    25A0    30.0    40A0    45A0    50.0    60.0
15. Rmw f  tolsom  tff pr 1=N  MtS    106.1    9f.5    86.8    78.0    62.8    5S.7    53.8
16. Usiwn (Stdf kf )                    8540A   W40.0  11211.0 1290DA0 14000.0 159M0D  ISOOA0



i,      X  I [1 if l[ It Xf it*f1
1*1~~~~~E elg IwY"Go%    1S0S1               j 
.~~~~i' .i iiP
'~~~~~~~~~~~c
Lk  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~w3%4



- 79 -
GM                        A~~~~~~~___4-2
M  AM   m              c i aTU (E'T)
Historical Balae Sheets
(Cadi. Mil)
ASSES                                          1982    1985    1984    1965 19863/
Ins  Fimd Aset8                                  71       73       73       95     104
ActIated Depreciation                            48       52       54       53      34
Total Fimd ssets                                 23       21       19       42      S0
lhrk in Pnsa                                     13;     360      604   1,108   2,750
Dfafrd       4 eituel/                           36      390      757   1,4M6    1,900
ttx Laseta:
-Cash ad Bak DepoJits                           24       71       67       as     155
-Ac==s aeivables                               58      L32      234      405     825
-tr  leceuiwbles                                10       33       52      60      Z5
-Iaownto                                        70       66       73      164     379
Total Cut Asets                                 162      302      426      715   1.564
TILASSMS                                        354   1,073   1,8D6   3,971   6,264
Capital                                          52       S2       52       52      52
tatiaud  aroi  md Rmdl4es                        27      111      210     398      660
TOtluity                                         79      163      262      450     713
PSr D_elpt Stod                                  41       47       47      47       47
w-tessDOt (I:I) 2                                74      554      939   2,735   3,856
OGtw LiabiUties:
Acconts Pable                                  153      243      377      48    1,109
-other                                           6       66      181      258      539
Total Owrst Liabilities                         160      310      558      739   1,648
TUL LUBU S                                      354   1.073   1.806   3.971   6.264
patios:
o.rro  Ratio                                    1.0      1.0      0.8      1.0     0.9
DW(Debt4quity) Ratio                             481      m 73         87a          84s
I/ Incluels incra  in low bal    Aid to c        in foreign ewF-.
2/I  Ae-t   debt at a       eur b1     zate. GPT I;   tl  foaeip         risk.
O Umted



- 80 -
QNA                                Ann  4-3
MW13 MAD T      KUNIWE aMATI (GPr)
5         7EWNI*CA77C  PRWBT
Projected      aS2teeat
Telecwamicatios Services
(Cdi Hill)
Tele   Opermting Revem                      1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Telephm
-National                                    610   1,011    1,979   2,803    3,957    5,093
-Int&1ltiLul                                 770   1,186   2,202    3.541    4,350    5,485
--Sb Total                                  1,38)   2,197   4,181    6,344    8,306   10,578
Telex                                         600   1,037   1,762   2,549   3,026    3,751
Teleappb                                       100     110      121      133      146      161
Otlbr                                           13      16       17       19       20      21
Total Operating Remae                        2,093    3,360   6,081    9,045   11,498  14,512
Teleos Operatuig  Eses
Salaries & Wags                               482      534      610     666      708      E04
Msit                                          n128    167      449      843   1,241    1,545
Internationl GAPeYMts                         551      933   1,634   2,489   3,609   3,759
Other Cpexatig                                297      374      432      490      551     607
Mpeciatio                                      36      157      462      9S9   1,562   2,088
Total Operating   -eS                        1,494   2,166   3,587    5,457    7.069   8,8103
Net Operting TIame(oss) Teleam                599   1.19.   2,494   3.587    4,429    5,708
lea: btearst o law                            597      776    1.170   1,542    1,809   1,919
Net Telea 1e (1ass) Before Tzes                 2      418   1,324   2,045   2,620    3,789
Pbstal low"                                    40        0        3       6        9       12
Net   m  (Los) Before Tam                     (38)    418   1,321    2,039   2,611    3.777
Taz(42)                                         0      188      594      918   1,175   1,700
Net Profit (Laos)                             (38)    23        726   1,122    1,436    2,077
-      -       -        --.  .-,. .   



- 81 -
QMM AN                       mATMIR (UT)
Rs m.w ms (
Baane shm
AS                                          1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Qo sa hid aswts                              854   3,336   S,98  16,8S3  24,790  30,898
hocu,lzze Depredation                         90      247     709   1,678   3,240   5,328
Total Find Ast,                              764   3,089   8,269  15,185  21,550  25j570
!~ ~~~~~~Wr inftg                  ,j                          6,1S1   8,854  12,704  13,799   11,194   9,110
-     a   Dqosiat                     121      137     156      417   1,962   3,250
-_auts  Beeibesa                         1,047   1,U0    15        1,50    1,916   2,419
-other oseiables                            314     336      608      91   115    1,451
350     610   1,084   1,533   1,637   1,.
Totl Ozut Asses                            1,51   2,ZIS   3,369   4,398   6,665   8,940
IuIAL hUES                                 8,747  14,156  24,342  33,38   39,409  43,620
csit1  & z1&Dsa                               52      52       52      52       52      52
Retained Rmir                                622      853   1,579   2,701   4.136   6,110
T l quity                                    674     905   1,632   2,753   4,189   6,162
PC g1ysct  Stodka                             47      47       47      47       47      47
Io-    Debt          v                     5,765  10,646  19,413  27,645  31,795  33,388
Oare  Usbilitims:
-          Payable                        1,458   1,607   2,032   1,571   1,652   1,65?
-Mu hable                                     0     188      59      918   1,175   1,700
-OtbwD832                                           763      625     449      551     671
Totl Otm     iabilitis                     2,260   2,559   3,21   2.7   3,378   4,023
I=L  LIAILJI                               8,746  14,156  24,342  33,3l   39,409  43.62D
.J  I_A        imasX in  a blai eds  to de  in fi  e              .



- 82 -
GA  4-5
mm Am Tuanlaawm ammCm (GMr)
sm m wUMrm wm
1FMa Via katoma
(Cedi lwal)
s8wces                                        1987    1968    1969    1990    199          1992
Di1 Cub Ceatiw
-et  1-  Bdore TAteet                         559   1,006    1,896    2,664   3,245   3,996
-0j-ciati                                      36      157      462      969   1,562    2,088
leml Cub Gon aia                               595   1,163    2,358    3,633    4,807    6,085
Geuerm  quity                                    0        0        0        0        0        0
lmvct   BurwLz                               2,251    5,195    9,4W2   8,980    4,742    2,858
W       L 9                                  2,846    6,358   11,860   12,613    9,549    8,941
(hpitea C tu ctlem                           2,251    5,195    9,4W2    8,98D   5,322   4,024
D     Sgvlc Loa  Tom Debt
-    eat                                      597       76    1,170    1,542    1,809    1,919
-Pzinciipl                                    342      314      715      748      591    1,266
sotAl   Dak   im                               939   1,090    1,885    2,'10    2,400   3,185
amp  in lbk     capital                      (310)      57      454   1,0         282      341
Diwidm   TO GIOVW M                                                               104
m       uPLrATMNB                            2,88D   6,342   1,821   12.352   8,004    7,654
u       i s Cub                                (34)      16       19      260    1,545    1,289
opinizu Cub ash  1                             155      121      137      156      417    1.962
Closdi  Cub him                                121      137      156      417    1,962   3,29D



- 83 -
am                                     AM 446
MMAIID    E   MU         m a          (G")
Pkojeat Fimis Plan
--4unL--               ~-lUmL--
(Cemi wa)                       (1   lll)
-1937-9V                    -197-*-
locwl  1t.      Total           lcal  For.ip  Total
MA                                    137   3,797   3,934             0.7    18.3    19.0
CtZErI                                 0   1,055   1,055              0.0     5.7     5.7
ccs-n                                   0   1,090   1,090             0.0     5.5     5.5
acsc-m                                 0   2,236   2 f36              0.0    10.7    10.7
ial1lmd                                 0   3,541   3,51              0.0    18.8    18.8
Telecctm                                0     325     325             0.0     1.7    1.7
Japux(IGYt)                             0   1,745   1,745             0.0     9.2    9.2
japi(Em                                 0   1,32D   1,33D             0.0    7.0      7.0
OEcF                                1,421  14,6W7  16,108             6.7   69.5   76.2
GmnmmL                              I'm1,885  270   2,155             9.9    1.5   11.3
-;Pr                                1,195     550   1,745             5.5    2.5      8.0
Total Ptoject Fizundzb               4,638  30,615  35.254            22.7  150.3   173.0
-                 m                -      -       -_ 



- 84 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS (FY86-90)
Notes and Assumptions
Projections for FY87-92 for consolidated postal and
telecommunications operations are based on the following assumptions. All
figures are in current terms reflecting forecast inflation. In addition:
(a) exchange rate projections are based on the estimates of average
rates of Cedi 190, 205, 210, 216, 219, and 221 to the US Dollar
in 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993 respectively; and
(b) local inflation rates of 20Z in 1988, 1O in 1989, and 8.0 in
1990, 7.OZ in 1991 and 5.OZ thereafter have been assumed.
International inflation is estimated to be 3.02 in 1988 to 1990
and 4.0 1991 onwards.
Income Statement
2.       Tariffs:  Domestic tariffs are assumed to be maintained in real
terms with respect to 1988 prices.
3.       Telephone revenues are calculated by telephone revenue/average
working DEL times the average number of subscribers with working lines.
Traffic/DEL are assumed to increase by lOZ in 1989 to 1991 for domestic
services and by 10% in 1988, 25% in 1989 and 1990 for international
services.
4.       Telex revenues are calculated by the telex revenue/average
connection times the average number of telex working connections. Telex
traffic is assumed to increase by 10% in 1988 and 20% in 1989-1990 for
international telex services.
5.       Other revenues are projected to remain constant from the 1986
levels.
6.       Staff expenses: decreases are expected in the total number ot
existing staff; but number of skilled staff is expected to increase.Unit
staff costs are projected to increase 5% p.a. in real terms due to increase
in number of skilled staff starting 1988.



- 85 -
ANNEX 4-7
Page 2 of 2
7.       Other expenses comprising administration costs are projected to
increase in real terms by 52 p.a.
8.       Depreciation expenses are calculated on a straight line basis at
5% of gross fixed assets in operation each year. For the calculation of
rate of return on revaluated assets, operating income has been adjusted to
reflect depreciation on a revalued basis.
9.       Interest on credits and soft loans (excluding IDA) are at the
concessionary rate charged to the government for the first five years and
at the onlending rate of 1OZ. The loans are for 20 years with a five year
grace. GPT bears the foreign exchange risk.
10.      GPT is subject to a 45Z corporation tax.  Due to losses, GPT has
not been paying taxes.
Balance Sheet
11.      Fixed assets reflect the investment program (Annex 3-1) and
transfers from work in progress.
12.      Subscriber receivables as a percent of total revenues are assumed
to decrease to 162 by end 1990, equivalent to about two months outstanding
which is acceptable.
13.      Accounts payable reduces from 1202 of cash operating costs in 1986
to about 25Z by 1991, equivalent to about three months of cash operating
costs.
14.      Other accruals include salaries payable and fees payable and
others.  It is assumed at about 102 of cash costs by 1991.
15.      Net long-term loans are made up of bilateral loans and
multilateral onlending.
Funds Flow Statement
16.      The change in fixed assets comprises changes in gross plant, work
in progress, materials and equipment and investment.



- 86 -
GM                             hAmi 4-8
PM9 A                     CVU    D  5 (GR)
Priinr          VW=cao
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    19!2
INa/100 lbplatiom                         0.14    0.16    0.2    0.23    0.27    0.32
REOE: (Cotaut 1986 Prices)
Telepbme Rev./Av. IEL                    55,377  62,954  84,448  99,510 101,540 lIW,455
Orient Price                   72,544  98,964 146,028 185,839 202,90  210,772
Telex Rev./kv. Telex                      1,453   1,598   2,008   2,407   2,305   2,258
Ozrt   Price                    1,904   2,513   3,472   4,495   4,605   4,737
aESS: (Caestaut 1986 Prices)
Op.Cot/AvjX                              59,961  62,052  72,462  85,603  86,414  83,600
Ora   Price                    78,550  97,546 125,302 159,866 172,678 175,408
Staff CJt/Av. Staff                      91,084  91,084  95,639 100,42D 105,442 110,714
Rae of RetPu: Revalued Net Fid Asset                8.62    9.62   10.O2   10.22   10.I
Net 100/Capital Cotru iaim                  -2       0        0       32     1lI    611
Debt Sezvice Ratio                         0.6      1.1     1.3     1.6     2.0      1.9
Owret Ratio                                0.8     0.9      1.0     1.5     2.0     2.2
ibcriber Monts Receivable (Oys)            121       90     60       60      60      60



- 87 -
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Telecommunications Tariffs
As of February 1988 1/
Cedis US$
I.   Telephone
A.  Installation
-   Main Line                             8,776               47.96
-   Extension                             1,596                8.72
B.  Annual Rental
-   Manual
(i)    Business                      2,686 - 3,923         5.35 - 22.42
(ii)   Residential                   1,790                 9.78
-   Automatic
(1)    Business                     7,460                 40.77
(ii)   Residential                  3,950                 21.58
C. Call Charges
-   Local (Unlimited)                       10                 0.05
-   Long Distance (STD) (per min) 2/
(1)    0-20 miles                       8                  0.04
(ii)   21-50 miles                     19                  0.10
(iii)  51-100 miles                    35                  0.19
(iv)   over 100 miles                  49                  0.27
D. International Calls (per min) 3/
-   India                                  74                 4.28
-   Britain                                474                 2.59
-   USA                                    831                 4.54
-   Japan                                  931                 5.36
-   Brazil                                 784                 4.28
-   Australia                              784                 4.28
-   Nigeria                                784                 4.28
II. Telex
A. Installation Charge                      30.000                162.16
B. Annual Rental (Seimens)                 120,000                648.65
C. International Calls (per minute)
-   India                                  663                 3.62
-   Britain                                302                 1.65
-   USA                                    517                 2.83
-   Japan                                  663                 3.62
-   Brazil                                 801                 4.38
-   Australia                              497                 2.72
-   Nigeria                                497                 2.72
-   Kenya                                  663                 3.62
III. Telegraph
Inland Ordinary Telegrams
-   First 12 words                              25                  0.14
-   Each additional word                         3                  0.02
1/  International telecommunications tariffs were increased by 702 effective
May 1, 1988.
2/ Peak charges from 6 a.m. - 6 p.m.
3/ International rates are adjusted to reflect changes in the exchange rate
of Cedi to Dollar.



- 88 -
ANNEX 4-10
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Paturn on Investments
1.       The benefit period of the program extends from 1988-2006, when on
average the equipment provided under the program is expected to have
completed its useful life. Without the program, the network is expected to
deteriorate, resulting in falling revenue and increasing costs of
operation. The rate of return calculation assumes that without the
program, the revenue and operating cost will remain at the 1987 levels.
The benefits attributed to the program, due to the increase in traffic on
the new lines connected and higher traffic on existing lines, are assumed
to be the incremental revenue with respect to 1987 level. Similarly, the
operating costs attributed to the program due to the costs of the new lines
less the operating cost savings realized on existing lil;eE ire assumed to
be the incremental operating cost with respect to 1987 levei.  From 1993
on, benefits and operating costs relating to the program ar.. ;esumed to be
constant. No residual values of fixed assets have been takei. into account
as tae present value of these in real terms would be minimal.
2.       A summary of financial and economic costs and benefits are given
below. All benefits and costs have been deflated to comparable 1987
.rices.



Financial and Economic Costs and Benefits Streams
(Cedi Million)
--Financial ROR Streams ------                -    --Economic ROR Streams---------
(Constant 1987 Prices)                           (Constant 1987 Prices)
Program    Operating           Operating  Program  Incremental   Incremental   Net            Program   Operating  Operating   Net
FY     Deflator  Cost        Cost        Taxes  Revenue    Cost       Opertting      Operating      Benefit    Cost        Cost        Revenue     Benefit
(%)                                                         Cost1/ A       Revenue
Taxes
1987     100%      2,251        1,468       0      2,093      2,251          0             a        (2,251)       2,223          0           0      (2,223)
1988     120%      5,195       2,009      188      3,380      4,329        372           707        (3,995)       4,295        167         707      (3,754)
1989     132%      9,482       3,125      694      8,081       7,183     1,360         2,614        (6,029)       7,139        881       2,514      (6,486)
1990     143%      8,980       4,488      918      9,046      6,299      2,334         4,261        (4,382)       6,247      1,629      4,251       (3,625)
1991     163%      6,322        6,507   1,175    11,498        3,487     2,922         5,445          (986)       3,447      2,071       5,445         (73)
1992     160%      3,188       8,715   1,700    14,512        2,512      3,795         6,967           659        2,478      2,671      6,967       1,821
1993     168%                   7,443   2,966    18,660            0     4,730         8,937         4,207            0      2,925       8,937      6,012
1994                           7,4432   2,965                      0     4,730         8,937         4,207            0      2,925       8,937      6,012
1995                                                               0     4,805         8,898         4,093            0      2,927       8,898       6,970
1996                                                               0     4,806         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898       5,970
1997                                                               0     4,806         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898      6,970
1998                                                               0     4,805         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898       6,970
1999                                                               0     4,806         8,098         4,093            0      2,927      8,898       6,970
2000                                                               0     4,806         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898       6,970
2001                                                               0     4,805         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898       5,970
2002                                                               0     4,806         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898      5,970
2003                                                               0     4,806         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898       5,970
2004                                                               0     4,806         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898       6,970
2006                                                               0     4,806         8,098         4,093            0      2,927       8,898       6,970
FRR=       13.2%                         ERR=           20.5%
1/ Incremental costs, assuming costs will remain constant at 1987 levels
without the program.
(D rz
X
0I
o



- 90 -
ANNEX 4-10
Page 3 of 3
3.       The internal financial rate of return for the program is estimated
at 13.2Z. This return underestimates the benefits t3 be derived from the
telecommunications investment program. It does not take into account
consumer surplus and indirect and external benefits received by non-users
of the telecommunications services. Adjusting for taxes only, the minimn4
economic rate of return for the program is estimated at 20.5Z.
4.       A sensitivity analysis was made on the economic rate of return
with the following results:
GPT - Sensitivity Analysis on Rates of Returb
Economic
Component              Change            Rate of Return (2)
- Program cost         +202                     17
-20?                     26
Operating Costs      +202                      18
-20Z                     23
- Benefits             +20Z                      31
-20                      11
- Combination:
All costs           +102                      13
* Benefits             -1OZ
- Combination:
All costs           -10?                      30
Benefits            +10Z



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
GHANA
POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.  Selected Reports on the Sector
Al.  Project Performance Audit Report for Telecom I - Report 6400-GH of
September 1986.
A2.  Preliminary Study on Demand and Traffic Forecasts in the
Telecommunications Network for the Years 1986-2000, prepared by
the Nippon Telecommunications Consulting Co., Ltd., January 1987.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl.  Survey Report for Rehabilitation Project by External Line Plant in
Accra, Ghana, by Marubesni Corporation, May 1985.
B2.  Inception Report on Basic Design Study for Rehabilitation Project
of Telecommunications External Line Plant in the Republic of
Ghana, by Japan International Corporation Agency, October 1986.
B3.  Implementation Program for the Telecommunications Network
Expansion Project in the Republic of Ghana, prepared by GPT,
January 1987.
B4.  Request for Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance, April 30,
i987.
B5.  Final Report of Manpower Rationalization Committee, by GPT,
May 1987.
B6.  Preappraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, January 8, 1987.
B7.  Final Executive Project Summary (FEPS), September 25, 1987.
B8.  Appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, December 22, 1987.
C. Selected Working Papers and Tables
Cl. Historical Financial Statements of GPT 1980-1986.
C2. Working papers for financial statements.
C3. Estimation of projects costs.



IBRD 20626
30 
BURKINA FAE;(                                      _-
aGHANA                       110
Tm  NkroamOk        / |POSTS AND
Lawra Han                              .;<2'<rnmAa   ELECOMMUNICATIONS
7Nrtpol.         \ \/                     aI Wale                       CORPORATION
Rehabilitation of
_,0O           i^.                                    IDior                          Switching  and c                   *
Transmission
Jindobou 0.+=Network
Tem lo    Z\n          i      Planned Existing
J 3rupe    Lrbanga                                           n
K p9YB_Kunkundc A  /    \                         )  _ _ _  _ _- _  M/W  Links
{Bole              g5/                      -\ Yapei    ' Pralbusi                   -    UHF LINKS
90                        Dnmongo/
TOTE                /~J           (                              7n,blta AI~                 Coaxial Cable
X        I                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B.mb,ln       Tail Links
RteAgio Stationdr
Ag                                Au Itornatic Tnapon
COTE   \   Kungua                   ur --                                Au  Exchndes
D  IVOIREz            F\        ><                       c      Kuper,e                                 AuXtomai RExchalnges
,}Bu                                                                                   r>   f   Mnnunl Exchr nges
Pokukru~      JmtanIS        A           ;               rnezof .-__ ; .   |Planned for
- 8   >   t    ()      U   SS .        :   J  A * .          \                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Automantic Ftural
|BeIw>                - - .; . /Prang
J   Wenclb    s..,. S/ , -',.'   At.bubu           .  Kt            )
himankn        n           * ;       '
{   Berekum                 ..-Reglon Bou/idaries
1  !/< C tDrn < <_ s S \~~~~~~~~a'.                                               International
* Soforiu n y n nls/en                              80 ;Bries
Ah nkrorrsn         X   {            . Mnmpong            O    rJo          *oo
/    A   i  Pokuhrum/  Jamasl t  / _             \
.    /           ^  t3wK~~~iaumrr.si    Jr/         -     ; 1  
:  ' .t.'   onego2    xQbaOro'               9     o>NtTOGiO
. .<    \    >      B~'eikwnl   s    
\   ~ ~ ~        m      en~% nkanfriasi        k   w'1oo b 
tj / \Kukruku . ~~Swedrj ~bQIlJ 5-w SATems
iSanrebol  \              AmuabaHdlI       ,Q- <?r - ACCRA              t
OtAubUS                                        Aat
hEIubo~~~~~                0- (       A~WInneba              ~       _ 
\Nauli   wib    / Turkws  ~.,   -  -                            2Ct^
_ .~~~~~~~~\  Du.nb         '"                              I_
AKnynkrawe          CapL  Coast
Axlakornd ekorso.-
0-  nnobe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   -T.WI' .
Capt-, coast~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I.h.tOfu T'TT.
L0 10 20 30 40 S0 MILES                  C       U
0  20 40 80  80 KILOMETERS
20                      0                      0e  o 
_  I _1,,ITO_ _ _T_O_    ,  1 _T_.  1R1                            19 _8r.
MARCH 1988



