Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1946 GH
                (Second Telecommunications Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
          GHANA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                       Dated August 15, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August   15,  1988  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and  GHANA  POSTS AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION (GPT).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent  to thirteen million
eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000), on
the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition  that GPT agree to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and GPT,  the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit  Agreement will be made available
to GPT on the terms  and  conditions  set forth in said Subsidiary
Page  2
Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS GPT, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) GPT  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall  carry out the Project
with due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appro-
priate administrative,  financial,  engineering and telecommunica-
tions practices, and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and GPT shall other-
wise agree, GPT shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for the Project and  to  be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. GPT shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04.  GPT  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, GPT shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) GPT shall,  at  the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange  views  with  the  Association  with  regard to the
progress of the Project, the  performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  GPT shall promptly inform  the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens  to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment  of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by GPT  of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of GPT
     Section 3.01. GPT shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
telecommunications practices  under  the  supervision of qualified
Page  3
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
     Section 3.02. GPT shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property and, from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
telecommunications practices.
     Section 3.03. GPT shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  GPT  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  GPT shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association its unaudited financial
               statements for  each  respective  year  as  soon as
               available, but  in  any  case  not  later than nine
               months after the end  of  FY 1987, six months after
               the end of FY 1988 and four months after the end of
               FY 1989 and the following years;
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not  later than twelve months after
               the end of FY  1987,  nine  months after the end of
               FY 1988 and seven months  after  the end of FY 1989
               and the following years:
               (A)   certified copies of  its financial statements
                     for such year as so audited; and
               (B)   the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                     such  scope  and   in   such  detail  as  the
                     Association shall  have reasonably requested;
                     and
         (iv)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, GPT shall produce, for  each  of its fiscal years after its
fiscal year  ending  on  December  31,  1990,  funds from internal
sources equivalent to  not  less  than  the  amount of local funds
required for GPT's approved annual investment program in that year
and the following  year  or  40%  of  the  annual average of GPT's
capital expenditures incurred,  or  expected  to  be incurred, for
that  year  and  the  next  following  fiscal  year,  whichever is
greater.
     (b)  Before September 30  in  each  of  its fiscal years, GPT
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by GPT and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a)  in  respect  of such year and the next
Page  4
following fiscal year and shall  furnish to the Association a copy
of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  GPT  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for GPT's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  GPT  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure or levels of its  rates)  in order to meet such require-
ments.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations, consumer  deposits and consumer
                    contributions in aid of construction, net non-
                    operating income and  any reduction in working
                    capital other than cash; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    and  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes
                    (excluding  provision   for  depreciation  and
                    other   non-cash   operating   charges),  debt
                    service requirements,  all  cash dividends and
                    other cash distributions  of surplus, increase
                    in working capital  other  than cash and other
                    cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               fiscal year.
         (iv)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve months, including  accounts receivable, mar-
               ketable   securities,   inventories   and   prepaid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
          (v)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
         (vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
        (vii)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures  incurred   on   account   of  fixed  assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations.
Page  5
       (viii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section  4.03.  Until  the  completion  of  the  Project, GPT
shall not undertake any investments exceeding in the aggregate the
equivalent of $1,000,000 per  year,  not  included in the Project,
without prior consultation with the Association.
     Section 4.04. GPT shall, not later than October 1, 1988, open
a project account for the purpose of the deposit of the Borrower's
contributions to GPT's investment program pursuant to Section 3.02
of the Development Credit Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of GPT  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify GPT of
this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
Page  6
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For GPT:
          Ghana Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
          Headquarters
          Accra-North
          Accra
          Ghana
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                GENTEL                        3010 ENGHQ GH
                Accra
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  GPT  may  be  taken  or  executed by the
Director General or such other  person  or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing,  and  GPT shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    GHANA POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  7
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Training equipment, test equipment  and tools may be procured
under  contracts  awarded  through  limited  international bidding
procedures on  the  basis  of  evaluation  and  comparison of bids
invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines  and  in  accordance  with the procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   Proprietary spare parts  and  rehabilitation equipment may be
purchased from the original manufacturer or authorized supplier on
the basis of negotiated  contracts  on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association;  provided, however, that the aggregate
cost  of  such  contracts  does   not  exceed  the  equivalent  of
$1,400,000.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (iii) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist GPT in carrying out Part B of the Project,
GPT shall employ consultants  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
Page  8
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
1.   In order to facilitate  the  overall execution of the Project
activities, GPT  shall  establish,  not  later  than September 30,
1988,  functional  units   within   its  corporate  organizational
structure for network  planning,  physical Project implementation,
network  maintenance,   traffic   operations,  finance,  supplies,
management  information   systems,   and   manpower  planning  and
development. The  heads  of  said  functional  units  shall submit
regular  progress   reports   to   a   Project   Director  on  the
implementation of those parts of the Project activities which fall
within their respective areas of responsibility.
2.   Within six weeks of the end of each quarter, GPT shall submit
to  the  Association  quarterly  reports  measuring  the  progress
achieved in carrying  out  the  Project  against  the physical and
implementation indicators referred  to  in  paragraph  3 below and
against the  financial  indicators  as  contained  in GPT's annual
financial statements.
3.   GPT shall prepare and  submit  to  the Association, not later
than November 30  of  each  year,  a  list  of performance targets
acceptable to the Association for  the following year and detailed
action plans designed to achieve them; progress in the implementa-
tion of the  Project  to  be  documented  in the quarterly reports
referred to in paragraph 2  above  shall be measured against these
targets.
4.   GPT shall, not later than September 30, 1988:
     (a) issue letters of invitation for proposals for consultants
to assist GPT  in  network  planning,  operations and maintenance,
materials management, tariff and resource transfer policy, manage-
ment information systems and manpower development planning; and
     (b) identify GPT personnel to  work as counterpart staff with
the envisaged consultants.
5.   With  respect  to  the  studies,  plans  and  programs  to be
prepared by GPT with the assistance of consultants, GPT shall:
     (a)  (i)  not later than  December  31,  1988,  submit to the
               Association for  its  review  the  findings  of the
               reorganization study; and
         (ii)  implement not later than  June 30, 1990, the recom-
               mendations of the study  acceptable to the Associa-
               tion;
     (b)  (i)  not later  than  October  31,  1989,  submit to the
               Association for its review the recommendations on a
               manpower  development   plan,   including  training
               programs and an incentive scheme; and
         (ii)  not later  than  December  31,  1989,  commence the
               implementation of the recommendations acceptable to
               the Association;
     (c)  (i)  not  later  than  June  30,  1989,  submit  to  the
               Association for its  review  the  proposals for the
               introduction of an accrual accounting system; and
         (ii)  implement not later than December 31, 1989, such an
               accounting system acceptable to the Association;
     (d)  (i)  not later  than  October  31,  1989,  submit to the
               Association for  its  review  the  findings  of the
               study on supply management; and
         (ii)  implement not later than  June 30, 1990, the recom-
Page  9
               mendations of said study acceptable to the Associa-
               tion;
     (e)  (i)  not later than  September  30,  1989, submit to the
               Association for its  review  the recommendations of
               the study on tariffs  and resource transfer policy;
               and
         (ii)  implement not  later  than  December  31, 1989, the
               recommendations  of  the  study  acceptable  to the
               Association;
     (f)  not  later  than  October   31,   1989,  submit  to  the
Association an action plan  acceptable  to the Association for the
implementation of its financial restructuring plan; and
     (g)  not  later  than  September  30,  1988,  submit  to  the
Association an action plan  acceptable  to the Association for the
reduction of outstanding subscriber receivables to three months of
revenue equivalent in 1988 and to two months of revenue equivalent
in the years thereafter.
