Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIL USE ONLY
Report No. 8469
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2061-BR)
MARCH 19, 1990
Population & Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docmnt has a restricted distributioo and may b used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dilosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRvNCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Appraisal Yeart
Currency Unit - Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00 - Cr$68.1 (January 1981)*
CrSl.0O - US$0.0147
Average Exchange Rates:
Ma_ 1980       January 1981         October 1981
US$1.00 - Cr$              50.8             68.1                112.50
* The January 1981 rate was used throughout the SAR and price
contingencies were computed accordingly.
Completion Year:
Currency Unit - Novo Cruzado
US$1.00 8 CZN$2.06 (July 1989)
NCZ$l.00   US$0.485
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System



THE WORLD BANK
Washington D.C 20433
US.A.
Opsetu' Evlat
March 19, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil - Northwest R(egion
Integrated Development Program - First Phase
Health Project (Loan 2061-BR)
Proiect C _ letion Revort
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Northwest Region Integrated Development
Program - First Phase - Health Project (Loan 2061-BR)T, prepared by the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thbdocument has a restrited distribution and may be used by tripients only in the peformance
oftheirofficia duties. Its contents may not otherwie be discsed wth  Woud Bank authoriztion.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSAR" OF ACRONYMS
CNPq               -Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e
Technologico
(National Council for Research Technology and
Development)
CODARON            -Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia
(Rondonia Agriculture Development Company)
TNAMPS             -Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica e
Previdencia Social
(Nationel Institute for Social Security and Medical
Assistance)
MOH                -Ministerio de Saude
(Ministry of Health)
NUAR               -Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural
(Rural Service Centers)
PAHO               -Pan American Health Organization
PLANAPLORO         -Piano Agropecuario e Florestal de Rondonia
(Rondonia State Agricultural and Forestry Plan)
POLONOROESTE       -Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste
do Brazil
(Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
SEPLAN-RO          -Secretaria de Planejamento de Rondonia
(Rondonia Planning Secretariat)
SES-RO             -Secretaria de Estado de Saude de Rondonia
(State Secretariat of Health, Rondonia)
STN                -Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
(National Treasury Secretariat)
SUCAM              -Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica
(Superintendence for Public Health Campaigns)
SUDECO             -Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the
Center-West Region)
SUDS               -Sistema Unificado e Descentralizado de Saude
(System of Unified and Decentralized Health Care
This document has a restricted datribution and may be used by tecipients only in the performane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authodzaoion.



DEFINITIONS
Rate of Population                                         4
Growths              Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
migration, and expressed as a percentage of
the total population of a given year.
Incidence Rates         The number of persons contracting a disease
as a proportion of the population at risk, per
unit of tibe usually expressed per 1,000
persons per year.
Prevalence Rates        The number of persons having a particular
disease at a given point in time per
population at risk. Usually expressed per
1,000 persons per year.
Annual Parasite
incidence:           Number of positive blood slides collected
over a one-year period per 1,000 population.
Slide Positivity
Rates                Number of positive blood slides per 100 slides
collected.
Active Case
Detections               Surveillance activities In which the malaria
services actively search for new malaria cases
through the collection of blood slides and
epidemiological investigations.
Passive Case
Detectiont              Detection of cases from among patients seeking
treatment at health facilities.
Malaria:                A vector-borne disease transmitted by an
infective anopheline mosquito. It may pre-
sent a varied clinical picture including
fever, chills, sweats and headache.
Falciparum
Malarias                A severe type of malaria caused by Plasmodium
falciparum, a species of malaria parasite.



BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2061)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
Preface .      ...................................................... 1 i
Evaluation Suimmary                ....... . {
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....................    I
Project Identity ........................................... ...     1
Project Background       .........                     ...........    I
Project Objectives and Description ............................      2
Policy Design and Organization .............................. .      3
Project Implementation ...........          .................    4
Project Results ... .........  6
Project Risks            .      ......................................... ........    7
Project Sustainability ................................. .......    8
Bank Performance        .............................................    8
Borrowers Performance ................................ ..........   8
Project Relationships                ..  * ........    9
Consulting Services ...........................................    9
Project Documentation and Data ............................... .     9
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................   10
Comments on Part I ................... -. . . ...                   10
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned ..........   10
Evaluation of Project Evolution and Implementation .............    11
III.     STATISTICAL INFORMATION        ..3.................  i
Related Bank Loans ................ . .                    ...    13
Project Timetable                     ......  14
Loan Disbursements .......  15
Project Implementation .......  16
Project Costs                       . ..... 17
Project Financing ...... . . . .. .   18
Project Results                  ............ 20
Status of Loan Covenants   -. .                 .......             24
Mission Data             ...................                    .   26
ANNEX......... .... o... . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .         27



BRAZIL
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2061-BR)
PREFACE
This Is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Health Project
of the Northwest Region Integrated Development Program in Brasil, for which
Loan 2061-BR in the amount of US$13 million was approved on
December 1, 1981. The loan was closed on June 30, 1988 after a one-year
extension. Final disbursement of loan proceeds took place on February 28,
1989 and the outstanding balance of US$1.0 million was cancelled.
The PCR wass jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Operations Division of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Simmary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR began during the Bank's project completion mission
in June 17-29, 1989, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
documents. This PCR was reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED).



- ii -
BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETIO1 REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. - FIRST PH&SE
HEALTH PF.OJECT
(LOAN 2061-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Proiect Obiectives and Design
1.       The Health Project of the Northwest Region Integrated
Development Program in Brazil sought to improve the health status of
Rondonia's rapidly increasing population throught (a) intensive malaria
control activities; (b) extending the network of basic health care
facilities, including training and supervision of health personnel; and
(c) promoting operational research, particularly in malaria control.
2.       Project concept and design were clear and took into account
previous Bank experience with health components in Brazil. Project scope
was appropriate. The malaria control program, which was designed
according to SUCAM's traditional strategy of house spraying, case
detection and treatment, proved to be a narrow approach because of the
enormous size and complexity of the mnalaria problem in the region. The
health service development cqmponent was well designed except for the
fact that provision for maintenance of facilities and equipment was not
included. Training and supervision activities, which were clearly
spelled out in the project design, were hindered by the weak
institutional capability of the State of Rondonia and the State Health
Secretariat (SES-RO), a factor which was identified as a risk during
project preparation. The research component was simple, flexible, and
had clear management and execution arrangements. The roles and
responsibilities of the three agencies in charge of project
implementation were clearly defined and understood at the time of project
appraisal and in the loan agreement. However, mechanisms to promote
inter-agency coordination were lacking.
Proiect Imylementation
3.       For the most part, project implementgtion was satisfactory.  The
malaria control program was carried out as planned, but SUCAM lacked
flexibility to change the program strategy when needed. In the final two
years of the project, SUCAM introduced recommended changes which led to
substantial reduction of malaria in Rondonia. During the mid-term
evaluation review, design improvements were introduced in health posts
type II by including space for 3-5 beds, permitting treatment of simple
cases which otherwise would have been treated in larger hospitals at far
greater cost and inconvenience for the patient.



- iii -
4.       However, there were several implementation problems.  First, the
lack of provision for facilities and equipment maintenance has already
led to some deterioration (and additional loss of investment will occur
unless the problem is addressed). Second, training and supervision
turned out to be the Achilles, heel of the project. A lack of training
institutions willing to do field training, unforeseen resistance towvrds
foreign and even national consultants, and lack of skills to manage
technical assistance were obstacles to completion of training and
supervision activities. Finally, project implementation was hampered by
limited managerial capacity and by administrative discontinuity (10
Secretaries of Health during 6 years of project implementation). Low
salaries for health workers also contributed to high turnover rates and
vacancies at service level.
5.       The scheduled five-year implementation period was extended by
one year to: (a) support the broadening of the malaria control strategy,
mainly through the financing of urban sanitation works and the
strengthening of the basic health service network for malaria diagnosis,
treatment, and epidemiological surveillance: and (b) assist the SES-RO in
improving training and supervision activities. Despite this extension,
training and supervision activities were not completed. International
and local procurement proceeded accorciing to Bank guidelines. The Bank's
share in disbursements was increased from 34Z to 55Z and 65? in the
second and fourth year respectively of project implementation. This
avoided a standstill in project execution and ensured the timely
construction and equipment of health facilities. The modification of the
disbursement ratios was carried out under the Special Action Program (an
accelerated disbursement policy adopted for Brazil). The increase in
project disbursement during the last three years of the project was
possible due to reduced expenditures in construction and equipment of
health facilities. The mid-term evaluation review provided a useful
channel to ventilate issues of administrative controls, accounting, and
general implementation. Project performance improved after the mid-term
evaluation review.
Results and Sustainability
6.       The project achieved the objective of improving access to basic
health services for about one half of the unserved population in Rondonia.
In the period, there were reductions in infant and maternal deaths, as well
as a lower incidence of bnmunopreventable diseases.
7.       To sustain and further Improve project benefits, SES-RO needs to
focus on institutional strengthening and manpower management. as well as to
ensure the financing of operational expenditure through the ongoing
INAMPS-SES-RO agreement.



- ii- -
Lessons learned
8.       Health projects in remote regions such as Rondonia are likely to
face difficulties with staffing, management, supervision, and the use of
technical assistance. Training alone will not solve these problems,
especially if they are compounded by changes in political and
administrati'e leadership during project life. Future projects should
build in incentives to attract and maintain qualified personnel to
hardship areas and create mechanisms for project support from local
training and other institutions.
9.       Flexibility in project design is critical for dealing with
changing conditions. The application at the end of the project of
uraltiple interventions aimed at different facets of the malaria problem,
including sanitation works, ultra low spraying, and the use of
ecologically suited larvivorous fish to improve vector control, proved to
be a more effective strategy than the original approach based on
t.aditional interventions.
10.      Increased Bank cost-sharing and flexibility in the allocation of
loan proceeds can help ensure continuity in project implementation, since
shortages of counterpart funds can occur. Maintenance costs should be
included in Bank financing for projects with facilities conetruction,
along with measures to encourage continuation of maintenance beyond the
project period. Frequent Bank supervision and greater flexibility in
supervisio4 programming during the first two years of project
implementeion made a substantive difference in project performance
because problems were resolved in a timely fashion.
II.     Finally, the Bank should stress throughout supervision the need
for administrative continuity at the project level, as well as including
a covenant in loan agreements that the qualifications and experience of
new project managers will have to be acceptable to the Bank.



BRAZIL
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2061BR)
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.       Proiect Identity
-Project Name: Northwest Region Integrated Development Program.
Health Project
-Loan No.:      2061-BR
-RVP Unit'      Latin America and Caribbean Region,
Country Department I
-Countryt       Brazil
-Sector:        Health
2.       Proiect Background
Sector Develo2ment Obiectives
2.01     The orderly development and settlement of the Northwest Region,
covering the State of Rondonia and part of the State of Hato Gr-8sso, has
been one of the high priorities of the federal government over the last
decade. Since the 1M7Os, Rondonia's population has grown at the
extraordinarily high rate of 13.6Z per year due to heavy migration (see
Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2).
2.02     POLONOROESTE, established in 1980 and administered by SUDECO, Es
an integrated program aim,d at increasing productivity, income, and
social welfare in the Northwest. Its major components are road
construction and improvement, consolidation of existing settlement
projects and the support of new ones, improvement of physical and social
infrastructure and services, and measures to protect the natural
environment and the interests of the indigenous population (see Part III,
Table 1).



-2
Policy Context
2.03     The tondonia government adopted a basic health t rvices policy
based on the regionalization and decentralization of health services,
assigning responsibility for health centers and health posts to
municipalities and placing overall monitoring, supervision, and technical
assistance under state authority (Decree 1178 of 1980). Due to the high
incidence and prevalence of malaria, poor health conditions and the
serious lack of access to health care in rural areas, the health sector
established the following prioritiess (a) protection from malaria to the
majority of the population; and (b) expansion of the incipient network of
basic health services in the fastest-growing rural areas.
Linkages Between Project, Sector, and Macro Policy Objectives
2.04     The project helped consolidate existing settlement projects by
mtaking basic health care available to previously iso'ated settlers and to
clustered groups through health services attached to support facilities
(NUAR's) located in rural areas off the Cuiaba-Porto Velho road.  SUCAM's
efforts helped to confront the malaria threat to which the majority of
migrants have no resistance. These efforts helped to reduce the social
costs of ill health and disability, and economic losses due to lowered
productivity.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.01     The health project sought to improte the health status of the
rapidly increasing population ^trough: (a) intensive malaria control
activities in the State of Rondonia; (b) expansion of primary and
secondary health care facilities in the municipalities of Ariquemes, Ji-
Parana, and Cacoal; and (c) support of operational research activities,
especially for malaria. The project also financed the training of
personnel for delivering basic health care and the establishment of
supervision teams in each of the three health municipal secretariats.
Project Components
3.02     The project components were four: (a) the malaria control
program: provision of equipment, vehicles, consultant services, DDT and
drugs, incremental salaries, and operating costs to expand SUC4M's
malaria control operations in Rondonia; (b) the health services
development components construction, furnishing, equipping, and staffing
of 50 health posts and 39 health centers in the municipalities of
Ariquemes, Cacoal and Ji-Parana, and one referral health center in each
of the municipalities of Jaru, Ouro Preto and Presidente Medici; (c)
training of 100 rural health workers for the 50 health posts, and 200
health auxiliaries for the 39 health centers; technical assistance for
upgrading the administration, supervision and monitoring of health
services; and technical assistance for project monitoring; and (d) an



-3-
operational research program on malaria and other health problems in the
POLONOROESTE area.
4.       Proiect Design and Organization
4.01     The project concept and design were clear.  Based on the
experience of Bank-financed health components in Brazil, the project
design was simple and in line with the limited absorptive capacity of
SES-RO. The project scope was appropriate. The executing agencies (SES-
RO, SUCAM, and CNPq) in charge of project implementation understood
their roles in implementing the project components. 2/ The project
helped to ensure that priority was given to satisfy the basic health
needs of a large and rapidly increasing population, by controlling
malaria, and by providing the infrastructure for expanding basic health
services. This Driority remains essent5al to the planned development of
the Northwest.  Purthermore, project objectives were in accordance with
health sector priorities in Rondonia.
4.02     The malaria control program was designed according to SUCAM's
traditional strategy consisting of house spraying, case detection, and
treatment. This design and the limited financing of US$6.5 million fcr a
five-year program, proved to be a narrow approach because of the enormous
size and complexity of the malaria problem in the region. The
extraordinarily high rate of population growth due to in-migration, the
distribution of population in areas not covered by the health services
infrastructure, as well as a series of complex ecological factors, made
malaria an almost intractable problem in Rondonia during project
implementation.
4.03     The health service development component was well designed
taking into account the importance of the NUARS as development poles and
the traditional regionalization and referral patterns of health services
in Brazil. The bulk of project resources were devoted to building and
equipping a network of basic health care facilities. During project
implementation, design improvements were introduced in health posts type
1I by including space for 3-5 beds, permitting treatment of simple cases
which otherwise would have been treated in larger hospitals at far
greater cost and inconvenience for the patient. Maintenance of
facilities and equipment was not included in the project, and was
inadequate.
4.04     Training, supervision, monitoring, and evaluation activities
were clearly spelled out. Criteria for recruitment and selection were
established; training courses and curriculw. contents were found to be
satisfactory. A set of monitoring indicators for malaria control
activities and health service delivery were clearly agreed during project
preparation. Organization, staffing and financing of supervision teams
were included in this component as well as technical assistance. The
2/SUDECO and SEPLAN-RO had the role of general coordinating agencies for
the Northwest Region Integrated Development Program.



- 4 -
weaknesses in the institutional capacity of the State of Rondonia and
SES-RO hindered the implementation of these important *software" elements
of the project.
4.05     The research component was simple, flexible and with clear
management and execution arrangements.
4.06     The roles and responsibilities of the three agencies in charge
of project imple  _.ation were clearly defined and understood at the time
of project appraisal and in the loan agreement. However, mechanisms to
promote inter-agency coordination were lacking. The appraisal report was
clear and concise and highly useful for project supervision.
5.       Proiect Imilementation
Loan Effectiveness and Implementation Schedule
5.01     The Loa- 2061-BR, was approved and signed the same month and
became effective three months later. Project implementation was
scheduled for a five-year period. Despite a one year extension, some
esoftwarew elements (training, supervision) were not completed due to
extremely scarce qualified manpower in Rondonia and the SES-RO and poor
use of technical assistance. The project was closed on June 30, 1988.
Final disbursement took place on September 30, 1988. When the Loan
Account was closed on February 28, 1989, disbursements against the loan
were $1.0 million less than the es lmated disbursements at appraisal,
mainly due to unspent funds for training, supervision and technical
assistance. The final cost of the project was US$20.3 million, of which
591 was financed by the Bank.
Procurement. Disbursements and Audit
5.02     In general, international and local procurement proceeded
satisfactorily and in accordance with Bank guidelines. SES-RO was not
involved in procurement due to its weak management, but received
efficient support from CODARON and POLONOROESTE for acquisition of
project inputs. The Bank disbursements of 34Z for local expenditures
were raised first to 55Z in 1983 and then to 652 in 1986 under the
Special Action Program for Brazil (SAP). The increase in the
disbursement ratio during the last three years of the project was
possible due to reduced expenditures in construction and equipment of 10
health centers as a consequence of the elimination of 10 NUARS in the
whole Northwest Development Program. The SAP avoided a standstill in
implementation and ensured the timely construction and equipping of
project health facilities. A lesson is that increased share of Bank
financing and flexibility in the allocation of loan proceeds avoid
interruption of project implementation due to limited counterpart funds.
The original and revised allocations and actual disbursements for Loan
2061-BR are shown in Part III, Table 3. By the closing of the project,
disbursements had attained 921 of the appraisal estimates. Although
clean opinions were issued together with the audit statements by the STN,
on two occasions serious concerns were raised regarding the quality of



-5-
the financial management, accounting systems and administrative controls
of the different executing agencies. The mid-term evaluation review was
the appropriate channel to ventilate this issue. Project performance
improved substantially after the mid-term review.
Component Implementation
5.03     For the most part, project implementation was satisfactory
except for the training and supervision activities (see Part 111, Table
4). The malaria control program was carried out as planned, but lacked
flexibility to change the strategy when needed. For instance, the Bank
supervision missions repeatedly recommended the introduction of
sanitation works, ultra low volume spraying, and use of ecologically
suite4 larvivorous fish to improve vector control, but SLTCAM did so only
at the end of the project, with very positive effects (see project
results). The construction and equipping of the health facilities
network was carried out in a timely way and surpassed the project
targets. Its operation was initiated as planned, although with serious
gaps in the training and supervision of the auxiliary health workers.
Applied research studies in health services and malaria control were
carried out within the project time frame. Implementation of the
technical assistance sub-component was poor and very incomplete.
Unforeseen resistance to foreign and even national consultants, and lack
of skills to hire and manage consultants work were the main causes of
this shortcoming.
5.04      Revisions of the number and type cf project health facilities
were made as a resnult of the mid-term evaluation review: (a) the
reduction of 10 N?r:;Rs in the POLONOROESTE program automatically decreased
by 10 the 39 proposed health centers (health posts type II); (b) the
upgrading to a referral health center (a 50-bed facility) of the health
center originally planned for Nova Brasilandia due to the extraordinary
population growth in that region, brought to a total of 4 the referral
centers constructed; (c) the increase to 80 health posts Type I from 50
originally scheduled, and the upgrading to health centers of 18 health
posts I were agreed to cover health needs of newly settled families.
Design improvements were introduced in health centers by including space
for 3-5 beds and simple treatment of cases which otherwise would have
been treated in larger hospitals at far greater cost and inconvenience to
the patient. Two shortcomings in the implementation of health facilities
were (a) the overlooked need for facilities and equipment maintenance
and, (b) the acquisition of electric refrigerators for some few health
centers without electricity, a problem that was corrected later. Some of
the additional costs of construction could have been avoided if soil
tests would have been required at the very beginning of the project.
5.05     Despite adequate financing, training and supervision were the
Achilles' heel of project implementation. A set of issues explains the
incomplete implementation of these activities: (a) Training institutions
with enough experience in field health manpower training are extremely
scarce in Brazil. (b) Well designed curricula and training courses in
basic health services, and trainers willing to do field training are



-6-
issues barely touched in Brazil. (c) Resistance towards consultants,
even towards consultants from states other than the one in need, was
felt. (d) There was a lack of local skills to manage consultants
(drafting terms of reference, recruitment, selection, contracting and
monitoring of consultants' work). Two lessons are: (a) the Bank should
assign more importance to the role of training institutions in the
exreansion of basic health services in Brazil; and (b) the management of
'software' elements of health projects requires strong governmental
commitment and should be ensured during project preparation and through a
covenant in the loan agreement.
6.       ProJect Results
6.01     The project achieved the objective of improving access to basic
health services for about one half of the unserved population in Rondonia
(see Part III, Table 8). It also contributed to ensuring greater
productivity, income, and social welfare of the population by reducing
infant and maternal deaths, immunopreve -table diseases, and malaria
Incidence. The project helped SES-RO to pioneer the municipalization of
health services in Brazil. Unfortunately, a recent decision by the SES-
RD to de-municipalize has led to the reversal of the decentralization
process that was initiated in 1982, and later extended to the rest of the
country with the establishment of the SUDS. A major success was the
deployment and operation of a network of health facilities in the project
area. The innovation of having some beds (3-5) to care for patients with
acute conditions (dehydration, acute respiratory infections, normal
delivery, malaria, etc.) for 1 to 3 days in the health center, and then
deciding to send the patients back home or refer them to a hospital, has
been an extremely valuable experience. This innovation has been very
well received by the community and the health workers, but less so by
some doctors. The major shortcoming was the incomplete training and
supervision of health workers. Despite this, some of the health posts
type II visited during the project completion mission were crowded with
ambulatory users and mothers that had delivered their babies, inpatients
treated for severe malaria and children with dehydration. An imnortant
lesson is that the design of rural basic health facilities should always
be suitably equipped with some beds to enhance their capacity to solve
common health problems on site.
6.02     SUCAM substantially expanded its spraying and malaria
surveillance activities in Rondonia. Nevertheless, malaria has become an
intractable problem. The total number of malaria cases reported for the
entire state jumped from 80,000 at the outset of the project to 278,000
in 1988 due to unforeseen factors: (a) the unexpected and dramatic
population increase of Rondonia over the last six years, from close to
620,000 in 1982 to about 1.6 million in 1988; (b) fast expansion of human
settlements around vast, difficult-to-control forest and agricultural
areas; (c) fast-growing numbers of iarn, cos (mining camps) in malarial
areas which contributed to the spreading of the disease; (d) increasing
resistance of falciparum malaria to routine treatment; (e) enhanced
reservoir of malaria resulting from the high mobility of infected persons
and parasite resistance to treatments and (f) managerial and operational



- 7 -
problems in malaria control activities. The malaria situation in
Rondonia would have been worse without the project activities. An
unfortunate event provides some insight into such a scenario. In 1983,
DDT use was interrupted for six months due to difficulties in transport.
As a result, the second spraying cycle in that year was largely not
undertaken contributing to the 70Z increase in the annual parasite
incidence from about 100 per 1,000 in 1983 to 170 per 1,000 by the middle
of 1984. With the resumption of spraying operations at the beginning of
the rainy season in 1984, the parasite incidence was reduced to 150 in
1984. These and other facts have led to the development of a new concept
of 'frontier malaria' which is not only a disease but a social condition
associated with the expansion of Brazil's frontier. Over the last two
years of the project, SUCAM has treated high-risk malaria areas with
multiple, complementary interventions. The alarmingly high rates of
malaria which remained until 1988 started to decline thereafter (See Part
III, Table 8-D). The main lessons from this experience, which are being
applied in the recently approved malaria control project in the Amazon
Basin (Loan No.3072-BR) aret (i) greater flexibility in field operations
to respond to local epidemiological and entomological conditions; (ii)
utilization of the basic health services network for diagnosis and
treatment of malaria cases; and (iii) use of multiple interventions
(e.g., urban sanitation works, biological control with larvivorous fish,
improvement of rural settlements, and information, education and
communication activities).
6.03     The lack of adequately trained personnel and supervision in
health facilities constructed under the project is a significant problem
affecting the quality of health service delivery. This problem has been
severely aggravated by low salaries for health workers, which have
contributed to the increase in turnover rates and vacancies. SES-RO
activities were hampered by its very limited managerial capacity and by
administrative discontinuity (10 Secretaties of Health during 6 years of
project implementation). Poor maintenance is a problem in most of the
project facilities. A lesson for the Bank is that financing of facility
and equipment maintenance should systematically be included in all Bank
financed projects with facilities construction.
6.04     Host of the research projects financed out of the loan have been
completed (see Part III, Table 9). Study findings have had practical
applications in the control of malaria. The research component of the
project represents a good example of how a project financed by the Bank
may contribute to the production, dissemination, and application of
scientific knowledge. The findings of the different studies were
published in a special issue of a scientific journal (Revista do
Instituto de Medicina Tropical de Sao Paulo, Vol.30. No.3. June 1988).
7.       Proiect Risks
7.01     Of the potential risks identified by the appraisal mission, one
--weak SES-RO management-- became the key factor associated with the
negative outcome of incomplete training and supervision, as well as lack
of maintenance of project health facilities.



8.       Project Sustainability
8.01     The scarcity of health professionals (nurses and doctors), the
very limited training and supervision of auxiliaries, and the lack of
maintenance of facilities and equipment pose a serious risk of a
substantial waste of the investment made with Bank support through the
Rondonia Health Project. To sustain and further improve project
benefits, SES-RO needs to focus on institutional strengthening and
manpower management, including the training of field workers together
with a supervision program and improvements in salary levels. There is
also an urgent need to establish a maintenance program for buildings,
equipment and medical supplies, and to ensure the financing of
operational expenditures through the ongoing INAMPS-SES-RO agreement.
The Bank is considering the financing of these activities through a
health component of the Rondonia Natural Resource Management Project,
under preparation.
9.       Bank Performance
9.01     The Bank's assistance was key to the timely project preparation
and loan processing. Also, the use of past experience with Brazil health
components greatly contributed to keeping the project concept and design
simple. The quarterly and then semestral frequency of Bank supervision
ensured a prompt and efficient initiation of the project. Important Bank
recommendations leading to improvements in project performance were made
during the first half of project implementation. The Bank's Special
Action Program helped to ensure continuity of project operations and high
disbursement rates. Unfortunately, supervision did not enjoy continuity
of staff members fully knowledgeable about the project, and there was a
gap of 12 months between supervision missions in the second half, when
some technical problems became critical (see Part III, Table 11).
Frequent supervision during the firn two years of project implementation
made a difference in project performance because problems were resolved
in a timely fashion.
10.      Borrower Performaunce
10.01    Overall, the performance of the different executing agencies was
satisfactory. SEPLAN-RO adequately supported project implementation.
SUDECO's monitoring of the project ensured the compliance by the
executing agencies of the commitments and agreements reached with the
Bank's supervision miseions. A better use of administrative and
financial controls by SUDECO would have helped to avoid some accounting
difficulties spelled out in the audit reports. POLONOROESTE and CODARON
provided efficient support to SES-RO for project procurement activities.
In spite of its highly centralized structure which hindered flexibility
in field operations, SUCAM's implementation record was acceptable. CNPq,
with Bank encouragement, overcame administrative difficulties during the
initiation of the research component and was successful in disseminating
the results of the research findings. The SES-RO project manager who
participated in project preparation and remained for 4 years during



implementation was a fundamental factor for the reasonably good
performance of this project. A major Borrower's shortcoming has been the
high rotation of Secretaries of Health which reduced SES-RO's policy-
making and administrative capacity, leading to low morale and desertion
of key staff. The main lesson is that the Bank should stress throughout
supervision the need for administrative continuity at the project level,
as well as including a covenant in loan agreements that the
qualifications and experience of new project managers will have to be
acceptable to the Bank.
11.      Prolect Relat3inships
11.1     The Bank relationship with Government and the executing agencies
was good throughout the project cycle. The aide memoire was effectively
used for agreements on actions to be taken and follow-up of actions taken
by the different parties. The presence of officials from different
executing agencies during all Bank supervision missions greatly improved
interagency relationships and cooperation.
12.      Consulting Services
12.1     Consultants were used sporadically and their overall performance
was uneven. SUCAM contracted consultants for new approaches in fighting
malaria (e.g., use of larvivorous fish), but only a few of their
reconmendations were implemented. SES-RO established a computerized
information system with the advice and help of consultants. This helped
to strengthen SES-RO's managerial and operational capacity. The special
training program established with the technical assistance of PAHO and
the MOH to implement the SES-RO staffing plan was suspended due to lack
of cooperation and interest from the SES-RO and opposition from special
interest groups in Rondonia (e.g., traditionally trainers have been
hired using political, rather than technical, criteria). The main lesson
is that during project preparation a comprehensive plan for use of
consultants should be developed, including training in management of
consultant services.
13.      Proiect Documentation and Data
13.01    The Loan Agreement was clear and appropriate for achieving
project objectives. The Staff Appraisal Report proved to be a useful
tool for reviewing project implementation. Reports prepared by the
different executing agencies during project implementation were helpful
but should have been simplified for more appropriate and efficient
monitoring of the project.



- 10 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
14.      Comments on Part I
14.01    The analysis made by the Bank in Part 1 of this PCR is a general
discussion covering both positive and negative aspects of the project.
Among the former is the establishment of a physical network which,
despite some deserved criticisms on its performance, has unquestionably
given the rural population the possibility of access to the health
system. Also noteworthy are the comments on 'Training and Supervision,"
referred to as the "Achilles' heel' of the project, a description which
correctly reflects its status as the weakest component in the project.
Training would improve the performance of the personnel working both in
the local health units and the SES-RO, and increase their ability to
resolve problems. The problem of maintenance and rehabilitation of
equipment and physical structures, which in practice appears to be a
serious threat to the investments made, is discussed in notably positive
terms in the analysis under review. The flexible attitude of the Bank in
increasing disbursements in the early years of project implementation
must be given its due, since it prevented execution from coming to a halt
at a crucial stage.
14.02    The lessons learned by the Bank are of great importance for the
execution of new projects. Among these are: the need for flexibility in
the allocation of loan proceeds; the need for greater importance to be
given to the roles of training institutions; the need to support new
strategies in malaria control projects; the need to include maintenance
costs in projects with facilities construction; and the need for frequent
supervision by Bank staff during project implementation.
14.03    In view of the wide-ranging discussion of the most important
issues, and its quality, it is not necessary to raise any other issues
here. The Bank's analysis is a very precise description of the basic
issues that arose in project implementation, while the t4iueliness and
importance of the lessons learned will certainly enr;ble the Bank to
improve its performance as a financing institution, and will also
facilitate execution by borrowing agencies.
15.      Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
15.01    The technical missions that supervised the project consisted of
health professionals, who assisted with project orientation and
implementation. During mission visits problems were identified,
recommendations made and solutions proposed. However, the intervals
between supervision missions were longer than would have been desirable,
and many of the problems that arose during the course of the preject,
while detected and discussed, could not be addressed at the proper time.



- 11 -
16.     Evaluation of Proiect Evolution and Implementation
16.01    The project was consistent in its conception and original
approach and included measures to deal with the most serious problems
facing the target population, such as malaria, and expanded coverage o.
basic services. principally in rural areas. From the first year of
implementation onwards institutional weaknesses became apparent, the
principal issues deserving mention, by component, being:
(i) Health Services - The operationalization of the health
services network did not proceed at the same pace as the
construction of the facilities; a more effective plan to
train the personnel assigned to local health units was
lacking; and the health facilities lacked supervision and
consumables (medications and first-aid equipment). These
problems are attributable to the lack of qualified SES-RO
personnel, together with low salaries, which led to a
higher level of staff turnover.
(ii) Anti-Malaria Campaign - The biggest problem involved the
number of personnel, since the hiring planned in the Loan
Agreement was not achieved as the result of a Federal
Government decree forbidding any increase in the number of
personnel.
16.02   Suwmmrizing, under present conditions, the difficulties
encountexed in implementing the health project in Rondonia can be
attributed to:
(a) loss of qualified technical personnel as a result of
large-scale migration to other (better paying) states;
(b) the inexperience of the administrative structures in
the state;
(c) discontinuity in the management of the SES-RO and in
the implementation of health policy in the state as a
result of constant changes in the head of SES-RO;
(d) lack of personnel training at all levels of the
sector, including local units.
16.03    In light of all these difficulties, it is essential that project
activities be continued through PLANAFLORO (a project under negotiation
that will continue POLONORESTE in Rondonia). It must be emphasized that
there is a risk that the entire physical network established under Loan
2061 will not function properly, and that the total implementation effort
made under the project will be jeopardized, if activities in this sector
are not continued to be supported.



- 12 -
16.04    The maior lessons learned were:
(a) all the efforts made in the sector were basically
directed to setting up the physical network rather than to making it
properly operational;
(b) given the difficulties encountered by SES-RO regarding
the maintenance of equipment and the physical structure of health units,
which jeopardize any improvement in their performarce, resources must be
allocated for maintenance operations;
(c) a human resources training plan must be prepared for
all levels of the health sector, and the sequencing of training
activities must be carefully planned and reviewed so as to ensure the
execution of those activities that are prerequisites for other priority
activities or that are more easily implemented;
(d) monitoring and evaluation must be undertaken from the
beginning of a new project, above all in implementirg agencies with
serious deficiencies with respect to information on health resources as
well as qualitative and impact data;
Ce) definition and operationalization of an integrated and
consistent system of planning, monitoring, follow-up and evaluation is
needed during project implementation (this system could be structured
with support from specialists in health planning, and if possible with
the assistance of a World Bank expert to ensure that supervision missions
receive the required information). It is our conviction that only with
the delineation of such a system will some of the main dietortions
observed during project implementation be avoided;
(f) in light of the discontinuities in past supervision
missions, and to ensure better monitoring of planned activities, a
regular supervision program is needed, with the kind of periodicity that
would make it more likely that problems could be resolved in a timely
fashion.



_ 13 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Table 1: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
-----------------------------------------------------------------__------
Loan Number           Year of  Purpose of
Project Title         Approval Project                      St tu8
…------------------------------------------------------------__---------
--Northwest Highway    1981    The centerpiece of           Closed
Project                      POLONOROESTE                  1988
Ln.2062-BR                   was the
completion of a high-
way linking
Cuiaba (the
capital of
the State
of Mato
Grosso) and
Porto Velho
(the capital of the State
of Rondonia)
--Agricultural        1981    Designed to upgrade           Extended
Development and              existing agricultural         03131/90
Environmantal                settlements in
Protection Project           central Rondonia
(Northwest I)
Ln.2060-BR
--Agricultural Development     Designed to upgrade          Closed
and Environmental            existing agricultural        1988
Protection Project           settlements in Mato
(Northwest II)               Grosso
Ln.2116-BR          1982
--New Settlements     1983      Supported colonization of    To be
Project (Northwest            unoccupied lands in          closed
III) Ln.2353-BR               Rondonia                     in 1989
…--------------------------------------------------------------------__-
Comments. In 1980, in recognition of the growing socio-economic problems
caused by accelerating migration, the Brazilian Government launched a
program of major investments in the Northwest agricultural frontier areas
of Rondonia and Hato Grosso. The Integrated Development Program for
Northwest Brazil (POLONOROESTE) aimed to absorb the human influx in an
orderly and sustainable manner. POLONOROESTE activities have been
financed by five complementary Bank loans including the health project.



_ 14 -
B. Proiect Timetable
Table Z: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF
PROJECT TIMETABLE
------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Item                   Planned        Revised       Actual
Date          Date           Date
-------------------------------------------------------------------__---
Identification                                      10-1111979
Preparation                                         1980
Appraisal Mission                                    01-02/1981
Loan Negotiations                                   09/1981
Board Approval                                      12/01/1981
Loan Signature                                      12/15/1981
Loan Effectiveness                                   04/2611982
Project Completion     12131/1986    03/31/1988     03/31/1988
Loan Closing           0613011987          *        06/30/1988
-------------,--------------------------------------------------__------
Commernts. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank extended the original
closing date of June 30, 1987 (as set forth in Section 2.04 of the Loan
Agreement dated December 15, 1981) to June 30, 1988, Funds were not
fully disbursed and an outstanding balance of US$1.0 million was
cancelled on February 28, 1989e                      d



- 15 _
C. Loan Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
-----------------------------------------------------_---------__-------
Bank FY 82183 83/84 84185 85/86 86/87 87188 88/89
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Appraisal Estimate              2.20  4.10  6.60  9.60 13.00    0    0
Actual                          1.85  4.15  5.98  7.54 8.99  10.30 11.98
Actual as Z of Estimate          84   101  90   78   69   100  100
Date of Final Disbursement    09/30/88
Conments. This table shows projected disbursements at the time of
appraisal for the five years of the project and actual IBRD disbursements
over the seven years of project execution. Of the total IBRD
disburdements planned at the time of appraisal (US$13 million) only
US$11,987,990.82 were actually utilized over seven years, or 92X of the
projected amount.
Follow-on Pro1ects:
-Amazon Basin Malaria Control Proiect
(Ln. No. 3072-BR)
The project has two components: (i) a malaria control program supporting
epidemiological and entomological surveillance, treatment of cases.
source reduction projects, vector control, comunity
participation/education activities, and endemic disease control
activities in Amerindian areas; and (ii) institutional strengthening of
SUCAM focusing on in-service training, district offices, computerized
information systems, operational research, and inter-institutional
actions. The project encompasses moot of the Brazilian Amazon, including
the states of Amazon, Acre, Para, Rondonia, Mato Grosso, northern Goias,
western Maranhao, Amapa and Roraima.
-Rondonia Natural Resource Management Project
(Project to be negotiated in FY90)
The proposed project includes a health component that
would support the consolidation of the health services
infrastructure in Rondonia throughs (a) training of rural health agents,
nurses,   and doctors; (b) strengthening of supervision at  State,
municipal and  field levels; (c) provision of equl9ment and
materials; and (d) health assistance for acute care of
Amerindian populations.



- 16 -
D. Proiect Implementation
(Implementation indicators eatimated at appraisal and actual, and
comments on factors affecting project execution and timing).
Table 4s PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
Appraisal
Indicators                   Estimate        Revised        Actual
----------------__---------------------------------------------__--------
-Malaria Control Program:
-Procurement of DDT (Tons)     800                           800
-Procurement of Equipment
--Bicycles                300                           477
--Vehicles                  60            67            68
--Motorcycles               6                           10
-Technical Assistance
--Months                   21                           21
-Construction of District
Headquarters                    0              1             1
-Health Services Development:
-Construction and Equipping
Health Posts (Type II)     39             20            20
-Construction and Equipping
Referral Health Centers     03            04            04
-Construction and Equipping
Health Posts (Type I)      50                          104
-Procurement of Ambulances      18                           12
-Training and Supervision:
-Training of Health Workers/   300                           180
Health Auxiliaries
Comments.   Revisions of the number and type of project health facilities
were maO'i as a result of the mid-term evaluation review. Rural health
workers for health posts (Type I) received only partial training because
the PAHO/MOH special training project (proieto arande escala) was
suspended due to lack of cooperation from the Manpower Training Center of
SES-RO. However, these rural health workers are working under the
supervision of nurses to avoid loss of manpower.



_ 17 -
E. Project Costs and FinancinR
Table 5s PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__-------
Estimated Costs               Actual Costs
Local  Foreign  Total    Local    Foreign  Total
Component         Costs  Costs    Costs    Costs    Costs    Costs
----------------------------------------------------------------__------
A-Malaria Control
Program       11,503  1,766    13,269       10,112  1,511   11,623
B-Health Services
Development    6,505  1,931      8,436       5,557  1,660    7,217
C-Training and
Supervision    0,956  0,053      1,009       0,316  0,017       333
D-Research and
Evaluation     2,197  0,393      2,590       0,996  0,176     1,172
--Total           31,542  6,158    37,700      16,981  3,364    20,346
----------------------------------------------------------------__------
Comments. The total project costs estimated in the staff appraisal
report --US$37,700,000 differed from the actual amount, namely
US$20,346,544.76, the latter being only 54X of the former. The Loan
became effective in April, 1982, with the following percentage of
expenditures to be finarced by the Banks  (a) 34S of local expenditures
for all project categories as stated in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement,
and 1002 of foreign expenditures for Category 1 (goods and services for
Component A). However, under the Special Action Program (an accelerated
disbursement policy adopted for Brazil), disbursements were allowed at
the rate of 55? of local expenditures under Category 1 and expenditures
under Categories 2 (goods and services for Component B), 3 (goods and
services for Component C), and 4 (goods and services for Component D)
from the beginning until March 31, 1983 (para 3. of Schedule 1). The
rate was supposed to be reduced thereafter so as to achieve an average
disbursement rate equal to 34Z. Nevertheless, the 55? disbursement rate
was maintained until March 31, 1984. On May 25, 1984, the Bank confirmed
by telex new disbursement ratios to be in effect from April 1st, 1984:
25% for all local explenditures, and 100? for foreign expenditures for
CLtegory 1; 25? for G:ategory 2; and 34? for categories 3 and 4 (an
overall average of 3.. . These ratios remained effective until the
Bank's budget revisioas based on the Mid-Term Evaluation Review of the
whole Northwest Development Program, in November 1984. As of October 31,
1985, the project disbursement atatus was US$7.7 million, compared to
US$8.0 million targeted at appraisal. The balance of the US$5.2 million
for financing expected expenditures in the remaining three years of the
project, allowed for a modification of the disbursement ratios from the
average 30? in the period April 1, 1984 - August 31, 1985 to 65? in most
categories of Schedule 1, effective September 1, 1985. This was possible
due to reduced expenditures in Ca-egory (2) as a result of the
modification of the construction/equipment component in Part B of the
Project, Also, most of the balance of US$2.0 million in the category
"unallocated,l was channeled for financing additional costs of malaria
control activities. The Bank's loan financed 59? of the final total cost
of the project.



- 18 -
Table 6s  PROJECT PINANCING
(USS million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__-------
Source of Funds                  Planned        Revised        Final
--IBRD Loan
-Malaria Control Program         5,300        7,300          7,341
-Health Services Development     3,200        3,700          3,896
-Training and Supervision          500          500            154
-Research and Evaluation         1,000        1,000            589
-Initial Deposit into
Special Account               1,000        -----              7
-Unallocated                     2,000          500          -----
TOTAL                          13,000       13,000         11,987
--Government                      24,700        -----          8,359
----Total Project Costs           37,703        -----         20,346
Comments. The final cost of the project was US$20.346 million, of which
592 was financed by the Bank. The Bank loan was reallocated using the
unallocated funds and transfers between categories. Actual loan
disbursements amounted to 921 of the total proceeds of the loan. The
contribution by the Government amounted to 412 of the final cost of the
project. The Bank's share in disbursements for local expenditures was
increased from 342 to 552 and 652 in the second and fourth year of
project respectively of project implementation. The modification of the
disbursement ratios was carried out under the Special Action Program (an
accelerated disbursement policy adopted for Brazil).



- 19 -
Table 7s ALLOCATION OF PROJECT RESOURCES
(USSmillion)
------------------------------------------------------__----------------
Category                    Original      Actual              B/A
Allocation    Disbursements       (X)
(A)             (B)
--Malaria Control
Program                    13,269        11,623           87.0
--Health Services
Development                 8,436         7,217           85.0
--Training and Supervision     1,009            334           33.0
--Research and Evaluation      2,590          1,172           45.0
----SUBTOTAL                  25,304         20,346           80.0
--Contingencies               12,396
----TOTAL                     37,700         20,346          54.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Conmients. For the most part, actual disbursements reflected the problems
experienced with project implementation. Disbursements for training and
supervision represented only 31% of the total amount of the loan
allocated for those activities. Disbursements for research studies also
lagged behind planned expenditures (592 of the total amount of the loan
allocated for this component). In addition, the revisions made in the
number and type of project health facilities during the mid-term
evaluation review reduced total project costs.



- 20 -
F. Proiect Results
Table 8: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
INDICATORS
A. HEALTH SERVICES ACCESS:
1980           1988
-Population per Physician           4,250          1,332
-Population per Nurs'l
Auxiliary                        1,361            376
-Population per Hospital Bed*       1,180            801
-Population per Health Center      15,838         13,674
-Population per Health Post         7,919          3,590
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Notet *Includes beds in health centers.
Sources SES-RO and Estimates from World Bank Project Completion
mission.
B. VACCINATION COVERAGE. 1988:
First Dose    Second Dose   Third Dose
POLIO
Under . Year                  52.9           48.2         36.8
DPT
Under 1 Year                  56.9           48.3         36.3
BCG
Under 1 Year                  91.5
MEASLES
Under 1 Year                  45.7
-------------------------------------------------------------------__---
Sources SES-RO.
C. INFANT MORTALITY-
(per 1,000 live births)      1980               1988
128                72
Souces-------and-Estimates-from---orld-Bank-Project--Completi-n----sion.
Sourcet SES-RO, and Estimates from World Bank Project Completion Mission.



- 21 -
D. MALARIA PROGRAM INDICES. 1977-1988
SLIDES                 PARASITE SPECIES
YEAR     POPULATION     EXAMINED  POSITIVE  SPR*      FALCIPARUM
1917     293,414        83,869    23,491    28.0            42.4
1979     419,643       130,854    45,365    34.6            41.7
1980     491,000       180,149    59,145    32.8            43.3
1981                   203,689    59,598    29.3            41.8
1982                   213,445    59,936    28.1            47.6
1983                   245,807    80,752    32.9            48.9
1984                   433,323   151,095    34.9            54.8
1985     905,000       504,826   168,690    33.4            55.2
1986                   561,355   191,727    34.2            57.4
1987                   621,461   228,866    36.8            52.2
1988   1,400,000       828,322   278,268    33.5            53.2
1989   1,572,536                  76,139**
______________________
Note: *SPRtSlide Positivity Rate
**Data for 198^ are for the January-April period only. However, the
number of cases detected during this period was fewer than in the first
four months of 1988 (76,139 in 1989 as compared to 89,462 in 1988), a
fact which is attributed to the multiple intervention strategy adopted by
SUCAM in the last two years of the project.
Sources SUCAM.
Comments. As a result of the project, access to basic health services
increased substantially in Rondonia during the 1980s, as ratios of staff
and facilities to population improved. Vaccination now reaches between
50 and 90 percent of children under one year of age, up from 20 percent
in 1980. Improved access to health services has contributed to lower
prevalence rates for certain illnesses as well as to increased detection
of others. A case in point is that of malaria. Although malaria
incidence soared during the period, the health system's capacity for
detecting and treating cases improved significantly. In addition, the
number of households sprayed with DDT increased from less than 50Z of the
targeted households to an average of 72Z in 1988.



_ 22 -
Table 9s PROJECT STUDIES
-------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Title                                     Research Institution
--------------------------------------------------------__--------------
-Pesquisa em saude                             INPA
-Malaria                                       INPA
-Estudo do papel da ativacao
policlonal e autoimunidade na
anemia da malaria humana                      FIOCRUZ
-Estudo da historia natural da
malaria nas areas do Estado de
Rondonia e problemas relacionados
a sue controle.                               FIOCRUZ
-Pesquisa de saude em Mato Grosso              FUFMT
-Malaria: cultivo, caracterizacao de
cepas e avaliacao soroepidemiologica          SUCEN
-Laboratorio ref. de controle de
qualidade para estudo soroepidemiologico
da malaria humana                             IMT-SP
-Tese mestrado medicina tropical               tnB
-Dinamica para aquisicao de imunidade-
Malaria Falciparum em imigrantes da
Amazonia                                      PUB
-Coordenacao de pesquisa em saude publica      PUPMT
-Avaliacao condicoes fisico-cardiovasculares
e mobilidade relacionadas con algumas
medidas antropometricas e composicao
corporal na populacao acima de 10 anos
na regiao Polonoroeste                        FUFMT
-Estudo de prevalencia da hipertensao
arterial na zona urbana de regiao
do Polonoroeste                               FUPMT
-Prevalencia de doencas respiratorias e
reumaticas por morbidade referida na
populacao de 10 a 60 anos na regiao do
Polonoroeste                                  YUPMT
-Estudo de servicos de saude na regiao do
Polonoroeste                                  PU1MT
-Inquerito nutricional                         FUFMT
-Levantamento epidemiologico
por entrevistas domiciliares                  FUFMT



_ 23 -
Project Studies cont.
---------------------------------------------------------------__--------
-Epidemiologia das doencas parasitarias
* da anemia por exames parasitologicos,
imunologicos e hematimetricos, na populacao
da regiao do Polonoroeste                      FUFMT
-Estudo epidemiologico de mortalidade nos
municipios de Jauru, Barra do Bugres e
Caceres/MT                                     FUMS
-Isolamento e sensibilidade aos antibioticos
e quimioterapicos de enterobacterias de
material proveniente de criancas das regioes
de Jauru e Nova OlimpialMT                     FUMS
Coments. Most of thet studies were completed at the end of 1988. The
different studies have provided valuable epidemiological information, and
findings have been used to support policy-makers in planning, executing,
and evaluating the effectiveness and efficacy of programs, particularly
for malaria control. For example, malaria research carried out by WMA
(Research Institute of Amazones) and Manaus IMT (Institute of Tropical
Medicine), was of good quality and rendered practical applications in
controlling breeding places in Arequemes and in improving malaria
therapy.



_ 24 -
G. Status of Loan Covenants
Table 102 COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
--------------------------------------------------------------__--------
Section/Covenant                                Status of Compliance
---------------_------------------_--___-----------------------__-___---
3.01    The Borrower shall carry out the     In compliance, vith
project in conformity with          the exception of moderate
appropriate practices.              delays.  Project
extended by 12 months.
3.02    SUCAH shall employ specialists      In compliance.
in accordance with principles and
proceduree satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.03    CNPq shall prepare a detailed       In compliance by June 30,
research program satisfactory       1984.  Research studies
to the Bank by March 31, 1982, and  were carried out.
enter into contractual arrangements
for carrying out of research
component.
3.04    SUCAM should establish and implement Compliance was hindered by
policies to attract and maintain    Federal Government legis-
qualified personnel in Rondonia.    lation that imposed low
salaries and limited the
increase of staff in
public institutions.
3.05  (a)Borrower shall furnish to the Bank   In compliance.
plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the
Project.
(b)The Borrower shall maintain records In compliance through-
on the progress, allow for Bank     out implementation
missions to visit the facilities,    cycle.
and furnish information requested
by the Bank.
(d)The Borrower shall, through SUDECO,  In compliance.
by June 30, 1984, prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report on the
evaluation of Project execution as
of March 31, 1984.



_ 25 -
(e)Borrower shall cause each of the      Not in compliance.
Executing Entities to prepare and
furnish through SUDECO a
report at the end of the project.
3.06  (a)The Borrower undertakes to insure    In compliance.
imported goods to be financed out
of the loan.
(.SThe Borrower shall cause all goods   In compliance.
and services financed out of the
Loan to be used exclusively for
the Project.
3.07     The Borrower shall acquire sites      In compliance.
for the construction of project
facilities.
3.08  (a)The Borrower shall cause the          In compliance,
facilities included in the            except maintenance
Project to be efficiently             is lacking in
operated and maintained.              some facilities.
(b)The Borrower shall provide            In compliance,
resources required for (a).           except for
financial and
manpower
constraints in
the Executing
Entities. Training
and supervision was
poorly implemented.
4.02  (a)Executing Entities shall              In compliance.
maintain separate accounts
following sound accounting
practices.
(b)Executing Entities shall              In compliance.
retain, until one year
after the Closing Date,
all records evidencing
expenditures for Project
implementation.
4.03     Audit Report due within               In compliance,
six months after end of               except for delays
fiscal year.                          in submission to
the Bank.



- 26 -
Table 11s MISSION DATA BY STAG3S OF PROJECT
----.-__.---_----------------------------._._._.-__-.--._.--------__----
Stage of          Month/          No. of         Staff     Perfoeance
Project           Year            Persons        leeks     Ratlag
Cycle                                            In        Status*
Field
----------_-_------------------------------------_-------------__--_----
Throuth Aporaisal
Identification      10/1979        10              3.0
Preparation         1980
Appraisal           01/1981         3(lPSS/1A/IFA)
Sunervision
Supervision 1       12/1982         1               1.0     2
Supervision 2       Of/1983         4 (19,lA,
PHS'         2.0     2
Supervision 3       0111984         3 (lB.          1.0     2
2 PHS)
Supervision 4       11/1984        1UPHS)           2.0     2
(Mid-Term Review**)
Supervision 5       12/1985         3(2P38/1A)      2.0     2
Supervision 6       051986         3(12/2PIS)      1.0     2
Supervision 7      05/1987          3(1R/1PIS/IA)   1.5     2
Supervision 8***    06/1988         2(1PH)          2.0     2
PCi
Project Completion  06/1989         2(PRS)          1.5
---_-----------_--__---------_-_-------_-------_-------------_------___--
Notes
*Perfogmance Rating Status:
1-Problem free or minor problems
2-Moderate problems
3-Major problems
**The entire POLONOROESTE loan portfolio was reviewed. including the
health project.  The mission was comprised of 9 mbers, including 1 PHS.
***This was the last supervision of the project.
Codest
PHSsPublic Health Specialists
EsEconomist
A:Architect
FAsPinancial Analyst
STAFF INT
fY               81      82  88       64      L5    8a       8?    s8        To"l
Preappraesol      6.6    -     -       -                   t.6
Appraisal        16.1    4.6   -       -      -                     -       22.7
Negotiation       -      7.9   -       -      -       -      -      -        7.9
Supervision       -      -    16.1   14.5   10.4   14.9  16.4    8.6         06.3
TOTAL            28.6   12.4  16.1    14.5  10.4   14.9  16.4    6.0    116.8



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Table ls NIGRANTS TO RONDONIA, 1980-1988
---------------------------------------------------------__-------------
1980                              49,205
1981                              60,218
1982                              58,052
1983                              92,723
1984                            153,327
1985                            151,621
1986                            165,899
1987                            103,654
1988                              26,422
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
Nots        Data for 1988 are  for first half of the year.
Sources SEPLANR/0.
Table 2s OTEER SELECTED DEMOGRAPHIC INDICATORS
-------------------------------------------------------__----------------
Indicator/Year                           1970          1980          1985          1989
-------------------------------------------------------------------__----
Total Population                         113,000    491,000    905,000    1,572.536
Percent of Urban Population                             43Z              44Z           441
Rate  of Population  Increase                           162              13?
(1970-80) (1980-85)
Source_      SEP______ ________ _________ ________ _________ ________ ________
Sourcet SEPLAN/R0.



