Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3 53 7b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
November 9, 1981
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                -        Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                      -        Cr$68.1 (January 1981)*
Cr$1.00                      -        US$0.0147
Cr$1 million                 -        US$14,700
Average Exchange Rates:
May 1980     January 1981    October 1981
US$1.00 = CR$            50.8            68.1            112.50
*   The January 1981 rate was used throughout the report and price
contingencies were computed accordingly.
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
The metric system is used throughout the report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate:       Number of live births per year per 1,000
of population.
Crude Death Rate:       Number of deaths per year per 1,000 of
population.
Rate of Natural
Increase:            Difference between crude birth and crude
death rate; usually expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population
Growth:              Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net)
migration, and expressed as a percentage of
the total population of a given year.
Infant Mortality
Rate:                Annual number of deaths of infants under
1 year per 1,000 live births during the same
year.
Life Expectancy:        Average number of years expected to be lived
by children born in the same year if mortality
rates for each age/sex group remain the same
in the future.
Annual Parasite
Incidence:           Number of positive blood slides collected
over a one-year period per 1,000 population.
Slide Positivity
Rate:                 Number of positive blood slides per 100 slides
collected.
Schistosomiasis:       A widespread parasitic disease transmitted by
snails affecting the veins of the abdominal and
*                                       pelvic cavities, although in Brazil schistosomiasis
primarily affects the lower intestinal tract.
Leishmaniasis:          A parasitic disease producing skin ulcerations
or visceral lesions, transmitted by infected
gnats or flies or by direct contact with skin
ulcers.
Leptospirosis:          An infectious disease transmitted by a wide
variety of wild and domestic animals and pro-
ducing fever accompanied with lesions of the
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CNPq           -   Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e
Technologico
(National Research Council)
CODARON        -   Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia
(Rondonia Agricultural Development Company)
FSESP          -   Foundacao Servicos Especial de Saude Publica
(Foundation for Public Health Services)
IEC            -   Instituto Evandro Chagas
(Evandro Chagas Institute)
INAMPS         -   Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica da
Previdencia Social
(National Institute for Medical Assistance and
Social Security)
INPA           -   Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia
(National Institute for Amazon Research)
MOH            -   Ministerio de Saude
(Ministry of Health)
MSS            -   Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencia Social
(Ministry of Social Security and Welfare)
NUAR           -   Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural
(Rural Service Centers)
PIASS          -   Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude
e Saneamento
(Primary Health Care Program in Northeast Brazil)
POLONOROESTE   -   Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste
do Brazil
(Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
SEPLAN-RO      -   Secretaria de Planejamento de Rondonia
(Rondonia Planning Secretariat)
STS            -   Secretaria Territorial de Saude
(Territorial Secretariat of Health, Rondonia)
SUCAM          -   Superintencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica
(Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns)
SUDECO         -   Superintencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the
Center-West Region)



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A HEALTH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.       THE   HEALTH   SECTOR   ..........................................                                                            1
General   Background   ....................................                                                        I
Health Sector Characteristics, Problems and Issues ....                                                            1
Bank   Participation   ....................................                                                        4
II.   THE NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(POLONOROESTE) .............  ,                                                                                             5
Objectives   and   Strategy   ...............................                                                      5
Program   Components   ....................................                                                        5
Program   Cost   Estimates   and  Financing   ..................                                                   6
III.         THE   PROJECT   AREA   ...........................................                                                           6
A.       Health   Situation   ......................................                                                         6
General   ...............................................                                                          6
Malaria           ..............................................                                                   7
Other  Diseases   ........................................                                                         8
Health   Services   .......................................                                                        8
Government-s  Plans   ....................................                                                         9
B.       Health  Agencies   .......................................                                                          9
SUCAM        ................................................                                                      9
Secretariats   of  Health   ................................                                                     11
Health  Research  Agencies   ..............................                                                      13
IV.        THE   PROJECT   ................................................                                                           13
Objectives   ............................................                                                         13
Design   ............                       ....................................                                  14
Project   Composition   ...................................                                                      14
Detailed   Features   .....................................                                                       15
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD appraisal mission in
January/February 1981 composed of Messrs. B. Liese and J. Andreu (Bank)
and E. Calderon (Consultant). This report was prepared by J. Andreu
with the assistance of L. Domingo.



- ii -
Page No.
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................................    19
Cost Estimates .............                                  19
Financing ........                                             21
Procurement ........       ...................................    21
Disbursement ...........                                       22
Accounts  and  Audit   ....................................    22
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................    23
A.   POLONOROESTE's Administration and Coordination ........   23
General   ..........................................     23
Program Coordination at the Territorial Level ....       23
B.   Project Coordination, Organization and Management              24
C.   Implementation Schedule ...............................   24
VII.   JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....................................    25
Justification   .........................................      25
Fiscal  Impact   .........................................     26
Environmental  Impact  ..................................     26
Risks   .................................................     27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................   27
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 Tables
T-1   Cause Specific Mortality Rates in Brazil, By Region, 1977
T-2   Socio-economic Indicators in Rondonia and Brazil
T-3   Estimated Population, Land Area and Population Density of the
Northwest Region by Municipality, 1980
T-4   Estimated Population Growth of Rondonia and the Municipalities
of Ariquemes, Cacoal and Ji-Parana, 1980 - 2000
T-5   Principal Causes of Morbidity and Mortality in Rondonia, 1980
T-6   Malariometric Indices for Rondonia, 1977-1980
T-7   Staffing Patterns and Functions of Project Facilities
T-8   Key Project Indicators
T-9   Annual Phasing of Project Expenditures by Component
T-10  Annual Phasing of Project Expenditures by Account Category
T-ll  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
T-12  Costs and Benefits of Malaria Control
T-13  Number and Coverage of Nursing and Medical Consultation in
Project Facilities
T-14  Incremental Recurrent Costs of Project Health Services
ANNEX 2   List of Agencies Involved in Project Implementation
ANNEX 3   Related Documents Available in Project File



- iii -
CHARTS
C-1 Organization of the Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns
(SUCAM)
C-2 Organization and Staffing of Rondonia's Secretariat of Health (STS)
MAP
M-1 Rondonia: Location of Project Facilities and Activities
. 



I  .                 w    e                                                                                                                                                                                              0          ~



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT 1/
I. THE HEALTH SECTOR
General Background
1.01      Brazil's popultion of 119 million is unevenly spread over the
country's 8.5 millio2 km . Population densities vary widely betwe2n less than
2 inhabitants per km in the Amazon basin to 56 inhabitants per km in the
Southeast. This uneven population distribution is due to the difficulty of
access to whole regions (Amazon), and a historical settlement pattern based on
the development of crops (Northeast) and more recently of industry (Southeast).
In more recent years there has been heavy and continuing migration from the
poor, largely rural areas of the Northeast to the developed industrial poles in
the South, and still more recently, to the largely unexploited but promising
rural areas in the Amazonian North and Northwest.
1.02     This migration pattern gives rise to health problems resulting from
low standards of living and nutrition intake among the rural population and
shanty town dwellers living on the margin of big cities; the inability of health
services to cope with heavy in-migration; and, specifically in the Amazon area,
the exposure of large numbers of non-immune migrants to ecological conditions
which favor the spread of disease, particularly malaria.
Health Sector Characteristics, Problems and Issues
1.03      Morbidity and Mortality.  General health conditions in Brazil are
poor when compared to Latin American countries with similar per capita income.
For example, Brazil's life expectancy at birth is 62 years compared to 70 years
for Costa Rica and 71 years for Uruguay. The infant mortality rate is esti-
mated at 92 per 1000 live births compared to 60 for Mexico and 98 for Colombia,
1/   This project is associated with a Highway Project (IBRD Staff Appraisal
Report No. 3532b-BR) and with an Agricultural Development and Environ-
mental Protection Project (IBRD Staff Appraisal Report No. 3512b-BR).
These three projects were appraised jointly and are being processed
for joint presentation to the Bank's Executive Directors.  They form
the first phase of Bank participation in the Brazil Northwest Region
Integrated Development Program.



- 2 -
countries with lower per capita income than Brazil. The above averages vary
widely by regions and by income levels. For example, life expectancy in the
South and among the well-to-do is estimated at 12 to 15 years longer than
among the rural poor.
1.04      Regarding the pattern of diseases the high-income urban areas of
the South and Southeast exhibit conditions similar to those prevailing in
industrial societies, with high incidence of cardiovascular problems, tumors
and diseases associated with old age. Conversely, the poor rural areas of the
Northeast and the Amazon, as well as low-income peri-urban areas, show higlh
incidence of infectious and parasitic diseases, as well as peri-natal deaths
as occurs in low-income countries (Annex 1, T-1).
1.05      Morbidity attributable to malaria has been the highest among
vectorborne parasitic diseases. However, malaria incidence has been drasti-
cally reduced over the last three decades except in the Amazon, which comprises
about three fourths of the present malarial zone. Schistosomiasis (which is
mainly prevalent in the Northeast) has been recently made the object of strong
control efforts; the control of Chagas disease has been progressing more
slowly. While yellow fever, rabies and plague have been controlled, leprosy,
and tuberculosis continue to be endemic. The main limiting factor in the
control of endemic diseases is lack of adequate funding.
1.06      Health Manpower and Facilities.  Primary care is provided by health
posts; by a variety of public health centers staffed by physicians and some-
times by auxiliary personnel; through physicians in private practice; by large
outpatient departments (consultorios) of private and public hospitals; and by
special urban emergency units. Secondary care is provided by rural referral
health centers (unidades mistas), public hospitals, and small private hospitals
while tertiary level care is provided by larger referral hospitals in urban
centers, by university hospitals and a variety of specialized institutions.
1.07      The overall ratios of health manpower and facilities to population
are comparable to other Latin America countries with similar per capita
income. There are, however, wide inequalities in the distribution of health
services in the country, strongly favoring the core areas of large urban
centers. An analysis of the distribution of health manpower and facilities
in 1975 revealed that the urban areas had a proportion of physicians and
dentists four times higher and a proportion of nurses, nursing auxiliaries
and hospital beds ten times higher than in rural areas. This no doubt is due
to the basic dualism of Brazil's society and economy and the desire of health
staff to obtain better living conditions and to have access to specialized
health facilities, both of which are only possible in metropolitan areas.
These factors, combined with a strong private sector in the urban areas,
result in a grossly inadequate health service coverage in the rural areas of
the Northeast and the Amazon regions.
1.08      Health Service System.  Apart from its concentration in urban areas,
Brazil's health service system is characterized by a multiplicity of competing
and overlapping public agencies and a strong private sector. Public health



services can be divided into two major categories: (a) the preventive sub-
system administered by the Federal Ministry of Health (MOH) and the health
secretariats of the states and territories; and, (b) the curative subsystem
mostly supported by the National Institute for Medical Assistance and Social
Security (INAMPS). INAMPS, a social security institute under the Ministry
of Social Security and Welfare, provides health service benefits to urban
employees and their families and, more recently, to many segments of the
organized rural labor force.
1.09      The preventive subsystem has lagged increasingly behind the curative
subsystem. The former's share of total public health expenditure declined
from 87% in 1949 to about 28% in 1980 partly reflecting a greater demand for
health services from a growing middle class. The scarcity of funding has been
paralleled by a relative decline in MOH-s influence on policy-making and
planning. Concomitantly, there has been a proliferation of many and often
overlapping health agencies at the federal and state levels. These factors
have made it difficult for MOH to help bring about a coordinated national
health plan.
1.10      The vacuum left by the diminishing MOH role has been progressively
filled by INAMPS. During the past three decades, social security expenditures
on medical assistance have risen at an average annual rate (in real terms) of
nearly 20%--from Cr$257 million to more than Cr$22 billion (in 1976 prices).
This rapid rate of growth has, in turn, caused the share of the curative
system in the overall public health sector to increase from less than 15% to
more than 70% during this period.
1.11      In contrast to MOH and the state secretariats of health which are
financed through the Federal/State budgets, INAMPS is funded through earmarked
payroll taxes. This has provided the curative subsystem with a guaranteed and
constantly increasing revenue base, which has effectively shielded it from
legislative control. Shifts of population have also favored INAMPS-s expansion,
since its clientele, the urban labor force, has increased at a considerably
faster rate than the population as a whole. Additionally, INAMPS has developed
strong ties with the private health sector, and today over 90% of its health
expenditures are incurred via contractual arrangements with private institu-
tions and medical personnel. The lack of control over services provided by
the private sector has resulted in a health sector increasingly biased toward
high-cost technology, curative care, and strong urban concentration.
1.12      Policy Issues.  The main health sector issues originate in the
conditions described above. They are: serious lack of access to health care
in rural areas of the Northeast and the Amazon, as well as in low-income
peri-urban areas; lack of control of major endemic diseases in rural areas;
predominance of high-cost, urban-oriented curative medicine financed by the
social security system; and fragmentation and inadequate coordination of
public health agencies.
1.13      The Government is not only well aware of these issues but has recently
been taking strong and sustained action which should bring about major improve-
ments. Since 1975, the Government's policy has been to improve the efficiency



- 4 -
of the health services and to extend the service network into rural areas.
The most recent reforms include: (a) the establishment of the national health
system under Law No. 6229 defining institutional jurisdictions more clearly
(1975); (b) the introduction of a system of primary health care in the North-
east (Program of Grass Roots Health and Sanitation Actions in the Northeast,
PIASS) (1976); (c) the reorganization of the social security system consolidat-
ing the different social security institutes; (d) making available INAMPS
financing to PIASS-oriented health facilities in the Northeast; (1977); (e)
legislation permitting the extension of the PIASS concept to the rest of the
country (1979); and (f) the establishment in 1979 of an inter-ministerial
commission for health planning with the aims of expanding the PIASS's program
into a comprehensive national Primary Health Care Program (PREVSAUDE) jointly
financed by INAMPS and MOH. All these measures are aimed at extending health
care coverage at lower costs and give evidence of a consistent Government
commitment to the improvement of health.
1.14      The most important of the above actions has been the introduction of
the PIASS Program. The Program's main elements are: (a) extension of primary
health services to rural areas; (b) reliance on auxiliary health personnel as
service providers; and (c) making available social security funding to cover
recurrent costs of primary and preventive health services.
1.15      PIASS operates at the primary level through two types of facilities:
(a) rural health posts established in communities of 500 to 2,000 inhabitants
and staffed by locally-recruited health auxiliaries; and (b) health centers
which serve about 2,000 to 10,000 inhabitants and are staffed by two health
auxiliaries and a part-time physician. PIASS is supported at the secondary
level by either larger urban health centers, hospitals or rural referral
health centers.
Bank Participation
1.16      The Bank's role in Brazil's health sector has so far been confined
to eleven rural health components of Bank-financed agricultural and rural
development projects, nine of which have been instrumental in consolidating
the PIASS approach in the context of the Development Program for Integrated
Areas in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE). The total amount of Bank Group finan-
cing committed to these components is $27 million. The components have made
good progress and provided the Government and the Bank with valuable experience,
indicating among other things the need to strengthen the managerial capacity
of the State Health Secretariats, particularly as regards data gathering,
training and supervision. Other problems encountered have been delays in the
flow of counterpart funding, lack of community organization and excessive
centralization of managerial responsibility at the state level.
1.17      The Government is seeking Bank assistance in providing health
services and malaria control to the Northwest Region in line with the PIASS
approach and in the context of the Northwest Region Integrated Development
Program (POLONOROESTE).



- 5 -
II. THE NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (POLONOROESTE)
Objectives and Strategy of POLONOROESTE
2.01      The Northwest Region comprises the Territory of Rondonia and the
State of Mato Grosso. It has a population of about one million which is
growing rapidly. The Region is an important potential source of agricultural
production and employment for Brazil.  The orderly development and settlement
of the Region is one of the Government s highest priorities. Development is
to be achieved through POLONOROESTE, which has the following objectives: (a)
integrating marginal regions into the national economy; (b) ensuring orderly
settlement; (c) increasing the productivity, incomes, health and social
welfare of migrants; and (d) protecting indigenous communities, land resources
and the environment. 1/ The Presidential decree establishing POLONOROESTE was
signed on May 27, 1981.
2.02      The above purposes would be achieved by means of an integrated
program which would include road construction, agricultural development, the
regularization of land tenure and other agricultural support services, environ-
mental protection, provision of health services and the protection of Indian
communities. The Bank, besides reviewing the program with the Government,
would help to mobilize the required resources and expertise, strengthen
participating institutions, and ensure that the Program is well coordinated
and carried out in a coherent fashion.
Program Components
2.03      The POLONOROESTE Program would have three overlapping phases.  The
first and most extensive phase (1981 to 1986) would include three projects:
(a) a highway project which will support the paving of the BR-364 highway between
Cuiaba and Porto Velho, and the strengthening of Rondonia's Highway Department
and construction of part of the feeder road network; (b) an agricultural develop-
ment and ecological protection project mainly in the form of : (i) settlement
consolidation; (ii) environmental protection; (iii) ecological research; and
(iv) assistance to ensure timely land tenure regularization; and (c) the
health project presented in this report designed to: (i) strengthen malaria
control, (ii) establish a limited network of primary rural health facilities
in Rondonia, and (iii) support health research. Settlement consolidation
would be based on the establishment of 39 rural service centers (NUARs) and
would be extended to settled areas of Mato Grosso in a recently appraised
second phase of POLONOROESTE. A third phase would aim at developing new
settlements in unoccupied areas with good agricultural potential, both in
Rondonia and Mato Grosso.
1/   IBRD Report No. 3042a-BR discusses in detail the integrated develop-
ment of the Northwest Region.



-6-
Program Cost Estimates and Financing
2.04      The total cost of POLONOROESTE is tentatively estimated at US$1.5
billion. Of these about 53% would be for roads, 40% for rural development
and settlement; and the balance for health, protection of Amerindians and the
environment, and administration.
2.05      Funding would be approved by the Federal Planning Ministry in
coordination with the Superintendency for the Development of the Center-West
Region (SUDECO) within the Ministry of the Interior, which would coordinate
and monitor all program activities. Funds allocated to agencies of the
Territory of Rondonia and the State of Mato Grosso would be channelled through
their respective Planning Secretariats. 1/
2.06      The proposed health project forms part of the first phase of
POLONOROESTE.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Health Situation
General
3.01      The most important factors influencing the health of the inhabitants
of Rondonia make the provision of health services difficult and expensive.
They are the rapidly growing and scattered population, the lack of transport
and communication infrastructure, difficult access to essential services,
climatic conditions favorable to the spread of endemic diseases, and the poor
coverage of the health services, most of which are clustered along the BR-364
route and are virtually non-existent in the interior of the settlement areas.
The resultant high morbidity and mortality adversely affect welfare and
productivity in what is probably one of the most attractive agricultural
development areas in the country.
3.02      The project area consists of the Federal Territory of Rondonia.
The Territory borders on Bolivia to the South and lies between the still
virgin forests of the Amazon to the North and the well developed areas of
Brazil to the Southeast. According to the 1980 population census, the
population of about 500,000 (40% of which is urban) is growing at a very
high rate of roughly 16% p.a. because of very heavy in-migration (Annex 1,
T2-3). It is estimated that the population will more than double by 1986,
reaching 1.3 million by that year (Annex 1, T-4). The main attractions for
migrants are the large area of available agricultural lands and suitable
ag5icultural climate; and the sparse population (less than 3 inhabitants per
km ) of the Territory.
1/   For details see Brazil NORTHWEST I Agricultural Development and Environ-
mental Protection Project (Report No.3512b-BR).



- 7 -
3.03      Rondonia-s population is concentrated in Porto Velho, the capital,
which has about 110,000 inhabitants, in Ji-Parana, a rapidly growing town of
about 50,000 inhabitants, and in a number of smaller towns, such as Vilhena,
Ariquemes, and Cacoal, each with up to 30,000 inhabitants. The balance is
spread over many rural settlements, mainly along BR-364 and connecting feeder
roads. The three most rapidly growing areas are the municipalities of
Ji-Parana, Ariquemes and Cacoal, the combined population of which is expected
to increase from the present 243,000 to 690,000 by 1986. The transport system
consists of the mostly unpaved road network leading into the BR-364 (which
urgently needs upgrading) and the Madeira River, which is the connecting link
with the North of the country and the Atlantic Ocean. The airport at Porto
Velho can handle jet aircraft, and there are three secondary paved airstrips
as well as many small landing strips all over the territory which are useful,
since many of the roads cannot be kept open all year round.
3.04      General health conditions in Rondonia are poor when compared to the
other parts of the country. The reported infant mortality rate, which is one
of the most important yardsticks for the level of health, is 128 per thousand
live births as compared to 92/1,000 for the whole country (see Annex 1, T-2).
Official mortality figures in the Territory indicate the major preventable
causes of deaths in infants. Most prominent are perinatal complications and
diarrheal diseases, followed by pneumonia, malaria and measles (Annex 1, T-5).
Perinatal complications, intestinal infections, malaria, diseases of the res-
piratory tract, accidents and cerebrovascular diseases are the major causes
of death for all ages.
Malaria
3.05      Malaria is the most important health problem of Rondonia.  The
extensive forests of Rondonia, the high rainfall surface water accumulation,
humidity, and high temperature provide a favorable habitat for the anopheles
(A-darlingi) mosquito, the malaria carrier. The rapidly growing population,
difficult access to many villages and farm dwellings, inadequate health services
and, most importantly, lack of funds, make malaria control extremely difficult.
3.06      Official statistics attest to the seriousness of the situation.
In 1980 more than 62,000 cases of malaria, resulting in a loss of about one
million workdays, were identified in Rondonia. These comprised slightly more
than one-third of the 170,000 cases identified among a total national popula-
tion of 119 million. Because of under-reporting these figures may understate
the gravity of the situation in Rondonia. It is safe to say that every family
living in Rondonia today has at least one me1nber who has or has had malaria
during the last year. The situation is not improving. The ratio of positive
slides collected from people with malaria symptoms has increased from 28% to
34% in the last three years, and was more than five times higher than the
nation-s average. About 40% of all cases are the life threatening plasmlodium
falciparum infections (Annex 1, T-6). In addition, resistance to the main
anti-malaria drug, chloroquine, has been reported as increasing over the last
two years. Furthermore, since the majority of the settlers come from malaria-
free areas and thus have no immunity, many adults die from malaria in the



- 8 -
absence of full and adequate drug treatment. The human suffering caused by
malaria and its adverse economic effects in a rapidly developing area of the
country are increasingly serious, and have led the Territorial Government to
declare a state of health emergency in Rondonia.
Other Diseases
3.07      The lack of adequate water supply and excreta disposal, as well as
makeshift living quarters among the rural population make gastro-intestinal
and respiratory diseases the most important after malaria. Together they
comprised 75% of the approximately 180,000 cases treated at health centers in
1980, and are main contributors to high mortality rates in adults and infants.
Again, it is difficult to find a rural family in Rondonia which is not affected
by these diseases and others, such as measles, diarrhea, and infectious
hepatitis.
3.08      Since 1971 Government has been monitoring malaria, leishmaniasis,
schistosomiasis, leptospirosis and the appearance of new diseases amongst
the workers settled along the Trans Amazon Highway. However, very little
research has been carried out due to a lack of funds. This despite the fact
that: (a) operational research into mosquito behavior, new anti-malaria drugs
and epidemiological studies are urgently required to support the control
operations under way; and (b) other diseases, such as leishmaniasis and
schistosomsasis, have the potential to become major health problems in the
Region.
Health Services
3.09      Basic health care is only available now to the 40% of the popula-
tion which lives in Porto Velho and other towns; vaccination reaches only
one fifth of the children at risk. 1/ Very preliminary estimates indicate
the following ratios of staff and facilities to population in Rondonia, with
comparative figures for the Northeast (the poorest area of Brazil) in paren-
theses: one physician per 4,250 inhabitants (1:1,570); one nurse per 8,000
inhabitants (1:4,000); one ancillary health worker per 11,000 inhabitants
(1:2,600); and one public hospital bed per 1,180 inhabitants (1:450). In
Rondonia, there are 62 health posts and 26 health centers of which 12 are
located in the city of Porto Velho. Secondary care is provided by 5 referral
health centers, 3 public hospitals and 34 small private hospitals, the majority
of which are located in the urban areas. In 1980 these staff and facilities
provided 277,000 consultations or 0.43 consultations per inhabitant (0.36
consultations per child) as well as 2.7 hospitalizations per 100 inhabitants.
These ratios are only about one third of Latin American averages. Addition-
ally, the quality of service rendered is poor largely due to inadequate
training and to inefficient administration. At the same low levels of coverage
are piped water supply and sewerage, which serve only one third and 2% of the
urban population, respectively, while piped water supply systems cover less
than 5%, and pit latrines less than 15%, of rural people.
1/   Except for the polio vaccination campaign which has been more successful
in reaching the population at risk.



3.10      The level of services is much lower for rural than for urban inhabit-
ants. There is an urgent need to strengthen the primary health care network
in the fastest-growing rural areas. At the end of 1980, the health care
network in the three most rapidly growing municipalities of Ariquemes, Cacoal
and Ji-Parana consisted of only 18 health posts and six health centers which
obviously cannot meet the needs of the population. Similarly, the health
service support structure (referral health centers) is presently lacking in
Jaru, Ouro Preto and Presidente Medici, which are likely to receive the
largest numbers of (mostly spontaneous) migrants from the mid-1980s onwards.
Government's Plans
3.11      The Governments plan for dealing with this situation takes the
form of a large scale attack on malaria coupled with the immediate improve-
ment of basic health services in the rural areas including the provision of a
safe water supply system and health education through the formal education
system and community development efforts. To achieve this, the Territory has
adopted a basic health services policy based on Decree 1178 of June 1980. The
Decree makes an important contribution in clarifying institutional responsibil-
ity for the provision of health services. It assigns responsibility for
health centers and health posts to municipalities and places overall monitor-
ing, supervision and technical assistance under territorial authority. This
will guide the preparation of operational health plans which would be developed
on an annual basis. As a first step, a set of standard technical norms has
been established which would facilitate development of the plan. From 1982
through 1986 the Government plans to establish three referral health centers,
86 health centers, and about 200 health posts. Of these, three or 100% of
referral health centers, 39 or about one-half of the health centers, and 50 or
about one-fourth of the health posts would be built in the project area in
line with absorptive capacity of the relevant agencies.
B. Health Agencies
3.12      The main public health agencies in Rondonia are:  (a) the Terri-
torial Secretariat of Health (STS), which is responsible for health policy and
the coordination of health services and operates second and third level health
facilities; (b) the health departments of municipalities, which handle primary
health care in conjunction with STS; (c) the Foundation for Public Health
Services (FSESP), a federal line agency which provides limited hospital, health
center and water supply services; and (d) the Superintendency for Public Health
Campaigns (SUCAM). Details on the administrative structure and their inter-
relationships follow.
SUCAM
3.13      SUCAM, an operationally autonomous entity under the umbrella of MOH,
is responsible for the control of malaria and other endemic diseases, such as
trypanosomiasis, schistosomiasis, yellow fever and filariasis.



- 10 -
3.14      Policies and Programs.  SUCAM's policies are set by its Board.  The
main policies are: (a) to concentrate its work on areas with a high incidence
of disease and potential for spreading it; (b) to seek community support;
and (c) to establish formal and informal cooperative arrangements with other
health and sanitation services. SUCAM conducts a schistosomiasis campaign in
the Northeast with the active participation of the states, and malaria control
activities (which absorb one third of its budget) in the Amazon area under
formal cooperative arrangements with the Superintendency for the Development
of the Amazon, and in Rondonia with the support of STS (which is presently
hiring and seconding technical and field staff to SUCAM) and settler
communities.
3.15      Organization, Management and Staffing.  SUCAM's organization is
shown in Chart 1. SUCAM is managed by a superintendent who reports directly
to the Minister of Health. Its headquarters in Brasilia comprise four depart-
ments (Control of Endemics, Administration, Personnel and Finance) which plan
and coordinate activities, channel funds, make bulk purchases of equipment
and drugs, and provide technical assistance to the field operating units which
are in the 26 regional offices. Field units work autonomously in carrying out
day-to-day operations. SUCAM is, therefore, organized in centralized head-
quarters support units and in largely autonomous field operating units. This
form of organization is appropriate to the long distances, and wide diversity
of socio-economic and physical conditions in Brazil.
3.16      SUCAM is well managed, and its career development and merit promo-
tion system, as well as its independent status and well defined goals, attract
highly qualified and competent professional staff. Staff turnover is low at
3% to 4% p.a. Except in hardship areas such as Rondonia, where additional
benefits should be provided to ensure adequate staffing, SUCAM has not
experienced, and is not likely to experience major recruitment problems.
3.17      Total SUCAM staff numbered about 25,000 at the end of 1980.  Of
these 350 were professionals, e.g. engineers, physicians, administrators and
statisticians, and the balance largely field laborers who conduct DDT spraying
and, to a lesser extent, collect and analyze blood samples. The permanent
staff is supplemented by about 20,000 volunteers engaged in taking blood
samples and in general surveillance.
3.18      Finances.  SUCAM's only serious limitation is its lack of funds.
For 1981 SUCAM requested a budget allocation of CR$7,855 million (US$112
million) from the Federal Government, of which CR$220 million (US$3 million)
would have been for malaria control operations in Rondonia.  This is clearly
inadequate in view of a malaria incidence approaching 11% in the new settlement
areas of Rondonia and the high cost of operation owing to difficult access,
the large areas to be covered, and lack of basic infrastructure. To make
things worse. the amount actually approved for the malaria campaign is
one half of that required to maintain the present level of control. In view
of this, SUCAM recently obtained from the Federal Planning Ministry a supple-
mentary allocation of CR$100 million (US$1.4 million). Additionally, special
supplementary funding has been made available by the Territory of Rondonia for
malaria control.



- 11 -
3.19      Performance.  SUCAM's performance has been generally good.  In
the last three decades SUCAM has managed to reduce malaria incidence in the
country from 8 million to 170,000 cases. Most of the improvements in SUCAM-s
performance are relatively recent. Since 1970 SUCAM has expanded its
operations five-fold, and in this process has penetrated the most difficult
ecological areas of the country. Its long experience, clear mandate,
centralized policy-making and technical support, and decentralized day-to-day
operational management have allowed it to maintain a high degree of efficiency.
*         3.20      SUCAM in Rondonia.  SUCAM considers the whole territory of Rondonia,
with the exception of the capital city of Porto Velho, as an area of high
malaria incidence where a vigorous control effort is needed. In Rondonia
d         SUCAM concentrates on the periodic spraying of dwellings with chemicals to
kill mosquitoes, which has proven to be the most cost effective method of
control. SUCAM also carries out blood sampling among settlers to detect
the extent and kinds of malaria infection, and distrihutes chloroquine to
infected individuals. To a lesser extent, SUCAM is engaged in the construc-
tion of selected small scale drainage works, larvicide applications in large
mosquito breeding grounds and some biological control of mosquito larvae,
using fish, in selected areas. There is a need for more applied research on
malaria control and treatment to maintain efficiency of present operations.
3.21      SUCAM's Rondonia field offices are organized under regional
headquarters as shown at the bottom of Chart 1. Two district offices are
already in operation, one in Guajara-Mirim (Southwest) and the other in
Ji-Parana (central area). A third is planned for Pimenta Bueno (Southwest).
The basic organization and regular staff, including 6 professionals, 38
supervisors and 360 field staff organized in 62 field teams, are in place,
and could be expanded as required if the necessary funds were provided.
Secretariats of Health
3.22      Territorial Level.  Until 1980, the Territorial Secretariat of
Health (STS) was in charge of all health services in Rondonia. However,
under Decree 1178 of June 30, 1980, all field staff and primary health care
facilities have been placed under the control of the municipalities. STS is
now responsible for the general implementation of health policies: coordina-
tion; training, technical support and supervision of health services; adminis-
tration of public hospitals referral health centers and laboratories; and
purchase of bulk supplies. STS-s staff presently number 770. Of these, 53
are at headquarters in Porto Velho.  STS's organization and staff distribution
are given in Chart 2.  STS-s staff were mostly recruited in the last two
years, and as a result are still learning to deal with a variety of problems
in changing circumstances.  This is especially true of the supervisory staff
and measures are now required to strengthen staff numbers and training of
those in management position.



- 12 -
3.23      Municipal level.  Municipal government is at an early stage in the
Territory of Rondonia although steps are underway to strengthen the local
administrative apparatus, including decentralization of public sector services
to municipalities, as part of its preparation for statehood. They are taking
over control of all basic health facilities (health centers and health posts),
which are staffed by 800 health personnel transferred from STS to the munici-
palities in December 1980. The process of municipalization and transfer of
governmental responsibilities from STS to the municipal health services
imposes strains on the municipal health departments and calls for technical
support from STS in the near future.
3.24      Sources of Finance.  The municipalities supplement their own small
revenues from local sources with transfers from the Central Government and
the Territorial treasury. The latter are the most important, covering all
investment expenditures and part of operating costs. A very important expanded
source of financing is now available through a recent agreement between the
Territorial Government and INAMPS, which makes available to the Territory
funding to cover: (a) part of the operating costs of health posts and health
centers, and (b) an initial fixed amount of US$4/day per hospital bed which
represents about 35% of in-patient operating costs of the referral health
centers. This agreement is supporting the Government's plan to extend health
services to the developing rural areas in the Northwest.
3.25      The table below shows 1981 health budget allocations in the three
municipalities where most of the proposed infrastructure would be set up.
-- -Operating Costs (Cr Million)…
Munici-          Capital                                          Sub-
palities          Costs        Territory   Municipal   INAMPS   Total        Total
Ariquemes         15.2           25.0         7.5         15.0    47.5       62.7
Ji-Parana         48.5           20.0         2.0          4.0    26.0       74.5
Cacoal            18.7            7.0         0.8          1.6     9.4       28.1
82.4           52.0       10.3         20.6    82.9       164.3 /a
/a   Or US$2.4 million at the January 1981 exchange rate.
4



- 13 -
Total allocations are evenly divided between capital and recurrent expenditures.
The larger share of capital expenditures is due to the low level of existing
services and to the planned expansion of facilities. To these resources must
be added those of the independently financed and operated FSESP, which manages
three health centers, two small hospitals and four water supply systems in the
area.
Health Research Agencies
3.26      Scientific and technological research in Brazil has been coordinated
by the National Research Council (CNPq) since 1952. CNPq is a small but
competent institution, with headquarters in Brasilia. CNPq is building up
its coordinating capacity to enable it to oversee and coordinate an expanding
research work program.
3.27      There are two major research institutions in the Amazon capable
of doing health research. One of the most important medical research institu-
tions capable of doing reliable differential diagnoses of strains of leishmania-
sis, immunological strains of malaria, causes of gastro-enteritis, or other
relatively sophisticated microbiological procedures is the Evandro Chagas
Institute (IEC). Its staff includes researchers working on leishmaniasis
and on arboviruses. The National Institute for Amazon Research (INPA) in
Manaus is another major research institution which has focussed particularly
on diseases of relevance to Rondonia. INPA is multi-disciplinary and broad-
based. It has a section for nutrition and health research which has been
recently working on problems of leishmaniasis. In addition, the SUCAM regional
directorates in Manaus, Belem and Porto Velho have been active in malaria,
yellow fever and leishmaniasis surveillance and have conducted limited opera-
tional research. The Hospital Barros Baretta in Belem has also been active in
research on malaria chemotherapy.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed health project is one of the three projects considered
for Bank financing under the first phase of POLONOROESTE. The project would
be limited in scope, focussing on the basic health problems in the project
area in line with absorptive capacity and the Government-s health policy.
These goals are to be attained by: (a) intensifying malaria control activities
in the Territory; (b) strengthening and expanding primary and second level
health care for Rondonia's rural population living in the vicinity of the
proposed NUARs (see para. 2.03); and (c) strengthening research capability.
Institution-building (particularly opportune at a time when Rondonia is about
to become a State and when municipalities are gaining autonomy) is another
project objective.



- 14 -
Design
4.02      Experience from the eleven rural health components of Bank-financed
agricultural development projects were taken into account in designing the
project. Although these components were smaller, and had more limited objec-
tives, they have indicated the need for: strengthening monitoring and super-
vision, emphasizing decentralized management, and enlisting the support of
municipalities and of social workers from the rural extension services to help
promote community participation.
Project Composition
4.03      The project would include the following activities:
(a) Malaria Control Program: Significantly expanding SUCAM's malaria
control operations in Rondonia by providing equipment, vehicles,
consultant services, DDT and drugs, incremental salaries, and
operating costs.
(b) Health Services Development:
(i)  Establishing one health center in each of the 39 NUARs
in the municipalities of Ariquemes, Cacoal and Ji-Parana; 1/
(ii)  Equipping and staffing 50 health posts to be constructed
by the communities in the above municipalities; and
(iii)  Establishing one referral health center in each of the
municipalities of Jaru, Ouro Preto and Presidente Medici;
each including offices, laboratory, wards for in-patients,
a delivery and an operating room.
(c) Training and Supervision: Training for 100 rural health workers
to be assigned to the 50 health posts, and 200 health auxiliaries
to be assigned to the 39 health centers, including the services
of consultants to advise STS on training and on the administration
of health services, and the provision of vehicles and travel
expenses for field supervisors.
(d) Research and Evaluation:
(i)  research on malaria and other major health problems; and
(ii) technical assistance for the monitoring of project
components.
1/   For criteria in the selection of sites and municipalities, see IBRD
Report No. 3512b-BR.



- 15 -
Detailed Features
4.04      Malaria Control Program:  This consists of the identification of
malaria transmission areas, surveillance of malaria incidence and patterns,
the substantial reduction in numbers of infected mosquitoes and the treat-
ment of the sick. The project would support the expansion of SUCAM's malaria
control program and strengthen its management and supervision system. Specifi-
cally, the project would provide for the recruitment of an additional 330
field workers in line with SUCAM's standard for field staff and provide
them with spray equipment, DDT, and vehicles. Fifty-five additional field
operation teams would be organized, each comprising one team chief, four
spraymen, and a driver. For every two teams, one field supervisor would be
employed. In addition, SUCAM would hire about 70 epidemiological surveillance
guards who would collect blood samples from about 1,500 malaria notification
posts (or one per 200 houses) in volunteer villagers houses. The samples
would be made available for analysis to field laboratories to be established
and staffed by 26 technicians and workers. Infected people would be treated
at the malaria notification posts, as in the past, by village volunteers
trained by SUCAM and at existing health facilities. At the management level,
nine additional malaria and public health specialists would be hired to
strengthen the existing staff. Since, in the past, SUCAM has found it diffi-
cult, because of financial constraints, to offer salaries high enough to
attract qualified professional and supervisory staff to a hardship area such
as Rondonia, the project would provide for salary supplements for the pro-
fessional and supervisory staff managing the project. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that by March 31, 1982, SUCAM would establish and,
promptly thereafter, put into effect adequate policies to attract and maintain
qualified professional and supervisory staff in adequate numbers for employment
in Rondonia for purposes of the project. Altogether, SUCAM's staff would be
increased by about 480 personnel (the required number to implement the expanded
program), including 9 management and 15 supervisory staff. About 800 tons of
DDT would be used, and an estimated $400,000 worth of spraying and other
equipment and $266,000 worth of drugs would be purchased as well as 67 vehicles,
8 miotorcycles (for field teams and supervisors) and about 300 bicycles for
spraymen and surveillance guards.  Technical assistance for the operation of
an epidemiologic surveillance system would also be provided.
4.05      SUCAM expects that the intensive malaria control program would
reduce malaria incidence from 108/1,000 to 30/1,000 by 1986. The average
number of houses sprayed daily by a sprayman would be increased from four
to about six and all dwellings would be sprayed at least twice a year. The
treatment of malaria cases at the notification posts would greatly reduce
malaria mortality and morbidity.
4.06      Health Services.  Each of the 39 NUARs would serve as a focus for
coimercial and social activities for 9,000 settlers in an area of about 600
km . They would be provided with water supply systems and with social services
which would include schools and a health center, 1/ the establishment of
the latter to be financed by this project.
1/   Postos de Saude No. 2.



- 16 -
4.07      Each health center would follow a standard modular desig2 developed
by STS and found acceptable. It would have a floor space of 100 m comprising
consultation rooms and space for vaccination, storage and office and a set of
standard equipment. It would be staffed by two or three auxiliary personnel.
A physician would visit each center twice weekly as at present. Health
centers would be managed by the municipal authorities, and would provide both
preventive services (such as vaccination, maternal and child health care,
health and nutrition education) and curative services, including first aid.
To supplement SUCAM-s activities, health centers would also serve as notifica-
tion posts and drug distribution posts for malaria control.  In full operation
by 1986, the NUAR health centers would serve a population of about 360,000 or
practically all of the expected rural population of the NUARS by that year.
4.08      The project would provide equipment based on standards which were
found acceptable for about 50 health posts expected to be established in
Ariquemes, Cacoal and Ji-Parana during the project period in line with the
absorptive capacity of the extension services, to cover areas further away
from the NUAR. The posts would be built, based on agreed standards, in communal
areas by the beneficiaries themselves using their own labor and materials.
Community support for these activities would be assisted by social extension2
agents and by the local governments. Each health post would have up to 30 m
of floor space, would be staffed by two rurfaIhealth workers to be trained and
hired under the project in accordance with current staffing patterns, and
would have a minimum equipment package. The posts would concentrate on
pre-natal care, vaccination, health and nutrition education and limited
curative treatment, and would also serve as malaria notification posts. In
full operation by 1987/1988, the health posts are expected to serve 120,000
people in the municipalities.
4.09      The project would also provide for the establishment of one
referral health center on government lands in each of the municipalities of
Ouro Preto, Jaru and Presidente Medici to support existing and future health
facilities in areas of rapid development. Each referral center, based on
standard dlsigns and equipment list which were found acceptable, would consist
of 1,700 m of floor space, comprising a 30-bed ward, laboratory, delivery and
operating room, emergency room and medical offices and nursing, dental and
surgical equipment and drugs to provide the basic services of internal medicine,
obstetrics, pediatrics, and surgery to in-patients and out-patients. Each
center would also be provided with one ambulance. These referral centers
would treat patients referred from health posts and health centers, and would
provide the latter with staff training, supervision and drug supplies.  Each
referral health center would be staffed in accordance with current staffing
patterns: two physicians, one dentist and 25 nursing and other paramedical
staff, and would be managed by STS. In full operation by 1985, each referral
health center would serve a population of 120,000 which would not be covered
by existing referral facilities (For staffing patterns and functions see
Annex 1, T-7.)



- 17 -
4.10      Training and Supervision.  The project would provide for the train-
ing of about 100 rural health workers I/ to staff the health posts constructed
by the communities and about 200 health auxiliaries 2/ for the health centers.
These numbers would bring the required staff to full strength. Candidates for
the training course for rural health workers would be selected by the communi-
ties based on the following existing criteria: 17 to 30 years of age, rural
residence, and completion of primary education. Candidates for the training
course for health auxiliaries would be selected by STS. The criteria for
selection are 17 to 30 years of age, at least one year of secondary education,
and passing of an entrance examination. The training course for rural health
workers would be held at the municipal level while those for auxiliary workers
would take place in Vilhena and Porto Velho. Both sets of courses would be
given by full-time STS staff as in the past and would last about four months
for rural health workers and six months for the health auxiliaries. The
curricula and STS-s implementinig capacity were reviewed by the mission and
found satisfactory. Technical assistance would be provided for the develop-
ment of teaching manuals and evaluation of the training program. After
completion of training, the rural health workers and the health auxiliaries
would be hired by STS as regular salaried employees. Under the supervision of
part-time health center physicians, they would be expected to provide health
services such as maternal and child health care, vaccination, health and
nutrition education, and first aid. Subsequent on-the-job training would be
provided by STS.
4.11      The project would also provide for the first time a health services
supervision team in each of the health departments of the three municipalities
to introduce uniform territorial operating standards in the health centers
and to supervise health center and health post services. Each team would be
staffed by a senior health supervisor and three assistants. The project would
finance the operating costs, technical assistance and vehicles for the super-
vision teams.
4.12      Research.  The project would establish an operational health research
capability especially for malaria which would supplement basic research
conducted under the UNDP/World Bank/WHO sponsored worldwide Tropical Disease
Research Program (TDR). Contracts for research on malaria and other major
health problems in the POLONOROESTE area would be awarded to local research
institutions or individual researchers based on a detailed research proposal
satisfactory to the Bank. The following have been tentatively identified as
possible areas of malaria research: (a) the distribution and transmission
*        potential of different anopheles vectors and mosquito biting patterns;
(b) insecticide alternatives to DDT; (c) the cost-effectiveness of control
measures; (d) the chloroquine resistance of malaria parasites; and (e) alter-
native drug treatments. Research into other health problems in Rondonia could
1/   Agente de Saude rural.
2/   Atendente de Saude publica.



- 18 -
include epidemiological research of disease patterns and research into leish-
maniasis infection, and snail foci for schistosomiasis transmission. The
criteria applied in selecting these other subjects of research would be their
importance for the development of the POLONOROESTE area, operational relevance
and lack of alternative financing.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that by March 31, 1982, CNPq would have completed a detailed research proposal
including budget, terms of reference, and execution arrangements acceptable to
the Bank.
4.13      Monitoring and Evaluation.  The overall evaluation of POLONOROESTE
to be carried out under the responsibility of SUDECO would include a mid-term
review of all program activities as of March 31, 1984, as well as all
activities under the health project. 1/  Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that SUDECO would provide to the Bank a copy of such study no
later than June 30, 1984. The project would also have its own monitoring
arrangement, which would be coordinated with those of SUDECO. SUCAM would
monitor performance against an agreed set of indicators (most of which are
already being used by SUCAM) which would include dwellings treated with
chemicals, number of sprayings per year, blood samples collected and analyzed,
and location and numbers of identified malaria cases by types of parasites and
incidence level (Annex I, T-8). Health services would be monitored by the
three health services supervision teams which would report to STS. The
monitoring would cover such key input variables as number of health posts,
centers and referral centers being built and in operation, number of staff
recruited and trained, facility management and operating expenses; as well as
output variables such as number of first consultations per health unit and by
type of illness, as well as bed occupancy rates. The list of key indicators
for monitoring has been agreed with the Bank. The project would provide
consultancy services for developing the monitoring system. Assurances were
received during negotiations that SUCAM, STS and CNPq would submit quarterly
progress report to SUDECO for transmittal to the Bank.
4.14      Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 66 man-months of
technical assistance to carry out individual project components (paras. 4.04,
4.10, 4.11, and 4.13 above). These would be distributed as follows:
1/   See Report No. 3512b-BR.



- 19 -
Agency                    Man-months                    Purpose
SUCAM                         12                Epidemiologic surveillance
STS/SUCAM                    15                 Development of monitoring
system
STS                          15                 Development of teaching
manuals and evaluation
of training program
STS                           12                Public health administration
STS                          12                 Development of supervision
capability
The unit cost of technical assistance is estimated at about US$6,000 per man-
month, which would cover consultants remuneration and local travel. It is
expected that the majority of consultant services could be found in Brazil,
but expatriates would not be excluded. Assurances were received during
negotiations that terms of reference and contract awards (including awards for
research studies) would be satisfactory to the Bank, the selection and employ-
ment of such consultants to be in accordance with Bank policies and procedure.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the proposed five-year project, including contin-
gencies (US$12.4 million) and taxes (US$0.7 million), is estimated at US$37.7
million, of which about US$6.2 million (16%) would represent foreign exchange
requirements. The high proportion of local costs is due to the nature of the
project, which has important manpower and construction elements. This situa-
tion typically arises in other projects in Brazil (particularly in agriculture
and education projects). A physical contingency allowance of 10% of base
costs (US$2.5 million) and a price contingency allowance of US$9.9 million, or
35% of base costs and physical contingencies are included. The latter was
calculated in US$ terms and on the basis of the following annual price escala-
tions: 9% in 1981, 8.5% for 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85, and 6% per annum there-
after. Project costs by component and expenditure categories are presented in
Annex 1, T-9 and T-10. The former are summarized in Table 1:



- 20 -
Table 1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(In US$ 000)
% of
Components                       Local  Foreign   Total    % FEC  Base Costs
A.   Malaria Control Program               11,503   1,766    13,269    13           53
B.   Health Services Development
Establishment of Health Centers       2,370      670      3,040
Equipping of Health Posts                387     103        490
Establishment of Referral
Health Centers                       3,748   1,158       4,906
Subtotal                            6,505   1,931       8,436    23         33
C.   Training and Supervision
Rural Health Workers                     156       9        165
Health Auxiliaries                       454       9        463
Health Administration                    115      29        144
Field Supervision                        231       6        237
Subtotal                              956       53      1,009     5          4
D. Research and Evaluation
Malaria Research                       1,275     225      1,500
Research Studies                         850     150      1,000
Monitoring and Evaluation                 72      18         90
Subtotal                            2,197      393      2,590    15         10
TOTAL BASE COSTS                     21,161   4,143    25,304    16        100.0
E. Contingencies
Physical                              2,116      414      2,530
Price                                 8,265   1,601       9,866
Subtotal                           10,381   2,015    12,396    16
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                  31,542   6,158    37,700    16        149.0
5.02      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Costs are based on January 1981 prices.
The costs of civil works have been estimated on the basis of current contracts
for the construction of comparable facilities. Equipment costs are based on
current unit prices, taxes, plus local transportation and installation costs.
Estimates of incremental salaries are based on current SUCAM scales. Training
costs are based on STS estimates.



- 21 -
Financing
5.03      The Government would contribute (through special POLONOROESTE
Program allocations and through regular agency and territorial allocations)
US$24.7 million equivalent or 65%, and the Bank a loan of US$13.0 million or
35%, of project costs (both net of taxes). The Federative Republic of Brazil
would be the borrower and would assume the foreign exchange obligations.
Project financing is summarized in Table 2:
Table 2: PROJECT FINANCING
Government        Bank          Total /a
US$m    %         US$m   %          S S$m
A.   Malaria Control
Program                     13.5    66         7.1   34        20.6
B.   Health Services
Development                  8.4    66         4.4   34        12.8
C.   Training and Supervision   1.0    66           0.5   34          1.5
D.   Research and Evaluation    1.8    66           1.0   34          2.8
TOTAL                       24.7    66        13.0   34        37.7
/    lncludes contingencies and taxes.
Retroar ive finauciing up to US$1.0 million is recommerded to help cover
eligiblt expenditures incurred after July 1, 1981 for start-up activities such
as the recruitment, training and posting of project staff and the recruitment
of consultancy services (which are necessary and time-consuming precontditions
for project implementation). The closing date of the loan would be June 30,
1987.
Procurement
5.04      Civil works amounting to US$3.2 million equivalent would be contracted
following government procedures, including local competitive bidding, which
are acceptable to the Bank. Force account will be allowed for minor works in
more isolated areas. Given the small size of project health facilities
(US$20,000 per health center) and their distribution in relatively widely
dispersed areas over a four-year period, together with the isolation of the
Territory and the fact that foreign construction firms have no on-going
activities in the project area, it is highly unlikely that such firms would be
interested in participating. Equipment (US$2.0 million) would be purchased
over a five-year period through local competitive bidding procedures, which is
acceptable given the many kinds of equipment needed and small size of individual
contracts. This would also apply to vehicles (US$0.4 million). The purchase
of chemicals and other materials, mainly for malaria control, amounting to
US$2.4 million equivalent, would be made through international competitive
bidding.



- 22 -
Disbursement
5.05      Detailed disbursement estimates are given in Annex I, T-ll.  A
summary disbursement schedule is given below:
Table 3: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million equivalent)
Bank FY                     Disbursed during year                  Cumulative
1982                                 0.7                              0.7
1983                                 1.9                              2.6
1984                                 2.1                              4.7
1985                                 2.6                              7.3
1986                                 3.1                             10.4
1987                                 2.6                             13.0
The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against 55% of expenditures
through March 31, 1983. Subsequently, the rate of disbursement would be
adjusted to result in an overall rate of 34%. Disbursements for all SUCAM
eligible operating expenses financed under the project would be made against
statements of expenditure, the documentation for which would not be submitted
to the Bank, but would be retained by SUCAM and made available for inspection
by the Bank during the course of project supervision. The Project Coordination
Unit within the Rondonia Territorial Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-RO/PCU)
would similarly retain the documentation for eligible operating expenditures
relating to project activities carried out by Rondonia's territorial and
municipal agencies. All other disbursement applications would be fully
documented. In order to reduce the interval during which the Government would
finance the Bank's share of project cost with its own resources, a Special
Account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to
US$1.0 million. The Government may request the Bank to make advance payments
in dollars from the loan account into this Special Account. Withdrawals in
cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made on the basis of withdrawal
applications forwarded to the Central Bank. Conversion from dollars into
cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date the
expenditures were made.  The Central Bank woulJ -end Lae stateme ts to the
Bank, which would then replenish the Special Account.
Accounts and Audit
5.06      During negotiations, assurances were received from the Government
that each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
its project expenditures, which would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that copies



- 23 -
of the audited statements of project accounts of the various participating
agencies would be provided to the Bank through SUDECO within six months of the
end of the fiscal year of the POLONOROESTE program. The audit report would
convey the auditor's opinion and (comments as necessary) on the methodology
employed in the compilation of the Statement of Expenditures, their accuracy,
the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of
the project's legal agreements and the standard of record keeping and internal
controls related to the foregoing. The Special Account would be audited by
auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. POLONOROESTE'S Administration and Coordination
General
6.01      The overall administration and coordination of POLONOROESTE and
specifically of the first phase group of projects would be within the legal
and organizational framework applicable to Brazil's other special programs for
regional development. Presidential Decree No. 83.436 of May 10, 1979 gives
the responsibility for planning, coordinating, monitoring and evaluating these
programs to regional superintendencies (such as SUDECO for POLONOROESTE)
attached to the Ministry of Interior. The Secretariat of Planning retains,
however, a major role in the definition of financing levels of all special
programs. Inter-Ministerial Orders (Portarias) 90 and 91 of May 27, 1980
define (a) the modalities of collaboration between the Ministry of Interior,
other Ministries and the State Governments and agencies involved in the
special programs; and (b) programming, budgeting and fund disbursement pro-
cedures. A list of agencies involved in project implementation is given in
Annex 2.
Program Coordination at the Territorial Level
6.02     The Territorial Directing Council, chaired by the Governor of Rondonia
and comprising high level representatives of the federal ministries whose
agencies are participating in POLONOROESTE, would establish policies and
guidelines, approve annual plans and provide political and technical coordina-
tion for POLONOROESTE operations within the Territory of Rondonia.  Federal
funds for territorial secretariats and other agencies would be channelled
through the Rondonia Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN-RO), which would authorize
disbursements, coordinate all State agencies taking part in the POLONOROESTE
Program in Rondonia and monitor progress. To this end, SEPLAN-RO has estab-
lished a special Program Coordination Unit, which reports to the Territorial
Directing Council. Funds for federal agencies operating within the project
area would be channelled directly to them. The Program Coordination Unit
would handle overall planning and maintain liaison with SUDECO.



- 24 -
B. Project Coordination, Organization and Management
o.03      Overall coordination of project activities would be the respons-
ibility of the Territorial Directing Council. As described below, day to day
management of the health project components would be handled largely indepen-
dently of each other, since they have different implementing agencies, goals,
financial arrangements, operating procedures and geographic coverage.
6.04      Malaria Control Component.  This component would be managed by
SUCAM's largely autonomous Rondonia Regional Directorate in Porto Velho, with
assistance from headquarters in Brazilia, following policies and procedures
which have proven effective in the past in such areas as staffing, the procure-
ment of equipment and drugs, and the organization of spraying, blood sampling
and drug distribution, as well as supervision, monitoring and evaluation.
Under the project SUCAM would receive funding directly from the Federal Govern-
ment as approved by the Federal Planning Ministry. Adequate and timely channel-
ling of funds to SUCAM is ensured through existing general arrangements.
6.05      Health Infrastructure Development.  STS would contract the construc-
tion of health centers to Rondonia Agricultural Development Company (CODARON),
the agency in charge of agricultural infrastructure development in Rondonia.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that STS would enter into an
agreement with CODARON not later than March 31, 1982 for the construction of
health centers, and this agreement would be satisfactory to the Bank. The
referral health centers would be contracted to private contractors. STS
would subsequently recruit and train the staff for all project health facil-
ities (until the respective municipal governments can take over as planned in
1986/88), as well as manage the referral health centers. STS would monitor
the operation of all public health facilities. Funding would be made avail-
able to STS through SEPLAN-RO.
6.06      The municipalities would operate all health centers and health posts
with STS's technical support and supervision. Assurances were obtained during
negotiation that STS and each municipality would enter into, by March 31,
1982, contractual arrangements for purposes of operating the health centers
and the health posts, the terms and conditions of which shall be satisfactory
to the Bank. Funding would be made available to municipalities through
SEPLAN-RO.
6.07      Training and Supervision.   Training and supervision will be carried
out by STS, the latter through the health departments of the three municipalities.
6.08      Research.  Based on a work proposal acceptable to the Bank, CNPq
would award contracts to local research institutions for research on malaria
and other major diseases.
C. Implementation Schedule
6.09      Malaria Component.  Key project indicators are given in Annex 1,
T-8. SUCAM plans by the end of 1982 (its first project year) to have sprayed
125,000 dwellings and to have established 700 malaria notification posts to



- 25 -
process 62,000 blood samples. This seemingly ambitious goal is deemed reach-
able because SUCAM a basic infrastructure is in place, and its well proven
methods and experience in Rondonia make possible an early start and subsequent
vigorous expansion of operations.
6.10      Health Services.  One referral health center would be built in
each of the years 1982, 1983 and 1984. The building of health centers would
follow the timetable for establishing NUARs, i.e.: three in 1982; 11 in 1983;
12 in 1984, and 13 in 1985. The corresponding staffing, training and provision
of equipment and materials would be completed within one and a half years from
the start of construction. The technical assistance in management for STS would
be made available in 1982. The supervision teams would be recruited, trained
and made operational by 1983.
6.11      Research.  Malaria and other research would be carried out over
the five-year project implementation period.
VII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Justification
7.01      The proposed project is justified because it would satisfy the basic
health needs of a large and rapidly increasing population by reducing malaria
specific mortality and morbidity, and by providing the basis for essential
health services to cope with the other major causes of mortality and morbidity,
particularly perinatal diseases. These are essential conditions to carry out
the planned development of the Northwest. Furthermore, it is in line with
health sector priorities.
7.02      The malaria program would be cost effective.  The operating costs
for the proposed comprehensive and sustained large-scale attack on malaria
would amount to about US$2.40 per capita per year which compares favorably
with an average US$3.00 per capita per year in similar areas in the States of
Amazonas and Para.
7.03      The value of incremental labor days saved due to improved malaria
control is estimated to be about US$1.3 million by the end of the project
period in 1986 (or about one-third of expected cost of malaria control opera-
tions for that year) and thereafter (assuming the maintenance of present high
employment levels) would increase gradually until the value of incremental
labor savings would virtually offset the planned incremental annual expendi-
tures for malaria control by 1995-2000 (Annex 1, T-12).
7.04      By rapidly increasing coverage from about 360,000 to 1.1 million
people (or about 80% of the expected population by 1986), the project
would make possible the drastic reduction of malaria incidence from 108/1,0000
to about 30/1,000. In addition, the proper treatment of malaria woulsd reduce
malaria mortality considerably. By maintaining these efforts over a period
of 5 to 7 years, it would be possible to gradually control malaria in the
areas now seriously affected.



- 26 -
7.05      The health services would by 1986 provide basic health care for
about 480,000 people whose average per capita income is at present only
half of Brazil's estimated relative rural poverty income level. Additionally,
secondary level health services would be provided for about 120,000 people.
The project health facilities would particularly fccus on maternal and child
health care to reduce perinatal mortality and morbidity (Annex 1, T-13).
7.06      The proposed research would be operationally oriented, and as such
its benefits woud be closely linked with increased efficiency of both malaria
control and the expansion of health services.  The benefits would not be
confined to Rondonia, but could be extended to the whole Amazon basin.
7.07      The institution-building benefits of the project would be substan-
tial. Project activities would involve implementation of Government's policy
to decentralize administration of primary health services from the Territory
to the municipalities. Training and supervision would strengthen the services
while emphasizing preventive (as opposed to curative) health care. Brazil½s
health research capacity, particularly on malaria, would be strengthened.
Fiscal Impact
7.08      Annual expenditures for malaria control are not likely to increase
much in real terms after 1986, since subsequent increases in respect of new
settlements would be compensated by reduced expenditures in areas where
malaria has been brought under control. This relatively stable future level
of expenditure would represent less than 7% of SUCAM's 1980 budget for the
Territory.
7.09      Following the disbursement period the project's physical facilities
would give rise to additional recurrent costs to government of US$1.5 million
per year (Annex 1, T-14). These expenses would be incurred principally for the
continued operation of the three referral health centers, 39 health centers and
50 health posts. These additional recurrent expenditures are expected, however
to be covered mainly by contributions of beneficiaries of the social security
system of about $1 million or about 70% of total incremental costs. This
would still leave a net fiscal burden of US$0.5 million per year, which is
considered to be a negligible part of territorial and municipal government
budgetary expenditures, particularly in view of the expected increases in
budget allocations for the Territory. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the territorial government would provide on a timely basis
the necessary funds to meet these costs.
Environmental Impact
7.10      DDT use for malaria control has a much smaller environmental
impact than when used for agricultural purposes since it is used selectively
in the interior of the houses. Furthermore, there are no cost-effective
alternative pesticides. Insecticide alternatives to DDT, however, would be
explored under the research component (para. 4.12). Numerous actions to
monitor the impact of program activities is discussed in IBRD Report No.
3512 b-BR.



- 27 -
Risks
7.11      The technical feasibility of the malaria control program has already
been successfully proven throughout the country. Additionally, the program
would be managed by an agency with a proven record and a basic operating
capacity in Rondonia. Nevertheless, risks remain regarding mosquito resistance
to DDT and parasites resistance to chloroquine which might make malaria
control much more difficult. The research component aims at reducing these
risks.
7.12      The development of health services in the project area depends on
the commitment and efficiency of participating agencies, some of which were
newly created or would require considerable strengthening to accomplish their
respective functions within the project (such as CODARON and the health sec-
retariats of the three municipalities). These agencies will implement a great
number of activities in dispersed settlement areas under difficult circum-
stances. Work will need to be carried out in a timely fashion and in a coor-
dinated manner at the local and regional levels. The risk of not achieving
interagency coordination, and hence, project targets, is however, lessened by
the recent decree which assigns to municipalities responsibility for health
posts and centers (the first and second levels of health care) and to STS
responsibility for overall supervision and technical support, as well as for
third level health care facilities. Additionally, specific coordination
arrangements have been worked out in the course of the preparation and
appraisal of POLONOROESTE and the project. The risks of STS and municipal
governments deficiencies is lessened by the strong project's staffing,
training, and technical assistance elements.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During neogiations, assurances were received from the Federal
Government that:
(a)  by March 31, 1982, the Government would cause SUCAM to
establish, and promptly thereafter, put into effect adequate
policies to attract and maintain qualified professional and
supervisory staff in adequate numbers for employment in
Rondonia for purposes of the project (para. 4.04).
(b)  by March 31, 1982, CNPq would have completed a detailed
research proposal satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.12);
(c)  SUDECO would conduct a review of health project activities
as of March 31, 1984, and provide the Bank with a copy
of the report no later than June 30, 1984; SUCAM, STS and
CNPq would submit quarterly progress reports to SUDECO for
transmittal to the Bank (para 4.13);



- 28 -
(d) terms of reference and contract awards for consultants would
be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.14);
(e) participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures, appropriately audited, with copies
of the audited statements provided to the Bank through SUDECO
within six months of the end of the fiscal year of POLONOROESTE
(para. 5.06);
(f)  STS would enter into an agreement with CODARON not later
than March 31, 1982 for the construction of health centers
(para. 6.05), and with each of the municipalities for purposes
of operating the health centers and health posts under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.06); and
(g) the territorial government would provide on a timely basis the
necessary funds to meet the incremental recurrent costs of the
project facilities (para. 7.09).
Recommendation
8.02      Subject to the above, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$13.0 million repayable over 15 years, including
three years of grace.



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
T-1
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
CAUSE SPECIFIC MORTALITY RATES IN BRAZIL, BY REGION,1977 /1
r
Cause of Death           Northeast   Southeast   Northwest         Brazil
(Percent of Total Deaths)
Infectious/Parasitic
Diseases                  20.7         12.3         22.7           15.4
Certain Perinatal
Causes                     6.9          6.2         11.1            6.9
Ill-Defined
Conditions                11.3          2.9         11.3            5.9
Neoplasms (Tumors)           7.6         12.2          7.1           10.6
Diseases of the
Circulatory System        20.5         27.8         16.0          25.0
Diseases of the
Respiratory System         8.7         10.7          7.3           10.0
External Causes              7.3         10.1          9.9            9.5
Other                       17.0         17.7         14.6           16.8
/1   Data from state capitals and federal district.
Source:  Based on data from Divisao Nacional de Epidemiologia e Estatistica
da Sauide



-30-                             A1NEX 1
T-2
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
SELECTED SOCIO-ECON0OMIC INDICATORS /a
Rondonia        Brazil
Lb
"Total Population  (mln. estimate)                           0.5 -         119
Population Density per k=2                                  2.0            14
Percent of Urban Population                                 43%            63%
Crude Birth Rate (per 1000)                                 38             36
Crude Death Rate (per 1000)                                  8
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1000 live births)               128             92
Rate of Natural Increase                                    3X            2.8%
Rate of Population Growth                                  16% /e         2.8%
Dependency Ratio                                            85             82
Population per Physician                                 4,250     :     1,700
Population per Nursing and Auxiliary Personnel           1,361             657
Population per Public Hospital Bed                         1,180           253
Percent of Population with Access to Safe W'ater            33%            77%
Number Enrolled in Primary School as Percent
of Age Group                                             72%            90% I
la  Data are for 1980 unless otherwise indicated
lb  Based on 1980 census; SUCA24s estimates for June 1980, however, show
about 0.7 million population.
/c For 1978
/d For 1977
/e For period 1970 - 80.
Sources:  Report of the Brazil Rondonia Rural Development Prolect Preoaration
Mission, FA0/torld Bank Cooperative Program, November 21, 1980
'The  Integrated  Development  of 7razil's  Northwest Frontier (IBRD),
)ecember 23, 1980
The World Development Report (IBRD), August 1980



ANNEX 1
-31-                             T- 
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMEYT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED POPULATION, :AND AREA AND POPULATION DENSITY
OF THE NORTHWEST REGION BY MUNICIPALITY, 1980
2        Density
State/Municipio             Population      Area (km )       (inhabitants
per km2)
MATO GROSSO                  567,053         179,904             2.15
a!                                                  Z
Aripuana a                  6,250          27,3C0             0.23
Barra do, 9ugres           23,609           9,433             2.50
Caceres - c/              104,885          36,143             2.90
Vila Bela -       d/       23,515          60,633             0.39
Mirassol d'Oeste -         53,902           4,233            12.73
N.S. do Livramento         10,229           6,315             1.62
Pocone                     23,314          16,691             1.40
Tangara da Serra           31,367           5,684             5.52
Varzea GWande              775053             682           112.98
Cuia.aa                   212,929          12,790            16.65
ROPiT ONT.                   492;744         243,044             2.03
Arinuemes                  53,489          35,918             1.49
Cacoal                     67,243           8,000             8.41
Guajara-Mirim              34,814          73;654             0.47
3i-Parana                 122,124          23,203             5.26
Pimenta Bueno              30,072          17,049             1.76
Porto Velho               134,621          53,846             2.50
Vilhena                    50,381          31,374             1.61
NORTIHEST REGION           1 059 797         422,948             2.51
.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a/ Area west of the Rio Roosevelt only.
b/  Includes municipios of Jauru, Salto do Ceu and Rio Branco created in 12/79.
c/  Includes municipio of Pontes e Lacerda created in 12/79.
d/  Includes municipics of Quatro lMarccs and Araputanga created in 12/79.
e/  Data is for munic'pio; officially-defined Northwest includes city oniy.
Source:  VTBGE, Canso Demogr:fico dc 19S': Fesultados Preliml.:lres, 1960;
and mission estivntes.



-32-                              ANNFX 1
T- 4
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED GROWTH OF POPULATION OF THE MUNICIPALITIES
OF ARIQUEMES, CACOAL AND JI-PARLNA
AND OF RONDONIA, 1980 - 2000
(Mid-Year Population in Thousands)
Ariquemes, Cacoal
and Ji-Parana /a            Rondonia lb
1980             243                       493
1981             309                       598
1982             378                       716
1983             450                       847
1984             526                     1,002
1985             607                     1,162
1986             690                     1,327
1987             776                     1,497
1988             864                     1,672
1989             955                     1,852
1990           1,049                     2,038
- 1995           1,404                     3,052
2000           1,879                     4,229
/a  Assuming a rate of natural increase of 3% per
year and the following number of in-migrants
reaching the municipalities: 58,500 in 1980;
60,000 in 1981; 60,500 in 1982; 62,500 in 1983;
and 65,000 each year thereafter.
/b Assuming a rate of natural increase of 3% per
year and the following number of in-migrants:
90,000 in 1980, and an additional 10,000 per
year up to 1984; 130,000 in 1985 - 1999.



ANNEX 1
-33-                                T1.5
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGICN INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
PRINCIPAL CAUSES OF MORBIDITY AND MORTALITY
IN RONDONIA, 1980
A. Causes of Morbidity
Malaria                                           34%
Parasitic and Intestinal Diseases                 Z02
Ill-Defined                                       15%
Upper Respiratory Tract Infections                 6%
Mental Diseases                                    6%
Female Genital-Urinary Diseases                    5%
Eye Defects                                       5S
Other Intestinal and Digestive
Diseases                                         4%
Skin Diseases                                      3%
Abortion                                           2%
TOTAL;                                           100%
B. Causes of Mortality
Perinatal                                         21%
Ill-Defined                                       122
lntestional Infections                             9Z
Malaria                                            5%
Diseases of the Respiratory
Tract                                            5%
Non-Specified Accidents                            4%
Other Forms of Heart Diseases                      3%
Other Diseases of the Castro-
Intestional Tract                                2Z
Measles                                            2%
Cerebro-Vascular Diseases                          2%
Other Diseases                                    352
TOTAL:                                           100%
C. Causes of Infant Mortality
Perinatal Diseases                                44%
Intestinal Infections                             20%
Ill-defined Symptoms and Diseases                 18Z
Pneumonia                                          7%
Malaria                                            5%
Measles                                            5Z
Congenital Defects                                 1%
Septicemia                                         1%
TOTAL:                                           100%
Source:   STS



BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
MALARIOMETRIC INDICES FOR RONDONIA, 1977-1980
SLIDES                                 PARASITE SPECIES
PLASMODIUM        PLASMODIUM           PLASMODIUM       MIXED
YEAR   POPULATION   EXAMINED POSITIVE   VIVAX        %     FALCIPARUM      %     MALARIA   %  INFECTIONS %    API1!  ABER-!   SPRP-'
1977    293,414       83,869   23,491   13,412   57.0         9,970      42.4      -       -    109    0.6    80.0   28.5    28.0
1978    293,414       96,050   27,989   16,121   57.5        11,692      41.7      -       -    176    0.8    95.3   32.7    29.1
1979    419,643      130,854   45,365   26,435   58.2        18,402      40.5      -       -    528    1.3   108.1   31.1    34.6
1980-/  619,004       83,845   26,341   15,500   58.8        10,520      39.9      -       -    321    1.3    42.5   13.5    31.4
SOURCE:  SUCAM, Rondonia, 1980
1/ API:Annual Parasite Incidence
2/ ABER:Annual Blood Examination Rate
3/ SPR:Slide Positivity Rate
4/ Only for first Semester
jIy
t 



-35-
ANNEX 1
T-7
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
STAFFING PATTERNS AND FUNCTIONS OF PROJECT FACILITIES
Units       Beneficiaries       Numaber               Staff                              Functions
PRIMARY     Health             2,000            50         - Two rural health            - Pre-natal and post-natal care
Post                                          workers (full-time)         - Immunizations
- Distribution of medications
- First aid
- Referral to nealth centers and
to secondary and tertiary
level facilities
- Basic sanitation activities
- Nutritional and sanitary
education
- Malaria surveillance activities
Health           10,000            39          - Two healtn auxiliaries    - Same as in health posts, plus:
Center                                       - One physician (part-        - Outreach nursing activities
time)                      - Medical consultations
- In-service training of rural
attendants
SECONDARY     Referral          50,000             3         - Two permanent physi-        - Same as in health centers, plus:
Health                                          cians                      - Specialized in-patient care in
LEVEL        Centers                                      - One dentist                   medicine, obstetrics, pediatrics
- Ten auxiliary nurses          and surgery
- Five technicians           - Training of rural health workerc
- Ten administrative and    - Supervision of primary level
ancillary staff            - Logistics support of primary
level



-36-                                         ANNEX 1
T.8
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PkiASE
HEALTH PROJECT
KEY PROJECT INDICATORS
Targets
Principal Objectives                     Key Indicators               Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
A. Malaria Control Program
To extend protection from malaria   - Cumulative number of incremen-
from 360,000 to 1.1 million of the    tal personnel hired and trained
population by 1986 through:              for field operations                  116       178      270        363       464
- provision of DDT, equipment and   - Procurement of equipment, DDT
drugs                                  and drugs                              18Z 2    30Z       60Z        89%     I0OZ
- provision of 30 four-wheel dri-
ve vehicles, 30 pick-ups, 8 mo-    _ Number of houses sprayed             125,000    To be determined annually.
torcycles and 300 bicycles           - Average number of houses
- 12 man/months of technical  as-        sprayed per spray guard per day   4.4                                           7
sistance
-travel expenses and salary sup-   - Number of notification posts                        700    To be determined annually.
port for incremental  personnel   - % of population covered                50160%       65%      70%        75%       80%
- funds for research in malaria    - number of positive blood san-
surveillance and for monitoring
and evaluation activities              ples analyzed (SPR)
- Axnnual parasite incidence (API) ~~To be determined annually.
3.   Health Services Development
To provide a more adequate  net -   - Number of facilities con -
work of basic health services and         structed /1                            4        16       29         42        62
support facilities through:
- Number of facilities staffed,
-constructing and equipping three    equipped and in operation /1                -         4       16         29        42
referral health centers              - Number of consultations at
- constructing and equipping one         health centers:
health center  in each  of  the
39 NEJARS                              - Pregnant women
- Breast-feeding mothers
- equipping 50 health posts to be        - Infants                                      To be determined annually.
constructed by the local commu-        - Adults
nities in six municipalities           - Number of referrals for health
center
C. Training and Supervision
To improve quality of basic
health services through:
- training of 100 rural atten-         - Number of rural attendants              20       40       60         80       100
dants who will staff the               trained
health posts
- training of 200 health auxi-         - Number of health auxiliaries            40        80     120        160       200
liares who will be assigned            trained
to health centers
,t Regional health centers, and health centers only,
12 Percent of total requirement under the project.



-37-                               ANNEX 1
T-9
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
ANNUAL PHASING OF PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY COMPONENT
(In US$000)
Component                  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   TOTAL
A.  Malaria Control Program          1,573    1,931    2,563    3,243    3,959   13,269
B.  Health Services Development        796    1,748    2,244    2,118    1,530    8,436
C.  Training and Supervision            324      208       150       163      164    1,009
D.  Research and Evaluation             530      500       500       500      560    2,590
Subtotal                         3,223    4,387    5,457    6,024    6,213   25,304
E.  Contingencies                       836    1,580    2,561    3,466    3,953   12,396
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              4,059    5,967    8,018    9,490   10,166   37,700



OTLEx 1
-38-                                                                                                 T- '0
BRAIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DOEVELOPSENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
ANNUAL PIRASING OF PROJECT EXPENDITURES RY ACCOUNT CATEGORY
(In US$OOOs
EXPEINITURE CATEGORY                                COST          UNIT            YEAR 1              YEAR 2             yEAR 3             YEAR 4             YEAR 5               TOTAL
A. CAPITAL COSTS
A.1  Civil Works
ReferraL Health Centers                           350/12           3              665.0               665.0              665.0                 -                 -                1,905.0
Sa-1th Ceeters                                   29.8/e2          39                89.4              327.8              357.6                387.                                1,162.2
Suhbotal                                                                           754,4              9920 8           1,022.6                387.4              _                3,157.2
A-2  Eq.ip-tn
Reerral HeaIth CTeters                            485/HC           3                                  485.4              485.4                485U 4             -                1,45652
eaSth Cestate                                       2/HC          39                                    6.0               22.0                 24.0              26.0                7B0.
Usalth Posts                                      1.8/UC          50                10.0               1l0 18.0                                18.0              180.                900
Malaria Cantrol                                     -             -                 61.0               70.0               80.1                 92.0             164.9               407.9
S,btr-al:                                                                           79.0              579.4              605.4                619.4             140.9             2,032.1
A.3  Vehicles
Referral H_alh CTeeters                            18/             3                                   18.0               18.0                 18.0              -                  54.0
Super2ision                                        10              4                40.0                -                  -                    -                                   40.0
Malaria Toetrol                                      /a            -                04.1               61.3               53.7                 6i.4              53.5              324.0
Subtotal                                                                           134.1               79.3               71.7                 79.6.             53.5              410.6
A.4  leoholoal Assiatasoe
TrolntoU                                            6/HL          15                90.0                                   -                    -                -                  90.U
Uealtb Adoinistration                               6/RH          24                72.0               72.0                _                                    -                  144,0
Holalo Castro!                                      F/5           172               72 0-                                     -                                                     72.O
,ooltsnieg .nd Evaluo-ion                           6             15                30.0                -                  -                    -                60.1               90.0
Subtotal:                                                         66               264.0               72.0                -                    -               60.0              396.0
A.  Tiraiiteg Crsts
Roral Health Workers                              1.2            100                24.0               24.0               24.0                24.0               24.0              120.0
Health Aooiliaries                                2.09           200                83.6               83.6               83.6               80.6               83.6              418.0
Subtrtal:                                                                          107.6              107.6              107.6               107.6             107.6               538.0
4.6  Ueseaoch Studies                                     -            -                503.0              503.8               500.U               500.0             500.,            2,500,0
T2)5AL=CAIThL C95TS:                                                                      1,839.1            2,331.1             2,307.3             1,693.8             810.0            9,041.3
B. R2CUR8ENT COSTS
S.1  Drugs aod ODT
Malara CTontrol                                     -             -                364.0              415.1              473.2               540.1              615.1            2,407.5
B.2  Icr tentol Salari-s
Halaria  Cootr-l                                    _             _                322.6              469.4              685.D               007.9           1,128.8            3,503.'
B.3  Travel Terraces
Saporriaioe                                         -             -                 C4.3               28.6               42.8                55.7              55.7               197.1
Malariass Corol                                     -             -                426.5              650.3              969.3             1,307.1           1,666.1             5,017.3
S.btaGal:                                                                         4 -  640.8          678.9            1,012.1             1,362.8           1,719.0            5,214.4
1.4 VTasi-los Mai-teess.. snd S-rolies
Maloria Control                                     -             -                232.5              265.1              302.2               344.5               392.7           L,537.0
4.5  Tlrratiso Cost for health IUfr-atrottor-             -            _                 24.0              227.8              677.4              1,184.6            1,486.2           3,600.0
TOTAL kECTURRET C03T=3                                                                    1,383.9            2,D56.3            3,149.9             4,329.9            5,347,6          16,262.6
TOfTAL BASE COSTS (A+B)                                                                   3,223.0            4,393.4            5,457.2             6,023.7            6,212.6    ,    25,303,9
C. UONTINGE5ICTES
(.1  Physical (102i)                                      _            _                322.3              436.7             545.7                 602.4              621.3           2,530U4
C.2  Price -                                                                            513.7            ',140.9           2,015.1              26,63.9             3,332.1            9,965.7
TOTAL COTNIIGRW3CIES                                                                         836.0            1,579.6           2,560.8              3,466.3            3,953.4            12,396.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS  (A + B + C)                                                          4,059.0             5,967.0           8,018.0              9,490.0           10,166.R            37,700.0
/a  la.ludos 30 Ireps, 30 ritk-op, 7 trsols, a metercyoXes as6 300 bl.yoles
/b  Poi-e -otisge-ioes hare be-e ealeslated ie US dollor taess as fsllos-:  9°. is 1981; 8.5^h io 1982;  7.52  ret year iu 1983-85; ad 6h is 1986.



-39-
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL                             T-11
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF BANK DISBURSEMENTS /a
(US$ Millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year    Amount (in US$ Millions)                 Cumulative %
and Quarter       End of Quarter    Cumulative        of Total Loan Amount
FY82
March 1982
June  1982            0.7               0.7                    5
FY83
Sept. 1982            0.5               1.2                    9
Dec.  1982            0.5               1.7                   13
March 1983            0.5               2.2                   17
June  1983            0.4               2.6                   20
FY84
Sept. 1983            0.5               3.1                   24
Dec.  1983            0.5               3.6                   28
March 1984            0.5               4.1                   32
June  1984            0.6               4.7                   36
FY85
Sept. 1984            0.7               5.4                   42
Dec.  1984            0.6               6.0                   46
March 1985            0.6               6.6                   51
June  1985            0.7               7.3                   56
FY86
Sept. 1985            0.7               8.0                   62
Dec.  1985            0.8               8.8                   68
March 1986            0.8               9.6                   74
June  1986            0.8              10.4                   80
FY87
Sept. 1986            0.8              11.2                   86
Dec.  1986            0.8              12.0                   92
March 1987            .1.0             13.0                  100
/a  Based on annual phasing of project expenditures (Annex 1, T-10), and at at
disbursement rate of about 55% of expenditures during the first year and
about 31% for the rest of the implementation period.



-40-
ANNEX 1
T-12
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
COSTS AND BENEFITS OF MALARIA CONTROL
(RONDONIA)
1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      1986      1987      1988       1989       1990       1995      2000
Popul2tion         764       887     1,024     1,175     1,340     1,510      1,685     1,866      2,052     2,244      3,452     5,311
('OOQs)
Malaria Cases        61.1    80.0       81.9      94.0    107.2    120.8    134.8    149.3           164.2    179.5       276.2    424.9
Prevented
( 'COOs )
Incremental         110.0   127.7    147.5    169.2    193.0    217.4    242.6    268.7              295,5     323.1      497.1     764.8
laboras
('000s)
Va'lue of Incre-    662.2   768.8    888.0   1,018.6   1,161.9   1,308.8    1,460.5  1,617.6    1,778.9   1,945.1    2,992.5   4,604.1
oenral tabor
liays
Costs
($OO0s)
- Capital         227.1   203.3    205.7       225.4    230.4        -         -         _     -          -         -               -
- Recurrent     1,345.6  1,799.9   2,429.7   3,089.6   3,800.7   3,800.7   3,800.7   3,800.7    3,800.7   3,800.7    3,800.7   3,800.7
Total:          1.572.7  2,003.2   2,635.4  3,315.0   4,031.1   3800.7  3.           3,800.7               3800.7    3.800.7
1.  Assumes malaria incidence rate reduced from 110 per thousand without project to 30 per thousand with project
during a five-year period (1981-1986).
2.  Assumes ¢t) each malaria case prevented averts 6 eisability days; (ii} 50F. cf malaria cases prevented occur among males
snd females aged over 14 years; (iii) 60X. of the increment in potential labor days occurs during the seasonal peaeks of
labor demand.
3.  Assumes peak period wage rate Cr.410/day equivalent to USS6.02/day (exchange rate Cr.68.1 - US$1.0).
4.  Costs of malaria control only; excludes malaria research costs.



-41-                                                             ANNEX 1
T-13
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
NURSING AND MEDICAL CONSULTATIONS AT PROJECT FACILITIES:
NUMBER AND COVERAGE BY YEAR OF OPERATION /1
IP6Iat400                               | Y I                                         I               I
yea- 2         Tcar 3         Thar 4          Th.e 0            Ter 18
r                                    Pr~~~~~~~~~Oegnoot                /2                                               
u_____I T(1AL (ooo1   1     13.6             15.S           17.B 25.4
| .... - .Persons cOv   j  -             276            .O1.608       3    .02  | 5.514               37.600
> - Persoos Coveted          d-    276                                  5.102 I4                        37,600
; -Totel 6oro1o8                                                                    I        
Zovavlc.votion            _      |       5           2,P0186        1,820         13,026             752,500
-  ttal Medical                    l                                                              l
Coooolrarlons                    l      226          105             2,10           3,10.            37,2800
- Rofercalt                   -            136 _04                         51          2.757            18,800
*Fdint             TOTAL (000):                  4.1             1.7            5.4             6.1            7.1              14.2
Y.ttetr s            lCovotagr                   _               2              a              15             23                so
Pereoto Covered  -             0~     ~     ~~~~4 426        9,41         1.668            11.200
C- erot erl..             -.            168            856          1.802          3,336             22.560
- Total tLedical 
_CRefe2r41s  o            -      |       024          128              941         1.668             11,280
Itefertele                      0      ~     ~~~~~~                        ~~~ 43  94  167  1,128
(1017      /2
TOTAL (000):                48.1             9.3         16.7              12.3          14.1               28.2
-    Covetage.                -               2              0             15             23 10
-Proo  Coverd              -              0             042           1,0802         0. 976     I     22.560
- Tetel   oterin8t65                                    324               ,5           4.3                   0.
Toteolta-iot                             495         2.326,          5,406          0,928            07,680
-totatl Med cal                          20           1263            2,703          4,464            338400
-of-telIa         |2                                    310             670          1,116             8.460i
(205)
1o6 1-ARe          TOTAL (000):                65 40.           55.3          63.6             73.2           04.1             160.2
- 2 Coveage                  _                               5             10             17                 65
Prtoo-e Coveted            _             615          3.245           7,551        14,037                109.3
- total NaSOotol                                                   l
Coosoltatloto             -      l   4,230          6.490      1    3,102         2 ,074           210,600
- Total Mdictl1
C.. oo to.ti...                         615         3.245           7 551         14. 37            1 19300
Rfe.              1- II-                 123            649          1,510          2,007                 21.9
(20%)
Cildt              TOTAL-   (000) -             63.6            75.4           86.7            99.2          114.7             229.4
-       -gt                 -                3             22 2           22             32                 90
-     "I'et   t    eteIdll   -           2,007         10.053          21,446         37,034           206,300
z                                                                - - - t--               t-             2               I              I  - - - -- -ot1 Sotol-
C ...ltOtioo-             -           4.014        20.106           420892        740606            413.000
- t oteal edtool                                            6      '       16      l      t        |         8
-Cocooloo6 oovrd  j       -           2,007        10,053           21 446        37,034            206.500
-         1                   -            201          1,005           2,145          3,700            20|650
Ad0t.6OTA  (000):  -2                129.5           149.0          171.3           197.0          226.5             453.0
--Zltrge                                   2              0              15             23                so
P- P rete Cote4d   l                   2.916          3. 306         29, 702       52.973            302,400
- Total No.tt,logl                                                                 s
C .e. torlt r--                       2,646        13,5760          297082        52,973            3679400
-   t0.IMedic-l
Cc -o-teiot-                         1.323          0.753          14,091         26,4017          101.200
- Oe(etto)e        -            ~~~~        ~~~~199  1,013   2:,234         3.973            27,180
TOTALSl            TOTAL (050513               268.0           309.2          795.5           4007          480.094.
|     ;-o  R Peso                             02    |           1.      |    6 2.0   |       .0    1         l.
P-- Oe    C-ret0                        5, 793       29,492           04,625       100.202            N,4
(para.        aloe 6.0  and0 exp,3te  coverage 1ratios.910
|2 T otal Npltio  g
T cfetoe,,1                                          16,316                      17    6 416
Ctoevltotione                        4,5373         3.50,          70,6314        0.2014           69020
Ocfertole       -             9~~    ~~~~~~66  3.735      9,210         14,523            38110
100 Pre.                 -0.                            1.0             2,             3010.0
11Based on planned schedule of operation of project facilities
(para. 6.10) anid expected coverage ratios.
/2    Total population group in the project area.



-42-                                         ANNEX  I
T-14
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PROJECT
INCREMENTAL RECURRE;NT COSTS OF HEALTH SERVICES
(US$000)
Year       T     Year Z          Year 3            Year 4          Year 5             Year 10
Operation of Services:
Health PoscJ                     10    24.0       20    48.0       30    72.0       40    96.0       50   120.0       100      240.0
alth Centers                                        3     49.8     14   232.4       26   431,6       39   647.4        59      979.4
Referral Sealth Centers                            1   130.0        2   373.0        3   657.0        3   657.0         3    657.0



43-                            ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH PKOJECT
LIST OF EXECUTING AGENCIES
Activity/Component                    Executing
Agencies
Program Coordination and Management
Federal level                        SUDECO
Territory of Rondonia level          SEPLAN-RO
Project Implementation
Construction of NUARs/Health        CODARON
Centers
Construction and Operation of       STS
Referral Health Centers
Monitoring and Evaluation            STS and
SUCAM
Malaria Control                      SUCAM
Research                             CNPq
Construction of Health Posts        Community, assisted by social
extension agents and local
governments
Training                            STS
Operation of Health Posts           Municipalities under the
and Centers                         technical support and
supervision of STS



-44-
ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROCGRAM
FIRST PEASE
HEALTH PROJECT
RELATED DOCL'MENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
FAO/World Bank, "Report of the Brazil Rondonia Rural Development Project
Preparation Mission," Vols. I and II, November 21, 1980, Report No. 52/80
BRA 21
World Bank, "The Integrated Development of Brazil's Northwest Frontiers"
Report No. 30429-BR
Territorial Secretariat of Health (STS), Rondonia, "Serviqos Basicos de Saude,"
Technical Standards and Legislation, 1980
SUCAM, "Malaria Control Proposal," 1981
SUCAM, "Study on Problems of Malaria Control in Amazonia," 1979
SUCAM, "Rondonia, 1980 Progress Report for Specific Programs"
Supplementary Staff Working Papers by Component



-45-
BRAZIL                                  Chart 1
NORTHWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
BEALTU PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE SUPERINTENDENCY FOR
PUBLIC HEALTH CAMPAIGNS (SUcAM)
MINXISTER OF HEALTH
Superin endent
CONTROL               ADMINISTRATION                PERSONNEL               INANCE
OF
ENDEMI CS
(Divisions)           (Divisions)                   (Divisions)            (Divisions)
Technical           - Materials                   - Assignments            Budgets
Malaria             - Transport                   - Legislation            Implementatior.
Chagas              - Buildings                   - Recruitment            Special Projects
Schistosomiasis    - Communications               - Ancillary              and Activities
Leishmaniasis       - Information and               Activities
'- Yellow Fever       Education                     Classification
aud Filariasis        Other Assets                  Health and
- Others                 Graphic Arts                  Social Support
Special Projects
and Activities
REGIONAL DIRECTORS
(26)
(Divisions)
Fi~~~~~~~                           =
Field       Epidemi-    Statistics  Materials  'Finance  Personnel  Trainingi
Operations     ology
DISTRICTS
(80)
(Units)
I Techni~cal          Administrationt



BRAZIL
NORTIIWEST REGION INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PIIASE
HEALTH I'ROJECT
ORGANIZATION ANI) STAFFING
OF
RONDONIA'S SECRETARIAT OF iE-ALTH_C(STS)
Secretary               Planning Unit  Staff:  7 professionals
4 technicians
LDepartments j
Basic Interventions                    Surveillance          Special ProSrams              lie iti Services
_ = . ('~~~~~~~~~~~oordinlatorL _ 
I)ivis6lon                     Staff: 3 profeassJi a s  S)taff: 2 profe3sionals           DIvlsions
Epidemiology Statisc  IEducationS                                                                                i ze       oyc     ic
_Services _-___
Staff: 4 professionals
3 techniciais                                                                                        (No Idades
14 clerks                                                                                                Hlist.as)
Staff: 14 professionals
t Iechniciav
liuman        lloepiptals     AdminitetraLtion |TerritoviRl             Drug
Resources                      |Coiincil
Notez Professionials include pliysicians, odontologists, hjealth, admintnistrators, biochiemists, planners
and statisticians.
4t



BR AZ IL
/           ----' >  8                  NORTHWEST  REGION   DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
FIRST PHASE
HEALTH  PROJECT
/                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RONDONIA! Location of Pnoiect Facilities and Activities
RMafIi ConH.oI PtohoC.
Re,; oI H. olth   C.-t- a
h                            F-  I  R -eh eoo e,
p.V            JC                         i                                                           . "t       G      oR  oads          O
~~~  ;N                                                                                                                           A ' ',oR ' ! ,d 
1                  0, ,.  '0._  00  00    0
I   .>   .   P 9o w m   trei; >r *e  @ >e S _ * kffld p Jn0                                                      0    S    S 
-      ,P
~~  *00 NEGRO 0004/A ~~~~~~~~~ -j C>    >'~G   R 0 K'                                                  C
--JO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  -
<OA
Cda oo.                            'ELRAS  NEGRAS0                             / 1
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V.Chopou.
C                                          '-x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0'                                   C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
B R A  Z                                                                                              "I L
N-



