Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3139-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
NORTHWEST REGION HEALTH PROJECT
November 9, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1980       November 2, 1981
Currency Unit  =        Cruzeiro (Cr$)         Cr$
US$1           =        Cr$53.25               Cr$114.46
Cr$I                    US$0.14                US$0.0087
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONOROESTE PROGRAM FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 - Cr$68.10)
corresponds to the cruzeiro average January 1981 exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CNPq          -   Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnologico
(National Research Council)
CODARON       -   Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de Rondonia
(Rondonia Agricultural Development Company)
DNER          -   Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Roads Department)
FUNAI         -   Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IEC           -   Instituto Evandro Chagas
(Evandro Chagas Institute, a Health Research Institute)
INAMPS        -   Instituto Nacional de Assistencia Medica e
Previdencia Social
(National Institute for Medical Assistance and Social Security)
INPA          -   Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia
(National Institute for Amazon Research)
MOH           -   Ministerio de Saude
(Ministry of Health)
MSS           -   Ministerio de Previdencia e Assistencia Social
(Ministry of Social Security and Welfare)
NUAR          -   Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural
(Urban Nucleus for Rural Development Support)
PIASS         -   Programa de Interiorizacao das Acoes de Saude e Saneamento
(Primary Health Care Program in Northeast Brazil)
POLONOROESTE  -   Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Brazil's Northwest Region Integrated Development Program)
SEPLAN-PR     -   Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
(Federal Secretariat of Planning)
SEPLAN-RO     -   Secretaria de Planejamento de Rondonia
(Rondonia Planning Secretariat)
STS           -   Secretaria Territorial de Saude
(Territorial Secretariat of Health, Rondonia)
SUCAM         -   Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Publica
(Superintendency for Public Health Campaigns)
SUDECO        -   Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Regiao Centro-Oeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Center-West Region)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:         US$13 million equivalent
Terms:          Interest at 11.6% per annum.  Repayment in 15 years, including
3 years of grace.
Project         The loan is one of three being presented simultaneously, which
Description:  together form the first phase of the Bank's proposed partici-
pation in an integrated development program for northwest
Brazil (POLONOROESTE Program). This program is designed to
help bring order to 2the spontaneous settlement of a region
of about 410,000 km covering all the federal territory of
Rondonia and 14 municipalities in the central and western
part of the state of Mato Grosso. The program aims at increas-
ing the productivity, income, and social welfare of the
region s present and future population, and is expected to
benefit directly some 120,000 small-scale farm families. At
the core of the program is the paving of the heavily traveled
and badly deteriorated 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho road, and
the investments required to achieve the balanced socio-
economic development of the road's area of influence and to
protect the region's Amerindian population and natural
environment.
The proposed project consists of the following main components:
(a) a malaria-control program in the territory of Rondonia
which is expected to bring about a reduction in malaria incidence
from 108/1,000 to 30/1,000; (b) improvement of basic health
infrastructure and services in the territory of Rondonia with
special emphasis on areas to be served by an associated agricul-
tural settlement consolidation project; (c) training of personnel
for the project-supported health facilities, upgrading of the
administration and supervision of health services, and technical
assistance for project monitoring; and (d) operational health
research to support the malaria-control operations and to cover
other major health problems in the region. The project would
be implemented over a five-year period beginning 1982. The
other two associated projects are an agricultural development
and environmental protection project (Report No. P-3i37-BR) and
a highway project (Report No. P-3138-BR).



- ii -
Risks:          The POLONOROESTE program is to be implemented in a frontier
area of the Amazon region. The lack of detailed knowledge
of this region leaves scope for genuine differences of opinion
on the environmental risks of the program. The proposed
associated projects include measures designed to protect
the more fragile areas of the region. In the remaining areas,
land use would be closely monitored and any potentially
dangerous trends checked. The proposed program would entail
increased risks to the region's Amerindian communities, some of
which are still in an early stage of contact with the national
society. The government is taking steps to improve the organi-
zation, operation and funding of the National Indian Foundation
(FUNAI) and has prepared a special project for the protection
of these communities.  These measures are indicative of the
government's commitment to protect the interests of the
region's Amerindian population and have alreadv been initiated.
The continuity and timeliness of these actions would be closely
monitored. The federal and local executing agencies would
receive substantial inputs through the projects to improve
their uneven institutional capacities. Despite all these
mitigating measures and noted commitment on the part of the
government authorities and the staff of the executing agencies,
the execution of the program would entail a high degree of
risk. These risks are, however, considerably lower than those
which would exist if no attempts were made to bring under
control the negative effects of the ongoing spontaneous and
disorderly development of the northwest region.
Although successful malaria-control operations have been
conducted elsewhere in Brazil, possible resistance of the
area's vectors to DDT and of the parasite to chloroquine, the
most commonly used suppressant, remains a risk. The research
component aims at reducing these risks. Coordination of
numerous federal, territorial and municipal agencies responsible
for implementing a great number of project-related activities
in dispersed settlement areas under difficult frontier condi-
tions may prove difficult. Recent efforts to better define
institutional responsibilities should mitigate these risks.



- iii 
Estimated Costs
of Health
Project:                                                       -----US$ Thousands-----
Local   Foreign   Total
A.   Malaria Control Program                   11,503    1,766   13,269
B.   Health Services Development
Establishment of Health Centers          2,370       670    3,040
Equipping of Health Posts                  387       103       490
Establishment of Referral
Health Centers                        3,748    1,158    4,906
Subtotal                           6,505    1,931    8,436
C.   Training and Supervision
Rural Health Workers                       156         9       165
Health Auxiliaries                         454         9       463
Health Administration                      115        29       144
Field Supervision                          231         6       237
Subtotal                             956        53    1,009
D.   Research and Monitoring and Evaluation
Malaria Research                         1,275       225    1,500
Research Studies                           850       150    1,000
Monitoring and Evaluation                   72        18        90
Subtotal                           2,197       393    2,590
TOTAL BASE COSTS                          21,161    4,143   25,304
E.   Contingencies
Physical                                2,116        414    2,530
Price                                   8,265    1,601    9,866
Subtotal                          10,381    2,015   12,396
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        31,542 1/ 6,158   37,700 1
1/   Including local taxes equivalent to about US$0.7 million.



- iv -
Financing Plan:                                -------US$ Millions--------
Local     Foreign      Total
Government                    24.7         -          24.7
IBRD                           6.8        6.2         13.0
TOTAL                    31.5        6.2        37.7
Estimated                         -----------US$ Millions Equivalent---------------
Disbursements:  Bank-FY          FY82      FY83      FY84     FY85      FY86      FY87
Annual           0.7       1.9       2.1      2.6       3.1       2.6
Cumulative       0.7       2.6      4.7       7.3      10.4      13.0
Rate of Return:  Because of the nature of the project no rate of return has been
calculated.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3537b-BR of November 9, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A NORTHWEST REGION HEALTH PROJECT -/
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$13
million to help finance the northwest region health project. This project
is associated with an agricultural development and environmental protection
project and a highway project which together form the first phase of Bank
participation in a Northwest Region Integrated Development Program. Docu-
ments concerning the northwest region agricultural development and environ-
mental protection project and the highway project are being distributed
at the same time as this report. The proposed loan would have a term of
15 years including 3 years of grace with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 2/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors oa June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new country
economic memorandum is scheduled for the second half of FY82. Country data
are provided in Annex I.
3.        The present government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its
attention has had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a
difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the
government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-
payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards
and better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.        Over the past 13 years Brazil has enjoyed remarkable economic
growth, with GDP and income per capita rising at average real rates of
about 9% and 6% per annum, respectively. During the 1967-73 period, growth
I/   Parts I, II and III of this Report are identical to the corresponding
sections of the President's Report for the Northwest Region Agricultural
Development and Environmental Protection Project (Report No. P-3137-BR)
and the Northwest Region Highway Project (Report No. P-3138-BR), being
distributed at the same time as this report.
2/   This section is reproduced with only minor changes from the economic
section of the President's Report on the Piaui Rural Development Project
(Report No. P-3078-BR, dated May 28, 1981).



was achieved with no significant deterioration of the external resource balance,
despite considerable trade liberalization, and there also occurred a gradual
decline in the rate of domestic inflation. However, given the heavy dependence
of Brazil's industry and transport system on petroleum, over 80% of which was
imported, the quadrupling of oil prices at the end of 1973 resulted in a sharp
deterioration in the nation's terms of trade.  Excess aggregate demand and a
succession of bad harvests have, along with increased energy costs, resulted
in increasing balance-of-payments difficulties and the reacceleration of
inflation.
5.        Coping with these short-term constraints, while responding to
continuing pressures to maintain high growth rates of output and employment
and simultaneously establishing the basis for long-term structural adjustment,
has been the central problem of Brazilian economic management during the
past seven years. Considerable success has been achieved in maintaining
rapid growth, and an aggressive and innovative effort has been launched to
reduce energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for im-
ported petroleum. Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were
successfully contained through the continued rapid expansion of exports
(particularly of manufactures), increased import barriers, accelerated import
substitution, and heavy external borrowing, including large additions to
international reserves.
6.        Any significant reduction in Brazil's dependence on imported petroleum,
however, would necessarily involve a long gestation period.  Meanwhile, the
rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports, and intensifica-
tion of domestic inflationary pressures increased the economy's vulnerability
to further external shock. That vulnerability has been severely tested by
the additional sharp increases in petroleum prices and international interest
rates that occurred in 1979 and 1980.
7.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansioni, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports.
Industrial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural
output suffered a second consecutive year of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP
growth was 6.4%. High demand, the poor harvest, and increased fuel costs
resulted in a rapid acceleration of inflation which reached 78% by the
end of the year, the highest rate since 1964.
8.        Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs also contributed to a progressive deteriora-
tion of Brazil's balance of payments. Despite the continued rapid growth of
manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small surplus
in 1977 to a US$1 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.9 billion deficit in
1979. The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%,
or US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to
which more than 65% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising
gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion
in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from US$6 billion
to US$10 billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.



9.        With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion
was provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrow-
ings in 1979, including bond issues, totaled US$11.9 billion and US$5.4 billion,
respectively. Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary
credits, and an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available
to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves
to US$9.7 billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about six months of
goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt had
risen to US$49.9 billion, or 24% of GDP.
10.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were fol-
lowed by new packages of measures in December 1979 and in January and April
1980. The most important of the December measures were a 30% devaluation of
the cruzeiro, accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the
prior deposit requirement on imports; increased restrictions on public enter-
prise investments, imports and borrowing; selected tax increases; the intro-
duction of a programmed phase-out of most tax earmarkings; a modification of
administered credit programs intended to reduce subsidies; the imposition of
direct controls on credit expansion by the private banking system; and the
establishment of ceilings on monetary correction and exchange rate adjustments
during 1980 in an effort to dampen inflationary expectations.
11.       Nevertheless, the economic momentum continued in 1980, with overall
economic growth exceeding 8%, including an excellent agricultural harvest and
continued rapid industrial expansion. Aggregate demand remained strong,
despite improved fiscal and monetary restraint, and inflation rose to over
110%, as measured by the General Price Index.
12.       On the external side, merchandise exports grew by 32% in 1980 as a
consequence of the excellent harvest and continued expansion of manufactured
exports despite the slow growth of the world economy. Imports expanded
almost as fast, however, in response to the continued strong growth of the
economy, higher petroleum prices, and some private sector inventory accumula-
tion early in the year in anticipation of possible tighter import controls.
Despite the rapid growth of industrial output and GDP, the volume of
petroleum imports fell from just over one million b/d in 1979 to 929,000 b/d
in 1980 as a result of conservation efforts and domestic energy substitution.
Nevertheless, the trade deficit for the year totaled US$2.8 billion. External
borrowing totaled about US$15 billion (including an estimated US$2-3 billion
of short-term borrowing), and reserves were drawn down by an additional US$3.5
billion falling to about US$6.9 billion 1/ by the end of the year. Although
Brazil was able to obtain the required US$5-6 billion net external financing,
loan terms were tighter. Total medium- and long-term external debt outstanding
at the end of 1980 was about US$56 billion.
1/   After gold and dollar valuation adjustments.



13.       A number of important policy measures have been introduced in 1981.
Controls on public expenditures have been further tightened, and monetary
expansion was targeted at 50-60%'. In an effort to encourage private savings
and maintain adequate export incentives, monetary correction is being brought
into line with actual inflation, and the exchange rate is again being adjusted
for the differential between domestic and international inflation (measured
in dollars). Commercial banks have been freed from interest rate controls,
interest rates on official credits have been raised, and price controls are
being progressively relaxed. An increase in the foreign exchange transactions
tax on imports from 15-25% has served to further discourage imports, while
some tax incentives to exports have been restored. Although the net impact of
these measures may have been a short-term increase in inflation, there is now
evidence of greater restraint of aggregate demand, a slowdown of economic
activity and reduced pressure on the balance of payments.
Poverty Programs
14.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty. In addition to general efforts to maintain the growth Gf employment
and prevent the erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast
region have been continued notwithstanding the present tight fiscal and
monetary restraints. Coverage of the social security program has been expanded
and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population
is now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer
program has been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter
system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible
to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which
is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural northeast.
The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost
two million loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank
(BNH) since 1964. Improvement and extension of the primary health services
to rural areas is a government priority in the health sector. A program for
grassroots health and sanitation actions for northeast Brazil was initiated
in 1976. Plans are underway for expanding this program into a comprehensive
national primary health care program. A sites and services program was
established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was
complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home improvement and building
materials. High priority has also been given to the extension and improvement
of urban water supply. Consequently, some six million households comprising
about 30 million people have been connected to public water supply systems
since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers who receive such
services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related
problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
15.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce the drain on the
economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated.
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



- 5 -
and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with
PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to
develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear
power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to expand domestic
coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation.
While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported energy remains
a formidable problem. With oil imports constituting an estimated US$10.2
billion (nearly 45% of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal preoccupation
of economic decision-makers.
16.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures already
noted, a number of important institutional reforms are being carried out
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. Among these
are the marked improvement of information flows and budgetary control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central Bank;
and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Accelerated devaluations of
the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, and the gradual
freeing of prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient
resource allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import sub-
stitution. Public investments may be constrained by reduced resource avail-
abilities over the next several years and foreign lenders, including the Bank,
should be prepared to finance a significant proportion of project costs
including, when necessary, a part of local costs. Furthermore, priority
attention will continue to be given to the development of domestic energy
sources, agriculture and major import-substitution projects.
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5-5.5% per annum in 1981-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in 1973-80. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a stable current account deficit through 1983, falling there-
after. The debt service ratio would decline slowly. These projections are
highly sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, international interest rates,
and the rate of growth of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt
service and a high share of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy
more vulnerable to external events than it has been for many years, and this
situation may be expected to persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1984. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the 1981-85 period
even if international interest rates should decline. Thus large service
account deficits will contribute to continuing current account deficits on the
order of US$10-12 billion through 1983. As a proportion of CDP, the current
account deficit is projected to fall steadily from its peak of 5.6% in 1980.
This projection assumes that imports grow at a moderate pace through 1985,
reflecting continued import substitution, as well as a strengthening of the
overall domestic savings effort. A trade surplus would appear beginning in
1982.



- 6 -
19.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$11-12 billion in 1981 and 1982, and to decline progressively there-
after to about US$5 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be about
US$19 billion this year and remain in the US$18-20 billion range over the five-
year period, with 75-85% obtained as financial credits from private leniders.
Consequently, the net debt service ratio 1/ would decline from about 61% in
1980 to about 43% in 1985.
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by the large domestic market. Never-
theless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt have left the
economy increasingly vulnerable to further external shocks. The government
recognizes the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in
its investment policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import
substitution, employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates will continue to make projections
subject to a wide margin of error. The present scenario also depends heavily
on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation, expand manufactured exports despite
the slower anticipated growth of the world economy, and on its continued
access to international capital. A major effort is underway to reduce depen-
dence on foreign petroleum, but significant results will not be apparent for
several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
highly diversified, and resilient. The task of economic management will not
be easy, but policymakers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should greatly strengthen
their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979 and
1980, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By September 30, 1981 the Bank had made 106 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$5,995.6 million (net of cancellations), of which 54 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$378 million
in FY81. They are expected to increase further during the next few years.
1/   Including both public and private debt.  The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1979 the
public sector accounted for only 53% of total debt service payments.



The total undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1981 was US$2,950.2 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1981
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY76-80 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
million to over US$700 million per year. In FY76, ten loans were made totaling
US$498 million; in FY77, seven loans totaling US$425 million; in FY78, nine
loans totaling US$705 million; in FY79, nine loans totaling US$674 million;
and in FY80, seven loans totaling US$695 million were made. In FY81,
eight loans totaling US$844 million were approved -- US$125 million for
a second power transmission project to ELETROSUL, US$56 million for a second
Ceara rural development project, US$54 million for an electric power system
coordination project, US$90 million for a third urban transport project,
US$180 million for a multi-state water supply and sewerage project, US$250
million for a fuel alcohol and biomass energy development project, US$60
million for a second agricultural research and US$29 million for a rural
development project in the state of Piaui. Work is relatively advanced on the
second and third phase projects of the northwest region development program,
an agricultural development project in the state of Amazonas, a rural develop-
ment project in the state of Maranhao, a third loan for secondary and feeder
roads, an urban development project in the city of Recife, and a large iron
ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas.
24.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1979 amounted to US$51 billion, and is estimated to have been
US$56 billion at the end of 1980. At the end of 1979, the Bank held 3.6% of
the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2%. In 1980,
the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated to have risen slightly
to 3.8% while its share in total debt service fell to about 1.9%. These
percentages are not expected to rise significantly in the next five years.
25.       As of September 30, 1981, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$774.5
million, of which US$519.6 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$254.9 million, US$193.8 million represent loans and US$61.1
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of September 30, 1981 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help to
intensify the efforts of the government to identify and develop projects that
will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups,
and to improve their living conditions. Consistent with this objective, the
proposed northwest region agricultural development and environmental protection
project and the associated health and highway projects would help improve the
productivity, incomes, and health and social welfare of the northwest region's
present and future populations. Previous loans for nutrition research and
development, primary education, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river
basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income
groups in rural areas especially in the northeast. Further projects to assist
the rural poor are in preparation including several additional integrated rural



- 8 -
development projects. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the
state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the
south, loans for urban transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and
services and low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized
cities are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control within
the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure that they are
used economically through rational selection of investment projects. This
institution-building objective is particularly important in the proposed
associated projects which seek to build up the planning and administration
capabilities required to promote the orderly human occupation and development
of Brazil's fast growing northwest frontier. The associated proposed projects
would help upgrade the Brazilian institutions charged with the protection of
the region's fragile ecosystem and would help the territory of Rondonia, which
is scheduled to become a full-fledged state in early 1982, develop its capabili-
ties for planning, implementing and coordinating rural development, health and
road activities. Loans for urban development, electric power, railways,
industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension, rural develop-
ment, water supply and sewerage, and the recently approved loan for alcohol and
biomass energy development also have important institution-building objectives.
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices in 1974, by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic produc-
tion for imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade
and balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy
crisis, this objective was placed in the forefront of the government's economic
policy. The proposed associated projects would also directly contribute to
this objective by helping develop a region that has a considerable potential
for agricultural production and by facilitating a rapid and fuel efficient
flow of goods over the 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway. Lending for the
electric power sector supports this objective, since it is based primarily on
hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need for petroleum
imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical projects is assisting
Brazil to substitute large-scale efficient domestic production for imports and
thus aid its balance-of-payments position. The alcohol and biomass energy
development project directly addresses the need to restrict growth of petroleum
imports. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is
being achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which will use Brazil's
abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.



29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows that
Brazil has needed and will continue to need for many years in order to sustain
satisfactory growth and achieve its employment creation and regional development
objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as an important sign of confidence in Brazil
and encourages others to continue contributing to the country's development.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Eleven co-financing operations, for
more than US$425 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial
institutions and several others are in preparation, including about US$110 mil-
lion in private co-financing for the CEEE Power Distribution Project (Loan
No. 1824-BR), US$50 million in private co-financing for the Second Minas
Gerais Rural Development Project (Loan No. 1877-BR) about US$65 million in
private co-financing for the ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project (Loan
No. 1895-BR), and US$250 million for the Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development
Project (Loan No. 1989-BR).
PART III - THE NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM 1/
30.       General Presentation.  The northwest region of Brazil is officially
defined as the area of influence of the 1,500 km Cuiaba-Porto Velho road
(BR-364). This area encompasses all of the federal territory of Rondonia
(scheduled to gain statehood in early 1982) and 14 municipalities located in
the central and western parts of the state of Mato Grosso. In total the
northwest region covers approximately 410,000 km2 -- about three quarters the
size of France (IBRD Map No. 14865R2). The region was practically uninhabited,
except for scattered indian communities and itinerant rubber-tappers and
prospectors, until completion in the mid-1960s of a 1,500 km earth road
linking the two major cities of the region, Cuiaba and Porto Velho, started a
massive influx of migrants in search of land and employment. The 1980 regional
population was estimated at 1,060,000, having grown at a rate of about 10.8%
per annum over the last decade (7.8% per annum in Mato Grosso and 15.8% per
annum in Rondonia); it is expected to continue to grow by about 10% per annum
during the 1978-88 period. The average population density is still less than
three inhabitants per km2 (the national average is 14 inhabitants per km2),
mostly concentrated in towns and settlements built along BR-364. One of the
main attractions of the northwest region and one of its distinctive character-
istics, shared by few other parts of the Amazon, is the relatively widespread
existence of climatic conditions and soils suitable for agriculture. However,
soils are quite heterogeneous and, as development in many areas is recent,
systematic research and evaluation will be needed. The region is estimated
to have some 29,000 km2 of good eutrophic podsols, mainly in Rondonia.
1/   For a more detailed assessment of the northwest region development
potential and constraints and of the Northwest Region Development Program
see "The Integrated Development of Brazil's Northwest Frontier" (Report
No. 3042a-BR, dated December 23, 1980).



- 10 -
A further half of the remaining soils are estimated to be capable of sustain-
ing agriculture, mainly the cultivation of tree crops, with appropriate
agricultural practices and inputs. In 1978, about 1% of the region was
planted in either annual or tree crops and about 80% remained in its natural
state; natural and seeded pasture and forestry operations accounted for the
remainder.
31.       Constraints on the Region's Development.  The large and uncontrolled
influx of migrants into the northwest region that has followed the opening of
the Cuiaba-Forto Velho highway has brought into prominence a number of key
areas of concern in the development of the region. One such area of concern
is the potential threat to the Amerindian groups located in the region. They
are estimated to number about 8,000 people distributed among 22 different
tribal groups, some of which have yet to be contacted. About 4,600 Amerindians
live in designated official Amerindian areas totaling 5.6 million ha, of which
some 1.6 millicn ha have been demarcated. The recent swell of migration to
the region has increased the transmission of diseases, such as tuberculosis,
measles and influenza, to which the Amerindians have little or no immunity,
and has intensified pressures on their lands. Squatters have, in some cases,
invaded officially designated Amerindian areas.
32.       Increased threats to the fragile and little-known northwest region's
natural environment from the rapid human occupation of the area constitute
another area of concern. To date, spontaneous migrants and existing settlement
schemes have, by and large, occupied areas of good soils, and the pace of
deforestation, though increasing, remains much lower than commonly thought
(less than 5% of the forest area had been cleared as of 1980). However, if
adequate policies and institutional capabilities are not developed to help
direct the increasing human occupation of the region, there will be an
increasing risk that occupation of poorer soils with ill-adapted agricultural
practices and uncontrolled deforestation could result in leaching and erosion
of the soil, and possibly changes in the ciimatic and hydrological conditions.
Finally, the failure of some past attempts at settling small-scale farmers
elsewhere in the Amazon region has demonstrated the need to provide migrants
with a range of productive and social infrastructure and services in order to
fix them productively and permanently to the land and create a sense of
community and security in otherwise unstable and harsh frontier conditions.
Malaria and precarious health conditions are special threats to the new settler
in Rondonia.
33.       Program Formulation and Concept.  The orderly occupation and develop-
ment of the northwest region is currently of high priority to the Brazilian
government. The region is perceived as an important future source of agri-
cultural production for export and domestic markets, and as a location where
migrants from other parts of Brazil can be productively and permanently
settled. In August 1979, an interministerial working group was established
for defining a strategy for the harmonious development of the region. The
recommendations of this working group served as the basis for a federal
special program called the northwest region integrated development program
(POLONOROESTE). The POLONOROESTE program, established by a Presidential
Decree of May 27, 1981, is the latest of several regional development programs
currently underway in Brazil. At the core of the program is the paving of the



- 11 -
heavily traveled and badly deteriorated Cuiaba-Porto Velho earth road, and the
investments required to achieve the balanced socio-economic development of the
road's area of influence and to protect the region's Amerindian population and
natural environment.
34.       Program Components.  The POLONOROESTE program calls for the execution
of integrated measures in the following areas: (a) improvement of the transport
system through the paving of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway and the improvement
of the feeder road network (53% of estimated program costs); (b) establishing
new settlement schemes expected to accommodate up to 30,000 migrant families
(24%); (c) consolidation of existing settlement schemes in Rondonia and Mato
Grosso (15%); (d) land tenure services to provide settlers with definitive title
to their land (1%); (e) environmental protection including establishment 1/
of natural reserves, institutional upgrading and ecological research (2%);
(f) health activities for the territory of Rondonia and health research (2%);
(g) protection of the Amerindian population (2%); and (h) program administra-
tion and coordination (1%). F'urther details on program components are provided
in Annex IV. The program is expected to be implemented over a six-year
period. Bank participation in the program's financing is currently envisaged
in three overlapping phases. The first and most extensive phase includes the
proposed associated highway, agricultural development and environmental protec-
tion, and health projects. The second phase would encompass the already
appraised rural development project in Mato Grosso designed to assist some
17,500 farm families. The third phase would cover new planned settlement
schemes in suitable areas of Rondonia and Mato Grosso. Though this new settle-
ment phase of the program was initially expected to help place some 30,000
families on 3 million ha, availability of accessible suitable lands, execution
capacity constraints, and delays or complications in the development of
appropriate production recommendations where cultivable soils of relatively
lower quality are to be used, may well limit the number of farmers and the
total new area settled, or may also extend the execution period for these
new settlements.
35.       Measures for Protecting and Assisting the Program Area's Amerindian
Population. Measures envisaged under the POLONOROESTE program for reinforcing
the protection of the northwest region's Amerindian population have already
been initiated and would continue to be carried out with funds entirely
provided by the government. Under a special project prepared by the federal
government authorities, the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) is upgrading
its organization and operation in the region and has already initiated a series
of measures giving priority treatment to (a) the protection and demarcation
of Amerindian lands and the removal of illegal settlers; and (b) health care,
through stepped-up preventive campaigns and more effective assistance to
fight infectious diseases. New health posts would be established and existing
mobile health units expanded to attend to the needs of the Amerindian groups
located in the Guapore Valley where the only new section of the Cuiaba-Porto
Velho highway is to be built. Further lines of action would seek to promote
education and economic development activites. To achieve these objectives,
FUNAI's regional infrastructure and administrative set-up would be upgraded
by establishing and equipping new Amerindian posts, purchasing vehicles and
1/   This segment is discussed in full in the agricultural development and
environmental protection project (Report No. P-3137-BR).



- 12 -
recruiting and training new staff. Planning would be decentralized for
more efficient field level involvement. Central coordination and synchroni-
zation with POLONORESTE activities would be provided by a special coordinator
who has already been appointed. Key protection measures such as these pertaining
to the Amerindians' health and lands would precede the initiation of the develop-
ment activities where necessary. The federal government has agreed to take all
necessary measures to put into effect promptly the above special project and to
provide in a timely fashion the funds, staff and other resources required for
the implementation of the protection measures. The federal government has also
confirmed that it would: (a) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
periodically review in the field the progress of the implementation of these
protection measures; (b) furnish to the Bank such information as the Bank may
require on the carrying out and impact of the special project; and (c) strengthen
the operation of FUNAI, particularly its monitoring and evaluation capability iLl
order to improve the efficiency of the protection measures included in the special
project. To this effect, FUNAI would, by May 31, 1982, enter into contract
with Brazilian institutions or experts whose qualifications, experience, and
terms of reference would be submitted to the Bank by March 31, 1982 (Section
4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement for the Agricultural Development and Environ-
mental Protection Project and Supplemental Letter No. 1).
Program Administration and Coordination
36.       Overall Coordination.  The overall administration and coordination
of the POLONOROESTE program would be effected within the legal and organiza-
tional framework applicable to Brazil's other special regional development
programs. The Ministry of Interior through the Superintendency for the
Development of the Center-West Region (SUDECO) is thus responsible for planninig.
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the activities of the POLONOROESTE
program. The Federal Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN-PR) retains, however,
a major role in the definition of financing levels and the funding of this
and other programs. At the federal level, SUDECO would be the key agency
responsible for ensuring that activities planned under the proposed project
are well synchronized with other segments of the POLONOROESTE program.
At the state or territorial level, a directing council chaired by the governor>
and comprising all secretariats and representatives of key federal and local
agencies involved in the implementation of the state or territorial segment of
the POLONOROESTE program, would establish policies and give overall guidance.
Daily coordination, administration, monitoring and evaluation of all local
POLONOROESTE activities would be the responsibility of a special program
coordination unit linked to the secretariat of planning.
37.       Program Costs and Financing.  The total cost of the POLONOROESTE
program, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at about
US$1.5 billion. This excludes agricultural credit on the order of US$100
million. A breakdown of these costs is given in Annex IV to this report. Tie
preliminary government financing plan for the POLONOROESTE program assumes
that 43% of the program would be financed from the budgets of the various
executing agencies, and 23% from special development program funds.  The go-ver-
ment has requested Bank financing for the remaining 34%. Agricultural credit
would be financed through existing credit programs outside the POLONOROESTE
program budget. Funding would be channelled through the various implementation
agencies after approval by SEPLAN-PR and under the supervision of SUDECO,



- 13 -
which would coordinate and monitor all program activities. Funds allocated to
agencies of the state of Mato Grosso and the territory of Rondonia would be
channelled through their respective planning secretariats.
38.       Program Benefits and Justification,  The northwest region has consid-
erable potential in agriculture and forestry, and response to public invest-
ments made through the POLONOROESTE program is expected to be both rapid and
extensive. The region's agricultural production is expected to grow at a 13%
average annual rate (compared to a historical growth rate of 5% for all
Brazilian agriculture), while more sustained cropping would be encouraged.
Transport cost savings associated with program investments in transport
infrastructure would result in improved price incentives to agricultural
producers and cost-efficient access to domestic and export markets. The
POLONOROESTE program would provide large numbers of poor migrants with enhanced
employment and income opportunities and would substantially improve living
conditions, especially access to education and health. An economic rate of
return computation for the program has been attempted, based on a comparison
of the "with-and-without" program situations. The "without" situation assumes
no investments in the main highway or feeder roads, no institutional strength-
ening and no additional technical support of agriculture. The "with program"
scenario incorporates all actions to be undertaken under the program. The
internal rate of return of the program, computed over a 20-year period, has
been estimated at over 50%, reflecting primarily the predicted substantial
increase in agricultural output as well as the impact of improving facilities
for transporting this output (see details in Annex IV). Major non-quantifiable
benefits include better protection of large ecologically sensitive areas,
intensification of efforts to protect the Amerindian population, improved
health and education services, strengthening of the capacity of regional
institutions, and improved knowledge of the Amazon basin environment. There
are also cocts which are difficult to quantify attached to the development of
the region, such as those associated with possible invasions of unsuitable
soils, potential threats to native flora and fauna species and pressure on
previously isolated Amerindian populations. However, since the occupation and
development process of the region has already begun, such costs would be far
higher if development activities were not guided and coordinated through the
proposed program.
39.       Program Risks.  The POLONOROESTE program is to be implemented in a
frontier area of the Amazon region. The lack of some detailed regional
information gives rise to uncertainties regarding the environmental risks of
the program. The proposed associated projects include measures to help
protect the more fragile areas of the region. In the remaining areas, land
use would be closely monitored so that potentially dangerous trends could be
halted.  The proposed program would entail increased risks to the region's
Amerindian communities, some of which are still in an early stage of contact
withl the national society. The government is taking steps to improve the
organization, operation, and funding of FUNAI, and has prepared a detailed
special project for the protection of these communities. These measures are
indicative of the government's commitment to protect the interests of the
region's Amerindian population, and have been initiated. The continuity and
timeliness of these actions would be closely monitored. The federal and local
executing agencies would receive substantial inputs through the projects to
improve their uneven institutional capacities. Despite these mitigating
measures, the execution of the program would entail a high degree of risk.



- 14 
However, this risk would be considerably lower than that which would exisc
were no attempts made to control the negative effects of the ongoing spontaneous
and disorderly development of the northwest region.
PART IV - THE HEALTH SECTOR
Health Sector Characteristics, Problems and Issues
40.       General Health Conditions.  General health conditions in Brazil are
poor when compared to Latin American countries with similar per capita income
levels. For example, Brazil's life expectancy at birth is 62 years compared
to 70 years for Costa Rica and 71 years for Uruguay. The infant mortality
rate is estimated at 92 per 1,000 live births compared to 60 for Mexico and
98 for Colombia, countries with lower per capita income levels than Brazil.
The above averages vary widely by regions and by income groups. Life expectancy
in the south and among the highest income groups is estimated at 12 to 15 years
longer than among the rural poor. The pattern of diseases in the high-income
urban areas of the south and southeast exhibits conditions similar to those
prevailing in industrial societies, with high incidence of cardiovascular
problems, tumors and diseases associated with old age. Conversely, the poor
rural areas of the northeast and the Amazon regions, as well as the low-income
urban peripheries, show a high incidence of infectious and parasitic diseases,
as well as perinatal deaths, as occurs in low-income countries.
41.       Health Manpower and Facilities.  Primary care is provided through
private practice, by outpatient departments of private and public hospitals
and by public health centers and health posts largely staffed by auxiliary
personnel. Secondary care is provided by public hospitals, private hospitals
and rural referral health centers while tertiary level care is provided by
larger referral hospitals in urban centers, by university hospitals and a
variety of specialized institutions. The overall ratio of health manpower and
facilities to population are comparable to Latin American countries with
similar per capita income levels. There are, however, wide inequalities in the
distribution of health manpower and facilities throughout the country, strongly
favoring the core areas of large urban centers. According to a 1975 survey,
the urban areas had a proportion of physicians and dentists four times higher,
and a proportion of nurses, nursing auxiliaries and hospital beds ten times
higher, than in rural areas. As a result, large portions of the population,
especially in the northeast and such frontier areas as the northwest, lack
effective access to medical care.
42.       Health Service System.  Apart from its concentration in urban areas,
Brazil's health service system is characterized by a multiplicity of competing
and overlapping public agencies and a strong private sector. Public health
services can be divided into two major subsystems: (a) a preventive subsystem
administered by the Federal Ministry of Health (MOH) and the state and terri-
torial health secretariats; and (b) a much more predominant curative (urban-
oriented) subsystem mostly supported by the National Institute for Social
Security Medical Assistance (INAMPS). The preventive subsystem has lagged
increasingly behind the curative subsystem, partly reflecting a greater demand



- 15 -
for health services from a growing middle class. The former's share of total
public health expenditures declined from 87% in 1949 to 28% in 1980. Over the
same period, public expenditures on health have grown fifteen-fold, increasing
from slightly more than 1% of GDP to about 2.5% of GDP.
43.       Policy Issues.  The main health sector issues are:  lack of access
to health care by poor rural populations especially in the northeast, the
center-west, the northwest, and the north, as well as in the low-income urban
peripheries; lack of control of major endemic diseases in rural areas; pre-
dominance of urban-oriented curative medicine financed by the social security
system; and fragmentation and inadequate coordination of public health agencies.
Since 1975, the government's policy has been to improve the efficiency of
the health services and to extend the service network into rural areas.
As a first step, a 1975 federal law formally established a national health
system. This law helped define more clearly the responsibilities of the
various health sector institutions. In 1976, a program for grassroots
health and sanitation actions for the northeast (PIASS) was established.
The recurrent costs associated with this program have been financed since
1977 by INAMPS. The program's concept has been made applicable to the rest
of the country by a 1979 federal law. The PIASS program's main elements
are: (a) extension of primary health services to rural areas; and (b) reliance
on auxiliary personnel as service providers.
44.       PIASS operates at the primary level through two types of facili-
ties: (a) rural health posts established in communities of 500 to 2,000
inhabitants and staffed by locally recruited health auxiliaries; and
(b) health centers which serve about 2,000 to 10,000 inhabitants and are
staffed by two health auxiliaries and a part-time physician. PIASS is supported
at the secondary level by either larger urban health centers, hospitals or
rural referral health centers. An interministerial commission for health
planning was established in 1979 with the aims of expanding the PIASS program
into a comprehensive national primary health care program (PREVSAUDE) to be
jointly financed by INAMPS and MOH. The recommendations of this commis-
sion are expected shortly. All the above-described measures are evidence of
the Brazilian government's commitment to developing a low-cost prevention-
oriented public health system for the benefit of the rural and urban poor.
Bank Involvement in Brazil's Health Sector
45.       The Bank's involvement in Brazil's health sector has so far been
confined to 11 rural health components of Bank-financed rural development
projects, nine of which have been instrumental in consolidating the PIASS
approach in the Northeast. The total amount of Bank financing committed
to these health components is US$27 million. The components have made good
progress and provided the government and the Bank with valuable experience
indicating, among other things, the need to upgrade the managerial capacity of
the state health secretariats, particularly as regards data gathering, training
and supervision. Other problems encountered have been delays in the flow of
counterpart funds, lack of community participation and excessive centralization
of managerial responsibility at the state level.



- 16 -
46.       Bank loans for water supply and sewerage projects in the state
of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the south,
as well as loans for nutrition research and development, are assisting the
improvement of the living and health conditions of the urban and rural poor.
An additional health project under consideration is designed to iuilrc.:
access to low-cost health services by large numbers of urban poor in the
peripheral areas of greater Sao Paulo. No project performance audit
report has yet been produced for rural development projects which included
health components; most of these projects are of relatively recent initiation,
Lessons learned through the supervision of these health components as well as
the PIASS approach described above have guided the design of the proposed
health project.
PART V - THE PROJECT
47.       The POLONOROESTE program of which the proposed project is part
was first reviewed by a Bank identification mission which visited Brazil in
October/November 1979. Project proposals were prepared by the federal, state
and territorial government authorities. The project was appraised in January!
February 1981, and negotiated from September 23 to September 30, 1981 jointly
with the associated northwest region agricultural development and environmental
protection and the northwest region highway projects. The Brazilian delegation
to the negotiations was led by Ambassador Raul Fernando Leite Ribeiro of the
Federal Secretariat of Planning and Mr. Roberto Cavalcanti de Albuquerque,
Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior. A Staff Appraisal Report,
entitled "Brazil - Northwest Region Development Program: First Phase - Health
Project" (Report No. 3537b-BR, dated October 29, 1981) is being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
General Health Conditions in Rondonia
48.       The proposed project would focus on the basic health problems
associated with the rapid influx to the federal territory of Rondonia of poor
migrants attracted by the territory's considerable agricultural potential.
Health conditions are particularly precarious in Rondonia. The territory's
present population of 500,000 inhabitants is expected to more than double by
1986, reaching 1.3 million by that year. At present, available health facili-
ties, which are limited both in quantity and quality of service, are clustered
in the mushrooming settlement centers established along BR-364. The rapidly
growing population of settlers in the interior has virtually no access to
health services or adequate water supply. Most of these poorly educated
migrants arrive in the territory weakened from the long journey and from
health problems such as intestinal parasites, to settle into makeshift living
quarters in areas of difficult access. As a result, Rondonia exhibits
general health conditions poorer than the rest of the country. The reported
infant mortality rate is 128 per thousand of live births, a rate about 40%
higher than the national average. Perinatal complications and diarrheal
diseases, pneumonia, measles and malaria are the reported main causes ot death
among infants. Intestinal and upper respiratory tract infectious diseases,
malaria, accidents and cerebrovascular diseases are major causes of deaLh for
all ages.



- 17 -
49.       Malaria is, by far, the most important health problem in Rondonia.
The extensive forests, the high rainfall, surface water accumulation, humidity
and high temperature provide a favorable habitat for the anopheles mosquito,
the malaria carrier. In 1980 more than 62,000 cases of malaria, resulting in
a loss of an estimated one million workdays, were identified in Rondonia. These
account for slightly more than one-third of the 170,000 malaria cases identified
among a national population of 119 million. It is safe to assume that every
family living in Rondonia today has at least one member who has had malaria
during the last year. The situation is not improving because the majority of
new settlers coming from malaria-free areas have no immunity and because in-
creasing cases of resistance to the main anti-malaria drug, chloroquine, have
been reported over the last two years.
50.       Against this background of severe health conditions, health infra-
structure and services in Rondonia are strikingly weak. Rondonia has one
physician per 4,200 inhabitants, one nurse per 8,000 inhabitants and one
hospital bed per 1,180 inhabitants as compared to one physician per 1,570
inhabitants, one nurse per 4,000 inhabitants and one hospital bed per 450
inhabitants for the northeast which is considered the poorest region in
Brazil. These facilities are concentrated in Porto Velho, the capital of the
territory, and a few secondary urban centers. The federal Superintendency for
Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM) in charge of malaria-control operations has
lacked the resources required for effectively tackling the malaria problem in
Rondonia. The staff of the Territorial Secretariat of Health (STS) were mostly
recruited in the last two years, and are still learning to deal with a variety
of problems in changing circumstances. The federal government as part of the
POLONOROESTE program has committed itself to alleviating these severe health
constraints on the region's development and the territory, as it prepares
itself for statehood in early 1982, is committed to setting up low-cost,
preventive oasic health services. The pr yosed project would assist in these
objectives.
Project Objectives
51.       The proposed project would be directed towards the most basic
health problems and would be in line with the government's health policy.
The project's ultimate goals of improving health are to be attained by:
(a) intensifying malaria-control activities in the territory; (b) strengthening
and expanding primary- and secondary-level health care for the rural population
living in the vicinity of the rural service centers (NUARs) to be established
under the associated agricultural development and environmental protection
project; and (c) strengthening research capability needed to maintain efficient
control of malaria and other major health problems.
Project Components
52.       The project would include the following activities:
(a) Malaria-Control Program. Expanding SUCAM's malaria-control
operations in Rondonia by providing equipment, vehicles,
consultancy services, DDT and drugs, incremental salaries and
operating costs;



- 18 -
(b)  Health Services Development.  (i) establishing one health
center in each of the 39 NUARs in the municipalities of
Ariquemes, Cacoal, Ji-Parana, Presidente Medici, Ouro Preto do
Oeste, and Jarui; (ii) equipping and staffing 50 health posts
to be constructed by the communities in the above municipali-
ties; and (iii) establishing one referral health center in
in the municipalities of Jaru, Ouro Preto and Presidente
Medici; each including offices, a laboratory, wards for in-
patients, a delivery and an operating room;
(c) Training and Supervision. Training for 100 rural health workers to
be assigned to the health posts, and 200 health auxiliaries to be
assigned to the health centers, consultancy services to advise the
territorial secretariat of health on training and the administration
of health services, and the provision of vehicles and operating
costs for field supervisors; and
(d)  Research and Monitoring.  (i) research on malaria and other major
health problems; and (ii) technical assistance for the monitoring of
project componenits.
The project is expected to be carried out over a five-year period beginning
January 1982.
Detailed Features
53.       Malaria-Control Program.  This consists of the identification of
malaria transmission areas, surveillance of malaria incidence and patterns,
action to reduce the number of transmitting mosquitoes and the treatment of
the sick. The project would support the expansion of SUCAM's malaria-control
program and strengthen its management and supervision system. It would pro-
vide for the recruitment of an additional 330 field staff, spray equipment,
DDT, drugs and vehicles. In addition, SUCAM would hire about 70 epidemiolo-
gical surveillance personnel and 26 technicians and workers. About nine
additional malaria and public health specialists would be hired to strengthen
the existing managerial staff. Since, in the past, SUCAM has found it diffi-
cult, because of financial constraints, to offer salaries high enough to
attract qualified professional and supervisory staff to a hardship area such
as Rondonia, the project would provide for salary supplements for the project
professional and supervisory staff. SUCAM would, by March 31, 1982, establish
and, promptly thereafter, put into effect adequate policies to attract and
maintain qualified professional and supervisory staff required for purposes
of the project (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Technical assistance
for the operation of an epidemiologic surveillance system would also be
provided. SUCAM expects that the intensive malaria-control program would
reduce malaria incidence from 108/1,000 to 30/1,000 by 1986.



- 19 -
54.       Health Services. 1/  Each of the 39 NUARs to be established under
the associated agricultural development and environmental protection project
would serve as a focus for productive, commercial and social activities for
9,000 settlers in an area of about 600 km . They would be provided with
water supply systems and with social services which would include schools
and a health center, the establishment of the latter to be financed under
this project. Each health center would follow a standard modular design
developed by STS and found acceptable. It would be staffed by two or three
auxiliary personnel. A physician would visit each center twice weekly.
Health centers would be managed by the municipal authorities and would provide
both preventive service, including health and nutrition education, and curative
services. To supplement SUCAM's activities, health centers would also serve
as notification posts and drug distribution posts for malaria control. When
they are in full operation by 1986, the NUAR health centers would serve a
population of about 360,000, or practically all of the expected total
population of the 39 NUARs by that year.
55.       The project would provide equipment for about 50 health posts to
cover areas further away from the NUARs. The posts would be built in
communal areas, based on agreed standards, by the beneficiaries themselves
on a self-help basis. Community support for these activities would be pro-
moted by social extension pgents and by the local governments. Each health
post would have up to 30 m of floor space, would be staffed by two rural
health workers to be trained and hired under the project and would have a
minimum equipment package to be financed out of project funds. The posts
would concentrate on prenatal care, vaccination, health and nutrition,
education and limited curative treatment, and would also serve as malaria-
notification posts. In full operation by 1987-88, the health posts are
expected to serve 120,000 people.
56.       The project would also provide for the establishment of one referral
health center in each of the municipalities of Ouro Preto, Jaru and Presidente
Medici to support existipg and future health facilities. Each referral center
would consist of 1,700 m of floor space, comprising a 30-bed ward, laboratory,
delivery and operating room, emergency room and medical offices. It would
provide the basic services of internal medicine, obstetrics, pediatrics and
surgery to in-patients and out-patients. Each center would also be provided
with one ambulance. These referral centers would treat patients referred from
health posts and health centers, and would provide the latter with staff
training, supervision and drug supplies. Each referral health center would be
staffed by two physicians, one dentist and 25 nursing and other paramedical
staff, and would be managed by STS. In full operation by 1985, each referral
health center would serve a population of 120,000 which so far are not covered
by existing referral facilities.
57.       Training and Supervision.  The project would provide for the
training of about 100 rural health workers to staff the project's health posts
and about 200 health auxiliaries for the project's health centers. Training
1/   See attached IBRD Map No. 15822.



- 20 -
courses would last about four months for rural health workers and six months
for health auxiliaries. The curricula are satisfactory. Technical assistance
would be provided for the development of teaching manuals and evaluation of
the training program. After completion of training, the rural health workers
and the health auxiliaries would be hired by STS as regular empiloyees. The
project would also provide for a health services supervision team in each of
the health departments of the three municipalities to introduce uniforml
territorial operating standards in the health centers and to supervise health
center and health post services. The project would finance the operating
costs, technical assistance and vehicles for the supervision teams.
58.       Research.  The project would establish an operational health reseai>:o-,
capability, especially for malaria, which would supplement basic research
conducted under the UNDP/World Bank/WHO sponsored worldwide tropical disease
research program. This research component is essential for maintaining, in
the long term, the efficiency of the proposed malaria-control and treatment
operations, and would benefit the whole Amazon region. The following have
been tentatively identified as areas of malaria research: (a) the dist: ibuton
and transmission potential of different anopheles vectors and mosquito biting
patterns; (b) insecticide alternatives to DDT; (c) the cost-effectiveness of
control measures; (d) the chloroquine resistance of malaria parasites; and
(e) alternative drug treatments. Research into other health problems in
Rondonia could include epidemiological research of disease patterns and resear ch
into leishmaniasis infection, and snail foci for possible schistosomiasis
transmission. The criteria applied in selecting these other subjects of
research would be their importance for the development of the POLONOROESTE
area, operational relevance, and lack of alternative financing. The prepara-
tion of specific research proposals is underway, coordinated by the National
Research Council (CNPq). No later than March 31, 1982, CNPq would have
completed and submitted a detailed research proposal satisfactory to the Bank
including budget, terms of reference and execution arrangements. Research
contracts would be awarded to local research institutions or individual
researchers under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03
of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Technical Assistance.  The project would provide 66 man-months
of technical assistance to help carry out individual project components.
These would include about 27 man-months of consultancy services for SUCAM's
epidemiologic surveillance and for the evaluation of project activities.
Thirty-nine man-months of consultancy services would be provided to STS to
help implement the training program, upgrade public health administration
and develop adequate supervision capabilities. The unit cost of consult.ancy
services is estimated at about US$6,000 per man-month, including local travelr
It is expected that the majority of consultancy services would be found in
Brazil.  The qualifications and experience of these consultants wosuld he
satisfactory to the Bank and their selection and employment would be in
accordance with Bank policies and procedures (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 21 -
60.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The overall evaluation of the POLONOROESTE
program to be carried out under the responsibility of SUDECO would include an
evaluation of the execution as of March 31, 1984 of all program activities, as
well as all activities under the health project. A report on this evaluation
would be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30, 1984 (Section 3.05(d) of
the draft Loan Agreement). The proposed project would also have its own
monitoring arrangements, which would be coordinated with those of SUDECO.
SUCAM would monitor performance against an agreed set of indicators, most of
which are already being used by SUCAM. Health services would be monitored by
the three health services supervision teams which would report to STS. CNPq
would monitor the research component of the project. SUCAM, STS and CNPq
would submit quarterly progress reports to SUDECO for trnasmittal to the Bank
(Section 3.05(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
61.       The total cost of the proposed five-year project is estimated at
US$37.7 million equivalent, of which about US$6.2 million would be foreign
exchange equivalent. The total includes about US$0.7 million equivalent in
local taxes. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of base costs
for all items. Price contingencies equal 35% of base costs and physical
contingencies (January 1981 prices) were calculated in US dollar terms
as follows: 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% for 1983-85 and 6% per
annum thereafter. A breakdown of the estimated cost is shown in the
Loan and Project Summary.
62.       The proposed loan of US$13 million would finance 35% of the net-of-
tax project cost.  These include the entire foreign exchange component and
US$6.8 million equivalent (about 22%) of local costs. It seems reasonable for
the Bank to finance this portion of local costs in order to make a meaningful
contribution to a project designed to improve the income and living conditions
of poor migrant farmers. Retroactive financing of up to US$1 million equivalent
would be permitted to help cover eligible expenditures incurred after July 1,
1981 for start-up activities such as the recruitment of key personnel,
consultancy services and training activities. The federal government would
contribute the balance of the project cost from the budget of the POLONOROESTE
program and through regular agency and territorial allocations. The federal
government would ensure that these counterpart funds as well as all facilities,
services, and other resources required for the purposes of the project would
be provided in a timely manner (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
63.       Contracts for civil works, estimated to cost US$3.2 million equiv-
alent, would be awarded through local competitive bidding procedures which are
satisfactory. Force account would be allowed for minor works in more isolated
areas. Given the small size of facilities to be built (US$20,000 per health
center) the scattered nature of the works and the relative isolation of the
territory, foreign contractors, who have no ongoing activities in the project
area, are not expected to be interested in participating. They would not be
precluded, however. Equipment estimated to cost US$2 million equivalent
and vehicles (US$0.4 million) to be purchased in small lots over a five-year



- 22 -
period would be procured through local competitive bidding procedures which
are acceptable. Chemicals and other materials, mainly for malaria control,
estimated to cost US$2.4 million equivalent, would be purchased through
international competitive bidding.
Disbursement
64.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against 55%
of expenditures for each project component through March 31, 1983. Subse-
quently, the disbursement percentage would be adjusted to result in an overall
rate of 34%. Higher initial disbursements are justified by Brazil's excep-
tionally tight financial situation at present, and the anti-inflationary
measures being taken by the Government, including a serious effort to contain
public investment expenditures. In order to reduce the interval during which
the Government would finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own
resources, the Government may request the Bank to make advance payments in
dollars from the loan account into a Special Account to be opened in the
Central Bank (Section 2.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would
be entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account upon
submission of withdrawal applications to the Central Bank. Conversion from
dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on
the date the expenditures on the project were made. The Central Bank would
forward the withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would then replenish the
Special Account. Disbursements for operating expenses would be made against
statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would not be submitted
to the Bank, but would be retained and made available for inspection by the
Bank during project supervision missions. SEPLAN-RO would retain the documenta-
tion for eligible expenditures relating to project activities carried out by
Rondonia's territorial and municipal authorities and agencies. All other
disbursement applications would be fully documented. The loan is expected to
be fully disbursed by June 30, 1987.
Accounts and Audit
65.       Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate accounts
of its project expenditures whlich would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of the audited statements of project
accounts of the various participating agencies would be provided to the Bank
through SUDECO within six months of the end of the POLONOROESTE fiscal year.
These reports would include an opinion (and comments as necessary) on the
method employed in the compilation of the statement of expenditures, their
accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in
terms of the project's legal agreements and the standard of record keeping and
internal controls related to the foregoing. The special account would be
audited by the independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Sections 4.03
and 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
66.       Implementation of the Malaria-Control Component.  This component
would be managed by SUCAM's largely autonomous Rondonia regional directorate
in Porto Velho, with assistance from the headquarters. SUCAM is an autono-
mous entity within MOH responsible for the control of endemic diseases.



- 23 -
Its track record, including the field of malaria control, is excellent,
and its organization, management system and style and staffing and personnel
policies are highly regarded. SUCAM's only serious limitation in recent
years, when a tight policy of public expenditure control has been in place,
has been its lack of funds. Funds to be provided under the POLONOROESTE
program would remedy this deficiency as far as Rondonia is concerned.
Procedures and policies to be followed by SUCAM's Rondonia regional
directorate in implementing the malaria-control component of the project
have proven effective in the past. POLONOROESTE funds for the planned
malaria-control activities would be channelled to SUCAM directly, in
accordance with existing general arrangements which are satisfactory.
67.       Implementation of the Territorial and Municipal Health Services
Improvement Component. STS would contract the construction of the health
centers to the Rondonia Agricultural Development Company (CODARON). No later
than March 31, 1982, STS would enter into an agreement with CODARON, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, for this purpose (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Project
Agreement). Construction of the referral health centers would be contracted
to private contractors. STS would subsequently recruit and train the staff and
purchase the equipment for all project health facilities (until the respective
municipal governments can take over as planned in 1986-88), as well as manage
the referral health centers. The municipalities would operate all health
centers and health posts with STS' technical support and supervision, under
contractual arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered into by STS
and each municipality by March 31, 1982 (Section 2.03 (b) of the draft Project
Agreement). The training component will be carried out by STS and supervision
of the activities of the health centers and posts would be the responsibility
of the health departments of the municipalities.
68.       Implementation of the Health Research Component.  Coordination of
scientific and technological research in Brazil has since 1952 been the
responsibility of CNPq, a small and competent institution with headquarters
in Brasilia. CNPq is building up its coordinating capacity to enable it to
oversee and coordinate an expanding research work program. There are two
major research institutions in the Amazon capable of doing health research.
The most important medical research institution, and one which has been
active in the fields to be researched under the project, is the Evandro
Chagas Institute (IEC) located in Belem. The National Institute for Amazon
Research (INPA) in Manaus is another major research institution which has
focussed particularly on diseases of relevance to Rondonia. INPA is multi-
disciplinary and broad-based. It has a section for nutrition and health
research which has been recently working on problems of leishmaniasis. In
addition, the SUCAM regional directorates in Manaus, Belem and Porto Velho
have been active in malaria, yellow fever and leishmaniasis surveillance and
have conducted limited operational research. SUCAM in Manaus is presently
assisted by Pan American Health Organization consultants who work on malaria.
Benefits and Justification
69.       The proposed health project is critical to the successful implementa-
tion of the other components of the POLONOROESTE program in Rondonia. It
would help meet the basic health needs of a large and rapidly increasing
population by reducing malaria-specific mortality and morbidity, and by
providing the basis for essential health services to cope with the other major
causes of mortality and morbidity. The malaria program would be cost effective.



- 24 -
The proposed comprehensive and sustained large-scale attack on malaria would
cost about US$2.40 per capita per annum compared to an average US$3 per
capita per annum in similar areas in the states of Amazonas and Para. The
value of labor days saved due to improved malaria control is estimated to be
about US$1.3 million per year by the end of the project period in 1986
(or about one-third of expected cost of malaria-control operations for that
year) and thereafter (assuming a continuation of present high employment
levels) would increase gradually until the value of incremental labor savings
would virtually offset the planned incremental annual expenditures for malaria
control by 1995-2000.
70.       By rapidly increasing coverage of the population from about
360,000 to 1.1 million (or about 80% of the expected population by 1986),
the project would make possible the drastic reduction in malaria incidence.
In addition, the proper treatment of malaria would reduce malaria mortality
considerably. By maintaining these efforts over a period of five to seven
years, it would be possible to gradually control malaria in the areas now
seriously affected. The health services would ultimately provide primary
health care for about 480,000 people whose present average per capita income
is about half of US$330, which is the Bank's current estimate of the relative
rural poverty income level for Brazil. Additionally, secondary level health
services would be provided for about 120,000 people.
71.       The institution-building benefits of the project would be substan-
tial. The decentralization of administration of primary health services
from the territory to the municipalities originating in rapid growth of the
latter would ultimately increase efficiency. Training and supervision would
strengthen the services while emphasizing preventive (as opposed to curative)
health care. Brazil would strengthen a health research capacity, particularly
on malaria.
72.       The proposed research would be operationally oriented, and as such
its benefits would be closely linked with increased efficiency of both
malaria control and the expansion of health se-vices. The benefits would
not be confined to Rondonia, but could be extended to the whole Amazon
basin.
73.       Annual expenditures for malaria control in real terms are expected
to level off after 1986. Possible increases in areas of new settlements
would be offset by reduced expenditures in areas where malaria would have
been brought under control. SUCAM's total expenditures for malaria control
for the territory would then account for the equivalent of 7% of its 1980
budget. Upon completion of the project, the additional annual recurrent
costs associated with continued operation of the three referral health centers,
39 health centers and 50 health posts would be about US$1.5 million equiva-
lent. The social security system is expected to cover 70% of these costs
(about US$1 million equivalent), leaving a bearable net fiscal burden of
about US$0.5 million equivalent for the government of Rondonia and the
beneficiary municipalities. The government of Rondonia would provide in a
timely manner the necessary funds to meet these costs (Sec-ion 2.05 of the
draft Project Agreement).



- 25 -
Environmental Impact
74.       About 800 tons of DDT would be used for periodic spraying of
dwellings to kill mosquitoes. This form of DDT use has a much smaller adverse
environmental impact than when used for agricultural purposes since it is used
selectively in the interior of the houses. Insecticide alternatives to DDT,
however, would be explored under the research component.
Risks
75.       The technical feasibility of the malaria-control program has already
been successfully proven throughout the country. Additionally, the program
would be managed by an agency with a proven record and a basic operating
capacity in Rondonia. Nevertheless, risks remain regarding resistance to DDT
and to chloroquine which might make malaria control much more difficult. The
research component aims at reducing these risks.
76.       The development of health services in the project area depends
on the commitment and efficiency of participating agencies, some of which
were newly created or would require considerable strengthening to adequately
discharge their respective responsibilities under the project. These agencies
will implement a great number of activities in dispersed settlement areas
under difficult circumstances. Work will need to be carried out in a timely
and coordinated manner at the local and regional levels. Specific coordination
arrangements worked out in the course of preparation and appraisal of the
POLONOROESTE program and the project should help diminish the risk of inadequate
interagency coordination. The risks of STS and municipal governments ineffi-
ciency is lessened by the project's strong staffing, training and technical
assistance elements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Federal Territory of
Rondonia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
78.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. There is no special condition of effectiveness or of disbursement.
Failure by the Borrower, Rondonia, or the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Economico (BNDE) to comply with any covenant, agreement, or obligation under
the Loan and Project Agreements for the northwest region highway and agricul-
tural development and environmental protection projects would also constitute
an event of default under the Loan and Project Agreements for the proposed
project, pursuant to the Bank's General Conditions (draft Supplemental
letter No. 3).



- 26 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
79.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
80.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 9, 1981
Washington, D. C.



- 27 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL - SoCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPAGES
LAND AREA (THUESAL.D So. KM.)                                     - MUST RECENT ESIIMATE)-
TOLAL            85N 2. mKosr RECENI                                              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AIRICELrURAL    2077.2                [960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE  b    LATIN AMERICA B CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPIIA (U1S)                   32U.0        570.0    1780.0                     1616.2                    2609.1
tNE,RCY CUNSINPIION PE.R LAPITA
(KLOGXAMS Us  COAL EQUIVALENT)      392.1        565.0    1001.5                    1324.1                     2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HMD-YEAR (THOuSANDS) 71513.0        95322.0  116539.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT UF TOTAL) 46.1           55.9       64.1                     64.2                       53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIUNS
VOYULATIOU  IN YEAR 20O0  (MILLIONS)                      176.5
ITATIONARY POPULAIION  (HILLIONS)                         281.0
YEAR SIAI:ONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2075
P(iPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          8.4         11.2       13.7                     34.3                       91.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       44.1         50.5       55.1                     94.5                      133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           43.6         42.7      41.5                      40.7                       30.1
15-04 YRS.                           53.8         54.3      55.1                      55.3                       61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6          3.0        3.4                      4.0                        8.3
POPULATION GROUWTH RATE (PERCENT)
ITIAL                                3.0          2.9       2.2                       2.4                        1.5
URBAN                                5.5          4.8        3.8                      3.7                        3.1
CRUEE BIRIH RATE (PER THOUsAND)       42.5         37.0       29.4                      31.4                      22.9
CRUU1  DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.9         10.5        8.7                      8.4                        9.1
.ROSS REPRODUCTION RAIE                3.0          2.6        2.0                      2.3                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        111.0     203.6
USEXS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            1.6
FOOD AND NUTRIIION
LNDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71iE0Q)            89.0        102.0     114.0                     108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT oF
REQUIREENTIS)                    101.0        104.0     107.2                     107.6                      125.7
YROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            61.0         62.0      62.7                      65.8                       92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         34.0         34.0      35.1                      34.0                       39.7
CLr11U (AGES L-4) MURTALITY RATE      17.3         12.0        B.3                      7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIPE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (NEARS)    54.7           59.1       62.7                     64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            128.0           ..      92.0                      70.9                       25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPLLATION)
TITAL                                  .         56.3      77.1                      65.7
URBAN                                 *          77.7      88.8                      79.7
RURAL                                 ..         29.0      56.8                      43.9
ACCLSS TO LXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
OuTAL                                           659.9      64.8                      59.9
URBAN                                 ,,         86.1      83.7                      75.7
RURAL                                 *-         26.5      31.7                      30.4
OJS'LCATION PER PHIYSICAN           2561.2       2123.8    1700.0                    1729.2                      973.3
POPULATEON PER NURSING PERSON       2772.1       2992.3        ..                    1288.2                      896.6
POPELATION PER HOSPITAL BEE
IOTAL                              307.0        269.0     247.7                     47i.2                      262.3
URBAN                              325.6        322.6         ..                    558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ADMIoSIONS PER HOSPITAL BEE             ..         18.0         .                         ..                      18.2
HoUSING
AVERAGE SITZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAL                                5.1          4.8       4.9
URBAN                                 *           4.6       4.7
RUKAL                                 *-          5.2       5.3
AVERAGE ONUBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
IOTAL                                 ..          1.1
URBAN                                 *-          1.0
RURAL                                 *-          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               38.7         47.6      63.0
URBAN                                 *.         75.6      84.9
RURAL                                 .           8.4      19.2



'-28.                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEILA9ES
- MIST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOfE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATIQN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  95.0        125.0      88.0/c                   101.7                      105.9
MALE                  97.0        125.0       87.07W                  103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                93.0        125.0       88.07W                  101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         26.0      24.0/c                    35.3                       66.3
MALE                  11.0         26.0       22.07;                   34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                10.0         26.0       26.07W                   35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  19.0           17.0       47.0/c,d                 30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         28.0      22.0/e                    29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           13.0         13.0       13.07W                   15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0         66.2       75.7                     80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         24.4      53.6                      42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          66.4        123.8     155.0                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          16.8         64.0       97.9                     89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   54.0         37.0      45.2                      62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9        1.9                      3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22869.1        30078.5   36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    17.5         20.4      22.6                      22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.9         45.6       39.8                     35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  14.8         18.3      21.8                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.0         31.6       31.5                     31.8                       42.3
MALE                                  52.7         50.3       48.9                     49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                11.2         12.8       14.2                     14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4        1.4                      1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0           63.5      62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8            3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8            9.0       9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..     150.0                     187.6.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     465.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     332.0                     362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BEDJW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                        .. -
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
May, 1981



-29-                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of S
DEFINITIOlNS OF SOCIA IttDIAiT0.
Mltes'  Atbo-gh yndata  -o  dooco I  oscooe g-etnly lodged the   os  otbIrltetl- andIc1jit   tsoi  ms   ettdts   bs                                               o   eitr
t .totaly  ......tble teo....o .I e le    l ,,oie   def.ltitn   and  .o.....a oed by dif etcootsIt  oloing  bi, dat.-   The d-  a.. area.
Itches.  isslo  to desntle tAct of  o0cttoe, intirata  tends,  nd ~~raterizeterraima__    oc   tffarroeaf harest otntri..
of re eljet ..o .cc   ..tp    otCptlSopa             i  E.prsa   gca   bt   Middle Itto-   M-ot Acto-s atorddi  Eas   te theses beta..  f etae
eotiotaittaltf Itttee  -  :ttotfe-rt-   grop data tbo ategeeaepplnt   etbe.rIbsi  asate. fo  esib                                  dicat.r ned stay  ealy sh
actdloococlots,osatoc aoconrnootadltonlhIf                                                               glahnnarersottantttocotthr.....oraeac    o dip.efl looeansgbeoel,Iaof.
LAoN) ibid  Irihot-d et  e                                                                             'PRZotIon pot Hoplti led-  totl, octet., and toa  - Popolanloc (total
Toial -T-Total eofa-   to  ropcti          .ad .,aad itiand  --et.cbn.eatol)divided   ytitian   eseiit beate  at hspital ted.
far-co                          -0str-ttc    o      -iht  a -.c   lttoi    fal1on; 19'S date.       hb.blli-tioe.err.re.   eapitle1 ar  es-bIish-ee   I-r---e-ly scate
by at tene  one pbyeitta.  caeblliteh-t  p-etiaig pttiipeliy terr.
INP ICER CAI'1104M(-            '     ia   aona  1torn  soketpir.ol                                      dil  tr   o   o  iooe.Pne   teies  bes-, isolat  health
tolaet  1  mscot otoooood  o  0-Io o_    -    rlot.                                                                                    '.0-9bse;11,adadra   att    c   ecsnl    tffe' itp : phtytis  lb,, bya
datton acd proidalletne-d range of sadinel fs-ilfite.  Par etais-
E-pco    ;-----                   -,    :-t   e            -  oacto   nngy(ol                             ht  pncpnr ...tI-sa  Joptal  ianltt  VW.a Pj-riscpst1g ta  hospitals,
o-d I,,,,,   _eda  l_aalacatlyd    -.otlrr_d no_csollp- tdooltsttslleadcrara4op-lassstn                                                                               -ass.erir
tO hioto-oo  .t--al  qountcro  et  -pion, -1960  1971,hod 11979                   Srit      p-taise.  hospitlsl or  intlatd osty ceda   -ntd 
dote                                                                      ~~~~~            ~~~AdOsln   e  SsI     e   - T-1 nebte  of adstss.ss tncc: siare
ft-  heeptilsl dinidr  bp the et-b- of beda 
anl -     !o        t0-a   lttoiye- -                       1. looP, o970, sod 1979               SPlP
dtffetentif,~t__to-oritaton- nc-mpcfftt.o.p.....                   tpf dcta                         an    bira-sle               tod-cort-dgraaorepYcnet ladsi
lOl,til  oto1979 (arc-                                                    the _ose_i  fc  sntte_         alprpse
Ponltintotot  lp    Crt,   ppoalo   oofoloe  reCre  o   98                               hr  fpesoa  a  cnsi  atl inches. see               -1rs  erpted  -o-i_jes
tota  poilattooC, cte  od ec adItersrolyad  etlt    ae                                  dashing.,  oDetiay - leligs  Iatds oc-pma.-e    scat_r_                         a
Fo(otlnoteanoatro,oltloracmcleotceieelaaoa                                            notpbd   ene
Pt IeeprttI  tIt- tratn  nCoI'llttcieit.                                                     reanEltotf   eret  fdetng       aal   ra.sdna 
lee,adlve    Ienottco    thtlnoo  -5pae-Te  os                             ovntcldalsgaraenton    eltdgdacesa.peatg
eatrsto  fei I i-;nor  lo  hoe  hee lon   oaceegdells i                   o  ttal  nts, ad  orl  eettns  segsAlely
Eertflnpa~trdintci Ivcan loal ed pait f-tp  plnn_ng   erf__oefed
sain ........ I   IbIs_   eotevd   nl  if-o  frotltoPr.. rot.gdotnt                                 pclss-   ertolag          p  dpos isc;er pioaesogte   ae   ti
resoedo  tc   etsofth   rceoa   oototcatomo  thehootndn                                      aso  ss.p-plear   hto  ocsev    b  cftaletctae
Pe a  hlyx. 200 -      d11-copptto    e lefd li.te k-iosete    (Ill  atrilo                        lot-ort-naly e-reilen -tgernant- cf -1octo   -  fart-da   tnsnlcttc
toa  area; 191   90od199dn                                                                           nnde_ teotnitl, led Etl, c-  ynecpegL seetthopcae a-pdt
Petam-e.enLooto         - md-,Captd -osobo           h--ne      .. fo   pi yloo  lad_slyo  a   epcsec  of-I                       seoaec      trenincnIioe-
lrot  opolnion   for0 1950-Alt 1919-71,  nd  90-9
popI,:no 1960, 1971, .Ad 1 197  dote -                                                             militaryIneb1oles
Grade  cetit  ate (nt thotsard)    dothl d-otb   Ott1 yho....d  of cid-prar              Padnop      y o di.et ..(cat  thensnd c diandde -y Mlnpst-cf           lee  n   e
ppenn;1960 0, 170     I, an  99 da_                                                             hodoenn    gLat--cbtope  eeca                       - of p lpattia    ecr-dra a-f.
loose gocatioion Paa-Aneroa o~he   of dog-hsearvetil bea  to-                                                  t tne    aevc    in-1soan te and  is~ .car   abe  eyit- to   nf  ea
pttltnpisre; 196oil  fle-rc70roe,eoi   inlit,19d   and71979-sostooatyi-hobltsdleat.
Crue ilth_Pleso-inn    - doarcA   )oa  (hnsa)-  lonol nate  of  aenperet-onsR.                               ec                                       Allhoatocoats     T   eeor 0y.   cc --oe--   to   di
PestlePienot 0-is _r (troi  of  aded moel      petgeo-rtd                                     in .i.ctie en in crep ,biea cstsretc  cf                   as55i   fet
so-r  ofp-td-lissrtng  ag  11-1   ers  ..tee birth-th--          nnil dbte  t                     lccca -ooo   c (ts  ch            Irot    Yrelata  ,- Ihese  the ssea           di.
alh'r.   c   cose  it  o           Iehr.p. -.     - onep-gtoap -                                    oflentcn o          f -dtl  goealIse -s nsep yan  defa   as a p-bapicd.
; ~~~ ... lly fill-I.-   --g.. .pnhiiatoc-dicgd prse1t96n  penedi0   sseaslsees.  I  tb  onelera
FOisotfSEInnc   e"ely'---tf tr appears..                                                                                              en  R.i-  leas  TVfo  ....s  seekf b-..
latx f b    =d  rool ooc -dt-n -(19i971-fl-l- - floenlo  per  tatt...ia                            Cies   pcobliAnectP v  ee  tci.-e              n -1beat on te  oaeno
ptodornio _ci al  foo   ooontn  -  tnoonneolde cd -           .%        sodfeedndttIten -- d.  daa Ite Ynec ,. ta-iaieg-tsletef   To d Ieri  fte:
eantono  ovf    g  prncoc    tePlsht6; 7191-itt- 1970  end- 1979 dan  ....                         Total Lab        Anco  -`-nsat-  -Crasi soet-  I    etI ns p     h.n tsit
pet_ day. Anstiabt          oppil_   Ioepis    196a 65et 970 prdondt 19ec79  en                  ton-oT.t t1tib-    1960, 19(1d. ar 1979 d-iyne. ti P.-,iId
nontir  mdi   oo    eoran,adloaaI  drchnon fit-                                       gtotaeIeodt      eeetrei  Eeig   frsr,hora    r
eri   oe  a-etd by FAG hemed ophyslol,itinl ted   toe  -cca  coin                       fiebing ne pectensp   cf cntet toter fece; 196E, 1970 set 1979 dare.
city  an  halhrosdrnevtcrnl rpcae    body eeigtc. nn                                           rdgcelerei    L- Ete  scen  In  ilg    cscotn    aeaae
an    e   irn lto    ofp 7olnio _ ed c11eicg 10 pe-c-  tot carte en                    and  letriony, eate  end gee as pecre-eg  of nata  late  fene; 1960.
h-aeodlvl   9t-b5 170   n  19(7  data_                                                            1970 and 1979 da-..
net  oply of fnod Per day.   e   npyo   odi  deftond ora-e-   s                                    tte~icpefsr--         p        a   eal, sate, and fea1i  tate  fernsa
elleasene of61 grass of  otet p00'c "Pe  daY U c   fgeeofei           n                1960, 1979. and 1979 data.  Thfn=c   estc   Iepcitpna    en
Pnlse protin, of nhiir  tO eras  hbond be a-i-o  crP-  Teesad-                                   tefleningaescetesec   t   npic .edln   ieced I--                                 A
sni-e  -eeic me         -- srog   ton th  atl,  .pro.n.ed bt PAO in  :ha Third                 Etnaiiyaee   ai       at   frpsa notrt   a   5md oe
Acrd Food totey; 1961-5  1970 and 1977 dan.ln.hsttl  oo  for.-
P        ~Per0d  ctj-.U nrrtn ~f-c.i-see  ad ctle-n-t iIn  -nety of food dr-
rivet ton  roisl  sod pols.s tc gr-   Per d.c; 1e6t-65, 19(0 and 1977 dana-                  tNCOME oISMvitoNl
Cit lers1-n giratn    ae  et            dhoat  - Annol dn-h. niocca   n                            Pronar    olceloa  (eti   a  aPd kind)                        - -Prr d by rirh-a
-ytre dccc derive   f.o. life  -arlr; 1910, 1970an - 195dais -f thaseho1de.
IPaLTn                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P060510 TAJkCET GROUPf
Int taorco1oat_ieh( pin   - -       co      -rh- od yent  .f Iifc toonn                        h   elsn   etan   r   ayeponseeeca                           f potro   I.-It.,
latet Oortaityptelestibesidl- cnoe  denohe of intents onder one tea                       O1i-snd Abrcnt                                (US$ ins  eel19   artis   - obn eat cor     -
MSas no-PI. sae   ee-        s  ofoooibIn -  otl  ttat   ndtoa    -  e-ertoilydqcr-  diet ptae. eseniltc-f                                                         qicensirt
etnepplp  (inoae    eotdeoae  saeo    bntet                      i                                                 P-tcr-taLt-tI  -fordb-
carnmoh  s  ha  fompotont  othesa   aeig,  idesitryclr)r                   ri-dne Paloee _P -si  Inc.-            ae  (US$ -er tettal    opsst  ce 
l- =h  .'ihl,1f_.IPTn:dl2"nnaleteie ptetyatseecllns-nidcfv...penssi
do oct hate o-.stood -  lettottciorato  yaro o  tot day..o Eanbi-g.dhe          1 000
idsellbotnat-1eiot-e-dah                                                                                                                    -   fli~g       -b
.-b-   t P-1~~~~~~~~~~    ,b,,,  -,I, --d by   dip-1trboit  ndtcraineo ttite
an  crt "aa   by' eae-  hrn_IIdnir hecn  t p  .. pIvisYn  ai- i                                                                 ovao   oleeoadclttrtl rc
P....t..eocv.                                                                                                                                             9crlI
PoruIlaon_yp_s   oen    -ea     -tooclcdoolded br  aabet of p-olo in
ealennd fes1ig-ado-e-e titas, y              -1tt -....ra  cod ...eIscatonaa



- 30 -
ANNEX _
Page 4 f 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Popolation     : 122.9 million (mid-1979)
GNP Per Copita;  UR$I,687 (1979)
Amount                 Avera, e Annual Increase (5)                  Share of GDP at 4arket Prices (X)
Indicator                   (Million USS Crrent)            (ot Conerant 1970 Pricen)                           (at Current Prices)
1979              1965-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85        1970      1075      199       1980 7b      1985
National Accou.nt
GXeno  Domestic Product Ia                 204,476                 7.7       10.6      6.9        5.4        100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0      100.0
Agriculture                               19,314                1.9        5.7       4.7        4.2          8.2       8.7      9.4        9.9        9.4
Ind-stly                                  65 084                9.2       11.6       7.6        5.5         29.1     32.6      31.8       31.6       31.8
inrolren                                  86,970                8.0       10.7       6.8        5.5         43.0     41.3      42.5       42.6       42.5
Cannomptson                                163,334                 7.7        9.8      5.7        4.9         76.9      78.6     79.0       79.0       76.3
Groun Inveentaot                            46,176                 9.4       14.6      5.2        5.4         23.5      25.4     22.6       22.6       22.9
Imports of Goods end NFP                    16,714                 8.2       11.2      7.3       10.1          6.6       7.4       8.2        7.8       9.7
Imports of Goods and NFP                    21,748               14.5       17.2       2.8        4.9          7.0      11.4     10.6        9.4        8.9
Gress Doenetic S-aisge                      41,142                 7.9       12.9      6.1        6.2         23.1      21.4      20.2      21.0       23.7
Am-ount /                 Average Annual In rna- e (2)                Conp-nfti-o of Merchandise Trade (X)
(illio  1USS Carrent)           (at Constant 1970 Pricsm)              _            (at Coerces Prices)
1980              1965-70         1970-75         1975-80        66         1970          1975        190 /b
Mercihandisr Trade
P$orshandine Exports                        20,132                 7.8           11.9             5.8        100.0        100.0        109.0         100.0
Pelnory                                    9,412                7.3             8.3             1.1         82.9         75.1         61.8          46.8
Nanufuctoren                              10,720                7.9            28.2            18.2         17.1         24.9         38.2          53.2
M.erihandise Imports                        22,961                10.0           17.6            -1.4        100.0        100.0        100.0         100.0
Food                                       1,239               -3.8            -6.7            17.5         11.5          4.5          3.0           5.4
Petrrle=1                                 10,210                9.3             7.6             4.3         14.7         11.2         24.5          44.5
Hachi-ery sod Eqoipanot                    4,392               22.1            15.2            -7.1         15.2         21.1         14.0          19.1
Other                                      7,120                8.3           28.4             -1.9         58.6         63.1         58.5          31.0
1975       1976         1977          1978         1979         19 0/1
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deilatne (1970-100)                     289.6       410.9        584.2         809.2       1,229.6       2,469.5
Etcisnge Rare (CrS/US$)                       8.1        10.6         14.1          18.1          26.9          53.5
Enpoet Pri  Loden (1970-100)                176.0       192.0        226.0         228.0         266.0         290.0
Iport Prism i Inden (1970-100)              242.0       255.0        286.0         317.0         389.0         431.0
Trems of Trade Iden (1970-100)              72.0        75.0         79.0          72.0          68.0          67.0
do X of GDP
(at Current Prices)
1970       1975         1979 /b
Poblic  Fi.ane (Central Government)
Current Revenue                              16.6        19.8         20.8
Carre=t E.penditare                          14.4        15.8         17.6
Sarplus (+) or defici,  ()                    2.Z         4.0          3.2
Capital Etpendit-me                           2.6         3.8          3.7
Fi.a..iog (Net)                              -0.4         0.2         -0.5
1965-70    1970-75       1975-79
Other Idisators
GNP Grovth Rate (t )                          7.7        10.7          5.8
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (Z)                4.6         7.7          3.0
Energy Consumption Groeth Rate (5)            7.2         7.3          6.5
ICOR                                          2.9         3.0          3.9
Marginal S-ings Rate                         20.5        25.7         22.7
Import flonrlcity                             2.2         1.6          0.3
/a   At  arket prices; c=mpo=erts aree =t dmes.tic produ-Ls eppressed at fantnr not and will not add due to nonunion of dneprecatt== ond
indirect tames 1e.. subsidies.
Lb  Efuemate.
/c   Proll6l9ary.



- 31
BALaNCE  OP flTEsT, ZXI81AL CAPITAL AM9 DEBT
(milling 01  atcret   price)
Po poat.ioc        122.9 sla   (i-1979)
IMP Pee Capita:  US$1,687 (1979).L
-1970                         ACTUAL68101,?RJETE
1970     97)          96          17            98          17           1980a                 i981         1992         1983          1964
M.et exporso  gooda nod seices                     -83        -6,707        -6,018       -4,03)       -5.999        -5,774      -12,329              -11,789      -11,421       -9,974       -7,155
leporos of goods                   ~~~~~~~~~(2.739)  (  .0)    (10,128)    (12.120)    (12.6)9)    (15,266)    (20,13))                 24,623       29,431       35,195  2cl244
Imparne of goods                               (2,50)      (12,210)    (102,383)    (12,023)    (13,683)    (17,9)1)    (22,961)                   21,032        28,570       31,132       33,834
Nal faco  locome                                 -330       -1,733       -2,189        -7,938       -3.25/       -4,740       -7,300              -8034/        -10.031      -/1,536      -12,0/2
(o htrc  Intee-  payients)                 _ 286)    (-1,498)    (-1,809)    (-2,103)    (-2,694)    (-6,186)    (-6,311)                  V6,9/9)         8 ,6/3)   ('10,19/)   (11L,490:
-e a-atrsrices                           -685       -1.629       -1,176       -1,576        -1,718       -1,327       -2,200                2,020      -2,251        -2,495       -2,762
Not icofeos                                           21            2            1         -               72           27          1)0                   41           )0            50           57
C.rr..t...c..Ot ba1eo.e                            -562       -6,700        -6,017       -4,037       -5,927        -9,757      -12,179              -11,740      -11,371      -9,9/3        -.7_14
Dif-ec l-O proatelo    ...on  /6L                     92          69)          939          810           906        1,200        1,202                1 ,7 36      1,96/        2,22/25 /5113
MALT loans ee                                        767        3,760         ,0123)      4.6 1)        8,1          4.995)       5,4)1               11,991,      1~1,9193     l,17,70        7,1
Trad itigol  eoe                                   33)    C   4,08)        2 2032)      2,668)    ( 2,793)      170)(0 2,88)                       3,79/       .394) 7413) /4
Plnsiolordills                                 (   66)    (  ,526)    (  ,980)    (6,118)    (11,312)    ( 8808)    ( 9,570/                        15,646)      16,151)   (15,519)        15IS454)
d,n ilslto                                   -632)    (-2,172)    (-3,009)    (-6,135)    (-5,26             -6,551)    (-.0)V7,449)                         8 ,514.)   V9.51/1    (-11.5c4)
Braeil_ian   ar  arod (net)                          -           19           -28          -267         -358          -596          568              -1,002       -1,442       -1,910          2,521
Ohraptal e.e.1                                 268        125          2627           -507          460         - 61        1,459                  -            -            -      
Change inres-one   (-Iscreane  /                    -563          950       -2,364         -630       -3.880         3.219        3,499              -    97      - 73 9       - 15              7 99
-nenti-nl Reeve   d                              1,142        4,036        6,546        7,736        11,026        8,680        6,911                7,016        6,517         9,101       10,093
Roserves as sconCe of imports /5        5.~~5    3.               43           1.3         10.4          6.5           3.6                  3.c          s.6            .6          3.
ACTUAL
_1974         1975         1976        _1877          1957 8       1979          1980
T-Io debt oanstandiog and disboreed                            17,576       23,200       28,344       34,440        46,309       50,956       56,407/0
Pobloc and peblnly gorned9,394                                           13,808        17,211       20.:434      30,,157       509 
Of fiica  snre3,2976                                                    3,911         6,393        4693         5,356        5,801          -
1880                                                       87 1)     (1,093)      (1,217)       (1,413)      (1,602)      /1,827)        -
fOth-o                                                   (2,605)      (2,818)      (3,176)       (3,280)      (3,752)      (3,976)        -
Private scorce                              ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~      ~~~6,118  9,697  13,818  16,761  24.803  29,291         -
Peloone no-gnaranted                                   8.182         9,592       11,100       13,006       16.13/        15,064         -
Undiebrer-d debo  bolic only)                                   3.524        3,761        6,617        8,280        10,089       17,629         -
Tslgosdosb-rse.een nO L 81?.loan                         7,254        6,912        8.076         9,262       14,827       12,161         -
Pnbllan  pnlily gnsrncee.                                    2,937         3,717        6,837        5,380       10,133        8,760          -
O,ff .clePor_  edie                                          608          398           393          180          666           3899        -
Is8                                                          267          230           173          299          275          301         -
Othersllses                                                  139           U.S19                      90          1,36         207          -
Pelnts score. 1                                          2,143        2,9150        6,1160       6,80         9, 256       7,853          -
rebat   no-orane                                              ,317        3,9           329          3,86)        6794         3,21           -
Tntsl debt servIce payments                                     3,280        3,670        6,797        6,163        0,017        10,485       17,988
ntr..e.t (nen)                                             (1,378)      (1,9)         (1.809)      (2,103)      (2,696)      (6,106)       (6,006)
4syent as - of Uport  4 85                                       38.8         37.6)        63.8         46.2          57.2         62.7         61.0
PeYmnets  s     fG                                                M .          2.9          3.3          3.7          6.2           3.1          5.7
Arecage intaree  rate en nngasrgttssd lag.-  () jj       10.6          8.7          7.             .           9.9         11.2         -
Offtcesar                                                      7.0           80           79           8.0          7.5           8.3         -
Averag  sataritY of geegr-tsed lose                              10.9          9.0         11.2          9.9          10.0         11.5         -
Offloln  scOs14.6                                                           18.6         16,3         16,6         14.4         16.1          -
2-t.                                           ~~~~         ~~~~~~~9.7  6.9  9.2       8.7          9.6          11.1         -
188E1IB1 DODtnonn  DOD (2)                                         5.0          6.7          4.3          4.1           3.5          3.6         -
10111 dlsbnrseets /to-tal genes disn,rsemtts (2)                  3.6          3.6          2.1          3.2           1.8          2.5         -
1IB.0 debtserice/ntal dobt s-rics(1                               2.6          2.3          2,7          3.2          2.6           2.0o
atn f nDeebr179
Kttstnrlys-t-ot-r nf debn nont.Ledi.g
Sstnritie    o  lithin  3 yexes                                                          66.3
aorisdoe within 10 yese                                                            926
/b   leclrdiog  e-i-rtsnd profits.
/c   to-lding dollee calnaton adjossnn   n  mttlsln  Odnslo   od
7):  leclndi.g gald and dola.11s-         e  danmns
/a   G.nds only.
jj   Pnblic debt ol.1
October 6, 1981



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan _ Year                Borrower                Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                    1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0            9.0
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0           19.6
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5           10.3
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0            6.0
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0           21.5
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0           22.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0           25.2
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0            5.7
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0           16.2
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0              8.4
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads         55.0           33.9
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0           16.6
1300   1976  Eletrobras                          Power                50.0            5.5
1302   1976  Brazil                              Nutrition            19.0            5.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Water Supply         40.0            3.2
1317   1976  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        83.0           70.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                           Power                82.0           20.0
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais               Rural Development  42.0             13.1
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           64.0           32.0
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do               Fertilizer           55.0            2.2
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                              Education            32.0           23.5
1488   1977  Brazil                              Rural Development  17.0             12.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Sewerage            110.0           83.3
1537   1978  Brazil                              Rural Development  24.0             20.0
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                          Power               130.0           86.8
1557   1978  Brazil                              Roads               114.0           94.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                             Petrochemicals       85.0           20.3
1563   1978  Brazil                              Urban Transport    88.0             49.4
1568   1978  Brazil                              Agric. Extension  100.0             80.3



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose       Cancellations  Undisburs
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                            Rural Development   37.0            30.3
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0                75.2
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0                95.5
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.             Aluminum              98.0          42.5
1714    1979  Brazil                            Rural Development   26.0            24.5
1720    1979  Brazil                            Urban Development   70.0            67.0
1721    1979  COPEL                             Power                109.0          95.6
1728    1979  Brazil                            Rural Development   40.0            36.3
1729    1979  Brazil                            Irrigation            28.0          20.8
1730    1979  Brazil                            Roads                110.0         108.1
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                       Pollution Control   58.0            58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply          130.0         130.0
1824    1980  CEEE                              Power                114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                            Urban Transport    159.0           158.9
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             139.0         139.0
1867    1980  Brazil                            Education             32.0          31.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development   63.0            62.5
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                         Power                125.0         125.0
1924    1981  Brazil                            Rural Development   56.0            55.6
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                        Power                 54.0          54.0
1965 /1 1981  EBTU                              Urban Transport       90.0          90.0
1970 /1 1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             180.0         180.0
1989 /1 1981  Brazil                            Alcohol Devt.        250.0         250.0
2015 /1 1981  Brazil                            Agriculture           29.0          29.0
2016 _1 1981  Brazil                            Agriculture           60.0          60.0
Total                                                5,995.6 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                   788.4
Total now outstanding                                5,207.2
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid             44.9              0.9
Total. now held by Bank                             5,206.3
Total undisbursed                                                  2,950.2
/1   Not yet effective.
12   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



a  .o  a     a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a                         a  a  Caaaaa    a  a  a  a    a a
a a a a a a a a a aaaaaaaaaa-..                                                        a a a a a aaaaaa' a
a  -  a  0  0  'a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a                         a  a  a  a  a  a  'a  a  a  a  a  a    VC
'a  -I CC  V  N  C  C  N  'a  C  -  N  C                C
IV CC CC CC    C  N  V  C  V  V  CC  C  C)  C  C  C
V  CC.I.   V  V  V  C  V  V  C  V            CC
NNCN0VCN  V a - C  aoC a N V  N C C. N  *I                                                                - N N
0  C C N V C 0 N  CVV.   NNCCCN0...VV                                                             VCC0C50C.E
-   C  VCC           -  I  V  V                                C  NC-I
II     -  C  N. C  V  -         NO    V       V  V      C  V  C  C  C  N  V  V  C  C  N           CC    N       N  -  C  V        V  V
C 0 0 V C 1 V C VCV. C. - C N N C V V N 0 - C C 0 V - V a i  o V
N 0 C N    CVV' N C 000  V.CVV.                                    C             -                    -    a            - V    C             V.
C. V   no          VNND..V               V    O Ca              C      V  C  a  C  V. V  V  0  V.         C      N  CC  -      0  V
NC                VO    V  N  CNN         a  -             -  C  V  C  V  V  V                C  C  N  -  V  0  C          V  V      V
C  a   -  C        V      N  V      V  CCV   V  N  V. a  N         C  N  N                            -  0  V  C  -  N  V  V
a  N   -           N      N  C  C  C  V.CN   C  V  V  -  N  C  V. V. a  H  H  C                           V  V  -  V  0        -  -  0  a  -
C C C C V 9 C - C CCV N V N C C C V C V - V VV. C - - 0 V C 0
N  V   N  0        C         -  V  C  V       V. C  C       V.     V  V  C  C  -  V                          C  C  C  -  C  V  V             0
C C - C V C 0 NV.CVCNV.CINNCC - V C C a C 0 C C V. - C 0
IC  N   0  C       -      -      C      'lIla.  C    V  C  N       N  V  V  V. 0  C  C  C  *  *  C           C      V  C  0           N.   -
NC- C N C V V N C 0 C V C' V. C C
C     V  CC         0  0  V.90           CC             C      CC
C      C       N      C  N. V  a  CVI         N      C  V  C       C  C  H  C  C  V  C  N  C  C                  0  9      V.         0  '
V.     C.   N  Va V        V       Via    H         V. V  -  U  C  V  C  V  V              I  N  *CV      5           U
C   H  C                  C  C  C  V.0
C      V          V                V  V  V       N      V*                   U             N  V.     V          CCtW 
COOS                                                CCC                                              V.
C'   000   V             -                    9CC    CV  VN   5V                              -                 a
C    ah>5              ao    no         V      IC  V  N      V  V  N  C        C                       NP
C      V  0   IN     1      N
a   N          C          C     V.   0                  a  N              C      V  N  V  0  V                   V         V  a  C       0'    C
'C  C          N                 V C I                   C C V.   C                  CCCCV                  C
O                    V                               C C C  C    VCOCO                                   0             N    ON   C
C   V          C          N     N       C  V  C          C  V          V. C      V  V. V  0. C  V  V             C         C  V  a  N  N
N   C                     V     C  9  N  V  C            0  P  V                 N      V  V  V  N           V             N          0  -      W
Cl  -          0          C     -      C  0  V                  C                C                 CCC                     N          C  V
V.                                          0*
C.    V             V  C   I    C  V.    P                    C             S     C
N                     C'    C  'aN                      C  CA                V  V       V  C             S             V. V          V.
V          I                N  C  C                                             fCQO              C      N             -  V.         V
'0 CaN )V VV C C
9                CV                         V.                   CCC   C C                                CO
N V C C C N
C          a                V    C                      V.   C               V      C)                                    V
C C 0 N C V. C -
C                   V      C-                    0
C                   N  C                 C
o          a                       C                    V                    V                           N                 V
C                                                                                                        V                                         I
IN                                            CA
V                                        C                           C                 V
V                                                                            a                                            C                        C
V                           0                C
C                           V                C.
K
ii
INNVCNCCCNVZCV C H H N C H a V C C IN N N N N N IVCNCN VC
C'CCCVCC'NVVCCCN CV VVVCCVCV C VV VV
CCCV  N V V C C 0 N C C C 0 V N N C V C N V 0CNNNN  CVC5N'V
OC.VONOVCVV.CCC VNNNV'N CVCVVNNNNNNVNV C C N N    5.
C     N  C  C  CC           IN    N      C      CN'C    C  C  V  V  N  C  C            C  C  C  C       C      C  N  0       N             a
0 V   C CCCV  CI   WV  C a-C  C CCCV    N   C C C C5                                                           N   V 0 N                    0
S             a  a  C      V  V.    C'
NV    C V V C   C C   C                         V CCV                        IICE.O                  N
C. C  V  C  C           V. C'                   0  C       C  C  V              V  V  0                     CC        V
N         N         C      V  C  C       C'         a  V          C  V
C  CC  V  CI  C  V  C          C  C      C          C         V      N             C  C  C  C  N               C  V  N  C
C      0         C
CC  C  V   C          V         C      V             V  V  V       N             C  N  N  IV
V. V. N  C.      0.0.  C       V  a  a       C         C          C. a  V              C  N' II  C  C  N           0  V  N  C       a
N  N  N  N       N  N          V             C                    N  V                                                N      C      V      CC
C  N  V  V       V  V          V             C                    C  C  C                                             V                    a
N  C    C  N     N    N        C             V                    V.   C.    V
1
N  C      N      N    N        N                                  C      N
CO           C             CC                   CVV                                                         C   I
V                   N  V  C                                                     N
a  C  N  C       0' a                        C                    N  C  C                                                           0      a
V  C  C  V       V  V                        N                    C  C  N
0  C    V    0   0                          C                    C    C   .0
-  a  N  C       C  a                        C                    C  C  V
C     V  C       C                          a                        o  C
V         V      V  V                        C                    a  a  N
C         C      a                                               'a
C         V      C  C                                             C
a  a   a  a   a          a                        a         a  C       C     a      C       a  C'                                                 C-
a a  aaaaaaa a a a C a a a 'a a a aaaaaaaaa.aa'a  C
II' C a a a CaCa a a C C a a a a'aaaa C C 'aCCa
'a  a   C  C   C  a       a  C      a  a  a  a  a  a  a  aa'aa    a  a  a  C  C  a  a  a  C  C  C  'a  a  0C  C  C  'a  a  C  C    V
A
'aCaCCaCYIC  C IN  C  C a                                          C  C    a  a a  .a'aaaa                                                        C             C
C  'aC                  C  C    a  Ca   aCCaCa                                                         NC
a  C      C      C  C             C      'a         a      a  a      a  a  a  a  -  a                            CC,
a  'a     -             a  C  C  'a  C       C      a      a      a  a                 C                                H
a a a a C C .- C C CaaC.'aaCa 'a aaaaCaaaaaa a a CCaaaCa C   C
C C a a C 'a a  a 'a a a 'a a a C C CaCao, a a a a C C a a a a a - a a a a a 'a a C
a a 'a C a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a C a a aaaaaaa a aaaaaaa'a C C a



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1981 1/
As of September 30, 1981, there were 49 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923        Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two are expected to be com-
missioned by year-end 1981. A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast
due mainly to a substantial increase in the size of the transmission
works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Thirty-four of the 46 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Proposals for some expansion
and minor modification of project components and a postponement of
the closing date are being processed.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
execution of the items financed by the Bank will be completed
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX IT
Page 5 of 14
by the end of 1981. RFFSA's financial and operating performance
has been good during the first five months of 1981, due to continued
tariff increases and a decrease of about 10% (in real terms) of
operating costs. The loan amount has been fully committed.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) has suffered delays because of financial constraints
imposed by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds
for 1981 have been provided recently and works are being reactivated.
The 73 stations are now expected to be completed by 1984. The Loan
Closing date will be postponed accordingly.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Implementation of the Stage III project is
scheduled to be completed by December 1982. Achievement of this
objective, however, will require substantial resources in 1982 in
the form of new equity contributions from SIDERBRAS as well as the
raising of new external loans. In light of the shortfalls in the
level of SIDERBRAS' equity contributions in the past and the
company's already strained financial position (in terms of excessive
levels of long and short term debt), raising the necessary resources
may be difficult to achieve, with consequent further delays in the
Stage III project. This situation has been discussed with the
Government, SIDERBRAS, and COSIPA during meetings in Washington in
September 1981. At that time, it was agreed that a plan of action
would be submitted to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify
the steps to be taken to complete the Stage III project as scheduled
in 1982 as well as restoring the Company to a satisfactory financial
position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. COSIPA is facing severe financial difficulties
due to inadequate equity contributions from SIDERBRAS, excessive
reliance on short term borrowings, heavy debt repayment commitments
and high interest rates.  This situation has been exacerbated in
1981 by operating problems with one of the company's blast furnaces
which has reduced production below 1980 levels and led to a loss for
the first half of the year.  As a result of funds constraints, imple-
mentation of the Stage III project has been slowed down considerably
and further substantial delays in completion are likely. This
situation has been discussed with the Government, SIDERBRAS and
COSIPA during meetings in Washington in September 1981. At that



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1981 1/
As of September 30, 1981, there were 49 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two are expected to be com-
missioned by year-end 1981. A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast
due mainly to a substantial increase in the size of the transmission
works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Thirty-four of the 46 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Proposals for some expansion
and minor modification of project components and a postponement of
the closing date are being processed.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. The
execution of the items financed by the Bank will be completed
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX IT
Page 5 ot 14
by the end of 1981. RFFSA's financial and operating performance
has been good during the first fi)< months of 1981, due to contil.ued
tariff increases and a decrease of about 10% (in real terms) of
operating costs. The loan amount has been fully committed,
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17  1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,_1981.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) has suffered delays because of financial constraints
imposed by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds
for 1981 have been provided recently and works are being reactivated.
The 73 stations are now expected to be completed by 1984. The Loan
Closing date will be postponed accordingly.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Implementation of the Stage III project is
scheduled to be completed by December 1982. Achievement of this
objective, however, will require substantial resources in 1982 in
the form of new equity contributions from SIDERBRAS as well as the
raising of new external loans. In light of the shortfalls in the
level of SIDERBRAS' equity contributions in the past and the
company's already strained financial position (in terms of excessive
levels of long and short term debt), raising the necessary resources
may be difficult to achieve, with consequent further delays in the
Stage III project. This situation has been discussed with the
Government, SIDERBRAS, and COSIPA during meetings in Washington in
September 1981. At that time, it was agreed that a plan of action
would be submitted to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify
the steps to be taken to complete the Stage III project as scheduled
in 1982 as well as restoring the Company to a satisfactory financial
position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. COSIPA is facing severe financial difficulties
due to inadequate equity contributions from SIDERBRAS, excessive
reliance on short term borrowings, heavy debt repayment commitments
and high interest rates.  This situation has been exacerbated in
1981 by operating problems with one of the company's blast furnaces
which has reduced production below 1980 levels and led to a loss for
the first half of the year.  As a result of funds constraints, imple-
mentation of the Stage III project has been slowed down considerably
and further substantial delays in completion are likely. This
situation has been discussed with the Government, SIDERBRAS and
COSIPA during meetings in Washington in September 1981. At that



- 37-_
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
time it was agreed that a plan of action would be submitted
to the Bank in November 1981 which would specify the steps to
be taken to restore the Company to a satisfactory financial
situation and at the same time ensure the timely completion of
the Stage III project.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The project, as redefined to take into account FEPASA's weak
financial position in 1976-78, is nearing completion. FEPASA's
operations continue to improve significantly. Freight traffic
increased 25% in 1980 compared to 1979. The railway has reduced
its operating cost by 12% in real terms in the past year due to
reduction in staff and improvement of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land and inland fisheries have recently
shown good progress.



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Sixteen sub-loans have been approved,
committing the full amount of the Loan for construction or
improvement of 6653 km of roads in twelve states. One-fourth
of the work has been completed. Implementation has been very
slow, mostly because of the constant devaluation of the ORTN,
the monetary unit in which sub-loans are defined. The project
is now being reformulated to reduce the scope, and/or provide
additional financing for 13 sub-projects in order to restore
BNDE/IBRD participation to its initial level. The project is
now expected to be completed by end 1983.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23.
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project is now progressing satisfactorily and the rate of
disbursements has risen sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding, project implementation, and consequent rate
of disbursements are sustained during 1982, project completion by
the current loan closing date should be substantially achieved.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27.
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. The agreed targets for con-
nection of low income households have been widely exceeded. Sub-
stantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE. In 1981, COELCE and COELBA will
not achieve the rate of return target agreed upon.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. Seventy-four percent of the loan is now disbursed.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1982.  This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 60% complete.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1981), commitments for the second loan began only in 1979. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction have recently been agreed with
the Government. New commitments under this loan are now being
approved, and disbursements began in April 1981.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the original closing
date of December 31, 1981.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, was recently agreed.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months. Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project has been in operation from August
1980. During this period it achieved an average capacity utiliza-
tion of 81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several
plant modifications have been carried out to improve performance of
MAP and TSP plants.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the industrial training center is largely
completed and the commercial centers are in the design stage.
The Government is preparing a proposal to allocate funds not used
for hotel training schools to the occupational safety training
component. The rural training program has not been carried out
as planned, and unless prompt corrective action is undertaken by the
Government, the corresponding portion of the loan may be cancelled.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date:  August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank. Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project administra-
tion. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-farm
rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging progress.
However, the pace of execution of other project components, most
notably, marketing, is still slow.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Regarding the sub-project of CEMIG (one of the
three beneficiaries under the Loan), the last supervision mission
found that delay in project execution was now also due to financial
difficulties which originated in low tariff levels that gave CEMIG
a 7.9% rate of return on remunerable investment instead of the
minimum of 10% allowed by Brazilian legislation. All available
funds were channelled to the Emborcasao hydro project which CEMIG
considered its first priority and current expectations are for a
2-year delay in project completion. The sub-projects of CELESC and
ESCELSA have similar problems, and project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years. Delays in providing counterpart
funds have hampered the execution of the projects of all these
companies. In July 1981, ELECTROBRAS arranged for the required
counterpart funds to be provided so that these projects can now
proceed satisfactorily.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed after a satisfactory revision of the highway
rehabilitation component. The maintenance program in the state of
Parana is progressing well. The second phase of the weighing
station program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan
1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored. Project
completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.



- 42
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project imple-
mentation. The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and
project execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1980. Early
local funding delays appear to have been resolved. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984,
in part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of
incremental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use
of consultants. Overall, project activities appear to be pro-
ceeding reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development ProJect:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project.  The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. However, because
of initial difficulties, the project may be completed with about a
one-year delay.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding without major problems, but a delay of
six months and a cost overrun of 10% is expected.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services have come very
close to first year targets and exceed second year targets. The
land titling and colonization components are progressing more
slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results. The
management of the project has become quite effective, and the
monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily after a slow start due
to the change in Government.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to continuing delays in the release of
federal funds. Project administration has recently improved but
coordination among the entities involved in its execution is not
yet satisfactory and calls for close supervision. The agency
responsible for the village water supply component has not performed
adequately and is being replaced by another entity. The recommenda-
tions of the land tenure study are still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project, in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. CODEVASF
is now reviewing proposals as to the number, location and management
capacity of silos and central rice processing mills. The monitoring
unit has been installed and is now operational.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The second feeder roads project provides
continuity to the program of secondary and feeder roads started
under Loan 1207-BR. Twenty-two organizations from 20 states and
one territory have applied for sub-loans. Nine sub-projects have
been approved and it is expected that six more would be approved by
November 1981 and fully commit the loan. The project is being
reformulated to take account of the devaluation of the ORTN, as
explained for Loan 1207-BR, and now aims at constructing or
improving 4630 km of roads. Project completion is expected to
take place by the end of 1985.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
now is advancing at a good pace and will be completed by the end
of 1983.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. The project is experiencing some delays because of inadequate
resources mainly due to low tariffs.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement are in the process of being
solved.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of items financed by the Bank is well advanced, physical execution
is progressing on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80. Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION HEALTH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:       One year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:       Territory of Rondonia, SUCAM,
and CNPq
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    May 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:   October/November 1979
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    January 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:          September 30, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:       March 31, 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  SUCAM to establish by March 31, 1981 and promptly thereafter put
into effect adequate policies to attract and maintain qualified
professional and supervisory staff required for purposes of the
project (paragraph 53);
(b)  CNPq to complete preparation of detailed health research proposals
and submit such proposals for Bank approval no later than March 31,
1982. Research contracts to be awarded to research institutions
or individual researchers under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (paragraph 58);
(c)  an evaluation of the execution as of March 31, 1984 of all program
activities to be carried out and a report on this evaluation to
be submitted by SUDECO to the Bank no later than June 30, 1984
(paragraph 60); and
(d)  no later than March 31, 1982, STS to contract construction of health
centers to CODARON under terms of an agreement to be satisfactory to
the Bank, and to enter into contractual arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, with each municipality, for purposes of operating the
health centers and health costs (paragraph 67).



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHWEST REGION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
COMPOSITION AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Program Composition
1.        The basic objectives of POLONOROESTE would be reached through
the execution of integrated measures in the following areas:
(a)  Transport.  The POLONOROESTE program places a special emphasis
on the reconstruction and paving of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho
Highway (41.6% of the Program budget), the strengthening of
DER-RO (2.8%) and the improvement of the feeder road network
in the areas of greatest agricultural potential (8.5%).
(b)  Settlement of New Areas.  About one-fourth of the total Program
budget is tentatively designated for the settlement of up to
3 million ha of land suitable for sustained agricultural
production, through colonization projects sponsored by INCRA.
These projects are expected to settle 30,000 migrant families
(22,000 in Rondonia and 8,000 in Mato Grosso) and provide them
with basic social and economic infrastructure, including
schools and health posts, farm access roads, rural water and
electricity, and facilities for agricultural research, credit,
and crop storage.
(c)  Land Tenure Services.  0.8% of the Program budget is devoted to
the regularization of land tenure, particularly in Mato Grosso.
(d)  Rural Development.  Existing settlement areas in Rondonia and
Mato Grosso are to be consolidated through the establishment of
productive and social infrastructure and services, including the
provision of agricultural extension services, municipal roads,
agricultural credit, crop storage facilities, and health and
educational facilities (14.9%).
(e)  Environmental Protection.  To help ensure that the environmental
risks of development are minimized, 0.8% of the Program budget
is to be used for such protective measures as the creation and
consolidation of parks and forest reserves, the strengthening
of institutions responsible for the implementation of such
measures, and zoning based on soil surveys.
(f)  Protection and Assistance of Indian Communities.  A further
2.5% of the Program budget is to be used to strengthen the
National Indian Foundation's (FUNAI) capability for protecting
the land and welfare of these communities.



- 48 -
ANNEX fi-
I'age  2  1)l
(g)  Health.  Health-related activities (2.3%) include extending
protection from malaria to 80% of the population of Rondonia,
providing a more adequate network of basic health services
and support facilities for the municipalities to be covered by
agricultural development activities and operational health
research.
(h)  Ecological Research.  This component (0.6%) would include such
elements as the establishment of hydrometeorology and biogeo-
chemistry stations in Rondonia, research on minimum size of
ecosystems, and flora and fauna surveys.
(i) Administration. One percent of the program budget has been
earmarked for the administration costs of the program.
Program Cost Estimates
2.        The total cost of the POLONOROESTE program, including physical and
price contingencies, is estimated at about US$1.5 billion. The general
composition of estimated program costs is shown in the following table. They
exclude agricultural credit of about US$100 million to be provided through
existing channels.
Estimated Northwest Program Costs
(In January 1981 terms)
Component                          US$ million       % of Total
Transport
Cuiaba-Porto Velho Road                                448.6            41.6
Strengthening of Rondonia Roads Department              30.7             2.8
Feeder Roads                                            91.3             8.5
Settlement of New Areas                                  261.5            24.2
Land Tenure Services                                       8.6             0.8
Rural Development
Rondonia                                               104.0             9.6
Mato Grosso                                             56.8             5.3
Environmental Protection                                   8.9             0.8
Ecological Research                                        7.0             0.6
Rondonia Health Project                                   24.7             2.3
Protection of Amerindian Communities                      26.6             2.5
Administration                                            10.1             1.0
TOTAL BASELINE COST                               1,078.8           100.0
Physical Contingencies                             136.4
Price Contingencies                                332.8
TOTAL                                            1,548.0



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 5
3.        The economic assessment of the POLONOROESTE Program is based on a
comparison of the economic circumstances of the target area with and without
the program implemented. General descriptions of the "without" and "with"
program situations are as follows:
Scenario A: "Without POLONOROESTE"
4.        The first scenario depicts the future as a continuation of past
trends. It assumes no investments to improve the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway
or the feeder roads network; no strengthening of the institutions responsible
for land-use zoning, Indian affairs, or environmental protection; and no
improved land titling or additional technical support for agriculture, leading
to a continuation of the present, largely exploitative, methods of agriculture.
Medium- and long-term yields would decline. Market access would become
increasingly difficult as the agriculture perimeter expanded, preventing
access to inputs and leading to larger on-farm losses because farmers could
not evacuate their production.
Scenario B: "With POLONOROESTE"
5.        The second scenario represents the future as influenced by a full
range of government activities implemented through the POLONOROESTE Program.
More specifically, upgrading of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway and improvement
of the feeder roads network would be linked to a comprehensive program of
agricultural development. The latter would include measures to ensure that
land is zoned according to agricultural potential and that feeder roads and
physical and social infrastructure and services (including land titling) are
implemented only in agricultural zones. Institutions responsible for non-
agricultural reserves, (e.g., FUNAI, IBDF) would be strengthened to prevent,
as much as possible, settlement land clearing in these areas. Indiscriminate
land clearing would be checked, and by good initial land selection, improved
land use, and technical support, there would be a move toward sustained
cropping (emphasizing tree crops and continuous annual cropping) rather than
short-term exploitation of the land. Use of better land, plus technica'l
support, would lead to an upward trend in yields in the medium- to long-term,
and the integration of feeder roads with agricultural support would reduce
on-farm loss.
6.        The program generates two main kinds of quantifiable benefits:
the value added to agricultural production because of improved and expanded
agricultural output, and vehicle operating cost savings due to the improved
Cuiaba to Porto Velho road connection, and improved feeder and access roads.
7.        The costs included are those of agricultural production costs,
vehicle operating costs for agricultural traffic, and construction and
maintenance costs for the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway as well as the feeder
roads.
8.        The agricultural production value added is included net of on-farm
costs. Off-farm agricultural production costs are included under "Agricultural
Production Cost." Therefore, by definition, the "without" program scenario does
not have any off-farm agricultural production costs. "Vehicle Operating Cost



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 5
Savings" includes only non-agricultural vehicles and, for the traffic generated
only in the "with" program case, only half of the vehicle operating cost
savings has been included. The average trip distance on the feeder roads has
been assumed to be 20 and 40 km in the "without" and "with" project cases
respectively.
9.        Foreign exchange has been shadow priced at 15% above its nominal value.
The labor component of highway construction costs has not been shadow priced.
Costs and benefits are net of taxes and subsidies.
10.       The present values of the incremental costs and benefits, taken
over the 20-year period under consideration and discounted 12%, which is
considered to be the opportunity cost of capital in Brazil, are the following:
Present Value                           Present Value
Cost Item                        US$ million       Benefit Item          US$ million
Incremental
Agricultural Production             493            Agricultural
and off-farm agricultural                          Production,
support costs.                                     Value Added net          3,968
of on-farm costs
Agricultural Transport
Main Highway -152
Feeder Roads    34               -118
Construction Feeder Roads            64
Construction Main Highway           383            Vehicle Operating
Cost Savings Non-
Agricultural Traffic       832
Maintenance Main Highway             36
Maintenance Feeder Roads             21
Total                          879                                     4,800
11.       The program yields a net present value of more than US$3,900
million. Stated differently, the expected benefits are almost five times as
large as the expected costs. The corresponding internal rate of return is
higher than 50%. This suggests that the POLONOROESTE Program is economically
very worthwhile.



- 51 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
12.       There are also major non-quantifiable benefits expected from the
program. They include the protection of the Amerindian population and of
large ecologically sensitive areas, a considerably strengthened institutional
capacity within the region, and improved knowledge of the Amazon basin
environment. There are also costs attached to the development of the Northwest
region which are difficult to quantify, such as those associated with invasions
of unsuitable soils, potential endangerment of the native flora and fauna, and
pressure on previously isolated Amerindian populations. However, since the
occupation and development of the region has already begun, such costs would
be far higher if development activities were not guided and coordinated
throughout the proposed program. Environmental monitoring built into the
program should considerably enhance the capacity to detect and respond to
adverse ecological trends.
October, 1981






I-K
1iel-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 MVS 
4   ' _,        4      _   5     0      N   \    vo0 
f ~ ~ ~ N                                      V  _ 0 -             
/0~~~~~rt                                       V --'   < C88                       Xff1b    em 
< (  <  x  s n> na rE a  W  y 
n     <   .      _ .    1i       _ 8            3 n 
E        <s                      e                     3V C






IBRD 1486,5R2
A M A Z  O N A  5 S,D ./gC/<j t    A  R  A
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z LS
^tior:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R AS                          Z I L
g ~~~~~~A 5aZWS/PR M A  iN 4,5ARAeGSE I fI Rf  
6,                                                   NOTH ES   R        neGION
r50 > tP ANTO $ < t5 L'E hAfLf.AC..~~~~~
fEJANER0 80 ~IOT 4/So/
t .  l! !  ~cnn  O ROSO D SU



