OFFICIAL
IOCUMENTS       LOAN NUMBER 2061 BR
Loan Agreement
(Northwest Region Development Program - First Phase:
Health Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                       /c     , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2061 BR
AGREEMENT, dated     2      b5            , 1981, between the
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter calEad the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Rondonia" means the Federal Territory of Rondonia of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between Rondonia
and the Bank of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
(c) "POLONOROESTE" means Programa Integrado de Desenvolvi-
mento do Noroeste do Brasil, the Borrower's Integrated Development
Program for the Northwest Region, a special development program
established pursuant to Decree No. 86.029 (as defined herein-
after).
(d) "Decree No. 86.029" means Decree No. 86.029, dated
May 27, 1981, of the Borrower pursuant to which POLONOROESTE was
established, as such Decree may be amended from time to time.
(e) "Project Area" means an area comprising Rondonia.
(f) "Sub-proje-t Area" means an area comprising five exist-
ing settlement locations in the municipalities of Ariquemes,


﻿-2-
Cacoal and Ji-Parana, or any successor thereto or any subdivision
thereof, in Rondonia.
(g) "Municipality" means the municipality of Ariquemes,
Cacoal, Ji-Parana, Jaru, Ouro Preto or Presidente Medici, or
any successor thereto or any subdivision thereof.
(h) "Executing Entities" means the executing entities
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(i) "CNPq" means Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cien-
tifico e Tecnologico, the National Research Council.
(j) "CODARON" means Companhia de Desenvolvimento Agricola de
Rondonia, the Rondonia Agricultural Development Company.
(k) "NUAR" means Nucleo Urbano de Apoio Rural, rural service
centers in the Project Area administered by CODARON.
(1) "SEPLAN-RO" means Secretaria de Planejamento de Ron-
donia, the Rondonia Planning Secretariat.
(m) "STS" means Secretaria Territorial de Saude, the
Rondonia Secretariat of Health.
(n) "SUCAM" means Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude
Publica, the Borrower's Superintendency for Public Health Cam-
paigns.
(o) "SUDECO" means Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento
da Regiao Ce:]tro-Oeste, the Borrower's Superintendency of the
Development of the Center-West Region.
(p) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and "Account Bank" means Banco
Central do Brasil.
(q) "POLONOROESTE fiscal year" means POLONOROESTE's fiscal
year starting on April 1 in each year and ending on March 31 of
the following calendar year.
(r) "cruzeiro" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirteen million dollars ($13,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) The Borrower shall cause to be opened and thereafter
maintained a Special Account in the Account Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, Payments out of the Special
Account shall be made exclusively to pay the reasonable cost
of goods and services required to carry out the Project and to
be financed by the Bank under this Agreement in accordance with
the provisions of Section 2.02 and Schedule 1 hereto.
(c) The Bank may, after the Effective Date and at the
request of the Borrower, withdraw on behalf of the Borrower
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account an amount
in dollars of up to $1,000,000. In the event the amount of such
initial deposit into the Special Account is less than $1,000,000,
the Borrower may from time to time request the Bank to withdraw
from the Loan Account and make one or more additional initial
deposits into the Special Account, but in no event shall
the amount of such initial deposits exceed in the aggregate
$1,000,000. At the request of the Borrower, the Bank shall further
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts equal to payments made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) out of the Special Account for expenditures for
the Project eligible for financing under this Agreement, but only
to the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with
any amount remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of
the date of such request, shall not exceed in the aggregate
$1,000,000. Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine, each
such deposit aft.er the initial deposits shall be withdrawn by the


﻿-4-
Bank from the Loan Account under the same categories set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and in the same
respective amounts, as have been justified by the documentation
for the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph
(e) of this Section.
(d) Prior to or at the time of each request for a withdrawal
by the Borrower from the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Account Bank in respect of each payment made
by the Borrower an application for withdrawal from the Special
Account (including withdrawal applications on the basis of
certificates of expenditures) showing that the payment was made on
account of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with paragraph (a) above. The Account Bank shall
authorize the Borrower to withdraw from the Special Account on the
basis of the foregoing evidence an amount in cruzeiros determined
on the basis of the rate of exchange between the dollar and the
cruzeiro in effect at the time each payment was made.
(e) Prior to or at the time of each request for au deposit
by the Bank into the Special Account, the Account Bank shall
furnish to the Bank in respect of each withdrawal from the
Special Account: (i) the application f:r withdrawal from the
Special Account referred to in paragraph (4) of this Section; and
(ii) the estimated expenditures in respec: of the payments to be
made in the following calendar quarter foi the reasonable cost of
goods or services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with paragraph (a)
above.
(f) If the Bank shall have determined that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or
in any amount not eligible for financing by withdrawal from the
Special Account; or (ii) was not justified by the application for
withdrawal furnished pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank and,
unless otherwise determined by the Bank, prior to any further
deposit in the Special Account by the Bank, deposit in the Special
Account an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
(g) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (d) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be
made by the Bank when the Bank shall have determined, after


﻿-5-
consultation with the Borrower, that all further withdrawals from
the Loan Account may be made directly by the Borrower from the
Loan Account pursuant to paragraph (a) above, or when the total
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account plus the amount of any
qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Bank and of any
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent
of $11,000,000, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the
Loan Account of the remaining amount of the Loan for the Project
shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank and shall be made only to the extent that
the Bank shall be satisfied by the evidence submitted in support
of the applications for such withdrawal that all payments by the
Borrower out of the Special Account were made on account of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.09. Banco Central do Brasil is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project or
cause the Project to be carried out through the Executing Entities
designated for that purpose in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public health prac-
tices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist SUCAM in carrying out
Parts A and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ health and
management consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
the selection and employment of such consultants to be in accor-
dance with the policies and procedures set forth in the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank and Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for purposes of Part D of
the Project, cause CNPq: (a) to prepare, by March 31, 1982, a
detailed research program, satisfactory to the Bank, such research
program to include, inter alia, a budget, terms of reference and
execution arrangements; and (b) promptly thereafter, to enter into
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the carrying
out of such research program.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause SUCAM, by March 31,
1982, to establish and, promptly thereafter, put into effect
adequate policies to attract and maintain qualified professional
and supervisory staff in adequate numbers for employment in
Rondonia for purposes of the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of the Executing Entities:
(i) to maintain records and procedures adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the part of the Project to be carried out
by each of them (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the part
of the Project to be carried out by each of them; (ii) to enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the part of the Project to be
carried out by each of them and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the part of the Project to be carried out by each of them, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds, including, inter al±a,
quarterly reports to be furnished by SUCAM, CNPq and STS promptly
upon their preparation but in any event not later than three
months after the end of each quarter of each POLONOROESTE fiscal
year and all research and evaluation studies to be furnished
promptly upon their preparation.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall, through SUDECO, by June 30, 1984,
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Bank a report on the
evaluation of Project execution as of March 31, 1984 of such
scope and in such detail as the Borrower and the Bank shall
agree.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower


﻿-8-
and the Bank, the Borrower shall cause each of the Executing
Entities to prepare and furnish to the Bank through SUDECO a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the part
of the Project to be carried out by each of them, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Bank, and Rondonia and the Bank of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incide--t to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all measures necessary for the acquisition of such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction and
operation of the facilities provided under the Project and pro-
vide, or cause to be provided, all the funds necessary for the
purpose.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the facilities included in the Project to be
efficiently operated and maintained, and the services to be
furnished thereunder to be provided, promptly as needed, all in
conformity with appropriate practices and by competent personnel
in adequate numbers; and
(b) provide, or cause to be provided, as and when needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
purposes of paragraph (a) above.


﻿-9 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange.
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause each of the Executing
Entities:


﻿- 10 -
(a) to maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect,
in accordaice with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices, their respective operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the part of the Project to be carried out by each of
them, including separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures; and
(b) to retain or cause to be retained, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) cause the accounts referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of
this Agreement to be audited annually, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Bank, as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each POLONOROESTE fiscal year, (i) certified copies of the
accounts referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement for
such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audits by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement as
to: (A) whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures have been
used to make payments for goods received, or works or services
performed; and (B) whether such goods, works and services were
eligible for financing under the Loan Agreement and were used in
the carrying out of the Project; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
4.03 of this Agreemenat:


﻿- 11 -
(a) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Special
Account shall be audited annually by the independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and, promptly after the audit and not later
than four months after the close of the Account Bank's fiscal
year, the Bank shall be furnished with certified copies of such
audit, together with a certified copy of the auditor's report,
including a description of the audit procedures; and
(b) the Borrower shall cause the Account Bank to furnish to
the Bank each month certified statements of the Special Account,
and from time to time such other information concerning such
Special Account and the certificates of expenditures as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Rondonia shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation of Rondonia under the Project Agreement;
(b) an event shall have occurred or any action shall have
been taken which shall materially and adversely affect the carry-
ing out of POLONOROESTE;
(c) Decree No. 86.029 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as
to materially and adversely affect the ability of the Borrower or
Rondonia to carry out the respective covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in this Agreement and the Project Agreement;
and
(d) in the event that all necessary action shall have been
taken to convert the status of Rondonia from a federal territory
of the Borrower to that of a state of the Borrower, Rondonia, as a
state, shall have failed to assume all the covenants, agreements
and obligations of Rondonia, as a territory, under the Project
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 12 -
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has 'been duly authorized or
ratified by Rondonia, and is legally binding upon Rondonia in
accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil;
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Borrower, Rondonia, their political
subdidivisions or agencies, by any agency thereof, or by any of
the Executing Entities, or otherwise to be performed or given in
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable
the Borrower and Rondonia to perform their respective obligations
pursuant to this Agreement and the Project Agreement, together
with all necessary power and rights in connection therewith, have
been performed or given; and
(d) that in the event that all necessary action shall have
been taken to convert the status of Rondonia from a federal
territory of the Borrower to that of a state of the Borrower, that
the covenants, agreements and obligations of Rondonia as a federal
territory of the Borrower under the Project Agreement shall be


﻿- 13 -
covenants, agreements and obligations of Rondonia as a state of
the Borrower.
Section 6.03. The date           /4(   f'c,, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Sect on 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFAZ                             611506
Brasilia, Brazil
With copies to:
Banco Central do Brasil
Edificio Sede do Banco Central
20 Andar
70070 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANCENTRAL
Brasilia, Brazil                    41344


﻿- 14 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By    _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _ 'j
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Goods and services            5,300,000        34% of local
for Part A of the                             expenditures
Project (Malaria                              and 100% of
control)                                      foreign
expenditures
(2) Goods and services            3,200,000        34%
for Part B of the
Project (Health ser-
vices development)
(3) Goods and services              500,000        34%
for Parts C and E
of the Project
(Training, super-
vision and evaluation)
(4) Goods and services            1,000,000        34%
for Part D of the
Project (Research)
(5) Initial deposit into          1,000,000
Special Account
(6) Unallocated                   2,000,000
TOTAL        13,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and (b) the
term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, dis-
bursements in respect of local expenditures under Category (1) and
expenditures under Categories (2), (3) and (4) shall be made,
until March 31, 1983, at the rate of 55% of expenditures, and
thereafter at such rate that results in an average disbursement
rate equal to 34% of expenditures.
4.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before
that date but after July 1, 1981.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, may by
notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated


﻿- 17 -
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
7.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's special development
program for the Northwest Region of Brazil (POLONOROESTE) to
increase the economic contribution of the under-utilized resources
of the Program Area to the national economy by providing for the
orderly development of the agricultural and forestry resources
while adequately protecting the indigenous Amerindian population
and the natural environment. The purpose of the Project is to
address, consistent with the Borrower's health policy, the basic
health problems in the Project Area in order to improve health.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Malaria Control Program
Expansion of SUCAM's malaria control operations in the
Project Area and strengthening of its management and supervision
system by the provision of staff, equipment, vehicles, insecti-
cides and drugs.
Part B:   Health Services Development
(1) Establishment and operation of one health center in each
of the 39 NUARs in each Municipality in the Sub-project
Area.
(2) Equipping, staffing and operation of about 50 health
posts in each Municipality in the Sub-project Area.
(3) Establishment and operation of one referral health
center in each of the Municipalities of Jaru, Ouro Preto
and Presidente Medici in the Sub-project Area, including
an office, a laboratory, an in-patient ward, a delivery
room and an operating room for each center.
Part C:   Training and Supervision
Training of about 100 rural health workers for the 50 health
posts and about 200 health auxiliaries for the 39 health centers
and provision of vehicles for the field supervisors.


﻿- 19 -
Part D:  Research
Strengthening of health research capability, including
research in the fields of, inter alia, malaria and leishmaniasis
control and treatment.
Pirt E:  Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation by SUCAM, STS, SEPLAN-RO and CNPq
of the activities included in the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed on December 31,
1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1985
through   June 15, 1996                       540,000
On December 15, 1996                               580,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             2.30%
before maturity
More than three years                                 4.65%
but not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years                                   8.50%
but not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years                               10.05%
but not more than
thirteen years before
maturity
More than thirteen years                             11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods under Part A
of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domesti-
cally supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 23 -
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following two groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
such goods contain components manufactured in
Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of
the complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group B bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (A) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price; and (ii) to the
evaluated bid price of the domestically supplied goods offered in
each group B bid an amount equal to: (A) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which would be levied on such goods
if they originated from the same foreign country as the goods


﻿- 24 -
involved in a group B bid which enjoy the lowest customs duties
and other import taxes; or (B) 15% of the ex-factory price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group B
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be procured in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures, and civil works for
Part B (1) of the Project may be carried out by force account.
2.   Contracts for equipment and vehicles for Parts B (1)
and B (2) of the Project may be procured in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿- 25 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution add prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the furnishing to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Executing Entities
Responsible for Project Execution
Part of the Project                     Executing Entity
Part A                                  SUCAM
(Malaria control)
Part B (1)                              STS/Municipalities
(Health centers)
Part B (2)                              STS/Municipalities
(Health posts)
Part B (3)                              STS
(Referral health
centers
Part C                                  STS
(Training and
supervision)
Part D                                  CNPq
(Research)
Part E                                  STS, SUCAM,
(Monitoring and                         SEPLAN-RO, CNPq
evaluation)


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , I9 8 -/-.
FOR SECRETARY


