Document of
The World Bank  L- 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2281b-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
MEXICO
March 7, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                     =  Peso (Mex$)
US$1                              =  Mex$ 22.5 after 1976; Mex$ 12.5 previous to and
including 1976
Mex$ 1                            =  US$0.044
Mex$ 1 million                    -  US$44,444
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measures
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (i)                       =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                  =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                   =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)              =  2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
ALALC                  Latin America Free Trade Association
ASA                    Airport Authority
BANOBRAS               National Bank for Public Works and Services
DGAF                   Director General of Auto Transport
ERR                    Economic Rate of Return
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
PEMEX                  Mexican Petroleum Monopoly
PFVF                   Public Freight Vehicle Fleet
PPVF                   Public Passenger Vehicle Fleet
SAROP                  Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works
SCT                   Ministry of Communications and Transport
SPP                    Ministry of Programing and Budgeting
TOFC                   Trailer on Flatcar (Piggyback Traffic)



FOR OFFICIAL UJSE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
MEXICO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ...........................................                   1
II.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................                    2
A.  General ..........................                                     2
B.  Highways ........................                                      3
C.  Railways ........................                                      3
D.   Ports         ....................................                    3
E.   PEMEX         ....................................                    4
F.  Aviation ........................                                      4
G.   Coordination and Planning ..... ............                          5
H.   Past Bank Participation and Experience ............                   6
I.    Current Issues and Prospects .... ...........                        7
III.    THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY ............................                   10
A.   General ...........................................    10
B.   Organization and Structure of the Trucking Industry                  11
C.    Organization and Structure of the Bus Industry                      12
D.    Regulation of the Trucking Industry ....              ...........   12
E.    Regulation of the Bus Industry ....................    1:3
F.    Current Issues and Prospects ......................                 14
IV.    THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ..................................                  15
A.    The Network ...... ..............1................... 
B.    Highway Administration ..... .............                          16
C.    Highway Planning and Finance  ......... ..18...........              E
D.    Highway Engineering and Construction .............            .     20
E.    Maintenance ....... ............            ....................    21
F.    Rural Roads ...................             ....................    22
G.    Past Bank Participation and Experience ............    22
H.    Current Prospects ..............        ..     .................    24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mexico in July 1978.   The mission comprised Messrs. R. Burns (Transport
Economist, Project Officer), A. van Dijck (Senior Highway Engineer),
J.L. Forcina (Loan Officer), C. de Castro (Road Transport Specialist) and
R. Anson (Regional Development Specialist, Consultant). The report has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance1
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)      - ii -
Page No.
V.   FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED SECTOR LOAN 1979-1982 .......   25
A. General....25
A. Gnea  ..............................................  2
B.   The Prospect for the Highway Subsector, 1979-1982       26
C.   The SAHOP Highway Program, 1979-1982 .28
D. Institutional Framework .33
E. Sector Objectives .34
F.   Achievement of Sector Objectives .36
VI. IMPLEMENTATION .37
A.   Basis for Bank Pa,rticipation .37
B.   Project Preparation, Evaluation and Selection           39
C. Procurement .40
D. Assessment of Risks .44
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .45
TABLES
1.    Distribution of Public Investment by Sector and
within the Transport Sector, 1971-1976 .47
2.     Railway Operation, Productivity and Financial
Indicators, 1971-1977 .....................   I ......    48
3.     Port Traffic Volumes Major Mexican Ports, 1971-1977 ....    49
4.     PEMEX Transport Statistics, 1977 .......................   50
5.    Air Traffic Statistics, 1972-1977 ......................   51
6.    The Vehicle Fleet, 19S50-1977 ...........................   52
7.    Composition of Public: Vehicle Fleet, 1978 ....    ..........   53
8.    Comparative Automobile Ownership Rates, 1960-1975 ......     54
9.     Fuel Consumption and Major User Tax Revenues, 1965-1977     55
10.    Design Standards .......................................    56
11.     Estimate of SAHOP Highway Budget, 1979-1982 ....   ........   57
12.     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .....     ...............   58
ANNEXES
1.    Economic Analysis of Representative Projects .... .......   59
2.     Highways and Regional Development in Mexico ....   ........   73
3.    Tentative List of Projects for Commencement in First Year   77
4.    Assessment of Financial Intermediary BANOBRAS .... ......   79
5.    Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ............     .    .    ..............   85
CHARTS
I.     Organization Chart cf SAHOP
II.     Organization Chart of General Directorate for Federal Highways
MAP
IBRD 13977 - Mexico Highway Sector Project - Main Highway
Network



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Over a period of 18 years, since 1960, the Bank has made seven
loans for highways in Mexico. During this long association, the Ministry of
Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) has achieved considerable progress
in all aspects of highway planning and development and has provided Mexico
with a nearly complete highway system. SAHOP has established a strong main-
tenance organization, has pursued construction programs in close collaboration
with state and municipal agencies and has built up a fairly good system for
project planning and preparation. Mexican highway programs have generally
been economically well founded and responsive to the needs of the various
regions; they have been flexible einough to meet changing circumstances and to
intitiate new programs, particular:Ly in the area of rural roads.
1.02      The last of the Bank highway loans to Mexico was made in FY74
(US$90 million) for the Seventh Highway Project, which provided for upgrading
or construction of 16 road sections totaling about 1,800 km of federal high-
ways. While SAHOP performed well in matters concerning procurement and exe-
cution of civil works, the project encountered considerable initial delays
because of the combined effect of [Large inflationary cost increases and bud-
getary compressions. The initial project scope and implementation schedule
implied an overall level of highway expenditures that was well above Govern-
ment intentions and capability.  In order to pursue the project as or:iginally
planned, SAHOP would have had to give it preferential budgetary treatmaent at
the expense of other highway expenditures of equal or greater priority. The
scope of the project was eventually reduced from 16 to 12 sections totaling
about 1,200 km, and the implementation schedule was extended by two and a half
years, up to 1981. The problems encountered with the Seventh Highway Project
illustrated the limitations of conventional project lending in Mexico and
pointed out the need for improved coordination between SAHOP and the Government
agencies in charge of overall programing and budgeting. They also showed the
need to consider carefully the future level of highway expenditure at the time
of project preparation and appraisal.
1.03      A review of the transport sector conducted in the framework of the
economic mission at the end of 1976 concluded that the realization of Mexico's
development objectives over the next decade would depend, inter alia, upon the
continued availability of reliable and efficient road transport, requiring
local improvements and pavement overlays, and upon provisions of upgradled
services to rural communities and to regions not yet fully linked with the
national network. It was also clear that, over the next five years, SAHOP
would have to operate under more stringent budgetary constraints than in
the early 1970s, which meant that the improved budgetary coordination called
for above would be essential. The sector review served as a basis to iidentify
highways as a suitable field for further lending and to recommend the sector
approach. While the conventional approach focused Bank attention primarily
on the relatively narrow subjects of economic feasibility and engineering
of specific subprojects, the sector approach would allow the Bank to integrate
its contribution much better into the SAHOP planning process and to support
improvements in budgetary coordination, program composition, project selection
criteria, and support of overall development objectives.



1.04      After the change of Administration in December 1976, the Government,
through SAHOP, explored the possibility of further highway lending. The
objectives and implications of the proposed sector approach were reviewed with
the three ministries concerned with the sector, i.e., SAHOP, the Ministry of
Finance and the recently reorganized Ministry of Programing and Budgeting (SPP).
The preparation of the proposed sector loan proceeded over the mid-1977 to
mid-1978 period. In July 1978, the project was appraised by a team consisting
of R. Burns (Transport Economist, Project Officer) and A. van Dijck (Senior
Highway Engineer), assisted by J.L. Forcina (Loan Officer), C. de Castro (Road
Transport Specialist) and R. Anson (Regional Development Specialist, Consultant).
1.05      Because of the nature of a sector loan, this report is organized and
presented slightly differently from that for a project loan. The second and
third chapters are intended to provide a comprehensive view of the transport
sector in Mexico and the road transport industry. The fourth chapter on the
highway subsector gives more attention than usual to the nature of the highway
administration and planning machinery since these are the bases for successfully
carrying out a sector loan. The fifth chapter presents and evaluates the frame-
work of the proposed sector loan in the context of the Government's highway
program and budgeting process.  Chapter VI deals with the modus operandi of
the proposed sector loan concerning subprojects evaluation and selection,
tendering, disbursing and monitoring. The final chapter lists matters which
were discussed and agreed during negotiations.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2.01      Transport has not been a "problem" sector in Mexico in the sense that
it has not been a serious constraint to economic development, partly because,
over the years, it has had consistent support in terms of public investment,
receiving slightly less than 20% of the budget allocation through 1974
(Table 1). For 1975 and 1976, the percentage dropped to 14% and 12% respec-
tively, indicating a possible change in its future status in the overall public
sector plan. Other than public investment, however, a major reason for the
general adequacy of transport has been the existence of a privately financed
bus and truck industry that has operated under few Government restrictions.
Thus, on the supply side, the public sector has until recently provided ade-
quate support for transport investment in all modes, while the private sector
has provided an adequate fleet of road vehicles and levels of service. Avail-
able evidence in the form of GDP components, road vehicle traffic counts, and
actual rail and air traffic figures indicated that demand for transport was
growing in excess of 8% annually during the period 1966-1976, in which GDP
was growing slightly in excess of 6% annually.
2.02      Within the transport sector, the two major modes are road and rail.
Pipelines and coastal shipping are important, but specialized, while aviation,
the most dynamic mode in terms of growth, is relatively small in terms of
output and is highly specialized. Ports and the merchant marine are naturally



related to road and rail traffic and have been of increasing importance in
recent years. The only attempt at estimating the relative importance of the
road, rail, and air modes in terms of output was made in 1972, when it was
estimated that road transport accounted for 69% of intercity freight ton-km
and rail accounted for 31%. For passengers, it was estimated that road trans-
port accounted for 90% of intercity pass-km, with 6% for rail and 4% for aviation.
All available evidence indicates that the road and aviation share of intercity
traffic has been increasing relative to rail.
2.03      In terms of public investment over the 1971-1976 period, highiways
received 57% of total transport investment followed by railways with 26%, ports
with 10% and aviation with 7% (Table 1). If consideration is taken of private
sector investment in the form of road vehicles, total investments were roughly
proportional to traffic shares.
B.   Highways
2.04      The highway subsector is dealt with in considerable detail in Chapters
III, IV, and V. Here it is sufficient to state that, after 30 years of road
construction, the network is extensive (approximately 62,000 km of paved roads),
requiring a large maintenance budget (26% of the 1978 road budget). The vehicle
fleet is large (over 1.0 million trucks, 58,000 buses, and 3.0 million auto-
mobiles), with traffic counts exhibiting high growth rates, typically in excess
of 10% annually. The administration of the road network is complicated (federal,
state and local jurisdictions) and is dominated by SAHOP, which has, over the
years, developed considerable proficiency at planning and administration.
C.   Railways
2.05      The Mexican railway network has about 19,000 route-km of standard
gauge track, compared to the approximately 39,000 km of paved federal highways
(there are another 23,000 km of paved state and local roads), and carried
approximately 31% of the intercity ton-km in Mexico in 1972, the rest moving
by road.  The railways are well run and have experienced an average annual
growth rate in traffic approximating that of GDP, i.e., in excess of 6% per
year (Table 2). The presence of large amounts of bulk, long-haul traff:ic such
as foodgrain, fertilizer, and mineraLs has ensured an important role for rail
freight traffic. In spite of favorable traffic conditions, good management,
and improving operational efficiency, the railway runs at a large deficit,
requiring an annual Government subsidy of approximately US$220 million
(Table 2).
D.   Ports
2.06      Mexican port traffic (Table 3), excluding petroleum, is surpri'singly
small for a large country with a 1976 GDP of US$54.2 billion and combined
imports and exports of US$10.2 billion, chiefly because much of Mexico's
foreign trade moves overland to and f'rom the United States by road and rail.
Thus, Veracruz, Mexico's largest port, moved only 819,000 tons of general
cargo in 1977, while Tampico, the second largest port, moved 626,000 tons of
general cargo, accounting for the bulk of the approximately 2 million tons



- 4 -
of general cargo that moved through the 11 principal ports of the country.
Most of this traffic moved through the Gulf coast ports of Veracruz, Tampico,
and Coatzacoalcos, to and from the U.S. east coast and Europe.
2.07      Mexican port operations have generally been less than satisfactory
in the past, partly because of theiLr relative lack of importance to the economy
and partly because they were controlled by a department of the Navy until
1976. In addition, strong unions have dominated decision-making and operations
in the most important port of Veracruz. The Government is paying much more
attention to the port system now irn connection with a regional development
plan which calls for the shift of population and economic activity away from
the central plateau to the well watered and lightly populated coastal areas.
The development of industrial port growth poles is part of this strategy.
E.   PEMEX
2.08      PEMEX, the state oil monopoly, is one of the largest industrial
establishments in Latin America. 'It is a fully integrated operation from ex-
ploration through refining to retail sales of refined products. In 1977, it
had about 14,000 km of pipelines for major movements of gas, oil, products and
petro-chemicals, with about 7,000 kcm under design or construction (Table 4).
It has a modern fleet of 30 tankers for coastal movements of crude oil and re-
fined products, and it owns or rents over 3,600 railroad tank cars and approxi-
mately 2,800 tank trucks. With production in the southern oil fields
increasing rapidly, the transport capacity of PEMEX is also being expanded,
with US$1.6 billion earmarked for transportation purposes in the 1977-1982
PEMEX investment program (excludes new gas pipeline to U.S.).
2.09      The implication for the public freight transport system can be con-
siderable since PEMEX has increasingly chosen highway tank trucks rather than
rail tank cars for products distribution in Mexico because of the superior
service characteristics of truck delivery. Since petroleum products were
11.6% of rail ton-km in 1976, such decisions can have a significant impact on
rail traffic and earnings. For highways, tank truck axle loads are considered
a primary cause of road damage by the Ministry of Communications and Transport
(SCT), and efforts are now being made to ensure that new tank trucks have an
appropriate number of axles to reduce the magnitude of unit loads. For ports,
the size of PEMEX tankers and the frequency of their calls can affect the
dredging requirements as well as the extent and location of shore facilities.
Although PEMEX constitutes a specialized and independent operation, its
transport decisions clearly need to be considered in any sector discussion.
F.   Aviation
2.10      Air passenger transportation has been growing at an average rate of
15% for the last five years (Table 5). In 1977, there were 50 airports capa-
ble of handling medium or larger size aircraft, of which 24 could receive jets.
Approximately eight million commercial passengers and 71,000 metric tons of
cargo were carried in 1977. The Mexico City airport accounts for about 41%



-5-
of commercial passenger traffic and 55% of air cargo. Two trunk airlines of
approximately the same size serve the domestic and the international markets.
Aeromexico is the Government-owned service, Mexicana is 10% Government--owned
and 90% private sector. Aeromexico is the chosen instrument of the Government
for ensuring services to small or remote communities that would not be justi-
fied on financial grounds. Losses on these services have been partly cross-
subsidized by profits on high density routes and partly passed on to thbe
Government through the annual deficit. In recent years, the annual deficit
has been greatly reduced because of a conscious effort on the part of the
Government not to subsidize air services.
G.   Coordination and Planning
2.11      The organization that comes closest to fulfilling the function of a
Ministry of Transport in Mexico is SCT. This ministry, however, does not have
responsibility for the planning, construction and maintenance of roads or
airports or the PEMEX transport investments. Neither is it responsible for
planning the rolling stock, locomotive maintenance, and rehabilitation require-
ments of the railroads. In terms of investment planning, then, SCT has
responsibility only for ports and for new rail line construction. The only
place where all transport investments (excluding PEMEX) are scrutinized together
is in SPP, where budget examiners who specialize in transport investments
negotiate the annual budget cuts among the modes. By directing each agency to
prepare a multi-year perspective plan for investments, as well as the annual
budget request, SPP has attempted to incorporate a longer view into the budget
exercise and to make it more nearly a transport investment planning exercise.
2.12      While SCT has limited authority for investment planning, it does, in
principle, have much more authority in the area of transport policy and coordi-
nation, including such matters as tariff setting, road user charges, regulation,
intermodal transport, licensing, and control of overloading. In fact, this
organization devotes most of its resources to dealing with, and attempting to
regulate, the well organized bus and truck industry which is described in the
following chapter.
2.13      The only truly intermodal activity into which SCT has chosen to enter
is that of tariff setting. The pricing of transport services has become in-
creasingly important in a period of strong inflation. For the private sector
bus and truck operations, this has not presented a problem since failure to
cover costs quickly leads to a cessation of services, and the industry has
been able to negotiate tariff ceilings adequate for its needs. Moreover, the
policing of official trucking tariffs is a near impossible task. It is public
sector tariffs for aviation, railways and ports that are a perennial issue.
The tariff increase proposal for an individual mode must first be presented
to SCT, which then places the case, with the SCT recommendation, before an
inter-ministerial committee for prices and tariffs. This committee, composed
of representatives from the Ministries of Finance, Commerce, Programing and
Budgeting and Communications and Transport, examines the case in the light of
national concerns and priorities. Each ministry, to some extent, represents
a distinct point of view and has its own constituency. The public sector
deficit is the chief concern of the MirListry of Finance, but it has only



-- 6 -
one vote. The usual outcome of such deliberation is a tariff increase that
temporarily reduces the size of the annual deficit or keeps it from accel-
erating. Prospects for the railway, for which this issue is fundamental, are
reviewed in paragraph 2.17.
H.   Past Bank Participation and Experience
2.14      The Bank's major lending activities in transport have been in high-
ways and railways. Seven highway loans have been made, the first beginning
in 1960 and the seventh in 1974 (Chapter IV, Section G). These loans have been
made on a regular basis every two or three years. In railways, three loans
have been made: the first (Loan 103-ME) in 1954, followed after 18 years by
the second 1/ (Loan 825-ME) in 1972, and the third in 1976. The first and
only port loan (Loan 820-ME) 2/ was made in 1972. The sole airport loan was
made in 1974. Of the total of 12 transport loans made in Mexico since 1954,
five have been made since 1972, covering all four modes of transport. Thus,
the Bank's lending operations in the sector have broadened in recent years.
2.15      A number of institutional and policy objectives have been sought over
the years in the course of making these loans. For the sector as a whole, the
goal was to have transport administration and planning along functional lines,
with most policy and investment decisions reached in SCT.  Only partial moves
have been made toward this goal, most notably with the transfer to SCT of port
planning and operations and the responsibility for implementation of new rail
construction. Attempts have been made by SCT to take a national view of trans-
portation (Chapter IV, Section C), but the broad consensus required to make
this a continuing effort in Mexico has been missing so far, and, in the absence
of serious problems in the sector, no feeling of urgency has been generated
that might lead to this consensus. For roads, the emphasis has been on better
planning and project analysis, together with an effective system for control-
ling truck overloading and a rational system of road user charges. Advances
in planning and project analysis (Annex 1) have been successful enough to
allow the consideration of a sector loan for the eighth highway project. Some
improvement has been made in the area of road user charges (para 2.18), while
work is only beginning on the system for controlling the overloading of trucks
(para 2.21). For rail, the emphasis has been on controlling the deficit and
improving operational efficiency. Substantial gains have been made in
operational efficiency, but little has been achieved in terms of controlling
the deficit, for reasons set forth in paragraphs 2.13 and 2.17, although
progress has been made in understanding the nature and origin of the deficit
throughi studies of passenger operations and low density branch lines. The
far-reaching revision made in 1977 in the railway investment program would
require a reformulation of the scope of the ongoing project. A new investment
program and financial targets are c:urrently being reviewed. For ports, the
Bank attempted with the first loan to promote more efficient operating methods
in the existing ports and encouraged a commercial approach to tariffs and
services. It also recommended that investment planning for the ports be cen-
tralized in a national port authority. Substantial operational improvements
1/   PCR issued in January 1979.
2/   PCR issued in November 1978.



- 7 -
have been achieved in some of the ports, but little has been accomplished in
rationalizing port tariff policies. Rather than a national port authority,
the Government has provided for a new subsecretariat in SCT to monitor port
operations and control investment planning, a clear improvement over the old
arrangements. In aviation, a basic requirement under the first loan wELs to
install a commercial accounting system in the airport authority (ASA) for
better knowledge of costs and charges. Such a system has been installed
recently, and preparation for a second aviation loan is now under way.
I.   Current Issues and Prospects
2.16      Some of the more important issues in the Mexican transport sector
today are:
-    The rail deficit
-    Road user charges and diesel fuel pricing
-    Road and rail competition
-    Intermodal movement of cargo
-    Truck axle loads
-    Food grain imports
-    Support for regional development objectives.
Some of the issues have been mentioned above in connection with previous Bank
lending in the transport sector; others are fairly recent developments. Each
is described briefly below with an assessment of future prospects.
2.17      The rail deficit is chiefly due to:
-    Uneconomic passenger services with costs of operation that
cannot be recovered throughL tariffs. Even tariffs covering
variable costs would be well above those for alternative
bus services.
-    Rapidly rising rail costs in a period of inflation accompanied
by slow and inadequate tariff increases.
-    Strong rail labor unions that make labor cost reductions
extremely difficult to achieve.
The Government and the railway management are well aware of the causes of the
rail deficit and what needs to be done to eliminate it (Table 2). The most
important steps would be abandonment of most rail passenger services and
frequent freight tariff increases anticipating cost increases. The Government
appears to be willing to forego the public revenues needed for covering the
rail deficit as well as those of other public enterprises in other sectors.
In the context of the Third Railway Project, discussions are under way w:ith
the Mexican authorities with a view toward achieving a reduction in the rail
subsidy (US$221.0 million in 1977).



- 8 -
2.18      Road user charges and diesel fuel prices are interrelated issues in
that fuel taxes are the major public revenue earners from road users, generat-
ing over US$400 million of revenue per year (Table 9). In 1975, the Bank
financed a road user charge study in SCT; the major findings were that:
-    PEMEX underprices all ref-ined products since crude oil inputs
are valued at less than half world market prices.
-    Automobile users and private gasoline driven trucks paid
gasoline taxes in 1975 sufficient to cover the total annual
maintenance cost of highways plus most of the annual construction
costs.
-    Diesel-driven trucks and gasoline-driven public service trucks
(para 3.02) paid virtually nothing for the use of the highway
system.
The matter of underpriced refined products for all users goes beyond the
transport sector and is essentially a macroeconomic issue. The policy of the
Mexican Government to cross-subsidize long haul intercity trucking with reve-
nues from gasoline users is a long-standing one, based originally on the desire
to promote commerce and to integrate the country with low cost transport. The
wisdom of continuing this policy is open to question, and the issue has been
discussed a number of times with the Government from the point of view of
public finance, equity, and economic efficiency. A partial move to remedy
the situation was made recently when gasoline-driven public service vehicles
were also made subject to the large gasoline tax. The Government, however,
has decided to continue the policy for diesel-driven trucks with full know-
ledge of the arguments against doing so. The proposed sector loan would
afford the Bank an opportunity to review the matter with SCT and SPP through
periodic consultation (para 5.35).
2.19      Because Mexico has well developed road and rail networks, the ques-
tion of road-rail competition is raised frequently. The two issues mentioned
in paragraphs 2.17 and 2.18 are also related to modal competition since sub-
sidies tend to favor one mode over the other by depressing tariffs below true
costs. In the case of the rail subsidy and the long haul trucking subsidy,
the two tend to offset each other in the intermodal competition sense. One
clear tendency, however, is to encourage the purchase of more transport serv-
ices, both road and rail, than would otherwise be the case. In assessing
intermodal distortions, it is necessary to consider that the existing highway
network is parallel to all the major rail links, and this has been the case
for many years. Shippers have been offered alternative road and rail services
for a long time, and most of them have adjusted their operation to a modal
choice based on a combination of service characteristics and tariffs. The
Government, through ownership of the foodgrain distributor (CONASUPO), the
fertilizer industry (FERTIMEX), part of the iron and steel industry (SICARTSA)
and the petroleum industry (PEMEX), has a great deal of control over the modal
choice for the inputs and outputs of these industries. With the notable excep-
tion of PEMEX, the great bulk of the traffic associated with these industries
moves by rail. Foodgrains, coal, coke, iron ore, fuel oil, fertilizer, and



- 9 -
cement form the rail freight traffic base. Of these, only cement is in the
private sector, and it moves by rail as a matter of choice. These bulk com-
modities move long distances in large quantities, and their movement by rail
is appropriate. Less-than-carload rail freight has almost disappeared -- lost
to trucking long ago -- an entirely satisfactory and economic development.
The modal split for freight in Mexico is not inappropriate in that rail is spe-
cializing in long haul, large volume movements and has experienced sustained
growth in freight traffic in these areas. The main concern of the railways
is not competition from trucking, but, rather, the problems indicated in para-
graph 2.17 preceding.
2.20      The intermodal movement of cargo is an issue that has usually been
raised in the context of port developments. Container technology has been late
arriving in Mexico, partly because of the relatively small amount of gieneral
cargo moving through Mexican ocean ports (para 2.06) and the difficulty of
dealing with the stevedores' union iin the country's largest port, Veracruz.
Handling of containers through the ports and inland will become an increasingly
important intermodal transport issue. With the ports under SCT, the subject
is now likely to receive the attention it deserves. Piggyback traffic (TOFC)
to and from the U.S. via Mexican railways is already well established whereas
potential TOFC traffic between Central America and North America via the rail-
ways has hardly been explored. Serious consideration has, however, been given
to a container land bridge across the narrow Isthmus of Tehuantepec frcm Salina
Cruz on the Pacific to Coatzacoalcos on the Gulf of Mexico. Most of th,e infra-
structure exists, and a viable alternative to the Panama Canal for high value
container traffic is a distinct possibility.
2.21      Conventional attempts at controlling truck axle loads with manned
weigh scales have not been successful because of trucking industry opposition.
Trucking industry representatives insist that they oppose the system only be-
cause it was abused by the weigh scale operators. The current plan to ideal
with this potential problem (the extent of overloading is not known) is to
determine the extent of violations and subsequent road damage by using dlynamic
weigh scales that do not require stopping the trucks; typically, a smal:L per-
centage of trucks are responsible for the bulk of the damage. With the in-
formation obtained, SCT can, through its newly established contacts with the
trucking industry, present the problem and seek a mutually satisfactory way
for dealing with it. There seems to be a consensus developing that weight
controls would benefit the industry as a whole.  SAHOP is planning a survey of
axle weights on selected primary roads (para 5.15) which would provide a basis
to assess the situation.  The periodic consultations (para 5.35) planned over
the period of disbursement of the proposed sector loan would allow the Bank
to continue to press for progress in this area.
2.22      Food grain imports into Mexico are large (roughly one million tons
annually through Tampico and Veracruz alone in the last three years) and
likely to increase. The Bank-financed bulk grain facility at Veracruz was
operating at capacity the day it opened, and much grain is still moving by
slow and costly methods. With rising oil revenues and personal incomes, food
imports could easily increase more rapidly since agricultural production will



- 10 -
almost certainly grow more slowly t:han grain and grain-related consumption.
This is an unpleasant development for Mexican planners to contemplate and is
the chief reason why more bulk grain facilities are not being constructed in
4-he ports. The need for this cannot, however, be ignored for long as an
obvious and costly bottleneck develops.
2.23      The Bank is attempting, with the proposed loan, to aid SAHOP
analysts in developing an approach to assessing the regional development
impact of specific road projects (paras 5.28 and 5.34 and Annex 2). The
Mexican authorities are also examining the possibility of developing selected
port areas into industrial zones capable of generating employment opportunities
away from the Mexico City area. This would probably involve the expansion of
port capacity and the provision of container-handling facilities.
2.24      In summary, there are areas where the Mexican authorities can
improve their transport plan and policy formulation. Failure to do so to date
is not based on lack of knowledge. It is largely due to the size and
complexity of the country and economy together with a political system that
seeks consensus among numerous interested parties. Progress is made, but it
is taken in small steps and not before all are in agreement that the step
should be taken. Such an approach has led to a transport system that has
supported a remarkable record of sustained economic growth. The Bank has made
a useful impact on the sector in the past and could continue to do so through
financing of projects in all modes and continued dialogue on policies
affecting the sector.
III. THE ROAD TRANSPORT INDUSTRY
A.   General
3.01      The most recent data indicate that slightly over one million trucks
and 58,000 buses are currently operating in Mexico (Table 6). The trucking
fleet has been increasing at about 10% annually in recent years, while the bus
fleet has been increasing on an average of 7% per year. The industry that
operates these vehicles is large and growing, presumably profitable, and ex-
tremely complicated. The bus industry, and especially the trucking industry,
have been allowed to expand and operate in a free market environment even
though Government regulations to control them were on the books as early as
1932. After almost 40 years of development under a free market regime, the
Government decided, in 1971, to establish contact with the road transport
industry and to begin enforcing regulations. The Federal Directorate General
of Auto Transport (DGAF) was formed in SCT to study this largely unknown
industry and to make recommendations on how it could be made to work better.
Since 1971, studies have been completed, and attempts to control and influence
a portion of the industry have been made. In March 1977, the Government
endorsed a five-year road transport program prepared by DGAF, the basic
objectives of which are to:
-    Provide better, more reliable road transport service.
-    Improve the distribution of services.
-    Improve the working conditions of drivers.



- 11 -
In order to discuss the objectives and the means for achieving them with what
was regarded as an excessively fragmented industry, it was considered necessary
to develop manageable groups of industry representatives to confer with the
Government. The very act of creating these groups is likely to influence the
organization and structure of the industry. For this reason, the following
discussion on the organization and structure of the industry treats what
existed in the recent past as well as what is likely to happen in the future.
B.   Organization and Structure of the Trucking Industry
3.02      As far as the Federal Government is concerned, the important classi-
fication for trucking in Mexico is whether or not the vehicle is registered
as "for hire", is over 3 tons capacity, and operates on federal highways. In
1977, it was estimated that approximaLtely 82,000 trucks (8% of the total fleet)
fell into this category, which is referred to as the public Freight Vehicle
Fleet (PFVF). The PFVF is much more important than its numbers indicate in
that it contains the largest trucks engaged in long-haul intercity freight
operations and can be characterized as the "modern" element of the industry.
The 975,000 vehicles that do not belong to the PFVF are either less than 3 tons,
do not operate on Federal highways, or are not for hire. Very little is known
statistically about this fleet, but the PFVF has been subject to considerable
scrutiny by DGAF in its attempt to regularize the operations of this portion
of the industry.
3.03      Table 7 gives the latest information available on the PFVF in terms
of vehicle types and firm size. Of the 82,000 automotive units, 61% are rigid
body two-axle trucks, 16% are rigid body three-axle trucks, and 23% are truck
units for semi-trailers.  Approximately half the engine units are single owner-
operator units, while the other half are owned and operated by 1,670 separate
companies with an average fleet size of 25 units per company. The smaller
two-axle trucks predominate in the single owner-operator enterprise while
almost all of the heavy trucks (three-axle and tractor trailers) are owned and
operated by companies. Prior to 1971, when DGAF began examining the PFVF, the
single owner-operator units were 91% of the industry as opposed to 49% in 1977.
This increasing concentration of the Larger vehicles in large firms has been
a direct result of DGAF efforts since 1971.
3.04      The mechanism for achieving the consolidation of the many single
vehicle operations has since become an important structural element of the
public trucking industry. The basic approach of DGAF was as follows:
-    Issue no new federal operating rights to single-vehicle
operations.
-    Encourage association of the single-owner operations into
larger entities.
-    Set up state committees made up of representatives of trucking
companies or cooperatives to, deal with state-related problems
of the truckers.
-    Set up route committees to deal with route-related problems.



- 12 -
The first two initiatives of DGAF led to the grouping of single-vehicle oper-
ations into companies as described in paragraph 3.03. The second two initia-
tives had the effect of further grouping the companies into regional cartels
with which DGAF could communicate through the route committees and the state
committees. In this sense, DGAF has succeeded in its goal of understanding
and partially controlling an important portion of the trucking industry. The
potential implications of such developments are discussed in Section F.
C.   Organization and Structure of the Bus Industry
3.05      The bus industry differs substantially from trucking in that the
Public Passenger Vehicle Fleet (PPVF) is much smaller (58,000 buses vs
1,054,928 trucks in 1977) and that the proportion of buses in public service
is much higher (30% vs 8%). Also, the percentage of the PPVF falling into the
single owner-operator category is much lower than in public trucking (10% vs
49%). A smaller vehicle fleet operating on schedules on well defined routes
has been easier to regulate by DGAF, and the case for doing so is stronger
than in trucking. The organization and structure of the PPVF reflect this
reality. DGAF has also formed the equivalent state and route committees for
buses.
D.   Regulation of the Trucking Industry
3.06      For public service trucking, the major areas of regulation are: 1/
-    commodity restrictions
-    geographical operating rights
-    tariffs
DGAF is attempting to manipulate these three major control variables to
achieve the objectives set out in paragraph 3.01.
3.07      The commodity restriction is implemented by issuing three different
kinds of licenses to PFVF:
-    general freight
-    agricultural commodities only
-    special services
Special services include mainly tank trucks for liquids and dump trucks for
bulk minerals and construction activities; 16% of the PFVF was operating under
this license in September 1977 (Table 7). Agricultural haulers moved farm
products, including live animals, and accounted for 42% of the PFVF. General
freight is made up of those items not in the other two categories, principally
1/   Axle load controls are applicable to all trucks and are dealt with
in paragraph 2.21.



- 13 -
manufactured goods, and accounted for the remaining 42% of the PFVF fleet.
The smaller trucks predominate in hauling agricultural commodities, while
73% of the tractor--trailer units are hauling general cargo.
3.08      Geographical operating rights are implemented in connection with
the commodity restriction. Thus, a general freight license allows the truckers
to operate in a specific corridor or route; there are 40 routes in the present
system, and agreements of pooling of routes by haulage companies provide con-
ditions of greater flexibility than the "corridor" restriction implies. Load-
ing and unloading are permitted in zones at the end of each route. An agricul-
tural license specifies the geographical constraint differently in that the
trucker can operate freely on all federal roads within a radius of 225 km from
his base town, or a specific route may be specified, as in the case of general
cargo. Special transport licenses allow certain goods (such as bulk peltroleum
products) to travel in specialized vehicles on all federal roads. All 'License
holders can carry goods between terminals, railway stations and depots f-or
loading and unloading.
3.09      All PFVF vehicles are directed by law to use the official tariffs
published by DGAF. A tariff revision was completed in 1975 after years of
official tariff stability. The tarifff structure is complicated by the oper-
ational classification of roads (federal, state, and municipal); federal
tariffs apply only to transport on federal roads, while the states have
tariffs for state roads; a load originating on a state road and traveling
through various states, for instance, may show a cumulative tariff, provided
it is as high as the corresponding federal tariff applicable to the portions
of federal roads where it will travel. In general, high value commodities
such as manufactured goods pay high rates, and low value commodities pay low
rates, an attempt to follow the so-called "value of service pricing" structure
employed by the railways. As in the case of the railways and ports, these
rates bear little relation to costs and are viewed in some cases as a means
to influence the cost structure of certain industries and sectors favored by
the Government. Thus, a number of exceptions are provided for: the Federal
Government is to receive a 50% discount while coal, coke, petroleum products,
food grains, sulphur, cement, salt and various others receive an 8% discount.
Imported goods, on the other hand, are subject to a 15% surcharge except for
foodstuffs and inputs to agricultural production. Although complicated, the
official tariff structure is not sufficiently flexible to take into account
the size of shipment, empty backhauls, loadability of cargos, and other such
items, and there is little doubt that considerable deviation from published
rates does take place with the active cooperation of the transporter and the
client. This raises issues of enforcement which are discussed in Section F
following.
E.   Regulation of the Bus Industry
3.10      The equivalent to commodity classification in the bus industry is
the type of service: first class, second class, or mixed. Otherwise, the



- 14 -
geographic and tariff restrictions are similar for public passenger services
operating on federal roads. PPVF services are authorized on the same 40
routes defined for general cargo operation, and passenger tariffs are regu-
larly published by DGAF in the same manner as for freight transport. However,
bus passenger transport is a homogenous enough product to have a well behaved
and predictable cost structure which allows the tariffs to reflect costs.
Official tariffs are therefore usually adhered to.
F.   Current Issues and Prospects
3.11      In its desire to establish control over an important segment of the
trucking industry, DGAF has created a number of regional trucking cartels for
general cargo, imposed commodity restrictions on other truckers, and published
official trucking tariffs that are clearly not cost-based. All of these
actions are based on the philosophy that trucking on federal highways is a
public service and that federal regulatory power is needed to ensure that the
public is well served. The question now is to what specific ends will DGAF
use its authority and what, in practice, will be the impact of doing so.
3.12      DGAF lacks well defined objectives.  Improving the efficiency and
distribution of trucking services is a supportable general objective, but, in
the absence of data and analyses to indicate the presence or lack of an accept-
able level of efficiency or distribution of public trucking services, it is
not clear that recent DGAF actions have been in the public interest. The basic
implied DGAF assumption that large trucking firms are more efficient and less
costly than single vehicle operations has never been established. Most economic
studies for other countries have indicated that truck and bus operations do
not exhibit so-called "scale economies," i.e., the utilization rates and unit
costs of small firms are about the same as those for large firms and, there-
fore, encouragement of larger operations will have to be justified on other
than economic grounds. The case can be made that most of the DGAF action to
date has been anticompetitive and likely to lead to less trucking service at
higher prices than previously. Not allowing agricultural truckers to haul
fertilizer on an otherwise empty 'back haul is not likely to lead to efficient
utilization of trucking capacity, nor is value-of-service pricing an efficient
allocative mechanism. Perhaps the most troublesome initiative, however, is
the existence of the self-policing and self-regulating state and route com-
mittees that have been formed to make implementation of DGAF regulations
possible. The large truckers clearly see these committees as a means of
reducing competition on major routes. By limiting the number of operators
and not allowing new entrants, rrstability" can be brought to the industry.
3.13      The DGAF desire to commiunicate with a stable, well organized portion
of the trucking industry does, however, have its merits. These can be listed
as follows.
-    Allows large enough firms to develop to obtain commercial
financing at reasonable terms.



- 15 -
Makes industry operation of jointly owned terminals easier to
organize.
Facilitates the development of large scale intermodal movement
such as containers and piggyback.
Provides a manageable forum for discussion of issues such as
axle weight controls, road user charges, and working conditions
for drivers.
To date, most DGAF efforts have gone toward the organization of the sltate and
route committees, together with developing a data base for the federal for-hire
trucking service. The industry, as, should be expected, has attempted with
some success to turn these initiatives to its own advantage. The danger of
such developments should, however, not be overstated, Own account as opposed
to for-hire trucking is always an alternative for many shippers shoulcl services
decline and rates be raised too high. Then, too, the route committees do not
serve as perfect monopolies, and competition within the group for traffic does
exist to some degree. Finally, the pressure for entry by smaller non-federal
operators will always be there and will increase as profits rise. Excessive
profits in the "organized" federal for-hire service will also provide a strong
incentive for evasion of the DGAF rules by the more cost-conscious users of
transport. On balance, the benefits of organizing the modern portion of the
industry may well be in excess of the actual costs. Much depends on the DGAF
staff, the tasks that they undertake, and the use to which they put the
committees.
3.14      SCT efforts to organize and regulate the industry have not substan-
tially altered the fact that: (a) trucking in Mexico, as in most developing
countries, is a fragmented and keenly competitive industry even in the presence
of regulation; and (b) there is still little understanding of the impact of
regulation on the industry. The proposed sector loan would provide the Bank
a framework within which to review these matters periodically (para 5.29).
IV. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Network
4.01      The Mexican highway network has evolved rapidly since the introduc-
tion of the road transport technology in the 1930s, as shown in the following
tabulation:



- 16 -
Evolution of Mexican Highway Network 1950-1977 (km)
Year          Paved          Gravel          Earth          Total
1950         13,595           6,836          2,024         22,455
1960         26,979          11,203          3,860         42,042
1965        34,431           18,373          6,693         59,497
1970         41,947          21,079          6,539         69,565
1975         60,643          77,723         46,393        184,759
1977         62,000          88,310         48,300        198,610
In 1950, there were only 22,500 km of road in Mexico, of which 13,600 or 60%
were paved. In 1977, the network had grown to almost 200,000 km, of which
62,000 or 31% were paved; between 1950 and 1975, the length of paved roads
grew at an annual rate of 6%. Automobile ownership has been relatively
high in Mexico, 33% above the average for Latin America and only 44% below
current ownership levels in Europe (Table 8). Recently, the growth rate in
paved roads dropped to about 1% per annum reflecting, in part, the near
maturity of the main highway network in terms of coverage and the increasing
emphasis given to low standard roads in lightly populated areas.  The vigorous
and successful labor-intensive rural roads program led to the construction of
73,000 km of rural roads during the 1971-1976 presidential period alone.
These developments, together with the steady increase in the number of vehicles
and in the volume of traffic, have resulted in a large maintenance load and
extensive requirements for rehabilitation and strengthening of existing roads
and for localized expansion of capacity to relieve emerging bottlenecks.
B.   Highway Administration
4.02      Administration of the road network has been developed to reflect the
distribution of responsibilities of the Government at the federal, state and
municipal (local) levels.
(a)  Federal Highways - SAHOP is directly responsible for the planning,
construction, and maintenance of all federal highways; financing is
100% from federal funds. SAHOP has 42 directorates grouped under
three undersecretariats; its organization is satisfactory, and it
has clearly established lines of authority (Chart I). SAHOP is
staffed with experienced engineers and well qualified heads of
departments.
(b)  State Highways - PLanning, construction and maintenance of state
roads are the responsibility of the highway administration in each
state. Coordination with the federal authorities is carried out by
the State Highway ]Board (Junta de Caminos), of which the Governor
is chairman and in which SAHOP is represented through its Centro
SAIIOP, the fully staffed and equipped dependency of SAHOP in each
state. The annual state highway program is submitted to SAHOP for



- 17 -
review and approval; financing for construction as well as main-
tenance is on a bi-partite basis with one-half federal and one-half
state funds.
(c) Local Roads (Caminos Vecinales) - Planning and construction of these
feeder roads are carried out by SAHOP through its Centro SAFiOP after
agreement with the State Highway Board and the municipalities in-
volved. Construction is financed on a tri-partite basis: one-third
federal, one-third state and one-third local (either municipalities
or private enterprise) funds. On completion, such roads are trans-
ferred to the corresponding State Highway Board for maintenance with
Board funds.
(d) Rural Roads - Since 1971, a very large rural roads program hLas been
carried out, aimed at joining small towns and villages with the
nearest main road and providing temporary employment to the poorer
level of the population by using labor-intensive methods. These
roads are planned, constructed, and maintained by SAHOP and were
financed, until recently, entirely with federal funds. In 1978,
funds for construction andl most maintenance were passed directly
to the states and do not appear in the SAHOP budget.
(e)  Toll Facilities - While SAHOP plans and constructs toll roads and
bridges, they are operated and maintained by a semi-autonomous public
agency "Caminos y Puentes Federales de Ingresos y Servicios Anexos".
Funds for financing the toll facilities are provided partly from tolls
levied on the users of existing facilities and partly from foreign
and domestic borrowing.
4.03      By 1977, the above institutions had provided the following highway
network:
1977 Mexican Highway Network by Administrative Unit (km)
Paved     Gravel       Earth        Total
Federal (federal)              39,470       2,720       1,117      43,:307
State (bi-partite)             17,435      16,788      3,630       37,853
Toll (federal)                  1,062        -           -          1,062
Local (tri-partite)             4,038       6,338       3,596      13,972
Rural (federal and state)        --        62,461     39,955      102,416
Total                    62,005      88,307      48,298      198,610
More than 90% of the federal system and all the toll roads are paved, forming
the backbone of the system; 46% of the state system and only 29% of the 'Local
system are paved, while none of the rural roads are paved. Coverage is
generally adequate, although unevenly distributed. About 25% of the network
is concentrated on only 10% of the country's area, with another 50% of the
network located on about 40% of the area; the remaining 25% of the network



- 18 -
serves about half of the country. However, a major portion of the country
is underpopulated, and, in fact, the density of kilometers of road per
thousand inhabitants is higher in the underpopulated areas than in the
heavily populated ones.
4.04      While it would appear that the division of responsibility set forth
above could lead to confusion, the system works smoothly because of the over-
riding authority of SAHOP for design standards and specifications and the
financial participation of the Federal Government at all levels. The key
to successful federal participation at all levels is the institution of the
Centros SAHOP. These organizations serve as nearly self-contained federal
highway offices in each state, looking after federal interests at each of the
three levels of Government and providing the technical expertise that would
otherwise be lacking in some areas. Centros SAHOP thus serve both decentral-
ization of authority and unification of standards and quality levels. A
program of building appropriate offices, warehouses and workshops is being
carried out in each State Capital, and the proposed loan may be used for
extension of these centers.
4.05      The SAHOP presence does not come without a price, as reflected in
the 1978 budget (para 5.10). The management, design and supervision costs of
SAHOP (virtually all engineering design is done in-house) account for almost
37% of the total SAHOP road budget. This is a somewhat distorted picture in
that 1978 was a very low year for the SAHOP construction budget, and
permanent staff expenditures cannot be cut back. The widespread federal
presence, represented by well qualified and well paid engineering staff, has
been a key factor in the continuing and largely successful development of the
Mexican highway system. The cost of this management function will be kept
under review during the bi-annual consultations (para 5.31).
C.   Highway Planning and Finance
4.06      Two recent efforts have been made at national highway planning in
Mexico. In March 1976, SCT completed the "Plan Nacional de Transporte", which
was an attempt to prepare a comprehensive transportation plan dealing largely
with roads and railways.  It makes projections of investments and the network
for 1982 and 1988, with a general view of the year 1994.  It was completed at
the end of the Echeverria administration, and, although it was never officially
published, it serves as a major unofficial source document for planners in all
modes. SAHOP published its own perspective highway plan in November 1976
entitled "Esquema Director para la Infraestructura Carretera." The analysis
makes use of city population projections, GDP growth rates, gravity models,
and highway capacity assumptions to predict the required highway network in
1995 for two alternative national economic growth rates. Thus, in the long
run, SAHOP has a fair idea of the task ahead.
4.07      For more immediate use, consultants retained by SAHOP have recently
prepared the first phase of a pavement overlay study in which data relevant to
the modernization of the federal highway system have been gathered. A second
phase of this study, in which an implementation program for modernization works
will be prepared, is scheduled to start early in 1979 (para 5.15).  On a wider



19 -
scale, SAHOP has prepared several drafts of a six-year program for the current
1977-1982 presidential administration, indicating what is desirable at the
federal, state and local levels in terms of investments and maintenance. This
material is presented in project det:ail at the federal level, major expense
categories at the state level, and allocation by state at the local level.
4.08      The SAHOP planning exercise is based on sound inputs; inventcry
and condition surveys are being kept up to date, and a satisfactory system of
traffic counts is being enforced. Design standards and cost estimates used are
generally realistic. The economic evaluation methods are generally adequate,
although some fine tuning to define optimum improvement levels under conditions
of scarcity of funds is recognized to be necessary.
4.09      The six-year program and the annual plan are updated and defined in
an iterative process of analysis and negotiations involving the states, SAHOP
and SPP. This process, in which SAHOP plays the key role, has proved generally
responsive to the needs of the various regions and flexible enough to respond
to changing circumstances (general reduction of highway expenditures) and to
initiate new programs (rural roads and modernization). The continuing planning
process outlined above provides adequate guidance to identify requirements and
effect shifts in emphasis; it does not result, however, in firm commitment of
resources. The annual budget prepared by SAHOP and SPP, with the latter
asserting overall control, is the instrument to effect resource allocation and
firm up SAHOP's annual program. Ceilings defined in the budget are strictly
enforced, and SAHOP's actual expenditure for a given year corresponds closely
to its budget allocations. Since no firm commitments are made beyond the next
budget year, the Government retains flexibility to respond to shifts in fiscal
and development policies. The system rests on the strength of the coordination
between SAHOP pluri-annual planning and SPP annual budgeting. This has been a
problem in the recent past. One of the important objectives of the proposed
sector loan is to assist in bringing necessary improvements to this area
(para 5.26).
4.10      The following figures indicate past levels and patterns of road
investments and maintenance expenditures for the previous two presidential
administrations as well as current estimates of what is projected for the
present administration.
National Road Construction and Maintenance Expenditures Actual 1965-1976 and
Projected 1977-1982
(Billions 1977 Mex$) 1/
1965-1970 Actual      1971-1976 Actual        1977-1982 Projected
Type of Road   Amount  % of Total   Amount   % of Total   Amount   % of Total
Federal          23.7         66       27.9        48           30.3        59
State             7.1         20        11.4       19           10.9        20
Local             4.8         13         8.8        15            8.2       15
Rural             0.4          1        10.7       18            3.4         6
Total      36.0        100        58.8       100           52.6       100
1/   Mex$ I Billion = US$44.4 million.  For the purpose of comparison with
the table in paragraph 5.10, Mex$ 1.00 1978 is approximately equal to
Mex$ 0.85 1977.



- 20 -
4,11      During the Diaz Ordaz administration, 1965-1970, emphasis was on the
federal highways, which took 66% of the budget; rural roads during that period
received only 1% of expenditures. Much of the high level of federal investment
was due to a major toll road construction program. During the Echeverria
period, 1971-1976, federal road expenditures dropped from 66% to 48% of the
total, largely because of a cessation of toll road construction. Rural roads
increased greatly from 1% to 18% of total expenditures as a major push was
made to produce rural access and rural employment through labor-intensive con-
struction methods (para 4.18). For the Lopez Portillo administration, 1977-
1982, all indications are that toltal expenditures will drop below those achieved
in the 1971-1976 period in real terms and that emphasis will shift back to con-
struction, and especially maintenance and modernization, of federal roads,
while the rural roads program, which received so much emphasis during the peak
period 1972-1974, would continue at a more balanced pace of 6% of total expend-
itures (para 5.08).
4.12      Road user charges in Mexico (para 2.18) are a combination of
(a) charges levied by the Federal Government on the manufacture of vehicles
and tires, (b) license taxes levied by the State Governments, (c) taxes on
fuel and lubricants collected by the national oil company, and (d) revenues
from toll roads and bridges. With the exception of toll revenues, none of the
charges are earmarked for roads. Federal and state taxes go to the federal
budget while PEMEX retains part of the taxes on fuel and lubricants for the
financing of its investments, with the remainder going to the general budget.
The user charges paid by gasoline-driven vehicles are substantial, generating
revenues of over US$400 million per year, 90% of the annual cost of construct-
ing and maintaining the entire federal, state and local network (Table 9).
While a large portion of this revenue is generated by automobiles in Mexico
City, a substantial amount is generated on intercity roads.
D.   Highway Engineering and Construction
4.13      The General Directorate of Federal Highways in SAHOP (Chart II) has
a large, well organized staff that engineers most of the highways and bridges
in the country employing modern dlesign techniques; the standards (Table 10)
to which these are engineered are adequate. Since funds have been scarce in
recent years, SAHOP has responded by selecting lower than strictly justified
design standards for new construction and/or by postponing well justified
upgrading of existing roads to higher standards. There are competent local
consulting firms engaged in highway and bridge design work in Mexico, but
SAHOP employs them only when its own staff is fully occupied, and then mainly
for bridge design.
4.14      One of the results of 30 years of a sustained level of road con-
struction in M1exico has been the development of a large number of experienced
and well equipped road contractors and a well defined relationship between
contractors and SAHOP. SAHOP has an office in which contracting firms must
register, and 2,000 firms have done so; the firms are also obliged to update
the register information annually. There is a wide range of capacity among
them, with the emphasis on medium-sized firms. Two factors are at play here:
(a) SAHOP's practice of contracting by phase corresponding to annual budget



- 21 -
tranche; and (b) SAHOP's deliberate policy of distributing its funds among a
large number of projects and thus effecting a regional balance. The size of
the country, as well as SAHOP's policy of keeping a steady volume of work in
all regions, has led to a strong regionalization of contractors.
4.15      Highway construction is carried out under unit price contraLcts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding. Construction contracts are
satisfactory and contain an adequate price escalation clause. Under the
Seventh Highway Loan, the Bank agreed that invitations to bid would be limited
to eight prequalified local firms and eight prequalified foreign firms. SAHOP
does not provide advance payments in its contracts; however, BANOBRAS (Banco
Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos) provides short term loans to con-
tractors for work performed but for which payments have not yet been made.
Supervision of construction is carried out satisfactorily by SAHOP staff.
Competition among contractors is intense, and construction prices are com-
petitive, two factors which have discouraged foreign firms from bidding for
highway contracts in Mexico, although they have been invited to do so under
Bank- and IDB-financed projects.
E.   Maintenance
4.16      Maintenance expenditures in 1978 account for approximately 26% of
the SAHOP road budget (para 5.10). This relatively high proportion reflects
two facts: first, the network is aging, and, second, road maintenance require-
ments in Mexico are well recognizecl and maintenance quality generally is good.
SAHOP, through its Directorate General of Maintenance, is responsible for the
maintenance of the federal highway system and part of the rural road system.
Routine maintenance is carried out by the Government's own forces; only major
betterment works are carried out by contract. The Directorate, which is well
organized and staffed with about 20,000 workers, operates in each state
through divisions attached to the Centros SAHOP. The Directorate alsoa employs
an advanced system of efficiency indicators and road quality indices in
monitoring the effectiveness of its operations. Maintenance of state and
local roads and some rural roads is the responsibility of the State Highway
Boards.
4.17      The maintenance, operation, and allocation of SAHOP equipment are
controlled by the Directorate General of Equipment and Transportation, which
operates in close cooperation with the Directorate General of Maintenance.
The Equipment and Transportation Directorate is well organized and has a
strong planning and programing department; systematic records are kept of
each item of equipment and each vehicle, recording its use and maintenance
data and forecasting the timing of its replacement. The Directorate is
experimenting with a system of hire charges in three pilot zones, but SAHOP
considers that the experience gathered so far is not sufficient to decide
whether to expand hire charge funding nationwide or to continue the present
system of direct budget allocations for purchases of equipment and vehicles.
The replacement value of the maintenance equipment is about US$120 million
with a fleet consisting of approximately 7,500 vehicles and 2,500 equipment
items. With an average economic lif'e of about eight years, this implies an
annual replacement of about US$15 million, not counting additional requirements
due to the increasing workload and the backlog of renewal. The low priority
given to highways, reflected in the relatively small budget allocations in the
last three years, has led to little replacement of maintenance equipment since
committed construction is much more difficult to cut back and equipment pur-
chases are easily delayed. As a consequence, the average age of the equipment



- 22 -
fleet has increased from a normal level of five-six years to about nine years,
and that of the vehicle fleet from three-four years to about six years. What
was thought to be a temporary shortage of funds has lasted for several years,
and an effort must soon be made to replenish SAHOP's equipment fleet to
--oid a sharp decline in maintenance standards. The proposed loan includes
funds for the purchase of maintenance equipment and vehicles (paras 5.12
and 5.32).
F.   Rural Roads
4.18      As indicated previously (paras 4.01, 4.02 and 4.11), the administra-
tion of President Echeverria (1971-1976) made a major commitment toward
providing basic road access to the villages and rural communities through a
largely labor-intensive rural roads program (para 5.07). This was made
possible by the presence of four mLajor factors;
- an extensive primary and secondary road network;
- the extensive SAHOP organization at the state and local levels;
- adequate budgetary support; and
- political support at the highest level.
The extensive existing road network meant that most villages were reasonably
close to an all-weather primary or secondary road, and the construction of
numerous 5- or 10-km access roads was all that was required, rather than con-
struction of long and costly penetration roads. The SAHOP organization again
was the key to successful planning and implementation, providing decentralized
techinical and administrative support when required. Federal. budget allocations
were increased sharply to pay for the works, while the full support of the
President and the Minister of SAHOP was required to resist the critics of the
program, mainly the engineering and contracting professions, which decried the
low standards employed, and the road construction industry, which would have
preferred to see the budget suppc,rt primary and secondary road construction.
By most measures, the program was a success. 1/ The program has now been fully
institutionalized in SAHOP with t:he creation of a Directorate General of Rural
Roads and a regular budget allocation, and it will continue at a reduced but
steady pace (para 5.08). The Bank has contributed to the construction and
improvement of rural roads through various loan operations, especially irri-
gation and PIDER rural development projects. Since early 1974, about US$40
million in Bank financing has been included in eight loan packages, which would
support an estimated 6,000 km of feeder roads to be constructed or improved.
G.   Past Bank Participation and Experience
4.19      The total Bank participation of about US$267 million for the devel-
opment of the Mexican highway network has had a great impact on the improve-
ment of the primary highway system; out of a total length of about 44,000 km
of federal and toll highways, the Bank has assisted, or is assisting, in the
improvement or construction of about 14,300 km, approximately one-third of the
total network. Although the quaLlity of works executed is satisfactory, cost
increases, construction delays, and insufficient budget allocations have
generally resulted in delayed completion of the projects.
1/   SAHOP, with support from UNDP and participation of Bank staff, organized,
in Oaxaca, in October 1978, an international conference on labor-intensive
methods for the construction of rural roads.



- 23 -
4.20      Key information on past loans is as follows:
Loan No.  Date         Amount               Works                  Present Status
(US$ million)
268-ME   Oct. 1960      25.0      3,150 km of federal roads        Completed 1968
317-ME   June 1962      30.5      385 km of toll roads, 5 toll
bridges and 1 ferry boat         Completed 1967
354-ME   Sept. 1963    40.0       6,0010 km of federal highways
and maintenance equipment        Completed 1972
401-ME   Feb. 1965      32.0      350 kcm of toll roads and
3 toll bridges                   Completed 1970
528-ME   Jan. 1968      27.5      2,200 km of federal highways   Comleted 1973
695-ME   June 1970      21.8      1,040) km of federal highways   Completed 1977
968-ME   March 1974    90.0       1,216 km of federal highways,  Completion
initially 1,875 km               expected in
1981
4.21      Loan 695-ME, signed in June 1970, was completed only in Septenmber
1977, or about three years behind schedule. The main reason for the delay
was the lag in budgetary appropriations after substantial cost increases had
occurred as the result of strong inflation and of increased quantities caused
by design revisions. In November 1974, the Bank decreased the disbursement
percentage from 33% to 18% since price increases were not yet matched with the
devaluation of the Mexican peso. Because benefits were inflating at least as
fast as costs, and traffic generally exceeded projections, the projects re-
mained economically feasible. The Project Completion Report (PCR) of May 31,
1978 1/ for this loan concludes, in fact, that, with Bank funds tied to a few
large projects, failure to allocate domestic funds for these projects for rea-
sons of budget limitations or changes in priorities leads to a slow disbursing
project, and that designing a loan to finance large numbers of small segments
and allowing for changing priorities over time would be desirable if the Bank
wishes to disburse larger loans over shorter periods and increase the relevance
of its support in the subsector.
4.22      Loan 968-ME was signed in M.arch 1974, and substantial delays were en-
countered from the outset because of a shortage of budgetary allocations in the
face of sharply higher bid prices caused by rapid inflation. Macroeconomic
control measures were taken to reduce the impact of the public sector deficit
on inflation; the road budget was cut in real (though not nominal) terms, and
the allocation for all projects was reduced across the board, implying that
execution would be stretched over several additional years. After the Mexican
1/   The PPAR is scheduled to be issued early in 1979.



- 24 -
peso was devalued late in 1976, SAHOP re-evaluated its programs and proposed a
curtailment of the project from 16 to 12 road sections (including one section
reduced by half). The estimated cost of the reduced project is about the same
as that of the original project; Bank participation has been maintained at
40%. In September 1978, works had been completed for 45% of the project, and
completion is expected early in 1981.
4.23      The project format of previous loans has, in times of rapid inflation
and fiscal restraints, led to slow disbursement and eventual curtailment of
project scope. Budget allocations in Mexico for one year reflect the budgetary
imperatives of that year. Scarcity is spread around so that projects are
slowed down but seldom abandoned. Traditional Bank lending for a specific
group of subprojects, to be completed over a four- to five-year period, has
proven ill-adapted to the system because it does not provide sufficient
flexibility in the selection of subprojects and in the pace of their execution.
H.   Current Prospects
4.24      A subject that deserves mention is that concerning the distribution
of the benefits of highway construction and maintenance. Benefits from federal
highway expenditures accrue to the economy at large in the form of savings in,
or avoided increases of, vehicle operating costs. Stepped-up maintenance and
timely pavement strengthening also result in savings in future reconstruction
requirements which could eventually have to be borne by the Government. The
direct impact of federal road expenditures will be felt first by users of pri-
vate automobiles and by the road transport industry. The relatively affluent
auto users, with approximately 3 million vehicles making up between 40 and 60%
of traffic volumes on intercity roads, are major beneficiaries from federal
road programs. However, the above proportions, compared, for example, with an
average of 80 to 90% in the US and European countries, indicate that commercial
intercity traffic in Mexico still plays a determinant role in defining infra-
structure requirements. This is reflected specifically in the treatment given
to time savings in establishing the economic ranking of projects (Annex 1).
Savings on the operations of not-for-hire freight vehicles (para 3.02) would
directly affect production costs. Savings by public trucks and buses would,
in the long run, be passed on to the rest of the economy although, in the case
of public trucks (para 3.02), this may, as indicated in paragraph 3.13, be
delayed until the competitive pressure generated by increased profit margins
is sufficient to force new entries. Small truck operators who generally
operate with a smaller margin would benefit directly, as would bus riders who
are generally not affluent.
4.25      The overall level oiL road user charges (para 4.12) indicates that
major beneficiaries pay for the cost of road investment. In that sense, road
investments are not regressive. An additional consideration is that the truck-
ing industry and the road construction industry are major employers of semi-
skilled and unskilled labor, and that the poor benefit indirectly through
employment in industry made possible by an adequate road network. One area
where a specific statement seems possible is the regional distribution of
highway expenditures and resulting benefits. Road development in Mexico has



-- 25 -
played a major role in facilitating the integration of remote or undeveloped
regions in the economy. This will continue on account of the structure of
the highway planning process which provides for participation of regional and
municipal authorities (para 4.02); and a deliberate policy of spatial devel-
opment and decentralization (para 5.28 and Annex 2). The information neces-
sary to approach the subject of benefit distribution in terms other than the
general considerations made above is not available. These considerations
suggest, nevertheless, that benefits are broadly distributed with a limited
income redistribution effect.
4.26      The prospects for the highway subsector depend very much on the
time frame considered. Adjusting to the lower short term priority given for
transport in general and roads in particular has been painful for SAHO]?. It
is no longer sufficient for a project to be economically justified in order
to be included in the road program. The need now is to select the highest
yielding projects in order to maximize the return on investments. This fre-
quently means the early completion of high yielding elements of a larger
project such as reconstruction or dcoubling the carriageway of only a small
percentage of an overall road link. SAHOP's attitude as the dominant factor
in highway planning and engineering is changing, and the proposed loan is
designed to support continued adjustments.
4.27      There are still large areas on the map of Mexico which do not indi-
cate the existence of primary or secondary roads. However, most of these
areas are mountainous and lightly populated and have little potential for
development. The era of providing access to promising territory in Mexico
with new penetration roads is drawing to a close. The highest yielding road
investments are now maintenance and reconstruction of existing roads (Annex 3).
This should set priorities for the next five years. However, longer term
projections of traffic densities based on past trends (Table 8) and the
anticipated expansion of the vehicle fleet point to the need for considerable
expansion of capacity on the primary network in the second half of the next
decade.
V. FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROPOSED SECTOR LOAN 1979-1982
A.   General
5.01      The implications of the preceding chapters concerning the possible
role of the Bank in Mexico's highway sector can be summarized as follows;
(a)  Highway infrastructure in Mexico is in the hands of mature
and well developed institutions. The resources allocation
process ensures the participation of states and municipali-
ties and provides both continuity and flexibility. Improved
coordination is needed between pluri-annual sectoral planning
and central programing and budgeting.
(b)  The realization of Mexico's development objectives over the
next decade would depend, inter alia, on the continued avail-
ability of reliable and efficient road transport. This would



- 26 -
require the implementation of balanced highway programs, with
special attention given to maintenance and improvement of
existing roads.
(c)  Over the next five years, SAHOP would have to meet the country
highway requirements under more stringent budgetary constraints
than in the early 1970s. The relative scarcity of resources
would call for careful planning and for selective design rely-
ing on limited improvements to existing facilities.
(d)  Past highway loans under the project format have lacked
flexibility and suffered from slow disbursements. The sector
approach proposed for the present loan would overcome these
limitations and would allow the Bank to better integrate
its contribution into SAHOP's planning and budgeting process
and to broaden the sector objectives of the proposed loan.
5.02      The proposed highway sector loan would finance the foreign exchange
component of acceptable capital expenditures included in the annual SAHOP
budget and consultant services. Specific subprojects would have to meet
agreed requirements concerning economic justification and engineering standards
and would have to be implemented in accordance with agreed tendering and
procurement procedures. The basic elements of the proposed sector loan are:
(a)  Definition and agreement on scope and structure of an
economically justified and financially feasible highway
program covering the period 1979-1982;
(b)  Definition and agreement on appropriate sector objectives
and development of related covenants; and
(c)  Definition and agreement on specifications and procedures
for loan implementation, in particular, project selection,
tendering, disbursement and monitoring.
The first two elements are reviewed hereafter while the third point, imple-
mentation, is developed in Chapter VI.
B.   The Prospect for the Highway Subsector, 1979-1982
5.03      The projections set forth in paragraph 4.10 represent initial
estimates of feasible levels of expenditures. These projections reflect
all public highway expenditures, including the federal, state and local
components. The program as administered directly by SAHOP, which includes
some state and local roads (paras 5.10 and 5.16), is of most interest to
define the framework for the proposed sector loan. This program accounts for
approximately 59% of national road investment and maintenance expenditures
and includes most of the large projects in the country. Even though 41% of
national maintenance and construction expenditures takes place at the state
and local levels, it should be borne in mind that Mexico has 32 states, and
35 cities with populations in excess of 100,000, which necessarily leads to a
large number of small projects in the state and local categories, most of which



- 27 -
are too small to be considered for financing under a SAHOP-administered sector
loan. For the purpose of the proposed sector loan, the SAHOP budget is there-
fore the key document. Before proceeding with an examination of the ',AHOP pro-
gram, it is necessary to assess the outlook of overall Government expenditure
in roads over the period of the proposed loan.
(i) Financial Prospects
5.04      Total expenditures for roads in Mexico for the two previous presi-
dential administrations (1965-1971 and 1971-1976) grew in real terms at an
average annual rate of about 8.5% (para 4.10). Average annual expenditure
for roads in the period 1971-1976 was about Mex$ 9.8 billion per year (1977
prices). Given the rapid increases; in GDP and road traffic during the period
(paras 2.01 and 2.04), the 8.5% growth rate in road expenditures was reason-
able and desirable. For the 1977-1982 period, it is expected that public
expenditure in roads will be about 13% below the 1971-1976 levels, averaging
Mex$ 8.8 billion (1977 prices) per year. This will take place in a period
when the economy, after two years of very low growth, is expected to expand at
a rate in excess of 6% per annum.
5.05      The levels of expenditure projected for roads are less than neces-
sary to maintain the current level of services for the demand generated by
the growth of the economy. This will manifest itself chiefly in terms of
congestion. The Government is aware of this and has consciously made the
choice to channel public resources into agriculture and petroleum production.
Not only are highways affected, but also the transport sector in general
(Chapter II and Table 1). An increased level of allocation would not be
possible given the present national tax effort and current pricing policies for
public services. A period of austerity is clearly in view for road planners,
requiring more careful consideration of how the scarce funds are used. The
adequacy of the program can therefore be assessed only in relation to the
composition of the program and the criteria for selection of subprojecits. If
the policies outlined below on these matters are followed, it should be possi-
ble to accommodate the growing demand through 1982 within the envelope of the
proposed program without excessive congestion and reduction of serviceability.
However, beyond that time, the level of public support for road infrastructure
will have to be substantially increased.
(ii) Structure of the Program
5.06      An analysis of the structure of the program outlined in paragraph 4.10
shows that the shares going to state and local roads have been almost constant
for the last 14 years (approximately 34%) and are expected to be so for the
balance of the 1979-1982 period. This reflects, in part, the absorptive capa-
city of the lower administrative units and the political realities in Mexico
concerning the relative power of federal, state and local Governments.
5.07      Over the period under review, major shifts have taken place or are
expected in the relative shares of federal roads (primary network) vis-a-vis



- 28 -
rural roads. In the 1965-1970 period, only 1% of expenditures was for low
standard rural access roads while the federal roads commanded 66% of expendi-
tures. For the period 1971-1976 as a whole, rural roads received 18% of the
public funds while federal roads dropped from 66% to 48%. This dramatic shift
in the structure of SAHOP's highway program was made possible by a large
increase in the level of expenditures in 1971-1976, which allowed real
expenditures for federal roads to increase 4.2 billion pesos even though their
share was decreasing. This moderated the opposition from the capital-intensive
road construction industry since it still had an adequate volume of activity.
A liberal allocation of funds for all types of roads plus the active
Presidential and Ministerial support made the strong performance in rural
roads possible.
5.08      By 1976, three factors developed that made it impossible -- and
probably undesirable -- to sustain such a pace in rural roads:
-    budgetary constraints were instituted to control the high inflation;
-    the rural road projects with the highest priority had been
completed; and
-    the maintenance burden was becoming significant.
The program for 1977-1982 reflects these developments, and the rural roads
construction program has been tuned down in absolute terms as well as in
shares. It is anticipated that approximately half a billion pesos per year
will be spent on rural roads in 1977-1982, representing 6% of total road
expenditures (compared with 18% in 1971-1976, and only 1% in 1965-1970). More
planning effort is also going into the organization of maintenance operations
(currently a SAHOP responsibility with state funds) rather than accelerated
construction activities. The 1977-1982 program is by no means a return to the
neglect of the 1965-1970 period, and it represents a serious commitment on the
part of the Mexican Government to continue supporting basic rural access in a
time of austerity when the argument for more expenditure for primary roads is
very strong. In terms of traffic volumes handled, the contribution of rural
roads is almost insignificant compared to that of main roads. The overall
program strikes an adequate balance between rural roads and federal roads.
C.   The SAHOPllighway Prqgram, 1979-1982
5.09      As indicated in paragraph 5.03, the SAHOP highway program has been
taken as the framework for the proposed sector loan rather than a formally
approved highway plan. The built-in flexibility of the budgeting process in
Mexico would not allow rigid programing for one sector. The Government feels
instead that a rolling four-year program providing careful estimates of
SAHOP's budget to be updated annually is a better way to improve the budget
exercise and to assess the scope of future highway programs and policies and,
therefore, to define the framework for the proposed sector loan. Preparation
of a four-year estimate of SAHOP's highway budget for the period 1979-1982 has
been the focal point of loan preparation. The depth and significance of these
estimates lie in the fact that they are recognized as realistic, given the
public finance situation in Mexico and the current priorities among sectors.
These projections may actually be of more value than usual highway plans,
which tend to be a reflection of perceived needs rather than a statement of



- 29 -
fiscal capability. In that sense, the four-year estimates provide an adequate
framework to assess the absorptive capacity of the sector and project the
future rate of disbursement of the proposed sector loan. The initial four-year
estimates presented below were confirmed during negotiations and will be
updated annually in consultation with the Bank (paras 5.26 and 5.31).
5.10      The table below summarizes the highway expenditures budgeted by
SAHOP for 1978 and presents the initial estimates of SAHOP's budget for the
period 1979-1982. A more detailed breakdown is given in Table 11.
Estimates of SAkHOP Highway Budgets
1979-1982
(Millions of Current Mex$)
1978                Y e a r              Total
Budgeted  1979    1980    1981    1982  1979-1982
Management, design and
supervision                         3,300   3,500   4,000   4,600   5,300   17,400
Construction Federal Roads             2,360   2,900   3,600   4,700   5,600   16,800
Purchases Maintenance Equipment          120     400      500      600     700    2,200
Other Maintenance Expenditures         2,180   2,500   2,900   3,400   3,900   12,700
Urban Bypasses                            60     100      200      300     400    1,000
SAHOP Centers                            100     150      150      100     100       500
State Roads SAHOP Responsibility         540     600      650      700     750    2,700
Rural Roads SAHOP Responsibility         330     400      450      500     550    1,900
Total                            8,990  10,550  12,450  14,900  17,300   55,200
(Millions Current US$ Equivalent)/   (400)   (469)   (553)   (662)   (769)  (2,453)
/1   Based on the average market exchange rate of approximately Mex$ 22.5   US$1.0.
Percent Distribution of SAHOP Highway Budgets
1979-1982
1978                Y e a r              Total
Budgeted  1979    1980    1981    1982  1979-1982
Management, design and
supervision                            37       33       32      31       31      32
Construction Federal Roads                26      27       29      32       32      30
Purchases Maintenance Equipment            1       4        4       4        4       3
Other Maintenance Expenditures            24      24       23      23       23      23
Urban Bypasses                             1       1        2       3        2       2
SAHOP Centers                              1       1        1       1        1       1
State Roads SAHOP Responsibility           6       6        5       5        4       5
Rural Roads SAHOP Responsibility           4       4        4       3        3       3
Total                              100      100     100      100     100      100



- 30 -
(i) Overview
5.11      Federal road construction and maintenance expenditures between
1965 and 1976 grew in real terms at an average rate of 2.7% per annum while
total road expenditures were growing at 8.5%. From 1977 to 1982, the growth
rate for expenditures for federal roads is expected to be approximately 1.7%
per year in real terms. The approximate 42,000-km paved federal network
carries the bulk of the national traffic, which has been growing continuously
in excess of 8% per year. In 1975, it was estimated that approximately 10,000
km of the federal road system had vehicle flows in excess of 3,000 vehicles
per day. Further, the age structure of the federal network is as follows:
Age                 Number of km
More than 30 years             6,000
20-30 years                   8,000
Less than 20 years            28,000
Given the age structure and traffic volumes on the network, it is important
to realize that the bulk of future federal road expenditures is determined
by maintenance and capacity expansion along existing routes rather than by
construction of new routes. The SAHOP program reflects these financial and
physical realities and indicates a shift toward maintenance and reconstruction.
The change in emphasis would, of course, be gradual as ongoing commitments for
new construction, notably under existing Bank and IDB projects, dominate the
two first years of the program, 1979 and 1980.
(ii) Maintenance
5.12      Maintenance expenditures have grown steadily in absolute terms
and in share of SAHOP's program, since the late 1960s. As mentioned in
paragraph 4.17, equipment purchases over the last few years were below renewal
requirements; the 1978 allocation was only Mex$ 120 million (US$5 million)
compared with a rough estimate of average renewal requirements of Mex$ 340
million (US$15 million) annually. Unless the backlog of renewal is made up,
there is a real danger that SAHOP's equipment fleet would not have sufficient
capacity to support an adequate maintenance program. Projected level of
maintenance expenditures (including equipment purchases) would grow from
Mex$ 2.3 billion in 1979 to Mex$ 4.4 billion in 1982 and would remain at 27%
of SAHOP's budget. The proposed level of maintenance should be adequate. The
above budget estimates allow for replenishment of SAHOP's equipment fleet.
Equipment renewal studies are completed and up-to-date and would be the basis
for an expanded purchase program rising from the 1978 level of Mex$ 120 million
to Mex$ 400 million in 1979, and to Mex$ 500, 600 and 700 million in 1980, 1981
and 1982 respectively. Confirmation of SAHOP's equipment renewal program
through the period 1979-1982 was obtained during negotiations (para 5.32).
(iii) Construction and Improvements
5.13      Construction of federal roads and urban bypasses accounts for 27%
of SAHOP's expenditures in 1978, expected to rise to 34% in 1982. This is
the category where the careful planning and the shift in project selection



- 31 -
criteria called for in paragraph 4.26 would take place. Completion of ongoing
new route construction accounts for an important share of this category in the
early years. The project to be initiated during the loan period would include
mostly:
-   modernization of existing routes, which implies both
structural strengthening (by overlay), and rehabilitation
and partial reconstruction;
-   limited expansion of capacity at congested sections
through construction of extra lanes; and
-   urban bypasses to alleviate urban congestion and separate
through traffic from local traffic.
5.14      The emphasis on incremental improvement implies adaptation in
project planning and design methods, calling for more attention to identify
local inadequacies (stretches of deteriorated pavement, and congestion points).
Considerable advances have already been made during preparation and appraisal
of the proposed loan in adjusting to the necessary shift in type of projects.
The modernization study now under way (para 5.15) has already provided aL basis
to plan a specific work program. The proposed sector loan would allow the
Bank to support specific subprojects in this category and to advise SAHCIP on
adaptation of design methods (para 5.31).
(iv) Studies
5.15      The SAHOP program also contains studies, in particular:  the second
phase of the modernization study (para 5.33); research into the design of
pavement management systems, including the effect of heavy axles and the
methods for monitoring pavement condition and design overlays. SAHOP also
participates in the activities of the major non-profit "think tank" in the
country, Fundacion Javier Barros Sierra. This group is organized to explore
long term perspectives for the development of the country (horizon 2000);
as such, SAHOP intends to undertake, through this group, studies to investigate
the future requirements for road transport infrastructure under various
scenarios concerning motorization policies, economic growth rates, and spatial
distribution of economic activities. The emergence of Mexico as a major oil
exporter makes such an exercise particularly relevant provided that it is
grounded on facts and takes into account the effects of constraints already
apparent today. In view of its implication for planning and policies, the
significance of the study component o:E SAHOP's program goes far beyond ilts
modest share of the program resources. The proposed sector loan would provide
the Bank an opportunity to be associalted with specific studies and to point to
specific needs in this area. Should the Bank be requested to finance studies,
the terms of reference and qualifications of the consultants would have to be
acceptable to the Bank.
(v)  State and Rural Roads; Centros SAHOP
5.16      The SAHOP road budget also includes state roads, for which SAHOP has
contracting responsibility. These are roads partially financed by IDB. Any
Bank-financed state roads would also appear in the SAHOP budget for administra-
tive purposes. Expenditures for this type of road are expected to remain at



- 32 -
5% of the SAHOP budget for the period 1979-1982. The rural road item in the
SAHOP budget is purely for maintenance of rural roads in areas where this
cannot be turned over to local Government for lack of funds. At 3% of the
SAHOP highway budget, it is a significant outcome of the successful rural
roads construction effort of previous years.  Finally, SAHOP's budget also
provides for extension of facilities in the Centros SAHOP.
(vi) Administration
5.17      Currently, the administrative costs of running SAHOP account for
37% of the total SAHOP road budget. This relatively high level reflects the
excess design and supervision capacity of a ministry that has expanded regu-
larly even though the actual physical workload in recent years has stabilized.
It also reflects the generally adequate level of salaries for engineers,
which is responsible for the high retention rate of qualified and experienced
people. This allocation has the attribute of a fixed cost and would require
little expansion to accommodate large budget increases. It is expected that
the share of this item in the total budget would drop from 37% in 1978 to 32%
in 1982. The periodic consultations scheduled under the sector loan would
provide opportunities to scrutinize this item (para 5.31).
(vii) Financing of SAHOP's Ilighway Programs
5.18      The SAHOP budget is f:Lnanced by the Bank, IDB, and the federal
budget. The figures presented below indicate how the 1979-1982 budget projec-
tions in paragraph 5.10 would be financed and the relative-importance of
the proposed Bank loan of US$120 million during this period.
Financing of SAHOP Highway Budget 1979-1982
(Millions of Current Mex$)
1979    1980    1981    1982    Total
Federal Roads IDB-financed              400     800   1,000   1,200    3,400
State Roads IDB-financed                400     400      500     550    1,850
Federal Roads Bank Seventh
Project 968-ME                      1,100   1,100     600        -    2,800
Proposed Sector Loan Projects         1,000   1,400   2,050   2,350    6,800
Total Foreign Financed Projects       2,900   3,700   4,150   4,100   14,850
Percent of Total SAHOP Budget            27      30       28      24       27
Foreign Contribution as Percent
of SAHOP Budget                        13      14      13       10       12
Of the estimated Mex$ 55 billion SAHOP program for the 1979-1982 period, about
8.0 billion (14%) is associated with previous Bank and IDB loans.  (This
assumes a negotiated US$60 million IDB loan in effect.) The proposed loan
would add about Mex$ 6.8 billion to the Bank involvement (12%) so that,
in total in this period, foreign financing agencies would cover about
27% of SAHOP's program. Since the Bank and IDB finance only the estimated



- 33 -
foreign exchange component, their contribution would cover about 12% of
SAHOP's budget. External financing obtained by the Government in relation
to highway expenditures are includedl in the SAHOP budget allocations and do
not come in addition to such allocaitions.
(viii) Assessment and prospects
5.19      SAHOP's highway program for the period 1979-1982, as reflected by
the four-year budget estimates, would, on the whole, be adequate to carry the
road system through what would clearly be a holding period. The balance of
the program and its structure are reasonable and prudent, given the austerity
imposed on the sector. The program would be followed by a phase of renewed
expansion made possible by increases; in oil revenues. Such expansion, starting
in the mid-1980s, would be necessary, to meet mounting requirements for capacity
increases and to accommodate changing consumption patterns related to the rapid
rate of motorization (Table 8).
D.   Institutional Framework
5.20      The implementation of SAHOP's road program and the financial aspects
of the proposed sector loan would involve the following four departments and
institutions: SAHOP, SPP, the Ministry of Finance and BANOBRAS.
5.21      As executing agency, SAHOP would prepare and submit subprojects; it
would prequalify contractors, tender contracts, supervise their implementation
and report on completion of subprojects. SAHOP would also carry out studies and
surveys to develop the basis for the periodic assessments of the program and the
updating of the rolling four-year estimates of SAHOP budgets. As indicated in
Chapter IV, SAHOP has the capacity to carry out these functions.
5.22      SPP is the most important ministry for achieving the sector objec-
tives associated with the proposed loan. SPP is the single authority in charge
of reconciling the investment plans of ministries such as SAHOP with overall
budget constraints and national priorities.  The need for strengthening coor-
dination between sectoral programs and overall fiscal and development policies
has been recognized by the present administration. SPP is generally well
organized and has adequate authority and staff.  In the specific area of
transport, SPP does not have the technically experienced personnel to compete
with SAHOP expertise, but this questiLon is being addressed. SPP staff who
played a key role in the preparation of the proposed sector loan are fully
qualified to assume their functions Linder the proposed sector loan. The role of
SPP would be to provide SAHOP with the necessary guidance to review and adjust
its pluri-annual budget projections in line with inter-sectoral allocations
and specific development policies affecting transport demand and the resulting
requirements for road infrastructure.
5.23      The Ministry of Finance is interested in the proposed sector loan
as part of its plan to finance the public budget. It also plays the important
role of indicating the likely constraints on public finance that SPP musIt use
in preparing sector budgets. It is a well developed ministry with a full com-
plement of experienced professionals and can provide the information needled
by SPP on a timely basis.



- 34 -
5.24      The financial intermediary and borrower would be BANOBRAS,
which functions as the principal Mexican Government entity for contracting
domestic and foreign source credit for public works construction in Mexico.
Credit obtained by BANOBRAS is relent primarily to the Federal Government for
public works, low-cost housing and the improvement of public transportation
facilities. Loans are also made to states and municipalities. The Federal
Government has been the major stockholder of BANOBRAS since its creation in
1933 and currently owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 98% of the
outstanding capital stock. Under the Organic Law, the Federal Government
controls the policies of BANOBRAS, and, in practice, substantially directs
BANOBRAS' borrowing and lending activities. The chief function of this insti-
tution would be to request disbursements and to repay the loan out of the
Federal Government's budget, the bulk of the record-keeping and administration
remaining in SAHOP (para 6.14). The institution has a well established
financial basis and adequate staff and sufficient experience in similar
activities to carry out its assigned responsibilities in relation to the
proposed sector loan (Annex 4 provides a detailed assessment of BANOBRAS).
E.   Sector Objectives
5.25      While the Mexican highway sector is generally well organized and
planned, there are several areas where improvements can be made. The objec-
tives sought through the proposed loan are:
-    to induce improved coordination between SPP and SAHOP in
producing a well balanced, financially feasible road
investment program
-    to assist SAHOP in shifting emphasis from new road con-
struction to reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance
-    to support research aimed at assessing the regional impact
of specific highway projects and
-    to promote rational policies affecting vehicles using the
highway system.
Paragraphs 5.26 through 5.29 following expand on the nature of these objectives,
while Section F outlines the specific agreements obtained from the Government
to achieve these sector objectives.
(i) Coordination
5.26      SPP has attempted (para 2.11) to incorporate a longer view in the
annual budget exercise by directing each agency to prepare a multi-year pers-
pective plan. As in most such exercises, the agency plan tends to understate
the true costs of its proposed undertakings and to overstate the minimum
physical facilities required. In order to be of any real use in the budget
exercise, a realistic financial constraint must be combined with accurate cost
estimates. The proposed sector loan seeks to support achieving this through
the preparation of a rolling four-year program of SAHOP highway budgets pre-
pared and updated annually in cooperation with SAHOP, SPP, Finance, and the
Bank. The budget estimates in paragraph 5.10 were prepared in this manner



- 3 5 --
and will serve as the major point of reference in assessing the progress and
evolution of the Mexican highway program as well as being the source of Bank-
financed subprojects. These estimates were confirmed during negotiations.
(ii) Balance of SAHOP's Progran
5.27      The emphasis of SAHOP's program has to shift from construction of
new roads to reconstruction, rehabi:Litation and maintenance of what is now
a nearly mature highway network. This involves more attention to relatively
small incremental improvements, requiring fine-tuned design, including, in
particular, pavement overlay programs and limited upgrading and construction
of bypasses to remedy local inadequaLcies and bottlenecks. The proposed
sector loan would provide opportunities for progress in the following ways:
-    through the annual consultations on SAHOP's highway program;
-    through the review and analysis of specific subprojects
proposed for Bank financing;
-    through direct support and supervision of specific studies
necessary to assess requirements and adapt design methods,
in particular, the preparation of an overlay program; and
-    through support of systematic planning and funding on an annual
basis for the replacement of maintenance equipment and vehicleas.
(iii)  Highway Planning and Regionial Development
5.28      As mentioned in paragraph 2.23 and Annex 2, decentralization of
population and economic activity is a key development objective in Mexico.
The National Urban Development Plan recently approved by the President makes
explicit identification of geographical regions that can best support future
development. The proposed sector loan would support further research ini-
tiated jointly by SAHOP and the Bank during loan preparation on the concept
of regional development indices as a way of gauging the effectiveness of
specific highway investments in supporting regional development policies.
SAHOP would, under the loan, pursue an agreed program of research on the
matter (see Annex 2 for a description of work completed to date and
paragraph 5.34 for proposed loan conditions).
(iv) Transport Policies
5.29      The proposed sector loan would promote rational policies that affect
the use of the highway system. SCT is chiefly responsible for policies concern-
ing vehicle regulations, road user charges and intermodal transport. A good
study on road user charges has been completed under the Second Railway Project.
During loan preparation, the road transport industry (Chapter III) and the
prospects of intermodal transport were examined in considerable depth, laying
the ground for future dialogue with SCT on policy matters affecting transport
services.  The loan would provide periodic joint reviews (para 5.35) between
the Bank on one hand and SCT and SPP on the other hand on the following mattersi



- 36 -
axle weight control
road user charges
-    road transport regulation and
-    intermodal transport
F.   Achievement of Sector Objectives
5.30      In order to pursue the sector objectives set forth in Section E
above, agreements will be sought to:
-    specify the nature and timing of the annual discussion
and updating of the SAIIOP highway program;
-    specify the steps to be taken to ensure adequate
maintenance of the road system;
-    ensure execution of a pavement overlay study leading
to a comprehensive national overlay plan;
-    ensure the completion of an agreed program of research
on the regional development impact of specific road
projects; and
-    provide regular reviews with SCT and SPP of progress in
areas concerning road transport policies.
The following paragraphs indicate the essential elements to be included
in the proposed agreements.
5.31      A four-year projection of tentative SAHOP highway budgets will be
prepared by SPP in conjunction with SAHOP and will serve as the focus for
annual consultation with Bank staff in September of each year. The projections
will be prepared in sufficient detail to indicate the level and balance of
projected SAHOP spending in both constant and current currency units. Bank
staff will then be given the opportunity to comment on the program in relation
to the previous year's estimates and in the overall balance and composition
of the program. The relationship of ongoing and proposed candidate projects
for financing under the loan will also be discussed. The Bank will then sub-
mit its comments and estimate cif what constitutes the four-year SAHOP program
that is to serve as the point of reference for progress in the sector. The
Mexican Government will indicate its acceptance or objections to this estimate
and the accompanying comments. The estimate resulting from this process will
be referred to as the "tentative SAHOP highway program". It will be adjusted
after the budget is published in January at a second meeting with Bank staff
and will serve as the budget framework for the sector loan until the program
is revised and updated the following September. This procedure was confirmed
during negotiations, and the initial four-year projection was set forth in
signed minutes of negotiations.
5.32      The Government agrees to purchase equipment and vehicles for highway
maintenance in accordance with technical studies satisfactory to the Bank
prepared by the maintenance and equipment departments in SAHOP and will



- 37 -
otherwise provide sufficient funds in the SAHOP budget to ensure adequate and
timely maintenance for the federal highway system. The minimum estimates of
budget support necessary for this item were confirmed during negotiations.
5.33      SAHOP will carry out a second phase of the national road moderniza-
tion study, the first phase of which has been completed recently. The second
phase will conclude with a five-year program of modernization of the exist-
ing road network and will include, as basic technical data, frequency distri-
butions of axle weights on major road sections. A draft report should be
made available to the Bank before December 31, 1980. This was confirmed
during negotiations.
5.34      SAHOP will continue the joint Bank/SAHOP research effort in quan-
tifying the ranking of specific highway projects in supporting regional
development objectives. The composite index concept developed by the initial
Bank/SAHOP joint effort will be developed further, and experiments with dif-
ferent combinations of variables and weights will be performed on an agreed
sample of subprojects submitted undier the sector loan for Bank financing.
The Bank will be given the opportunity to comment on the draft final report.
Copies of the final report will be made available to the Bank on or before
December 31, 1980. This was confirmed during negotiations.
5.35      The Ministry of Programing and Budgeting will, at the time of the
annual January budget review, cause the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions to provide information and/or reports on development in the four areas
mentioned in paragraph 5.29. Bank staff will prepare comments on the review
and will submit these comments to the concerned ministries for their irLforma-
tion. This was confirmed during negotiations.
VI. IMPLEMENTATION
6.01      This chapter describes the modus operandi of the proposed sector
loan to serve as a guide for future supervision efforts and as the basis for
the loan agreement.
A.   Basis for Bank Participation
6.02      The tentative SAHOP budgets set forth in paragraph 5.10, the finan-
cial plan for the budget in paragraph 5.18 and the more detailed budget
presentation in Table 11 serve as the basis for assessing the Bank's role in
SAHOP's highway program over the period 1979-1982. The analysis of the
financing of SAHOP's highway program, 1979-1982, in paragraph 5.18 indicates
that the proposed sector loan would cover an increasing share of SAHOP's
federal road construction (including strengthening and reconstruction) program
as the ongoing IDB loans and Bank Loan 968-ME reach completion. The specific
areas which could be supported by the! proposed sector loan are indicated
below. Ongoing subprograms as well as work scheduled for tendering in 1979
were carefully scrutinized to ascertain that they would provide a basis to
commit at least 40% of the loan resources by June 30, 1980 and to disburse an
expected US$35 million, i.e., 29%, by end 1980.



- 38 -
Estimate of Potential SAHOP Budget Items to be Financed
by Sector Loan 1979-1982 (million current Mex$)
Y e a r              Total
Item                                 1979   1980   1981   1982   1979-1982
Construction Federal Roads                  650    900  1,400  1,650       4,600
Purchases Maintenance Equipment 1/          250    250    200    100         800
Other Maintenance Expenditures 2/            -     100    200    300         600
Urban Bypasses                               50    100    150    200         500
SAHOP Centers                                50     50      -      -         100
State Roads SAHOP Responsibility             -      -      100    100        200
Rural Roads SAROP Responsibility 3/          -      -       -      -          -
Total                          1,000  1,400  2,050  2,350       6,800
(Millions current US$)                      (44)   (62)   (91)  (104)       (302)
1/   Financing mainly of maintenance equipment and a small amount for selected
consulting services.
2/   Financing only of "isolated reconstruction" element of this budget item.
3/   Rural road financing under the project is not envisaged.  The Bank
would continue to help finance rural road construction through other
operations such as Bank-supported rural development projects (notably
the PIDER program) and regional development projects.
6.03      The total cost of the component of SAHOP's 1979-1982 program that
could be partially financed under the proposed sector loan totals about
Mex$ 6.8 billion, out of a total of Mex$ 55.2 billion, i.e., approximately
12%. This could accommodate a loan as large as US$150 million. The amount of
the proposed loan has been set prudently at US$120 million, which would ensure
full commitment over the four-year period 1979-1982. Should the Government
decide to step up the level of commitment, the preparation of a possible
followup operation could be advanced. The volume of external financing has
not influenced the total size of SAHOP's budget. External contributions are
offset by equal reduction in net allocation from Government funds
(para 5.18).
6.04      In September 1978, SAHOP prepared, and submitted to the Bank for
review, 22 subprojects for which funds have been requested under the 1979
budget. A preliminary assessment indicates that the proposed subprojects
would be eligible for financing under the proposed sector loan. The port-
folio of construction subprojects presented by SAHOP for 1979 is briefly
summarized in Annex 3; it includes six new constructions, six urban
bypasses, and 10 modernization projects. The proposed portfolio is
representative of the type of subprojects that would be supported under
the loan. Total cost of the various subprojects is about Mex$ 6.4 billion,
with a 1979 budget requirement of about Mex$ 900 million. Further projects
are expected to be submitted for 1979, particularly in the categories of
equipment purchases and studies.



_ 3s (
B.   Project Preparation, Evaluation and Selection
6.05      The two important concepts to be considered here are the individual
subprojects and the contracts associated with each subproject. In general,
the completion of a subproject involves more than one contract. The sub-
project is the unit considered for purposes of project preparation, evaluation,
and selection, while contracts associated with the subproject are the basis
for disbursements. Thus, not all eligible subprojects would be completed
by 1983, the end of the disbursement. period, and SAHOP would pursue their
implementation under its program for subsequent years in accordance wit:h the
schedule defined for each subproject. All contracts accepted for disbursement
under the loan would have an initial completion date before December 31, 1982.
The commitment of funds would be related to accepted contracts pertaining to
eligible subprojects. Commitments would be monitored closely to ensure ade-
quate progression in disbursement. It is expected that SAHOP would submit
subprojects well in excess of what would be strictly necessary to meet the
commitment and disbursement estimates outlined in paragraphs 6.17 and 6.18.
Since most road construction contracts in Mexico cover only one year, the
proposed system would provide ample flexibility to adjust the progression of
commitment and disbursements. The process for declaring a subproject eligible
is outlined in paragraphs 6.06 through 6.09 while that for acceptance of
specific contracts is explained in p.aragraph 6.13.
6.06      Subprojects are defined and prepared in SAHOP with some input from
SPP, and, unless the Bank disagrees, the SAHOP definition stands.  OverLy large
subprojects with large fluctuations :Ln traffic volumes and engineering standards
over their length would be avoided, and the Bank could request that a large
subproject be broken down and analyzed as smaller, more homogenous subprojects.
This is not expected to be a problem.. The third example in Annex I is such a
case. While the 201-km Queretero-San Luis Potosi road could easily be jiusti-
fied as a single project of doubling two lanes to four lanes, the Mexicans
have chosen the most congested 46 km as a subproject and submitted it for
eligibility. Such an approach is also consistent with the resource picture
and priorities outlined in paragraphs 5.13 and 5.14. Each subproject submitted
under the loan would have to be prepared with the depth and level of detail
normally required for feasibility studies. Each subproject would have to be
technically sound and economically justified, with an economic rate of return
of at least 12%. SAHOP has the capacity and the basic information to carry
out economic analyses acceptable to the Bank and has demonstrated this capacity
on several occasions in connection with Bank appraisals and project completion
reports. Equipment purchases would be supported by a renewal program including
an analysis of capacity requirement and of availability of existing equipment.
Studies would be evaluated on the basis of the potential merit of the speacific
investment or policy improvements which they are expected to bring about.
Subprojects concerning workshops and Centros SAHOP (which would be of re:Latively
small size) would be supported by an analysis of functional requirements and
justification of location and general layout. The above was confirmed at the
time of negotiations.



- 40 -
6.07      SAHOP would prepare, for each subproject, a basic data sheet
presenting the key technical, design, cost, economic and tender information
as well as further preparation planned. The attachments to Annex 1 illustrate
the form of the information for actual subprojects. Bank staff would study
these data and the supporting documentation mentioned above, ask additional
information as required (especially on new construction projects), and
determine subproject eligibility. Rejected subprojects may be re-entered for
future consideration when lack of information is corrected, if the project
scope is amended, or if changed conditions improve supporting analysis.
6.08      Declaring a subproject eligible would mean agreement of the Bank
to participate in the financing of the contracts related to the implementa-
tion of this subproject, provided budget funds are allocated and the tender
process has been executed according to agreed procedures and in accordance
with the agreed design standards. Subprojects resulting in average annual
total expenditures (not counting the year of smallest expenditure) of less
than Mex$ 10 million (US$450,000) would not be considered under the proposed
sector loan; a similar limit of Mex$ 5 million would be applied to maintenance
equipment purchases. This restriction would not apply to studies.
6.09      Once a project has been declared eligible, SAHOP would complete its
preparation involving, for example, detailed engineering for road construction,
drawing up specifications for equipment or detailed terms of reference for a
study. If the data supplied in the original basic data sheet would change
significantly during the design stage of the subproject, SAHOP would send a
revised evaluation sheet to the Bank for its confirmation prior to inviting
tenders. This procedure was agreed upon during negotiations with the terms
set forth in a draft supplementary letter.
C.   Procurement
6.10      Civil works and equipment eligible for financing under the proposed
sector loan would be procured through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines for procurement. Suppliers of equipment pro-
duced within Mexico would enjoy, as usual, a margin of preference of 15% on
CIF prices or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower.
(i)  Prequalification
6.11      Civil works contractors would be subject to prior prequalification.
For Mexican contractors, the system of prequalification now in use under
the Seventh Highway Project (para 4.15) would be continued. For foreign
contractors, invitations to prequalify would be sent annually to embassies
and published in Development Forum; the notices would contain information
on the program as a whole. Prequalified contractors should, however, take
the initiative to inform themselves in Mexico on future tenders; all, up
to a total of eight, foreign contractors who wish to be invited for any
subproject should be included in the short list of tenderers. If there
are more than eight prequalified foreign firms, they may be invited on
a rotational basis, following current practice. Pending the new



- 41 -
prequalification for foreign contractors, foreign contractors would be invited
to bid according to the procedures agreed for Loan 968-ME. As to Mexican
contractors, SAHOP would continue to invite at least eight tenderers following
current practices. SAHOP would keep the Bank informed on the list of pre-
qualified foreign contractors and on those refused prequalification, iLf any,
and the reasons thereof, and on the interest shown by contractors to be
invited for specific tenders.
(ii) Tender Process
6.12      SAHOP would (without the Bank being involved at this stage):
-    prepare tender documents
-    update cost estimates
-    prepare short list of eight Mexican contractors and
of all interested foreign contractors (for civil works only)
-    issue tender invitations
-    open tenders
-    prepare tender evaluations
-    award contracts
-    sign contracts and
-    issue notices to proceed.
(iii)  Bank Acceptance of Contracts
6.13      SAHOP would send to the Bank, after signature of the contract,
the following documents:
-    an updated basic data sheet
-    the tender evaluation report indicating the award
decision and its justification and
-    the contract.
The Bank would review this information and, if satisfied, indicate no
objection, thereby declaring the specific contracts accepted, or request
further information. The Bank would have the right to reject a contract and
request new tendering in case agreed tender procedures were not followed. If
the Bank should reasonably determine, after consultation with the Borrower,
that the execution of an eligible subproject (in the sense of paragraph 6.08)
is proceeding on the basis of a contract inconsistent with the procurement



- 42 -
procedures agreed under the loan, the Bank may cancel from the loan the amount
corresponding to its scheduled participation in such contract. In case a
higher-than-expected tender price would make the project economically not
feasible, SAHOP and the Bank would review the subproject justification and
explore possible reduction in design standards. The above was confirmed
during negotiations.
(iv) Maintenance of Records
6.14      The proposed loan would provide financing for a great number of
contracts. As indicated in paragraph 5.24, a relatively small part of the
work involved in administering disbursements would be delegated to BANOBRAS.
The bulk of the administration would fall on SAHOP, which would keep records
of all tenders and contractual documents and official decisions pertaining to
each eligible subproject. SAHOP would prepare periodic statements of the
list of approved contract(s) for each subproject, showing total expenditures
to date and monthly payments. The Bank would reserve the right to inspect and
review the documentation maintained by SAHOP and BANOBRAS and to be sent
specific portions of the detailed records. This arrangement was confirmed
during negotiations.
(v) Disbursements
6.15      Disbursements for various types of subprojects would be made against
normal documentation on the following basis:
-    47% of total expenditures for civil works;
-    100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment or
100% of the ex-factory cost net of taxes of locally produced
equipment; and
-    47% of total expenditures for consulting services.
The foreign exchange component of the civil works has been estimated at
45% on the basis of an analysis prepared by SAHOP. The analysis has been
checked by the Bank and is acceptable. The contribution of 45% would be
achieved by disbursing 47% of all payments to contractors except the repayment
of the 5% retention withheld from contractors during the guarantee period
following the completion of works. The analysis assumes that the works would
be carried out by firms established in Mexico and excludes the cost of fuel for
which Mexico is a net exporter. The foreign exchange component of the previous
highway loan (968-ME) was 40%; however, in 1974, the Mex$ was overvalued; it
was subsequently devalued to about half its value against the US$, resulting
in higher foreign exchange components than for Loan 968-ME. Although no
foreign contractor is expected to be the lowest bidder for civil works,
foreign suppliers are likely to be successful for heavy equipment, such as
bulldozers, rollers and motorgraders. It is expected that the studies to be
financed under the loan would n,ot deal with usual feasibility and engineering
matters but with problems of planning and methodology (para 5.15). As such,



- 43 -
they would require the participation of foreign experts (estimated US$7000
equivalent on average per man-month). While it is the Government's policy
to encourage the use of local consultants, specialized foreign consultants
are engaged routinely. Since the foreign exchange costs of such studies would
vary depending on whether local consultancy firms (with or without association
or subcontracting with foreign firms), or whether foreign firms (with or
without association or subcontracting with domestic firms) would be engaged,
there is likely to be a wide range in the foreign exchange component of such
studies, estimated to range between 20 and 80%. The proposed disbursement
percentage of 47% (same as for civil works) would simplify loan administration
and would, on the average, broadly reflect the foreign exchange component of
such studies.
6.16      Unless substantial changes are made in the scope of the subproject
(for which Bank approval would be necessary), the Bank would disburse 47% of
expenditures for civil works contracts, including cost overruns of 10% of the
contract value for one-year contracts, and, respectively, 25% and 40% for two
and three-year contracts in order to take into account small change ord'ers and
escalation payments. Documentation justifying such increases would not be
required in these cases.
6.17      Tentative estimates of the progression of disbursements are given
below and in Table 12.
Disbursement Schedule for Sector Loan
(Million US$)
Total
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1979-1983
Construction                    5      22     27     34                88
Equipment and Consulting
Services                      6     12      10      4               32
Gross Disbursement             11      34     37     38               120
Less Slippage 1/               -5     -5      -7      -7     24        -
Net Disbursement                6     29      30      31     24       120
Accumulated Disbursement        6     35      65      96    120        -
11   Slippage would be due mainly to construction delays reflecting past
experience and to normal time laig in payments and disbursements.
6.18      The achievement of the above progression in disbursement would
imply the commitment of about 15% of loan funds by June 30, 1979, 40% by
June 30, 1980 and 75% by June 30, 1981. The progress of commitments, together
with the rate of disbursements, would be reviewed bi-annually during the
September and January consultations (paras 5.31 and 6.19). The above schedule
of disbursements and commitments was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
(vii) Monitoring
6.19      The annual consultations on SAHOP's highway program and the budget
would provide the major opportunity for reviewing the progress of the loan.
The basic data sheet for each eligible subproject would be periodically up-
dated by SAHOP to show progress under various contracts. The basic data sheets



- 44 -
would be the repository of all important information concerning the implementa-
tion of the loan. After completion of the subproject, the Bank would receive
the "acta de recepcion de las obras", the Mexican document which summarizes
the technical, financial and legal aspects of a completed work; also, a final
updated basic data sheet would be submitted, which would serve as a basis for
the completion report.
6.20      Monitoring and supervision of the proposed sector loan would focus
on the four following areas:
(a)  The evolution of SAHOP's highway program to be reported on
annually by SAHOP in advance of the September consultation
(para 5.31).
(b)  The progress made in pursuing sectoral objectives of the
loan, to be reviewed jointly by SPP, SAHOP and SCT on the
basis of ad hoc documentation.
(c)  The implementation of eligible subprojects.  In preparation
for the January consultation, SAHOP would prepare:
(i) a complete file of updated basic data sheets
for all eligible subprojects; and
(ii) an assessment of overall progress and common problems.
(d) The progress in commitments and disbursements of loan funds.
SAHOP would prepare:
(i) monthly statements of expenditures;
(ii) a quarterly summary of expenditures and physical progress
on all eligible subprojects; and
(iii) a bi-annual review and updating of a commitment
schedule in which existing and projected contract
commitments are set forth in order to achieve
target disbursements as indicated in paragraph 6.17.
The above monitoring arrangements were discussed and confirmed at the time of
negotiations.
D. Assessment of Risks
6.21      SAHOP's budget estimates have been carefully reviewed and are con-
servative; they may, in fact, understate the real intention of the Government.
It is highly improbable, given the economic outlook of Mexico, that actual
expenditure would be below these estimates. The amount of the loan has been
set prudently below the potential disbursement basis. There is no serious
risk that SAHOP's program would not provide sufficient basis to commit and
disburse the loan as scheduled. The wide range of subprojects and the flexi-
bility afforded in the commitment of loan funds would prevent a situation



- 45 -
wherein the loan would be tied to a relatively small number of large sub-
projects stretching over an extended completion period (para 6.05).
6.22      The modus operandi of the loan rests on the capacity of SAHOP and,
to a lesser extent, of BANOBRAS. Past BANOBRAS performance has been satis-
factory, and SAHOP has an established record of competence and stability. Past
and ongoing experience under Bank highway projects suggests that the risks
affecting project implementation are below normal.  Past experience on the
economic performance of Bank-financed highway projects, as well as the current
orientation of SAHOP's program toward so-called incremental projects which
usually yield high returns, suggests that there is no undue risk affecting the
economic soundness of subprojects.
6.23      One area of uncertainty concerns the objectives of the loan in the
area of transport policy under the jurisdiction of SCT. The possibility to
effect improvement in the areas mentioned in paragraph 5.29 through scheduled
consultations would depend on the opening of a full dialogue with SCT to
review the implications of its policies concerning, in particular, the regula-
tion of the trucking industry. The relative modesty of the objectives set
in this area reflects the tone of the Bank's lending relations with Mexico
and an appreciation of the greater effectiveness of structured consultations
as opposed to formal undertakings on policy matters.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Governme;nt on
the following:
(a) the initial four-year SAHOP highway budget estimates
(paras 5.09 and 5.26);
(b)  SAHOP's equipment renewal program through the period
1979-1982 (para 5.12);
(c) the nature and timing of the bi-annual discussions and
updating of the SAHOP highway budget estimates
(para 5.31);
(d) minimum estimates of budget support to ensure adequate
maintenance of the road system and adequate replacement
of maintenance vehicles and equipment (para 5.32);
(e) execution of a national road modernization study
(para 5.33);
(f) completion of an agreed program of research on the
regional development impact of specific road projects
(para 5.34);



- 46 -
(g)  provision for annual review of progress on selected issues in
the area of road transport policies (para 5.35);
(h) project evaluation and selection procedures (paras 6.05
through 6.09);
(i) prequalification, tendering, and award of contracts (paras 6.11
through 6.13);
(j) maintenance of records (para 6.14);
(k) disbursement procedures (paras 6.15 through 6.18); and
(1) monitoring procedures, in particular the preparation of an
initial commitment schedule with provision for bi-annual
updating (paras 6.19 and 6.20).
7.02      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
a Bank loan to BANOBRAS of US$120.0 million equivalent; the terms would be
17 years, including a four-year grace period.
March 7, 1979



- 47 -
TABLE 1
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
A.  Distribution of Public Investment by  Sector in Mexico, 1971-1976  (Percent)
Sector                              1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Industry                            4:L.7    34.1    31.3    34.0    39.5    42.6
Welfare                             211.6    24.1    28.6    25.2    20.4    19.2
Agriculture and Rural Development 14.5    14.7    13.6    16.0    17.2    16.7
Tourism                              0.3      0.4     0.4      0.6     1.0      1.1
Administration and Defense           1.3      3.4     1.7      1.6     2.0      3.4
Communications                       1.6      1.8     6.0      6.0     5.4      5.5
Transport                           19.0    21.5    18.5    16.6    14.3    11.5
B.  Distribution of Public Investment Within the Transport Sector in Mexico (Percent)
Mode                1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976   Average 1971-1976
Highways             64       68      64       50      48       50           57
Railways             22      15       22       29      34       34          26
Ports                 9        7      11      10       10       10          10
Aviation              5        9       3       11       7        6            7
Source:  Table 5.18,Special Study of ithe Mexican Economy:  Major Policy Issues
and Prospects, IBRD working document Dec. 2, 1977.
November 1978



- 48-
TABLE 2
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
A, Freight and Passenger Traffic,1965-1978
Year                Net Ton-Kilometers               Passenger-Kilometers
(Billions)                       (Billions)
1965                       14.6                               3.0
1970                       18.1                               3.4
1975                        27.0                              2.6
1976                       26.8                               2.5
1977                       283.7                              3.1
1978 1/                    30.0                               N.A.
B. Productivity Measures Rail Freight Operations, 1965-1977
Average Speed   Net Ton-Km  Average Load of   Net Ton-Km          Wagon
of Train          per       Loaded Wagon    per Available  Turnaround
Year    (Km/Hour)        Train/Km        (Tons)            Car-Day        (Days)
1965       23               674           39               1,414            13
1970       22               833           42               1,401            16
1975       23             1,051           47               1,577            16
1976       26             1,006           48               2,122            12
1977       25             1,161           47               2,186            12
C. Financial Indicators, 1965-1977
Average Cost  Average Income  Average Cost  Net Operating 2/
Average Income    per Ton/Km    per Pass-Km    per Pass-Km          Deficit
per Ton/Km Cargo      Cargo        Passengers       Passengers      Millions
Year        (Mex$)           (Mex$)         (Mex$)           (Mex$)      (US$ equivalent)
1965         9.9             11.2            4.4               14.7            48.6
1970          9.8             13.1            4.6              17.3            96.6
1975        14.0             19.5             6.6              34.8           188.6
1976        14.2              26.8            7.3              56.3           221.9
1977        19.9              31.2           8.3               46.2          221.5
1/ 1978 traffic estimate based on four months actual data.
2/ Exchange rates used 1965-1975 is 12.5 Mex$ per US$. For 1976-1977 the rate
was 22.5 Mex$ per US$.
Source: Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
July 1978



MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Port Traffic Volumes Major Mexican Ports 1971-1977
(1,000 Tons)
Veracruz             Tampico            Manzanillo               Mazatlan              Guaymu                Coatzacoalcos  I/
Year    GC      DB      L     GC      DB      L     GC      DB      L      GC     DB      L      GC      DB      L     GC      DB      L
1971   766      801   361   335       934  2,162  173    187    125    77         -      126    84    130    322   112   1,151  1,112
1972   780   1,178   398   416   1,074  2,647  132    603           96   143      -       30   112       84    270   111   1,471    900
1973   901   1,298   465   427   1,335  3,641  152    434    161   218            -       92   111       16    450   143   1,850  1,364
1974 1,061   1,223   437   613   1,557  1,855  295    534    169   123             91     80    81    290    446   104   2,721  2,623
1975   932      933   355   790   1,290  1,338  240    678    241   115    371            64    80    295    651    83   2,150  6,927
1976   867      560   357   789   1,545  1,130  366    364    152    96    176            25    37    171    642    92   1,449  7,123
1977   819      593   352   626   2,002    770  176    165          82   100       67     18   159    187    154    90   1,537  9,130
11  Increase in liquid cargoes 1975 on, reflects increases in Mexican petroleum exports,
Note: GC * General Cargo, DB = Dry Bulk, L = Liquid
Source: SCT
July 1978



- 50 -
TABLE 4
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
PEMEX Transport Statistics 1977
Pipeline Network:                                Under Design           Planned
Existing (Km)   or Construction (Km)   Network (Km)
Crude Oil                   4142                  1579                5721
Refined Products            4674                  2428                7102
Gas                         5637                  2642                8279
Total            14453                 6649               21102
Vehicle Fleet:                                              Number      Number
Number     Total Capacity    Rented       Owned
Ships                       30         654,136 DWT         -           30
Rail Tank Cars            3635         194,472 m3         1834       1801
Tank Trucks               2873          85,095 m3         2100        773
Other Trucks               229             N.A.            -          229
Traffic Flows:
Millions
Ton/Km            % Total
Crude Oil Pipelines              26130               38
Refined Products Pipeline         6105                9
Gas Pipelines                     6112                9
Other Pipelines                    430                1
Coastal Shipping                 22301               33
Rail Tank Car                     1200                2
Tank Trucks                       5658                8
Other Trucks                       315               _
Total                 68251              100
Source: PEMEX
July 1978



- 51 -
TABLE 5
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Air Traffic Statistics 1972-1977 _/
Passengers                       Freight
Year                        Million P'assenger-km              Million Ton-km
1972                               4,259                              54
1973                               4,948                              62
1974                               5,893                              68
1975                               6,657                              76
1976                               7,564                              85
1977                               8,470                              93
1/ Figures above are the sum of the two major Mexican airlines, Mexicana and
Aeromexico, and include both dormestic and international traffic.
Source: ICAO Statistics
September 1978



- 52                       TABLE 6
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
The Vehicle Fleet 1950-1977
Year       Private Cars        Truiks          Buses          Total
1950            173,080         111,252       18,466          302,798
1960            483,101         293,423       26,126          802,650
1965            771,118         :388,684      30,702        1,190,504
1970          1,233,824         524,985       33,059       1,791,868
1971         1,338,404          .554,497      34,480       1,927,381
1972,         1,520,144         592,772       35,723        2,148,639
1973         1,766,504          645,323       37,043        2,448,870
1974         2,053,241          728,965      41,053         2,823,259
1975         2,400,930          887,912      50,762        3,339,604
1976 1/      2,689,042          967,824      54,315        3,711,181
1977         3,011,727       1,054,928       58,117        4,124,772
1/ Figures for 1976 and 1977 are mission estimates
Source:  Asociacion Mexicana de la Industria Automotriz, 1976
September 1978



- 53 -
TABLE 7
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Composition of Public Vehicle Fleet
(By type of ownership and type of vehicle)
Companies 1/    Single-
Type of Vehicle                                         (Units)    Vehicle owners    Total
(Units)
A. The Public Freight Vehicle Fleet as of Early 1978 2/
Rigid trucks: 2 axles                                    15,908         33,784        49,692
Rigid trucks: 3 axles                                    10,575          4,812        13,387
Semi-trailers (truck): 2 axles                            2,521            263         2,784
Semi-trailers (truck): 3 axles                           12,600          1,528        14,128
Sub-total units with engines                           41,684         40,387        82,071
Semi-trailers (trailer): 1 rear axle                        422             31           453
Semi-trailers (trailer): 2 rear axles                    12,900          1,112        14,012
Trailer:  2 rear axles                                      184             16           200
Sub-total detachable trailers                          13,506          1,159        14,665
Other                                                         5              9            14
Total Units                                           55,195          41,555        96,750
B.  The Public Passenger Vehicle Fleet as of Early 1978
Bus                                                      15,074            334        15,408
Other (under 10 pass.carrying capacity)                     298          1,425         1,723
Total                                                 15,372           1,759       17,131
1/ DGAF estimates there were 1,670 companies operating at the time.
2/ Percentages of PFVF by type of license are as follows:
General license                     42
Agricultural license                42
Special license                     16
Source: DGAF
September 1978



- 54 -
TABLE 8
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Comparative Automobile Ownership Rates 1960-1975
(Passenger cars per 1,000 population)
Country or Region           1960             1970          Most Recent Estimate 1/
Mexico                      13.4             24.5                 40.1
Europe                      16.8             49.9                 90.0
Latin America and
Caribbean                 11.7             22.1                 29.9
N. Africa and Middle East   7.5              11.5                 15.4
Africa South of Sahara       2.1              3.4                  3.9
South Asia                   0.9              2.2                  2.1
East Asia and Pacific        2.7              7.0                  9.3
I/ "Most recent estimate" in most cases is around 1975. For comparison,
1975 figures were computed for Mexico.
Source: Mexico - Mission estimates, July 1978
Rest of World - "World Economic and Social Indicators", IBRD,
October 1978
November 1978



- 55 -
TABLE 9
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Fuel Consumption and Major User Tax Revenues 1965-1977
Diesel 2/                        4/
Diesel 1/        Engine         Gasoline 3/   Gasoline
Consumption          Tax         Consumption        Tax            Total
(Million         Revenues        (Million       Revenues        Revenues
Year       liters)        Million Mex$       liters)     Million Mex$   Million Mex$
1965        2,028               25.2          5,415            -
1970        3,433               69.3          8,131            -
1971        3,582               72.5          8,711            -
1972        4,067               79.9          9,402            -
1973        4,606               85.1        10,438             -
1974        4,811               86.0        10,638          449.0            535.0
1975        5,271               96.3        11,171        4,989.0          5,085.3
1976        5,779             109.9         11,730        5,950.4          6,060.3
1977         N/A              119.9          N/A          9,498.4          9,618.3
1/  In 1976, approximately 66% of diesel fuel consumption for road transport
was by trucks, 19% by buses, 12% by rail and 4% by coastal shipping.
2/  Fixed annual tax depending on size of vehicle.
3/ In 1976, approximately 70% of gasoline consumption was by automobiles, 24%
by trucks, and 6% by buses.
4/ Special gasoline sales tax introduced in late 1974, extended to trucks 1977.
Source: Fuel Consumption - Asociacio'n Mexicana de la Industria Automotriz, 1976
Tax Revenues - Ministry of Finance, July 1978
November 1978



MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Design Standards
Geometric                  Flat and      Hilly        Medium       Heavy
Plan             Design          Unit      Rolling      Country   Mountainous  Mountainous
Special        Design speed      km/h        110           90           70           60
A                 "                      90-110          80           60           50
B                                           80           70           50           30
C                                           70           60           40           25
D                                           60           50           30           20
Special 2     Width Surfacing   m            7            7.3          7.3          7.3
Special 4        "                          2X7.5        2X7.5        2X7.5        2X7.5
AP                                       6.7-7.3      6.1-6.7        6.1          6.1                        
B                                        6.1-6.7      6.1-6.7        6.1          5.5
C                                        5.5-6.1        5.5          5.5          5.5
D                                          5.5          5.5                       5.5
Special        Minimum Radius    m           380          250          150           95
A              "      "                    380          210           95           64
B              "      "                    210          150           64           18
C              "                of         150           95           38           16
D              "      "                     95           64           18           16
Special       Minimum Pendient  %            4            5            5.5          6
A              "      "                    4            5            6            7
B              "                           4.5          6            7            8
C              to                          5            7            8           10
D              to                          6            9           12           14
tTl
Load design for Bridges H20-S15 (AASHO)
Source: SAHOP
October 1978



- 57 -
TABLE 1l
ME:XICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimate of SAHOP Highway Budget 1979-1982
(Million current Mex$)
1978                Y  e  a  r                Total
Item                                Budgeted    1979    1980    1981    1982    1979-1982
Management, Design & Supervision   3,300        3,500   4,000   4,700   5,500        17,700
Federal Roads Construction            2,360     2,900   3,600   4,700   5,600        16,800
Bank Loan 968-ME                     1,040      1,100   1,100       600      -        2,800
Current IADB Loan                       120        -       -        -        -
New IADB Loan                            50        400     800   1,000   1,200         3,400
New Construction                        680        750     800   1,000   1,200         :3,750
Reconstruction and Improvement          440        600     800   1,800   2,800         6,000
Bridges and Expressways                  30         50     100      300      400         850
Maintenance                           2,300     2,900   3,400   3,900   4,400        14,600
Purchase Equipment                      120        400     500      500      500      1,900
Federal Roads                         1,260     1,500   1,800   2,150   2,500         7,950
Isolated Reconstruction                 510        550     600      650      700      2,500
Other Items                             410        450     500      600      700      2,250
Urban Bypasses                           60        100     200      300     400       LO00
SAHOP Centers                           100       150      150      100     100         500
State Roads SAHOP Responsibility        540       600      650      700     750       2,700
IADB Project                            440       400      400      500     550       1,850
Others                                  100        200     250      200      200        850
Feeder Roads SAHOP Responsibility    330          400      450      500     550      14900
Maintenance                             300        350     400      450      500      1,,700
Other                                    30         50      50       50      50         2'00
Total                                 8,990    10,550  12,450  14,400  17,300        55,200
Source: Mission estimates
July 1978



-  58  -
TABLE 12
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Million US$)
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                              at end of Quarter
1979
June 30, 1979                                                         1.0
1980
December 31, 1979                                                     5.0
June 30, 1980                                                       20.0
1981
December 31, 1980                                                    35.0
June 30, 1981                                                       50.0
1982
December 31, 1981                                                    65.0
June 30, 1982                                                       80.0
1983
December 31, 1982                                                   96.0
June 30, 1983                                                      108.0
1984
December 31, 1983                                                  120.0
Source: Mission estimates
February 1979



- 59 -
ANNEX I
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Representative Projects
1.        Highway subprojects submitted to the Bank for financing under the
proposed sector loan will fall into one of four categories:
-    new construction of two-lane roads
-    pavement overlays and reconstruction
-    doubling existing road from two to four lanes and
-    urban bypasses
This annex reviews the SAHOP approach to the economic justification of each
type of project and illustrates the approach with an actual case taken from
the subprojects already submitted to the Bank for approval under the proposed
sector loan. In addition, the important assumptions used to estimate vehicle
operating costs and the value of travel time savings will be explained.
New Construction of Two-Lane Roads
2.        For new construction of two-lane roads, the SAHOP approach depends
on whether or not there is already basic access and some traffic flows or
whether the road will be a penetration road in undeveloped territory. If the
latter is the case, when major new construction rather than a low standard
penetration road is considered, the road project is analyzed as a part of the
infrastructure package required to yield net increases in agricultural output.
The economic rate of return (ERR) is then computed for the package of agri-
culture and road investments, and no attempt is made to attribute benefits
solely to the road investment. This is a rare case in Mexico since most areas
now have access through the rural roads program (no attempt is made to do an
economic justification of low standard basic access roads), and some "normal"
traffic is usually associated with each major road investment.
3.        The example used herein is the 97-km Independencia-Valdivia section
of the larger Tuxtla Gutierrez-Mapastepec section (see Basic Data Sheet:
Attachment 1 to this Annex). It is estimated that 1976 daily traffic on the
existing rural road was 110 vehicles--49 cars, 7 buses and 54 trucks.  Based
on SAHOP experience, traffic in this sort of region grows on the average of
7% annually, and this is the rate assumed for growth of normal traffic.
Beyond this point, it is assumed that, when the road is finished in 1983,
there will be a 30% increase in traffic in that year, due only to the excistence



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
of the road, and that the normal and generated traffic will continue to grow
thereafter at 7% per annum. The benefits associated with the normal traffic
consist of the difference in vehicle operating costs with and without the
project, and, for generated traffic, the unit benefits are considered to be
one-half those of normal traffic. The Mexican definition of generated traffic
is somewhat different from the standard version. It is the traffic increase
that takes place without any additional agricultural or infrastructure inputs.
In this project, the SAHOP analysts then estimate the value of increased agri-
cultural and livestock production that the area can support, together with
the non-road expenditures required to achieve these increases in production.
The benefit streams are made up of normal traffic user cost savings, generated
traffic user cost savings, and inc:reases in the value of agricultural produc-
tion (the Mexican definition of generated traffic avoids the problem of double
counting). Cost streams include annual expenditures to sustain increased agri-
cultural production, road construc:tion costs, increased road maintenance costs
and reconstruction of the road in the 9th and 16th year of the analysis. In
this particular case, normal and generated traffic levels are low, and agri-
cultural benefits dominate the calculation, being about 83% of the total
benefit stream. In this sense, it is about as close as one gets to the no
existing traffic situation.
4.        The 97 km of double surface treatment paved road are estimated to
cost Mex$ 294 million (US$13 million) and require four years to construct,
with two separate contracts of two years each. Annual maintenance costs are
estimated at Mex$ 2.4 million, while periodic resealing costs are estimated
at Mex$ 15 million in year 9 and Mex$ 22 million in year 16. The economic
analysis yields an ERR of 27% with first year benefits (FYB) of 17%.
Pavement Overlays and Reconstruction
5.        For pavement overlays and reconstruction, the analysis is straight-
forward and involves "normal" traffic projections with vehicle operating cost
and time savings as the benefit stream. The example used here is the repave-
ment of the Tuxpan-Ozuluama-Tampico road (see Basic Data Sheet: Attachment 2),
191 km of the main north-south Gulf Coast road. The current road is adequate
in terms of geometry and capacity, but the surface is in very bad condition.
The proposal is to strengthen and repave the existing road with 5 cm of
asphalt concrete costing Mex$ 382 million (US$17 million) to be completed over
a period of four years (1979-1982). Traffic counts in 1976 indicated an AADT
of 2,846, of which 59% are cars, 4% buses, and 37% trucks. Traffic is assumed
to grow in the future at 7% per annum. By 1983, the first year of operation
of the entire reconditioned section, average vehicle speeds would be 79, 71,
and 55 km/hr for cars, buses, and trucks respectively. Without the project,
speeds would be 61, 49, and 43 km/hr. In both cases, average speeds decline
regularly from 1983 because of increasing congestion at traffic volumes of
4,569 vehicles per day (v.p.d.) in that year. The major benefit stream for
this type of investment is the value of time saving for drivers and passengers
(see paragraph 13 following for assumption regarding time savings). Reduction
in vehicle operating costs on the new surface account for only 27% of the
benefits in 1985 and 33% in 1990.



61 -
ANNEX 1
6.        The elements in the cost stream include the initial construction
cost of Mex$ 382 million, with per:Lodic pavement overlays in year 9 of Mex$ 34
million and in year 16 of Mex$ 80 maillion. Annual maintenance costs with the
project are also estimated to be an extra Mex$ I million. With these assump-
tions, the ERR is estimated at 39%, with an FYB of 14%, indicating that the
timing is about right for the project.
Doubling Two Lanes to Four Lanes
7.        For doubling an existing road from two to four lanes, the mzLin
benefit is the avoidance of congestion as the existing two-lane road reaches
its practical capacity. Reduction of traffic accidents is not quantified as
a benefit in this or any other case, although the argument is particularly
strong here. The example used herein is 46 km of four-lane construction
between Queretero and San Jose Iturbide, the most congested part of the
Queretero-San Luis Potosi road in Central Mexico. (See Basic Data Sheet:
Attachment 3.) Average daily traffic volumes in 1976 on the existing two-lane
road were 8,964 v.p.d. with 40% cars, 6% buses, and 54% trucks. Here, too,
the traffic is assumed to increase at 7% per annum. By 1982, when the section
would be completed, average vehicle speeds would be 80, 76 and 68 km/hr instead
of 45, 38, and 36 km/hr on the old road. This would yield operating cost
savings as well as time savings of approximately equal magnitudes. The 46 km
of four-lane construction would cosit about Mex$ 276 million (US$12.3 million)
and would be done under two contracts requiring three years for completion.
Additional annual maintenance costs would amount to Mex$ 1.2 million. Periodic
pavement overlays would require Mex'; 16.1 million in year 9 and Mex$ 29.9
million in year 16. The ERR on this project would be 69%, with FYB of 62%,
indicating that it is a long overdue investment.
8.        The benefit calculation is slightly artificial here since the
analysis assumes that, in the absence of the project, average automobile speeds
would decline to as low as 30 km/hr in 1992 and 10 km/hr in 1998. In fact, it
would probably stabilize at something like 40 km/hr due to the use of alterna-
tive routes and modes and the decision on the part of some travelers not to
take trips. However, the extra costs of these alternatives are not estimated,
and the lower speeds and subsequent higher costs serve, to some extent, as a
surrogate for these costs. At any rate, it is well established in Mexico that
four-lane construction can be justified at traffic volumes of 7,000 to 9,000
v.p.d., and, with an expected traffic volume in 1982 of 13,000 v.p.d., the
project is certainly well justified.
Urban Bypasses
9.        For urban bypasses, the basic approach for benefit analysis is to
compute the benefits of reduced congestion costs for through-traffic. Ihe
example presented herein is for a 6-km two-lane bypass of the city of Linares
in the North of Mexico on the main road between Ciudad Victoria and Monterrey.
(See Basic Data Sheet: Attachment 4.) Estimates of 1976 through-traffic were
1,431 v.p.d. with 60% cars, 10% buses, and 30% trucks, with traffic growing
at 7% per annum. The effect of the bypass is to increase the distance by



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
one km, but to increase average speeds over this portion of the journey three-
fold, from 25 km/hr to 75 km/hr for cars and from 22 km/hr to 60 km/hr for
trucks. Reduction in vehicle operating costs accounts for only 16% of total
benefits with 84% due to time savings.
10.       The bypass can be constructed in one year at a cost of Mex$ 30 million
(US$1.3 million). In the cost stream, it is assumed that there will be an
additional annual maintenance cost of Mex$ 30,000 and periodic pavement overlay
costs of Mex$ 1 million in year 9 and Mex$ 1.5 million in year 16. The ERR is
estimated at 26% with FYB of 17%.
Vehicle Operating Costs
11.       In all of the above analyses, the savings in vehicle operating costs
with the new facility have been significant elements of the benefit stream.
The SAHOP approach to estimating vehicle operating costs involves incorporating
the work of Robley Winfrey into the Mexican context. The physical relation-
ships developed by Winfrey are used, together with Mexican prices, to develop
vehicle operating costs on paved, level tangents as a function of vehicle type
and average speeds. These basic costs are then adjusted by factors which
consider pavement type and type of terrain. Quality or roughness of pavement
is not yet considered, which probably should be done in the future for a truly
satisfactory analysis of pavement overlay investments. The results of the
latest research 1/ in this area has been given to the SAHOP analysts, and it
is expected that it will gradually be integrated into future analyses.
12.       One shortcoming in the pricing of physical inputs is the price
assumed for diesel fuel and gasoline. Mexican prices net of taxes are used
and are about one-half the opportunity cost of this fuel because PEMEX con-
siders the cost of crude oil for its refineries at about one-third of the
export price and passes on this low price in the domestic sale of diesel fuel
and gasoline. The point has been made several times that something closer
to world market prices net of taxes should be used in the economic analysis.
The Mexicans have been reluctant to do so, first, because it is a tacit recog-
nition that national fuel pricing policies are not economically rational, and,
second, because, although significant, vehicle operating cost savings are
declining in relative importance in the benefit analysis for Mexican road
projects, and underestimating user cost benefits in terms of fuel savings is
not critical to the analysis. Time savings, as is already the case in the
developed countries, are becoming the major justification for road investments
and pricing fuel at its economic cost does not change this fact significantly.
Time Savings and Their Value
13.       There is no entirely satisfactory approach to the issue of time
savings and their value, and the methods employed are numerous and easily
1/   "The Kenya Road Transport Cost Study:  Research on Vehicle Operating
Costs," TRRL Report 672, 1975.



- 63 -
ANNEX I
criticized. The Mexican approach has evolved from the normal situation in
developing countries wherein truck traffic dominates, moving trucks from
gravel to paved roads generates large savings, and the value of time of
passenger and operators is assumed to be very low. As a relatively high-
income developing country with a large modern sector in the economy and a high
percentage of automobile traffic, the Mexicans are justified in feeling that
their economic justification of road projects should begin moving in the
direction of the analyses done in developed countries.
14.       For drivers of trucks and buses, the average hourly wage of Mex$ 100
(US$4.44) for bus drivers and Mex$ 58 (US$2.60) for trucks is used.  For
occupants of automobiles and buses, the wage incomes of 84% of the economic-
ally active population (EAP) is used, each person working 2,304 hours per year.
The lowest wage earners (8.5% EAP) and the highest (7.4% EAP) are excluded
from the calculation. The 84% of the EAP that earns 59% of total income is
the base for the calculation and yie:Lds an hourly wage of Mex$ 14 (US$0.62).
In the economic analyses submitted for Bank approval, a value of time oiE
Mex$ 9/hour (US$0.40) is used in an attempt to consider business as opposed
to pleasure trips. The most recent studies in the U.S. 1/ indicate unit
values of travel time savings per traveler-hour for all types of trips as
follows:
Low time savings                  US$0.21
(less than 5 minutes)
Medium time saving                US$1.80
(between 5 and 15 minutes)
High time saving                  US$3.90
(greater than 15 minutes)
In most cases submitted for Bank approval (the small Linares bypass is an
exception), travel time savings exceed 15 minutes, and the Mexican assumption
of a value of US$0.40 per passenger-hour saved is about one-tenth of that used
in the U.S., yet Mexican GDP per capita is approximately one-seventh that of
the U.S. Under the circumstances, the SAHOP assumptions are not unreasonable.
Conclusions
15.       The main criticism of the current SAHOP approach to the economic
analysis of projects is:
-    excessive reliance on average vehicle speed as the key
determinant to user cost and benefits,
-    failure to consider reduction in accidents as benefits for
investments in four-lane divided highways, and
1/   A Manual on User Benefit Analysis of Highway and Bus Transit Improvement
1977, AASHO, Washington D.C, pp. 15-17.



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
-    underpricing the true cost of fuel inputs in the operating cost
estimates.
The latter two factors tend to underestimate benefits, while the first criti-
cism is one based on recent research work that is just being made available.
While there are improvements that can be made, the conceptual grasp of the
SAHOP analysts is adequate and performance is on a consistently high level.
December 1978



- 65 -
ANNEX I
Attachment I
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet for Subproject
1.   Basic Data
Road:                     Tuxtla Gutierrez-Mapastepec
Section:                  Independencia-Valdivia
Length:                    97 km
Cross-section present;   None
Cross-section proposed:  0.75 + 5.50 + 0.75 = 7.0 m
Pavement proposed:        Double surface treatment
Design Class:             Type "C"
2.   Traffic
AADT 1976:                 49 cars, 7 buses, 54 trucks, total 110 v.p.d.
Growth rate traffic:       7% per annum
Estimated 1982 traffic:  165 v.p.d.
3.   Bridges
Not indicated
4.   Cost Estimate
Mex$ 294 million (US$13.1 million)
5.   Economic Justification
ERR 27%, FYB 17%
6.   Tenders and Construction
Tender dates:             one each 1979 and 1980
Completion time:          four years
Tentative budget
allocation Mex$:        1979    45 million
1980    80 million
1981   102 million
1982    59 million



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
7. Technical Description
The construction of this project will open a route between Tuxtla
Gutierrez and Tapachula having specification of a type "C" road. The
pavement will be double-surface treatment, covering the total width of
the crown.
8. Economic Description
The traffic that is estimated to use the proposed project will be
principally associated with moving agricultural commodities from the area
of influence of the road to centers of consumption such as Tapachula and
Tuxtla Gutierrez. The major agricultural potential of the area lies in
coffee, cattle and forestry. Approximately 17% of the benefits of the
investment are vehicle operating cost savings, with 83% due to increases
in agricultural production. Time savings are not considered.
9. Alternatives Considered
Only that proposed
10. Date of Feasibility Study
August 28, 1978



- 67 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 2
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet for Subproject
1.   Basic Data
Road:                      l'uxpan-Ozuluama-Tampico
Section:                   Same
Length:                    191 km
Cross-section present:    1.35 + 7.30 + 1.35 = 10.0 m
Cross-section proposed:  Same
Pavement proposed:         5 cm asphalt carpet
Design Class:              Special (two lanes of 3.5 m width)
2.   Traffic
AADT 1976.                 1,680 cars, 114 buses, 1,052 trucks,
total 2,846 v.p.d.
Growth rate traffic:       7% per annum
Estimated 1982 traffic:  4,270 v.p.d.
3.   Bridges
29 bridges for a total length of 794 m
4.   Cost Estimate
Mex$ 382 million
5.   Economic Justification
ERR 39%, FYB 14%
6.   Tenders and Construction
Tender dates:              one each 1978, 1979 and 1980
Completion time:           four years
Tentative budget
allocation Mex$:         1979    30 million
1980   134 million
1981   115 million
1982   103 million



- 68 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment 2
7. Technical Description
The present road is of adequate capacity, but the surface is in such
a bad state that normal maintenance cannot keep it in a reasonable condi-
tion. The basic requirement is a 7.5 meter asphalt carpet 5 cm thick.
8. Economic Description
The existing road is on the main north-south link on the Gulf Coast.
As indicated in the recently published national urban development plan,
this region is considered a prime area for future development of urban
alternatives to Mexico City. Approximately 73% of the benefits are due
to time savings, with 27% due to reduction in vehicle operating costs.
9. Alternatives Considered
Only that proposed
10. Date of Feasibility Study
August 17, 1978



- 69 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment 3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY' SECTOR PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet for Subproject
1.   Basic Data
Road:                      Queretero-San Luis Potosi
Section.                   Queretero-San Jose Iturbide
Length:                    46 km
Cross-section present:    1.80 + 7.30 + 1.80 = 10.90 m
Cross-section proposed:  Two 11 m carriage ways
Pavement proposed:         5 cm asphalt carpet
Design Class:              four-lane special
2.   Traffic
AADT 1976'                 3,586 cars, 538 buses, 4,840 trucks,
total 8,964 v.p.d.
Growth rate traffic:       7% per annum
Estimated 1982 traffic:  13,452 v.p.d.
3.   Bridges
7 bridges for a total length of 180 m
4.   Cost Estimate
Mex$ 267 million
5.   Economic Justification
ERR 62%, FYB 69%
6.   Tenders and Construction
Tender dates:              one each 1979 and 1980
Completion time:           three years
Tentative budget
allocation Mex$:         1979    45 million
1980   124 million
1981   107 million



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
Attachment 3
7. Technical Description
The basic proposal is to construct a second two-lane carriageway
parallel to the existing road, which is already built to adequate
standards, lacking only sufficient capacity for present traffic volumes.
8.  Economic Description
The 201-km Queretero-San Luis Potosi road is an extension of the
Mexico City-Queretero road, which is already four lanes. This is one
of the most heavily traveled corridors in Mexico for both rail and
highway, carrying north-south traffic in the Mexico City-Monterrey
corridor. While the entire 201 km of four-lane construction can be
easily justified, this first section of 46 km outside Queretero is
particularly congested, carrying approximately 5,000 trucks per day;
it is the scene of numerous traffic accidents whose costs are not
estimated herein. It is one of the highest priority road projects in
the country.
9. Alternatives Considered
(a) Four lanes with no median,
(b) Reconstruction of the existing two lanes from 7.50 m of pavement
to 10.9 m (a three-lane highway),
(c) Four-lane limited access expressway with overpasses,
(d) Four lanes with median and at-grade intersections (the alternative
selected).
10. Date of Feasibility Study
August 22, 1978



- 71 -
ANNEX I
Attach,ment 4
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Basic Data Sheet for Subproject
1.   Basic Data
Road:                        Ciudad Victoria-Monterrey
Section:                     Linares Bypass
Length:                       6 km
Cross-section present:       none
Cross-section proposed:       1.00 + 7.00 + 1.00= 9.00 m
Pavement proposed:           5 cm asphalt carpet
Design Class:                Type "A"
2.   Traffic
Through traffic AADT 1976:  858 cars, 143 buses, 430 trucks,
total 1,431 v.p.d.
Growth rate traffic:          7% per annum
Estimated 1982 traffic:      2,147 v.p.d.
3.   Bridges
1 bridge of 120 m, 1 bridge of 60 m
4.   Cost Estimate
Mex$ 30 million
5.   Economic Justification
ERR 26%, FYB 17%
6.   Tenders and Construction
Tender date:                  1979
Completion time:             one year
Tentative budget
allocation Mex$:           1979    30 million



- 72 -
ANNEX I
Attachment 4
7. Technical Description
The two-lane paved road is to pass to the southwest of Linares,
bypassing the urban street system.
8. Economic Description
At present, the approximately 1,500 v.p.d. passing through Linares
must use the narrow urban street system, slowing it to an average speed
of 25 km/hr for cars and 22 km/hr for trucks. In addition, the through
traffic contributes to urban congestion for local traffic. The reduction
in urban congestion for local traffic is not quantified or considered
in the benefit analysis. The increase in average speeds for through
traffic is estimated at 75 km/hr for cars and 60 km/hr for trucks.
Reduction in vehicle operating costs accounts for 16% of total benefits,
with 84% due to time savings.
9. Alternatives Considered
Only that proposed
10. Date of Feasibility Study
August 24, 1978



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
MEXICO
HIGHWJAY SECTOR PROJECT
Highways and Regional Development in Mexico
1.        Mexico is now an urbanized country and, in 1976, approximately 64%
of its population lived in places of 2,500 or more inhabitants. The very
rapid urban growth of the last 30 years has occurred without any definite plan-
ning and has been highly concentrated in a few major cities, mainly Mexico City;
the Federal District, with some 11 miillion inhabitants in 1975, grows at annual
rates of over 5%.  This human and industrial concentration comes with major
urban congestion problems and large regional disparities in the distribution
of income and the access to basic social services.
2.        Until very recently, Mexico did not have a well coordinated spatial
policy, and road investment was not explicitly oriented toward regional devel-
opment. However, a series of important measures has been adopted with the
objective of stimulating regional development throughout the country. Among
these was an important rural roads program, Bank-supported through the PIDER
rural development project; this program allowed a near doubling of the total
road network between 1971 and 1976 and provided remote villages with access
to the highway network.
3.        In the last three years, Mexico has moved toward a more coherent
spatial policy. The Law of Human Settlements, adopted in 1976, created the
institutional framework for developing a regional strategy. Another move
toward this objective was the regrouping of the formerly independent Secretary
of Public Works (SOP) and the Subsecretary of Human Settlements (SAH) into the
Secretary of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP).
4.        In 1978, President Lopex Portillo approved a National Urban Devel-
opment Plan, prepared by SAHOP with the following basic policies:
(a) slow down the growth of Mexico City and orient the devel-
opment toward ten zones selected for their potential growth;
(b) develop infrastructure and social services in selected
medium-sized cities;
(c) develop rural centers to improve the availability of
social services to rural population; and
(d) orient the development of thle transportation system to
stimulate regional development.



- 74 -
-ANNEX 2
5.        In order to support the policy in section (d) above, the Bank re-
tained a consultant (Mr. R. Anson) during the project preparation period to
work jointly with SAHOP in attempting to develop an unambiguous, quantitative
approach to assessing the relative support of each highway project to the
regional development objectives set out in the national urban plan.
6.        It became clear at the onset that a sophisticated approach, in which
the various linkages between transport and development were incorporated into
a complex model, was not feasible because such an approach is costly, time
consuming, and requires a large amount of reliable data. The only approach
considered operationally feasible was the use of a composite index methodology.
Such an approach involves the definition of several variables associated with
roads and regional development and then the scoring of each of these variables
for each separate project. The sum of the scores is then the composite index.
7.        The structure of the index proposed by the Joint Bank/SAHOP effort
is based on the consideration of ten general criteria defining the impact of
a project on regional development. Each criterion is linked to a more narrowly
defined rating variable and three or four subvariables with associated possible
scores. it is also possible to put weight on the general criteria in order to
make the procedure more flexible. The proposed criteria, rating variables and
possible scores, appear in the following table. Criteria have been selected
in accordance with the general options of Government regional policy, and the
results of basic studies on the decision factors affecting industrial location
in Mexico. Rating variables and associated scores have been defined in order
to achieve the best possible definition of projects, both on a qualitative and
a quantitative basis, given the availability and reliability of statistical data.



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Subvariables and
Criteria                 Rating Variable                   Possible Scores
1.  Priority in the          Name of the zone(s) served    Short-term priority (1 year)   100
National Development    by the road                      Medium-term priority (6-years)  75
Plan                                                     Long-term priority (20 years)   50
Other                             25
2.  Priority in the          Name of the zone(s) served    Short-term priority                 100
Directing Scheme of      by the road                     Medium-term priority               75
Road Network (SAHOP)                                     Long-term priority                 50
Other                             25
3.  Dependence from          Flow of traffic to and from   Under 25%                           100
Mexico City              Federal Districl:               From 25% to 50%                    50
Over 50%                          25
4.  States of development   Development indexes at state  State                       Municipal
of the zone              and municipal levels (final   Low         100  Low                100
index is their product)         Medium    75  Medium              75
High      50  High                50
Very High          25
5.  Existence of other       Investment index: in the        High                              100
investments in the       zone                            Medium                            50
zone                                                     Low                                25
6.  Existence of natural    Classification of zones          High                              100
resources and develop-  according to their growth        Medium                             50
ment potential           potential                       Low                                25
7.  Existence of alter-      Number of alternatLve           Zero                              100
native options           options                         Railway                            75
One road                          50
Over one road                     25
8.  Economic benefit         Demographic density in the    High                                100
for the zone             zone                            Medium                             75
Low                               50
9.  Urban and Adminis-       Number of import-ant towns      Two or more                       100
trative Importance       connected by the road           One                                50
Zero                              25
10. Others



- 76 -
ANNEX 2
8.        In its present form, this model is a first attempt toward a quanti-
fied perception of the impact of a road project on regional development. Pos-
sible developments of the model include:
(a) improvement of data quality and reliability through a better
coordination and exchange of information between SAHOP, SPP
and other Government agencies;
(b)  refinement of the structure of the model by identifying and
selecting only the most important and independent criteria
and variables.
9.        Beyond the considerable practical difficulties of constructing a
usable composite index is the question of precisely what use would be made of
such a number in conjunction with the normal economic rate of return criteria
for project selection. While the rate of return criterion is related to the
opportunity cost of capital in deciding on an acceptable level of return for
a project, the regional development index is a relative term that can be used
for rank ordering only, and there is no basis for setting a minimum level or
cutoff point, nor is there a basis for effecting tradeoffs between the rate
of return and the value of the composite index.
10.       A possible approach to this issue is the following:
(a) background feasibility studies define the individual road
projects that can be included in SAHOP's program;
(b) a first selection considers the rate of return of each
project: a minimum rate is defined, and all projects
under this cutoff rate are eliminated;
(c) a second selection considers the regional development index
and selects the best projects according to this index, given
the overall financial constraints of the road program;
(d) a joint committee of SAHOP and SPP checks the results of the
selections; it decides on the final list of projects for
which Government, and perhaps Bank, financing is requested; and
(e) any projects eliminated in step (c) above that are included in
the final program require a separate justification for inclusion.
While the above process is somewhat mechanistic, it does suggest a potentially
fruitful way to use the composite index information to produce a highway invest-
ment program that is not only justified economically but is also consistent
with, and supportive of, the Mlexican regional development objectives.
November 1978



- 77 -
ANNEX 3
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Tentative List of Projects for Commencement in First Year
1.        In September 1978, SAHOP submitted documentation to the Bank on 22
subprojects for which budget funds are requested in 1979 and which are expected
to be eligible for Bank financing.
2.        The key information is summarized as follows:
Length      ADT    Total   Budget  ERR    Design
km      1982    Cost       1979    %      Class
in Mex$ in Mex$
New Construction
1.  Parral-Pericos                307       380       790       105    19      C
2.  Independencia-Valdivia         97       165       294        45    27      C
3.  Guadalajara-Tepetongo         235       425       450        50  14-22    C
4.  Putla-Pinotepa                  63      420       100        30    17      C
5.  Miahuatlan-Pochutla             95                200        40    21      D
6.  Chilapa-Tlapa                  88       370       120        30    25      D
Sub-Total              885                1954       300
Urban Bypasses
1.  Acapulco                       20       620       109        20    23      A
2.  Linares                          6     2150        30        30    26      A
3.  Torreon                        32      2660       102        60    24      S 2
4.  Leon                            14     2490        66        36    23      S2
5.  Salamanca                        7     2670        80        25    27      S 2
6.  Acayucan                         6     2690        24        24    29      S 2
Sub-Total                85                411       195



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
Length      ADT    Total   Budget  ERR    Design
km       1982    Cost       1979    %      Class
in Mex$ in Mex$
Modernization Works
1.   Tuxpan-Tampico                      191    4,270       382       30     39      S 2
2a.  Poza Rica-Nautla                    101    4,510       202       16      25     S 2
2b.  Nautla-Cardel                       119    2,810       178       14      23     S 2
3a.  Coatzacoalcos-Agua Dulce             34    9,360       170       13      46     S 4
3b.  Cardenas-Villa Hermosa               46    9,170       230       17      43     S 4
4a.  Mexicali-Pascualitos                 11   12,630        88       17      40     S 4
4b.  Pascualitos-Rio Colorado             53   10,820       292       58      28     S 4
5a.  Hermosillo-Ures                      11   10,620        55       21      59     S 4
5b.  Aeropuerto-Nogales                   10    7,500        50       19      18     S 4
6.   Guadalajara-Chapala                  37   10,300       312       30      47     S 4
7.   Zapotlanejo-Lagos                   114    6,420       316       45     44      S 2
8a.  Queretaro-Iturbide                   46   13,500       276       45     69      S 4
8b.  Iturbide-Villa Reyes                130    8,900       780        -      38     S 4
8c.  Villa Reyes-Potosi                   25    9,900       150       25     41      S 4
9.   Celaya-Acambaro                      70    5,000       175       30     30      S 2
10.  Texcoco-Zacatepec                   169    6,300      338       40      45      S 2
Sub-Total                  1.167              3,994      420
Total all Subprojects            2,137              6,359      915
November 1978



- 79 -
ANNEX 4
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Assessment of Financial Intermediary BANOBRAS
1.        Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (National Bank
for Public Works and Services, hereinafter "BANOBRAS") was organized as a
national credit institution in 1933 for the purpose of financing public works
in Mexico. It was originally organized under the name Banco Nacional
Hipotecario Urbano y de Obras Publicas, S.A., and it adopted its present name
in 1966.
2.        Pursuant to the special statutory charter provided by its Ley
Organica (Organic Law), BANOBRAS functions as the principal Mexican Government
entity for contracting domestic and foreign source credit for public-works
construction in Mexico. Credit obtained by BANOBRAS is onlent primarily to
the Federal Government for public works, low-cost housing and the improvement
of public transportation facilities. Loans are also made to states and muni-
cipalities.
3.        The Federal Government has 'been the major stockholder of BANOBRAS
since its creation and currently owns, directly or indirectly, approximately
98 percent of the outstanding capital stock. Under the Organic Law, the
Federal Government controls the policies of BANOBRAS, and, in practice,
substantially directs BANOBRAS' borrowing and lending activities.
The Organic Law
4.        The Organic Law describes BANOBRAS' purposes, grants its powers and
provides for control of its policies by the Federal Government. As set iEorth
in the Organic Law, the purposes of BANOBRAS are:
-    To act as agent of the Federal Government in the financing of
public works and services;
-    To direct the investment of capital into public works and
services, or activities which are otherwise socially beneficial;
-    To secure credit abroad;
-    To advise and provide financing to Federal, State and local
governmental entities in the planning, financing and execution
of public works and services; and
-    To carry out trust activities, such as the administration of a
Federal Government trust fund for the development, financing
and construction of low-cost housing.



- 80 -
ANNEX 4
5.        To discharge these responsibilities, BANOBRAS is authorized by the
Organic Law, among other things, to borrow and lend money, to issue securities,
to give and accept guarantees or other security for loans, to acquire, develop,
operate and sell real estate, to perform trust administration services, and
carry out such other functions relating to its credit activities as may be
approved by the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance
and Public Credit).
6.        The Organic Law also provides that the Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit may veto resolutions of the Board of Directors of BANOBRAS which,
in the opinion of the Ministry, "endanger the financial stability or prestige
of the Institution or which may be contrary to the monetary or credit policy of
the Federal Government." This provision, together with the Federal Government's
annual approval of BANOBRAS' budget, assures that BANOBRAS functions as an
entity of the Federal Government. The Chairman of BANOBRAS' Board of Directors
is Mexico's Secretary of Finance and Public Credit, and five of its seven
directors are cabinet officers or high ranking Government officials.
New Loan Commitments
7.        The following table shows, by category of activity, new loan commit-
ments of BANOBRAS over the period 1973-1977.
1973     %     1974      %     1975      %
------------(million of US$)-------------
Federal public works                    675.8   63.4   434.3   49.8   449.3   47.3
Low-cost housing                        117.3   11.0   107.1   12.3    76.1    8.0
State and municipal public works         78.6    7.4    67.4    7.7    68.1    7.2
Public works contractors                175.3   16.4   246.3   28.3   323.9   34.1
Transportation                           14.5    1.4    11.6    1.3    29.1    3.1
Miscellaneous                             4.4    0.4      4.8    0.6      2.6    0.3
1,006.4  100.2   871.7  100.0   949.4  100.0
1976     %     1977      %
-----(million of US$)-----
Federal public works                                   581.2   62.1   223.3   38.1
Low-cost housing                                         72.5    7.8    34.3    5.9
State and municipal public works                        33.4    3.6    16.6    2.8
Public works contractors                               229.6   24.5   288.4   49.2
Transportation                                           17.6    1.9    20.4    3.5
Miscellaneous                                             0.1    0.1     3.0    0.5
934.6  100.0   586.3  100.0



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Financing of Public Works
8.        As of December 31, 1977, approximately 75 percent of BANOBRAS'
outstanding loans were loans made directly to the Federal Government or its
institutions, primarily for the financing of public works. These loans are
made at the direction of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, pursuant
to public works budgets for various Federal Government agencies approved by
the Ministry of Programing and Budgett. Of these loans, 35 percent in
principal amount were made directly to the Federal Government, 28 percent to
the Federal District (which includes Mexico City) and 37 percent to various
Federal dependencies. Among the Federal dependencies, major accounts are
for the railway sector (about half of the total loan commitments in 1976 and
1977), Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (the Mexican Airport Authority),
Diesel Nacional, and Caminos y Puentes Federales de Ingresos y Servicios
Conexos (the Toll Highways and Bridges Authority).
9.        Loans to Federal Government agencies are made at 1/4 of one percent
to 1/2 of one percent over BANOBRAS' cost of money and are generally for terms
which parallel its own borrowings, usually from four up to ten years. Projects
financed by these loans include bridpes, toll and other primary and secondary
roads, railways, irrigation projects, low-cost housing developed by agencies
other than BANOBRAS and construction projects for educational institutions.
Financial Assistance to Federal Public Works Contractors
10.       BANOBRAS is the principal source of funding for Federal public works
projects and provides short term financing to contractors on Federal projects
who have completed portions of their projects but not yet received payment.
On December 31, 1977, 3 percent of BANOBRAS' outstanding loans were in this
category. Short-term loans to Federa,l public works contractors ordinarily
have terms of three to six months, dco not exceed 70 percent of the full value
of the project, and bear interest at rates from 14 to 17 percent per annum,
plus a 1/4 of one percent to 3/4 of one percent commission to BANOBRAS. In
making these loans, BANOBRAS advances funds against appropriate certificates
of completion and receives as security an assignment of the contractors'
receivables from the Federal Government agency which is sponsoring the project.
As part of its trust activities, BANOBRAS also operates a special trust fund
(Fideicomiso de Prestamos a contratistas para iniciacion de obras publicas)
that can provide up to 25 percent of the full value of the project, to finance
start-up of public works contractors.
Financing State and Municipal Public W4orks
11.       Loans to finance State or municipal public works constituted
7 percent of BANOBRAS' total outstandiLng loans on December 31, 1977. Although
this type of financing is done with the implied approval of the Federal
Government, BANOBRAS is not ordinarily directed to finance specific State
or municipal projects. Instead, within an aggregate budgetary authorization,
BANOBRAS itself ordinarily selects frcom among a number of applicants the State
and municipal projects it will finance. BANOBRAS' principal criteria for the
approval of a State or local application are whether the proposed project will



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
be of economic and social benefit to the community involved, and whether the
project in operation will provide sufficient revenue to liquidate the loan.
12.       As security for loans to a State or municipality, BANOBRAS requires
an assignment by the State, for itself or on behalf of a municipality within
its jurisdiction, of a portion of the State's annual allocation of Federal
tax revenues. BANOBRAS ordinarily supervises the construction of the state
and local projects it finances. Loans to state or local government generally
bear interest ranging from nine to 14 percent and have maturities ranging from
five to 15 years. Such projects are principally water works, sewage systems,
public markets and slaughterhouses. BANOBRAS is also the trustee of the Fondo
de Inversiones Financieras para Agua Potable y Alcantarillado - FIFAPA (Trust
Fund for Water Supply and Sewerage) set up in connection with Bank Loan
1186-ME (Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project). FIFAPA is the
principal channel through which water supply and sewerage projects outside
of the country's central region will be funded.
Developing and Financing Low-Cost Housing
13.       BANOBRAS initiates projects in the low-cost housing field for which
it seeks the approval of the Federal Government. Thereafter, through the
Fondo de las Habitaciones Populares (FHP), a low-cost housing fund, authorized
by the Organic Law, BANOBRAS acquires and develops the necessary land, super-
vises design and construction, provides financing, and ultimately sells
condominium units (and, to a lesser extent, single family dwellings) to indi-
vidual purchasers.
14.       FHP is a trust fund established by the Organic Law.  Decisions are
made for the Housing Fund by the Board of Directors of the Bank acting on
behalf of the Federal Government under the trust administration powers granted
to BANOBRAS by the Organic Law, but FHP's assets are deemed to belong to the
Federal Government and are not included in the financial statements of BANOBRAS.
Approximately 15 percent of BANOBRAS' employees are engaged in activities
associated with BANOBRAS' housing programs including the administration of FHP.
15.       BANOBRAS makes loans to FHP for terms from three months to 15 years,
at interest rates ranging from 8-1/8 to 12-7/8 percent. These loans are
approved by the Federal Government and are included in BANOBRAS' budget for
the year in which they are made. On December 31, 1977, loans to FHP amounted
to 13 percent of the total outstanding loans of BANOBRAS. These loans are not
guaranteed by the Federal Government, but if FHP's assets or cash flow were
ever insufficient to meet its obligations, the Federal Government, which from
time to time makes contributions to the Housing Fund, would likely assume
these obligations or otherwise provide financial support.
Financing Public Transportation
16.       Since it assumed the responsibilities of the Government Transportation
Bank in 1967, BANOBRAS has provided financing to public transportation systems
both publicly and privately owned. On December 31, 1977, such loans constituted



ANNEX 4
1.5 percent of all BANOBRAS loans then outstanding.  The financing of certain
transportation systems within the Federal District, which constituted approxi-
mately one percent of BANOBRAS' loans in the transportation sector as of
December 31, 1977, was undertaken at the direction of the Federal Government.
For the remainder of its transportation loans, BANOBRAS selects the projects
it will finance from among a number of applicants. Its decisions in this
respect, which are made by its Board of Directors, are based upon its assess-
ment that the public interest will be served by the project, even though the
loan may be made to a private firm, and that the revenue generated by the
project will be sufficient to liquidate the loan.
17.       BANOBRAS loans for transportation purposes within the Federal
District are guaranteed by the Federal District. Other transportation loans
are secured by equipment or guaranteecd by state or local governments. Most
of BANOBRAS' transportation loans during the past five years have been for
taxis, buses, trucks and municipal bus terminals.  Financing for roads is
included in the Federal public works financing. In bus and truck financing
BANOBRAS provides four to five year loans and in taxi financing three yeaLr
loans, all at interest rates of 18 percent plus an opening commission of
one percent in the case of the former and 1-1/2 percent in the latter case.
Trust Administration Activities
18.       The Organic Law authorizes BANOBRAS to conduct trust administration
activities for which it generally receives direct compensation and reimburse-
ment for its related personnel and other expenses. The three principal trusts
are FHP, FIFAPA and the Fondo Fiduciario Federal de Fomento Municipal (Federal
Fiduciary Trust for Municipal Development), a special fund for assistance to
municipalities which have the fewest financial resources. From time to time
the Federal Government makes contributions to this fund and directs BANOBRAS
to make loans or grants from the fund to municipalities selected by the
Federal Government. BANOBRAS does not make any loans to this fund.
19.       Approximately 120 other funds or trusts have been established by
the Federal Government or its dependencies and committed to administration
by BANOBRAS, but these do not involve a substantial expenditure of its
employees' time. From time to time, tlnrough SAHOP, the Federal Government
directs BANOBRAS to disburse funds or take other actions with respect to
these trusts. The total assets of funds or trusts under BANOBRAS' adminis-
tration on December 31, 1977 were US$604 million, of which FHP's share was
US$449 million, FIFAPA's and the Municipal Development Trust Fund's shares
were US$25 and US$12 million, respectively,
Portfolio Quality
20.       During 1977, as in prior years, over 95 percent of BANOBRAS' oul-
standing loans were made to the FederaL Government, to Federally controlled
entities such as FHP, or to Federal contractors, states or munAcipalities
whose obligations are secured by Federal tax allocations. Accordingly,
BANOBRAS has never suffered any significant bad debt losses. When a ld4Ijn
has not been timely paid, it is considered a delinquent account and it is



- 84 -,                         ANNEX 4
transferred to an account entitled "Other receivables." After reasonable
attempts at collection have been made, it is deemed uncollectible and it is
written off against income. The total delinquent accounts on December 31, 1976
and 1977 aggregated, respectively, US$19.4 million (0.7 percent of the total
portfolio) and US$59.9 million (1.4 percent of the total portfolio); the total
amounts written off during the years ended December 31, 1976 and 1977 were
US$27,000 and nil, respectively; all the accounts written off were in the non-
government sector.
Offices and Employees
21.       BANOBRAS' principal offices are located in Mexico City.  Through a
subsidiary, Banco Nacional Urbano, S.A., BANOBRAS has 35 other offices through-
out Mexico.
22.       BANOBRAS has about 1,300 employees, of whom some 300 hold registered
professional titles. The largest number, 93, are certified public accountants,
and there are 54 engineers, 51 architects, 47 lawyers, 23 economists and
17 business administrators.
BANOBRAS' Financial Position
23.       As of December 31, 1977, BANOBRAS' assets amounted to some US$3,750
million equivalent, of which US$3,540 million from the bank's loan portfolio.
Total shareholders' equity amounted to some US$102 million. In 1977, BANOBRAS'
gross earnings amounted to some US$332 million equivalent, of which US$308
million from interest on loans, and US$17 million from commissions from trust
administration activities. During the same year, current expenditures amounted
to some US$306 million, of which US$279 million for interest and US$20 million
for administrative expenses; net earnings after income taxes and employee
profit sharing amounted to some US$12 million or .32 percent of assets (or
11.7 percent of shareholders' equity). Audited Annual Reports for the years
1977 and 1976 and summary financial accounts (statement of income, of share-
holders' equity, of changes in financial position) for the years 1973-1977 are
included in the Project File.
November 1978



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. Esquema Director para la Infraestructura Carretera, Informe Final,
SAHOP, November 1976.
2. Primer Plan Nacional de Transporte: SCT, August 1976.
3. Proyecto de Programa de Inversiones 1977-1982, SAHOP, July 1977.
4. La Industria Automotriz de Mexico en Cifras, Asociaci6n Mexicana de la
Industria Automotriz, A.C., Mexico 1976.
5. Ley de Inspecci6n de Contratos y Obras P6blicas y Su Reglamento, Secretaria
de Patrimonio Nacional, Mexico 1973.
6. Bases y Normas Generales para la Contrataci6n y Ejecucio'n de Obras Publicas,
Secretaria de Patrimonio Nacional, Mexico 1975.
7.  Caminos y Mano de Obra, SOP, Me:xico 1976.
8.  Credito Sectorial al Programa de Carreteras, SAHOP, September 1978,
Tomos 1, 2 and 3.
9. Pr'estamo Global del BIRF para e:L Subsector Carreteras, SAHOP, June 1978.
February 1979






CHART 1
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Organization of the Secretariat of Human Settlement and Public Works
General Directorates for:
-Programming and Budgetin
SAHOP                                            -Analysis of Investment
Centers                  Si:CRETARY              -Administrative Control
in                                            -Technical Control
States                 _                         -Legal Affairs
-Organization and Methods
-Public Relations
Under-Secretary            Under-Secretary            Under-Secretary                 Senior
Public Works                   for                         for                      Officer
Urban Affairs            HmnSettlement
General Directorates for:
-Federal Highways                                                                   General Directorates for:
-Highways in Cooperation                                                            -Adminiro
with the States
-Social Assistance
-Feeder Roads
-National Parks                                                                     -Budget
-Airports                                                                           -Supplies
- -Maintenance
-Equipment & Transportation
-Technical Services
--System Engineering
World Bank - 19564



MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE GENERAL DIRECTORATE FOR FEDERAL HIGHWAYS
GENERAL
DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENTS {HIGHWAY DESIGN   JBRDGE DESIGNT
PRELIMINARY DESIGNS           PROGRAMMING AND                         REVIEW OF DESIGNS             PROGRAMMING
AND FIELD SURVEYS             SELECTIONYOF                            BIDDING                       BUDGETS
FINAL DESIGN                  BRIDGE TYPESBIDNBUGT
FINAL DESIGN                           SPECIFICATIONS AND             QUALITY CONTROL
SECTIONS  GEOTEC N                       TOPOGRAPIIIC AND                        UNIT PRICES                   CONTHACTS AND COST
GEOTECHNICS                   HYDRAULIC STUDIES                      INFORMATION AND                ESTIMATES
INTERSECTIONS AND                                                     STATISTICS                    RESIDENT ENGINEERS
SIGNALIZATION                 SOIL MECHANICS                                                        RSDN  NIER
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION
WorId Bank-i78B



I B R D 13977R
Ti}er ,O                                                                                              100 2      i        f ;' 4  T 0 ; 0 01 0 1;:r'7 ': :;lur:hie,ss be.'sp00;ipe 0 0 ed, 102y                             J Movbleon  JA   ARY 1979
10                                                  Movbleon k s   a   A       Maravala      Aamulo           -P
5    om UaP                                                                                                                                                     Marsh    IflOPOCUOTOHumutI
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~h   0oios0  Ru,ui-te   0  Mocis\e s  \o 
E Vse lhda  Constitucitin)8f\    a    Topolob                         tia o's                                                                                          Moreis  Gc
( 2t\ X ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urg                                                              Huajumbar                   Nausq icalpa  n / 4  
EIG HTH HtG W~~~~~~~SAY PRJUECTe Z 4 a                                                                               ol Crmpery nuyne -an' so|
s,emO5h,iaOyfsesebd N  ,ro,mden                                      TO]                 MEXICO CITY        sca
1PI Perasca         Nogaes                 a rea erei< N' IT E D_ ST AT E 5                                                                                                            TemascaltepecJ                                  PUeB
Coonl
Sa-E  SEVENT    H            W                                                                                                                                                                    exoo
Ciudad             "a-O
mosillo  a era                                                                                                                               ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~guala  Ls Penas
hu-rip- rternatirnAl boundarTes          2   0                 EZihuatanejr         >)                \,       (      \    \%       23j;Pic                   *                    i    BE IZEcoroti
E  coripa  a                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Huamiuxtitlan
0    40  60  50  100I                            0
G"Ymo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zhaaeo KILOMETERS                                                                                                            Chilapo
atLoErem~~ ~~~~~~~~                                            ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20 0i  60    '   >,_                                                            i
regES  L30aedo | :0                                                 i  '                    '       Sta.EbACFl                                    MILES                 Chlpancingo          Tiaps
IU-         1<18'                              -     ::         102'>  tf 4   \   N                               9b                                \ <           :   "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5'  9', 
Villa CoinstiiIuidnI'          Topoobammuhi                          Tephune        Trre
Cslioac6        Papasquisro
24,                                                                                          ragvir                                                                                                                                                            24'
MEXICO                                                            GRAA,,v    Aguasca  le            uI~RoProegeo                                                                                                         Pto.juareI
EIGHTH  HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                  C  11. ie 0em  IBoy of Campe,chemn                                                                                                                         D
MAIN  HIGHWAY NETWORK                                                      sOM \S  ladols
Highways completed or under constrLuction                                          Cocu            ,9Ceay                                                      t e  iI  i'Sic                          CCrMlloPih
financed by previous Bonk loans:                                                                                                              ncnl
268-ME, 317-ME, 354-ME,401-ME,utICap6
528-ME and 695-MECom
Other main highways                                               Barra ds Novita                                                                                        zreeoEsdcg                                                           u 4Jmal
Railways                                                                  C o          ~         o5,Caro Como inodaa                                               a                e
RiversI.
968-ME: SEVENTH   HIGHWAY PROJECTPIy  AzuI                                                                                                      ujaa
-    International boundaries                                                                                        utn                                                                               e
o       too     200      300      400      So0
KILOMETERSem pa" 
o            100           200           300                                                         0   C-                                I~Euon a
MILES
lie  105                                           102                                               56'                                      '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  95  -..(  .$'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



