Document of                               c     p
The World Bans k.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2483-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
March 7, 1979
This doument as a restrited distrlbtlo  and may be sed by recipie_t only In the performnce of
their official dutid. Its etousb my  dt oherwie be dibeod without Wol Bak authorztIon.



CURRENCY UNIT - PESO (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$1 - Mex$ 12.5 which had prevailed
since 1954 was abandoned on September 1, 1976 and the Mexican peso has been
floating since then.  Since June 1977, the rate of exchange has fluctuated
around Mex$ 22.6 to the US dollar. On February 27, 1979, the peso traded at
22.77 per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS  -    National Bank for Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A.)
SPP       -    Ministry of Programming and Budgeting
(Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto)
SCT       -    Ministry of Communications and Transport
(Secretaria de Communicaciones y Transportes)
SAHOP     -    Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works
(Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Publicas)
NdeM      -    National Railways of Mexico
(Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico)
PEMEX     -    Mexican Petroleums
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
IDB       -    Inter American Development Bank



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower             :    Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
S.A. (BANOBRAS)
Guarantor            :    United Mexican States
Project Executing
Agency                     Secretaria de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras
Publicas (SAHOP)
Amount                    US$120 million
Terms                     Repayable in 17 years, including four years of
grace at an interest rate of 7 percent per annum.
Project Description :    The project is a part of SAHOP's 1979-1982 highway
program. The program components supported by the
loan are: (i) construction, rehabilitation and
expansion of federal and state highways and urban
bypasses; (ii) construction of SAHOP regional
centers; (iii) purchase of maintenance equipment
and vehicles; and (iv) consultants' services.
Subprojects to be assisted under the loan will be
submitted to the Bank for approval. The project
will (a) help modernize, expand and maintain the
road network; (b) help assess the regional develop-
ment impact of highway investments and the long term
perspectives of road transport; (c) promote improved
sector policies; and (d) strengthen local capabilities
to plan and manage highway sector programs. The
highway sector now carries some 90 percent of inter-
city passenger traffic and about 75 percent of
intercity freight transport. Project benefits will
accrue to the economy at large in the form of savings
in vehicle operating costs. Time savings are also
important benefits. Stepped up maintenance and
timely pavement strengthening will result in savings
in future reconstruction requirements. While the
impact of the project will be-felt first by road
users, benefits would be broadly distributed. Given
the experience of the executing agency and the flexible
implementation format of the project, risks attached
to physical implementation are lower than usual.
Risks attached to the treatment of sector policy
issues will be minimized by careful follow-up and
exchange of views with the Government in the context
of a framework established under the loan.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost            The total cost of SAHOP's 1979-1982 highway investment
programs (excluding maintenance and administration)
is about US$1.1 billion, with a foreign exchange cost
estimated at US$530 million equivalent:
Local Foreign Total
---(Million of US$)--
Federal Roads                  411     336      747
Purchases of Maintenance
Equipment                    23       75       98
Urban Bypasses                  24      20       44
SAHOP Centers                   11      10       21
State and Rural Roads          111      89      200
Total                    580      530   1,110
The total estimated cost of Bank-supported subprojects is
US$230 million of which US$120 million in foreign exchange.
Financing of SAHOP's                                                             % Total
1979-82 Highway Investment                                                     Investment
Programs:                                               Local  Foreign  Total  Progtam
Proposed Bank Loan              -     120       120      11
Bank Seventh Highway Loan       -      50        50       5
IDB                            -       60        60       5
Government                     580    300       880      79
Total                    580    530    1,110       100
Estimated
Disbursements        :   Year               Annual           Cumulative
…-----------…(US$ Million)-----------
79                6                   6
80              29                   35
81               30                  65
82              31                   96
83               24                 120
Rate of Return            Highway subprojects would be economically justified,
with a minimum rate of return of 12 percent. Rates
of return for the 22 highway subprojects already
identified are in the range 14-69 percent. No
quantitative economic analysis of SAHOP regional
centers, equipment purchases and consultants' studies
were undertaken because of the inherent difficulties
to evaluate benefits with precision. These project
components are well justified, however.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 2281b-ME, dated March 7, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y
SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS) with
the guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$120 million
to help finance part a highway sector project carried out by the Ministry of
Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP). The loan would be repaid over
17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. A special economic mission visited
Mexico in April-May 1977 and its report has been discussed with the Mexican
authorities and is about to be circulated to the Executive Directors. The
discussion which follows reflects the principal and updated findings of the
mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averaged less than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation. The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct investments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but led to a sharpening of
contrasts within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution under the
reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land could not
improve their economic status in the absence of basic infrastructure, credit
and technical assistance. Rapid population growth made social equity even
more difficult to achieve. Population growth in Mexico accelerated steadily,
primarily as a result of reduced death rates, and reached 3.5 percent per
year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high demographic growth rate made



- 2 -
adequate absorption of the labor force in productive employment difficult.
Some 40 percent of the labor force is either relatively unproductive and
poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped
to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest annual growth rate experienced by Mexico
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned
the fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged
since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained rather
stable at rates fluctuating around 22.60 pesos per dollar.  Following the
devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last quarter
of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million. For 1977-79,
an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-year stabiliza-
tion program was negotiated. The new Government ratified the agreement with
the IMF shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to date has
complied with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office on December 1, 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, in-
creasing foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management
indicated a need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also
called for more expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net
private investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and
growth of the labor force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the best
way to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the
coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program include control of inflation together with a return to high rates
of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures, more
rational pricing and cost control in public sector enterprises, promotion
of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable levels, and more
effective cooperation with the private sector are important parts of the
Government's economic strategy.
8.        The measures instituted by the new Administration have already
produced good results. Inflation was brought back to less than 20 percent
in 1978, down from an annual rate of more than 60 percent in the last
quarter of 1976, immediately after the devaluation. The deficit in the
current account of the balance of payments peaked at $4.2 billion in 1975 and
declined to $2.0 billion in 1977. The favorable oil prospects allowed it to



- 3 -
increase again and it is estimated to have been around $3.0 billion in 1978.
Public sector financial requirements also peaked at 8.7 percent of GDY in 1975
and declined to 5 percent of GDY in 1978. Mobilization of savings by the
banking system has also been recovering at a strong pace. The GDP rate of
growth is estimated at about 6 percent in 1978 as compared to less than
3 percent in 1977. The outlook for 1979 is favorable; the rate of growth of
the economy will increase while all efforts are going to be undertaken to make
the rate of inflation decrease; the deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments and the public sector's financial requirements are likely
to remain at the 1978 levels.
Economic Issues and Prospects
9.        The Mexican authorities have adopted a comprehensive social
program aimed at strengthening the political system, improving income dis-
tribution and the living conditions of the poor, increasing public sector
efficiency and accelerating growth. The program takes into account two
overriding economic priorities--energy development and adequate supplies
of foodstuffs--and takes the form of a three stage economic strategy. The
first stage--the stabilization period--is almost over and has been devoted
to overcome the serious economic problems the new Government inherited.
The second stage would be devoted to establishing the basis for attaining
a high, equitable and stable rate of growth. During this stage--1979-80--
efforts will be made to overcome supply bottlenecks, increase agricultural
production, improve the marketing system, increase the efficiency and competi-
tiveness of the country's industrial sector and create the conditions necessary
for a more just distribution of the benefits of growth. Accelerated and equit-
able growth would be the characteristics of the third stage.
10.       Mexico has the human, institutional and natural resources necessary
to attain these ambitious goals. The short-run disequilibria that have
affected the country during the mid-70s have been brought under control;
the new petroleum riches and the country's ability to exploit them have
greatly relaxed the financial constraints on growth. In his last State of the
Union speech President Lopez Portillo announced that Mexico's present oil and
gas reserves amounted to 20 billion barrels on July 31, 1978 and that probable
and potential reserves amounted to 37 billion and 120 billion barrels, respec-
tively. These figures were revised upward in January 1979 and proven oil and
gas reserves put at about 40 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves
would allow Mexico to increase production of crude oil, natural gas and
petrochemicals from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976 to
about 3.3 million bbl/day in 1982 and to export the equivalent of about 1.4
million bbl/day of crude oil in 1982 (for approximately US$8.5 billion on the
basis of conservative price assumptions), not counting gas exports.
11.       The challenge ahead is how to use these vast riches to help resolve
Mexico's long-term development problems which include the following:
(i) Population and Poverty. Many Mexican families have not partici-
pated in the sustained economic growth of the last several
decades. As of 1975, about 4 million Mexican families--45
percent of the total--receive incomes equal to less than



one-half the national average. The members of most of these
families work--more than half of them in agriculture--but
they produce little and receive little. Mexico's labor force
is now growing at about 3.1 percent per year, which implies an
average annual increase by some 550,000 workers during 1975-80;
during the 1960s the growth rate was 2.7 percent per year. The
challenge of providing productive jobs for both new entrants
and existing underproductive workers is awesome;
(ii) Stagnation in Agriculture. Crop and livestock production
in Mexico, which had grown by 6 percent per year during
1945-55 and 4.2 percent per year during 1955-65, grew at
only 2.1 percent per year during 1965-75, resulting in
increased imports of corn and wheat;
(iii) Regional Imbalances. The heavy concentration of people,
production, and public services in the Mexico City area--
which has currently a population of about 12 million and
is growing at over 5 percent each year--and the scarcity
of productive employment and services for rural Mexicans
are challenges to urban management, economic development,
and social justice. They imply diversion of some of Mexico
City's future growth to other regions, as well as the
gradual concentration of scattered rural populations into
small towns so that basic public services could be provided
more economically and productive activities would have a
better chance of developing.
12.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
15), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment, could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining four years of the present administration.
Resumption of economic growth combined with the intensification of the Govern-
ment's family planning program (on October 28, 1977, President Lopez Portillo
announced the ambitious goal of reducing the population growth to 2.5 percent
per year by 1982, then progressively to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3 percent by
1994, and 1 percent by the year 2000), the new emphasis on rainfed agriculture,
and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing productive
employment, should help to address the structural problems mentioned above.
13.       In agriculture, the current administration has undertaken a far-
reaching administrative reform that will allow broader and more effective
Government action in the sector. Emphasis is laid on productivity gains
and yield increases in both irrigated and rainfed areas. The previous goal
of self-sufficiency in agricultural goods is being rephrased in terms of
the sector's overall capacity to pay for its own imports. Irrigation is
fostered through a nationwide program for small irrigation and drainage works
and rehabilitation of existing irrigation districts to increase efficiency



- 5 -
of water use. The new emphasis on rainfed agriculture, relatively neglected
in the past, should lead to an increase in the productive potential of vast
areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal of past trends towards
larger income disparities between the modern and traditional agricultural
subsectors. These initiatives, together with the realistic exchange rate,
promise a resumpLion of growth in production for both domestic and export
markets and an improvement in the living conditions of the rural poor.
14.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and capital goods
as well as exports of many different manufactured products. Increases in
tourism export earnings are also expected.
15.       Among the benefits of recent public sector investments are the
new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the discoveries of
rich petroleum fields. The Government has decided to use these large hydro-
carbon resources to help manage Mexico's heavy debt service burden and to
enhance the country's development prospects. The additional domestic demand
likely to occur due to the large planned increase in Government expenditures
associated with increased public investment and programs aimed at increasing
employment and the productivity of the poor will have to be satisfied partially
through increased imports. Net interest payments are likely to increase
in the future given the rapid increase in foreign debt which occurred during
the last sexenio and the borrowing expected to take place in the years to
come. However, rapidly increasing petroleum exports and favorable tourism
earnings prospects, the recovery of agricultural exports and resumption of
growth of manufactured exports have strengthened the balance of payments
outlook and will keep the current account deficit at reasonable levels.
16.       Mexico's debt service ratio has been increasing over the recent past
and reached 48 percent in 1977. This comparatively high debt service ratio is
more a reflection of the low level of exports relative to GNP and the high
proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks than it is an indication
of a high level of external debt relative to the size of the economy. When
middle income developing countries are ranked by the ratio of external public
debt to GNP, Mexico ranks as average. The debt service ratio is estimated to
have peaked at slightly over 50 percent in 1978 and, mainly as a result of
the rapid expansion of petroleum exports, is expected to decline sharply to
levels of around 30 percent in the early 1980's. Debt service on Bank loans
amounts to about 3 percent of public debt service; this ratio is projected to
decrease over the next two years and to increase to some 4.5 percent in 1982.
The Bank currently holds about 8 percent of Mexico's total medium- and long-
term public debt, and this ratio is not likely to change in any significant
way over the next few years. Mexico remains creditworthy for borrowing on
conventional terms considering the country's excellent medium- and long-term
potential and the well conceived economic strategy which the Government has
adopted to realize it.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
17.       As of December 31, 1978, Mexico had received 57 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$3,128.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 33 loans totalling US$1,486.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$2,604.4 million of which US$1,140.7 million had not yet been disbursed.
Some 40 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development
(19 loans for US$1,264.4 million), 23 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8
million) and 17 percent for transportation projects (12 loans for US$546.7
million); the remaining 20 percent has been for industry (US$352.5 million),
water supply (US$130 million), tourism (US$114 million), and urban development
(US$16.5 million) projects. Mexico is carrying out a stabilization program
(para. 9), and because of scarcity of counterpart funds some projects fell behind
schedule in 1976 and 1977. Adequate budget support for Bank projects has now
been secured. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of
December 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
IFC Operations
18.       As of December 31, 1978, IFC has made investment commitments in
17 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$202.4 million, of which US$129.4
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation,
US$73.0 million, consists of US$63.2 million in loans and US$9.8 million in
equity. A summary statement of IFC investments as of December 31, 1978 is
presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
19.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly or
indirectly, significant contributions to output, exports, and employment; and
(iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently
facing. The Bank is preferentially supporting projects of high social priority
that help the rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of
employment and production and those that help to decentralize economic activity.
20.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation rehabilitation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the pro-
ductivity of small farmers who receive the benefit of most Bank lending through
programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural development,
(c) bringing new areas under cultivation, and (d) establishing irrigation and
drainage units; third, to complement infrastructure investments with general
support services including agricultural extension and marketing programs and
provision of medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote off-farm employment



opportunities in rural areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries.
The Bank has made seven loans in FY's 72 through 77, totalling US$579 million,
for irrigation, rural development and agriculture and livestock credit programs.
A US$56 million loan for an agricultural development project designed to inten-
sify agricultural production in Mexico's humid tropics and a US$200 million
loan for an agricultural credit project were approved by the Executive Directors
in FY78. A US$25 million supplemental loan for the Rio Panuco Irrigation
Project was recently approved. Besides a small-scale agricultural infrastruc-
ture project approved by the Executive Directors in December, 1978, future
Bank lending for agriculture includes projects for rehabilitation of irrigation
districts, water control, rural development and support services.
21.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Government's
efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize industrial
activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban areas. Thus,
a major steel project is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area on
the west coast of Mexico, and a fertilizer project promotes new poles of
development in the resource-rich southeast region and the north central area.
A project to promote the development of small- and medium-scale enterprises
and a third industrial equipment fund project were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY78. A fertilizer project is currently being considered,
further support to the manufacturing industry by means of a credit project is
being evaluated, and a capital goods industry project is under study.
22.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing.  The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76) water supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of a specialized institution for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A second airports project to modernize and expand high
priority regional airports is being processed for submission to the Executive
Directors in the coming months.
23.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional economic
disparities prevailing in Mexico (para. 11). In June 1976 the Government adopted
the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework to deal with
the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activities in the larger
metropolitan areas. The Government has recently adopted a National Urban
Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities in oper-
ational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet the needs
for basic urban services for poor families and provide key regional infrastruc-
ture in selected priority cities. One such project, to assist in the develop-
ment of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West Coast, was recently
approved by the Executive Directors, and another project for the southeast
part of the country will be appraised in the coming months.



- 8 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR IN MEXICO
24.       Mexico's large size, rugged topography and dispersed population
have made transport a crucial element of the country's development policy.
Policies in the sector have evolved with Mexico's changing development needs:
previously designed to integrate the more economically advanced regions, they
were broadened in the early 1970's to support a development strategy featuring
inter alia (i) the fulfillment of the social and economic needs of the country-
side; (ii) the rapid development of basic industries such as oil, petrochemicals
and steel where investments were delayed in the 1960's; (iii) the decentraliza-
tion of economic activities away from the main urban centers; and (iv) new
efforts to stimulate and diversify exports. Transport infrastructure invest-
ments in 1977 amounted to Mex$18 billion, or 11 percent of the public invest-
ment budget; about 57 percent of these went for highways and 30 percent for
railways.
Bank Participation in the Transport Sector
25.       This would be the thirteenth Bank operation in the transport sector.
Except for a 1954 railway loan of US$61 million to rehabilitate and modernize
the Ferrocarriles del Pacifico, Bank lending up to 1970 had been confined to
five highway loans totalling US$155 million. In 1970, the Bank conducted a
study of the transport sector with Government assistance. The recommend-
ations of this study have provided the basis for transport projects financed
by the Bank since then, and for the institutional and policy changes that
these projects have helped identify. During the past eight years, the Bank
has made two loans for highway projects (US$111.8 million), two for railway
projects (US$175 million), and one each for an airports development project
(US$25 million) and a ports project (US$20 million). Tourism projects
approved in FY72 and FY78 also included provisions for airport construction
or expansion near the tourism centers of Zihuatanejo on the West Coast and of
Loreto and San Jose del Cabo in the Baja California peninsula. Since early
1974, about US$40 million in Bank financing have also been included in eight
irrigation and rural development loans, to support the construction or improve-
ment of some 6,000 km of feeder roads. A short summary of the Bank's involve-
ment in the highway sector is provided in para. 40 below.
Subsectors
(i) Highways
26.       From the mid-1950's to 1970, emphasis was on completing the primary
radial network from the central region to important state capitals and towards
key border points. In the early 1970's, this effort was continued and major
new highways were built to open up the Baja California peninsula and link the
regions along the West and Gulf of Mexico coasts, respectively. Emphasis then
shifted to rural roads investments and 73,000 km of feeder roads were built
over the period 1971-76 (corresponding to one fifth of new investment expendi-
tures) bringing some 6.4 million people living in 7,400 small and isolated



- 9 -
localities into the mainstream of economic life. The highway network now
includes about 62,000 km of paved roads, 88,000 km of gravel roads, and 48,000
km of earth roads; generally, the network is adequately maintained and of good
standards. Total vehicle registration has reached about 4.1 million, of which
about one million are trucks and 3 million are private automobiles; the latter
make up between 46 and 60 percent of traffic volumes on intercity roads.
There are about 60,000 registered buses. Road transport demand is estimated
to continue to increase by more than 8 percent annually, with traffic growing
at an even higher rate on the most important segments of the primary network.
The highway sector accounts for more than three fourths of the total interurban
ton-km and some 90 percent of commercial intercity passenger traffic. It is
asserting its primacy over other modes for both national and international
traffic. Road transport operators are competitive and market oriented,
offering their customers a high level of service. Highway sector priorities
for the coming years are outlined in Part IV (paras. 44-50).
(ii) Railways
27.       The Mexican railways carry about one fourth of the total interurban
ton-km. The railways' traffic base is composed of bulk, long-haul traffic of
foodgrain, fertilizers, minerals, petroleum products and cement. The length
of the railway network has not changed significantly since the early 1960's,
and the sector has been gradually consolidated under Government control since
1964--from 11 to 5 public companies operating over some 20,000 km of standard
gauge tracks. The Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (N de M) dominates the
railway sector, carrying about 80 percent of the total tonnage over about 71
percent of the network; it serves most of the country and includes the whole
trunk network, except for an important traffic line along the Pacific Coast.
This line is run by Ferrocarriles del Pacifico, the next largest railway, with
about 10 percent of the total tonnage. N de M and Ferrocarriles del Pacifico
are autonomous government agencies under the authority of the same General
Manager; their Boards of Directors represent various Ministries, the Chamber
of Commerce and the Union of Railway Workers. The three other railways
(Chihuahua-Pacifico, Sonora-Baja California, and Unidos del Sureste) are
operated as a Directorate of the Ministry of Communications and Transport
(SCT). They are essentially branch lines feeding into the N de M and del
Pacifico grid. Few additional railway lines will be constructed over the next
few years; the most important one, a 200 km line from Corondiro to las Truchas
to be operated by N de M, will connect the new steel mills at Lazaro Cardenas
on the Pacific Coast (which the Bank helped finance) to the central industrial
region in late 1979. The Government has recently announced its decision to
progressively consolidate all railway operations in N de M.
28.       Under the Bank's Second and Third Railway Projects with N de M,
there has been a distinct improvement in the level of service offered to users,
and productivity of equipment and manpower has increased markedly. Over the
last three years some effort has been made by N de M to rationalize uneconomic
services, particularly passenger services--which account for a small part of
the railways' business yet generate a disproportionate share of the deficit--
and low density branch lines. The priorities of the sector are the continued
improvement in operating performance, the modernization of equipment and



- 10 -
upgrading of the track to carry larger volumes of traffic, and a reduction of
N de M's large deficit (US$220 million equivalent in 1977). These priorities
are reflected in the Bank's Third Railway Project (FY76).
(iii) Aviation
29.       Mexico's air transport has reached a relatively advanced stage,
reflecting the dispersion of the country's economic activities, and the
Government's policy of encouraging the development of growth poles away
from the main urban centers. Mexico and the U.S. have recently signed a new
bilateral air transport agreement which provides for new or expanded scheduled
service from 33 US cities to one or more of 21 Mexican destinations. Mexico
has more than 1,200 airports and landing strips, over 200 of which are owned
and operated by Federal Government agencies. There are 24 airports capable of
receiving jets. The hub of the system is at Mexico City which accounts for
over 40 percent of commercial traffic. Air transport is the fastest growing
mode of passenger traffic; the number of commercial passengers more than
doubled since 1973, reaching over 9 million in 1978. The two most important
Mexican airlines account for about one third of international traffic and
95 percent of domestic traffic. Priorities are: expansion of the Mexico
City airport system, sound development of the regional airport network,
continued strengthening of planning and coordination, and a better financial
standing of the public enterprises involved in the aviation sector. On this
last priority, there has been a marked financial improvement of Aeromexico,
the public sector airline, over the last year.
(iv) Ports
30.       The United States is Mexico's most important trade partner
(accounting for over 60 percent of exports and imports). Much of the foreign
trade traffic with the US is shipped overland and the ports sector plays
a relatively minor role. However, port traffic has increased in recent
years because of the growth of coastal shipments of crude oil and of dry bulk
foreign trade. Foreign trade traffic--both general cargo and dry bulk--is
expected to continue to grow as foreign trade plays an increasingly important
role in Mexico's development strategy. Along its 10,000 km of coastline on
the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific Ocean, Mexico has 39 ports in operation.
The bulk of port activity is concentrated in 12 ports, 4 on the Gulf Coast and
8 on the Pacific Coast, accounting for more than three-quarters of both
foreign trade and coastal shipments. The foreign trade traffic is heavily
concentrated in the Gulf of Mexico ports, particularly Veracruz, Coatzacoalcos
and Tampico because of their superior location with respect to major inland
origin and destination areas. Container technology is progressively being
introduced, albeit on a small scale and a continued effort in this direction
over the next few years is expected. The establishment of major new industrial
ports as an expansion of, or an addition to, the existing facilities at Lazaro
Cardenas, Salina Cruz, Coatzacoalcos and Tampico is also under study.
(v) PEMEX Traffic
31.       Petroleos Mexicanos (PEMEX), the state oil monopoly, is the only
significant user and operator of pipeline facilities to transport oil, gas



- 11 -
and petro-chemical products. PEMEX now operates some 14,000 km of pipelines.
With production in the southern oil fields increasing rapidly, this network is
being expanded, and about 7,000 km of pipeline are at the design or construc-
tion stage. Although PEMEX transport operations are specialized and managed
independently, movements of its commodities not handled by pipeline have important
implications in the use of rail, highway, and port facilities.
Sector Policies and Issues
32.       The framework for transport coordination and sector policy making
is complex. The Ministry of Communications and Transport (SCT) is in charge
of general transport planning and supervises the operations of all modes of
transport by controlling licenses, tariffs and other operational parameters;
it plays an active role in ports and in the operation of the airport system.
The Ministry of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) has traditionally
taken the lead in the programming of airport and federal highway investments
which it also executes. It has a strong and capable works supervision and
maintenance organization and also provides decentralized technical and admin-
istrative support to state and local authorities from its regional centers.
33.       Besides SCT and SAHOP, there are numerous public enterprises respon-
sible for the operation of modal services, and a number of coordinating com-
missions. In 1973, a transport sector coordinating commission was created in
the Ministry of the Presidency (now the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting -
SPP) to facilitate investment planning for infrastructure as well as equipment
in the transport field. Also in 1973, SCT's planning capability was substan-
tially strengthened by the creation of an ad-hoc Directorate. In recent years,
the Government's desire to improve the management of the transport system was
also reflected in the shift of port operations and planning from the Ministry
of the Navy to SCT, the unification of railway freight rates, and the consoli-
dation of the railway companies.
34.       As indicated earlier (para. 23), regional development policies have
assumed more prominence in the recent past. SAHOP (which authored the
Government's National Urban Development Plan) and SCT are aware of the need
to carefully scrutinize investment proposals for consistency with the Plan.
35.       With five major transport modes serving the Mexican economy and
elements of each operating under the public and private sector, there are a
number of important intermodal issues of concern to transport planners. The
most important are the ones indicated below, which will be periodically
reviewed in the course of implementation of the proposed loan.
36.       Road Transport Regulations:  Regulations applied to public service
trucking by SCT are embodied in a complex system of transport licenses, based
on commodity restrictions, geographical operating rights and fixed public
tariffs. This system is not flexible enough to take into account a number
of important operating factors and it is apparent that the competitiveness
and efficiency of public service trucking owes little to this system. Since
1971, SCT has been encouraging the formation of larger trucking firms and has
been active in establishing state and route committees including local users



- 12 -
and operators for easier implementation of regulations. This policy has
merits: for example, larger firms are more likely to obtain commercial
financing; industry operation of jointly owned terminals would be easier to
organize; and the development of large-scale intermodal cargo (containers,
piggyback) would be facilitated. On the other hand, these policies may
encourage non-competitive practices if the number of transport licenses is
held too low by SCT and, in the absence of economies of scale, the formation
of larger firms will not reduce trucking costs.
37.       Truck axle loads:  Conventional attempts by SCT to control truck
axle loads have not been successful because of the trucking industry's mis-
givings and its reluctance to cooperate with strict control programs when the
extent of truck overloading (typically a small portion of truck traffic causes
the bulk of road damage) was not well perceived, much less identified.
However, there seems to be a growing consensus that weight controls will
benefit the industry as a whole and SCT is now attempting, in a first step, to
determine the extent of violations by using dynamic weight scales that do not
require stopping the trucks.
38.       Road user charges:  Fuel taxes paid by gasoline driven vehicles
alone have exceeded in recent years 90 percent of the annual construction
and maintenance costs of the entire federal, state and local networks; a large
portion of this revenue is generated by automobiles in major, congested urban
areas and can be viewed as an incentive towards deconcentration of economic
activities. On the other hand, until recently, trucks have contributed very
little for the use of the highway system. This cross-subsidy to trucking from
gasoline users was partially remedied recently when gasoline powered public
service vehicles were made subject to large gasoline taxes.
39.       Road and rail competition and intermodal movement of cargo:  While
truckers receive a subsidy through the low price of diesel fuel, railways
receive a subsidy in the form of government support of their annual deficit.
While there is a clear tendency to purchase more transport services, both rail
and road, than would be otherwise the case, no serious intermodal distortions
of traffic have occurred, and users have long since adjusted to modal choices
based on a combination of service levels and tariffs. The introduction of
"piggyback" services by the railways has sharpened intermodal competition for
high value traffic. The possibility of introducing "piggyback" service
between Central America and the U.S. through Mexico has heightened the need
for appropriate international agreements in this area.
Past Bank Operations in the Highway Sector
40.       Over a period of 14 years, since 1964, the Bank has made seven high-
way loans to Mexico for a total of US$267 million equivalent (IBRD Map 13977R).
Out of a total primary network of some 43,000 km, the Bank has assisted, or is
assisting, in the improvement or construction of about 14,000 km. In the
course of this long association, the Ministry of Public Works (now the Ministry
of Human Settlements and Public Works--SAHOP) has achieved considerable
progress in all aspects of highway planning, evaluation and execution and the
quality of the works executed under past Bank projects has been satisfactory.



- 13 -
All projects have been completed except for the latest one (Seventh Highway
Project--Loan 968-ME of March 1, 1974). The format of past projects was
focused on a specified group of subprojects to be completed over a four-to
five-year period. This format has not always provided sufficient flexi-
bility in the pace of execution in times of rapid inflation and fiscal restraint
and this in turn ias led to slow disbursements and sometimes curtailment of
project scope. Thus, over the period 1975-1977, highway budget allocations
for the latest two projects were cut in real terms to keep the public sector
deficit under control while costs increased sharply due to the rapid inflation.
The roads under the two projects remained well justified as benefits kept pace
with costs but implementation was delayed and the scope of the latest project
had to be reduced in 1977 from 16 to 11 road sections (including one section
reduced by half). About half of the remaining works have now been completed
and their full implementation is expected in early 1981.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
41.       The Government of Mexico has requested a Bank loan of US$120 million
to help finance SAHOP's highway infrastructure program over the period 1979-82.
The project was identified in April 1977, and subsequently prepared by SAHOP.
It was appraised in July/August 1978 and negotiations were held in Washington
on February 12-15, 1979. The Mexican negotiating team was headed by
Messrs. Luis R. Garcia (BANOBRAS) and Daniel Diaz Diaz (SAHOP). A Staff
Appraisal Report entitled "Highway Sector Project," No. 2281b-ME, dated
March 7, 1979 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Supplementary Project Data are appended in Annex III.
42.       During preparation and appraisal, it became apparent that:
(a) Highway infrastructure in Mexico is in the hands of mature and
well developed institutions, although improved coordination is
still needed between multi-year sector planning and central
programming and budgeting. The resource allocation process
ensures the participation of states and municipalities and provides
both continuity and flexibility. Appraisal criteria and procure-
ment procedures used by SAHOP are appropriate;
(b) Under budgetary constraints, the Government's highway infra-
structUre program needs to shift its priorities towards more
incremental, high yielding projects supporting the most pressing
development needs (paras. 45-46); and
(c) Past highway loans have lacked flexibility and suffered from
slow disbursements (para. 40).



- 14 -
For these reasons, the proposed operation has been designed to support the
highway sector as a whole. The Bank would finance high priority components of
SAHOP's 1979-82 highway program (the "subprojects") that qualify under agreed
criteria. Highway infrastructure and support programs are outlined in
paras. 44-50 and subproject review procedures in para. 53.
Objectives
43.       The loan would pursue the following sector objectives:
(a) to help SAHOP shift emphasis from new road construction to
reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance;
(b) to support research aimed at assessing the regional impact of
highway investments;
(c) to improve coordination between annual budget reviews and longer
range sector investment strategies; and
(d) to help SCT promote rational policies affecting vehicles
using the highway system.
The 1979-82 Highway Infrastructure Program
44.       Over the next few years, the country's highway requirements will
have to be met under relatively stringent budgetary constraints because of
the allocation of a substantial portion of public resources to the agriculture
and energy sectors. The relative scarcity of resources will call for careful
planning and for selective design, relying on limited improvements of existing
roads. Taking this into account, SAHOP, in coordination with SPP and the
Bank, has progressed towards producing a feasible highway program with key
priorities explained below. This program would be updated every year in
consultation with the Bank (para. 54).
(i) Modernization and Improvement of the Primary Network
45.       Some 10,000 km of the 43,000 km primary network carry vehicle flows
in excess of 3,000 per day; practically all the heavily used links (about
14,000 km) were built more than 20 years ago. In this context, the bulk
of future expenditures on primary roads is determined by maintenance and
construction on existing routes rather than by construction of new routes.
Subprojects to be initiated during 1979-82 would involve mostly:
(a) modernization of existing routes, which implies both structural
strengthening (by overlay), and rehabilitation and partial
reconstruction;
(b) limited expansion of capacity at congested sections through
construction of extra lanes; and
(c) urban bypasses to alleviate urban congestion and separate
through traffic from local traffic.



- 15 -
46.       The emphasis on incremental improvement implies adaptation in
project planning and design methods, calling for more attention to identify
local inadequacies (stretches of deteriorated pavement, and congestion points).
Considerable progress has already been made during preparation and appraisal
of the proposed loan in adjusting to the new type of project. SAHOP has now
completed the first phase of a study to determine a comprehensive moderniza-
tion program. The second phase of this study, which would help select the
highest priority subprojects after 1980, would be completed by December 31,
1980 by SAHOP with the assistance of consultants financed under the loan; the
Bank would be given a reasonable opportunity to comment on the draft recommen-
dations (Section 3.03(b), draft Guarantee Agreement).
(ii) Maintenance
47.       For the reasons outlined in para. 45 above, maintenance is also a
key priority.   Maintenance expenditures are expected to increase adequately
over the next few years, absorbing about 27 percent of SAHOP's budget.
Because of budgetary constraints in recent years, renewal of maintenance
equipment was at times held below prudent levels. However, SAHOP has now
undertaken a satisfactory equipment purchasing program.
(iii) Support Programs
48.       Sufficient budgetary provisions will be made by the Government to
support state, local and rural roads programs at reasonable levels. These
programs represent an estimated 41 percent of national road construction and
maintenance expenditures over the 1977-82 period, which is considered adequate.
On its part, SAHOP will expand facilities in its state level centers (so-called
"Centros SAHOP") to adequately support state and local authorities to whom
certain regional highway investments and maintenance programs (such as feeder
roads construction and maintenance) are being transferred, and to continue to
assure consistency of standards in state and local roads. In parallel, SAHOP
will undertake to build, or improve, a limited number of state roads for the
benefit of certain states that either do not have sufficient resources (e.g.
Oaxaca) or must undertake highway rehabilitation programs which are beyond
their capability because of rapid traffic growth (e.g. Tabasco and Chiapas
because of rapid expansion of petroleum and petrochemicals production).
This is the so-called "carreteras federales alimentadoras" (federal feeder
roads) program.
(iv) Other Priorities
49.       The careful planning of highway programs and the selection of the
highest yielding investments, as apparent above, should enable the highway
network to meet demand adequately until about 1982 without excessive congestion.
Beyond that time, public support for road infrastructure will have to be in-
creased substantially. Consultants' studies would be carried out under the
project to analyze long term perspectives for road transport and outline future
infrastructure requirements under various scenarios concerning motorization
rates, economic growth, and spatial distribution of economic activities.
50.       To better assess its investment programs in the context of the
National Urban Development Plan (para 23), SAHOP will study the regional
development impact of road investments. This will help SAHOP to adapt a



- 16 -
network, which for historical reasons has been centered on Mexico City, and
to support the development of the new growth poles identified in the National
Urban Development Plan issued in May 1978. The study would be completed by
December 31, 1980 and the Bank will be given a reasonable opportunity to
comment on the draft final report (Section 3.03(b), draft Guarantee Agreement).
Costs and Financing
51.       The table below summarizes estimated SAHOP highway investment
expenditures for the period 1979-1982. In addition to these expenditures, some
US$780 million has been programmed over the same period for design, supervision
and management of federal programs and of support programs under the responsi-
bility of SAHOP (a substantial part of this overhead is attributable to SAHOP's
activities outside of the highway sector, e.g. construction and maintenance of
government buildings, airports or regional parks). Maintenance (excluding
purchases of maintenance equipment) will account for some US$560 million of
additional expenditures.
SAHOP Highway Investments (1979-1982)
Local  Foreign   Total
--- (Million of US$)---
Federal Roads                                      411      336      747
Purchases of Maintenance Equipment                  23       75       98
Urban Bypasses                                      24       20       44
SAHOP Centers                                       11       10       21
State and Rural Roads /t                           111      89       200
Total                                        580      530    1,110
/1   Includes only roads under SAHOP responsibility and support programs
mentioned in para. 48 above. Excludes works undertaken by state and
local authorities with SAHOP's technical assistance.
52.       The Bank would finance under the proposed loan:
(i)  the construction, rehabilitation and expansion of selected
federal and state highways and urban bypasses;
(ii)  the construction of SAHOP regional centers;
(iii)  the purchase of maintenance equipment and vehicles;
(iv) consultants' services.
The amount of the loan has been set at US$120 million. The total cost of
Bank-supported subprojects is estimated to be US$230 million. The proposed
Bank loan would be equivalent to the foreign exchange cost of these elements,
and the balance would be financed by the Government. The proposed loan would



- 17 -
finance about 11 percent of the estimated cost of SAHOP's highway investment
programs over the 1979-82 period. Taking into account the Seventh Highway
Loan, the Bank would contribute about 16 percent of the estimated financial
requirements of SAHOP's highway investment programs. It is estimated that
some 600 man-months of consultant services (at US$7,000 equivalent per man-
month) will be rtquired to carry out the studies financed by the Bank.
Project Execution and Administration
53.       The project will be executed by SAHOP, which is well staffed with
experienced personnel and has proven its ability under past Bank loans.
Appraisal procedures of SAHOP are satisfactory. SAHOP will prepare and submit
to the Bank for its review all subprojects to be financed under the loan. Road
construction or improvement subprojects, in addition to being in conformity
with agreed design standards, would have a minimum economic rate or return of
12 percent (Section 3.04, draft Guarantee Agreement). Equipment purchases would
be supported by renewalneed studies acceptable to the Bank; the studies would
include an analysis of capacity requirements and of equipment availability
(Section 3.05(a)(ii)), draft Guarantee Agreement). Subprojects involving SAHOP
centers would be supported by an analysis of functional requirement, justification
of location and general layout (Section 3.05(a)(iii), draft Guarantee Agreement).
To simplify loan administration, SAHOP Centers and highway subprojects resulting
in average annual expenditures of less than Mex$10 million (about US$450,000
equivalent) excluding the year of lowest expenditures, would not be financed under
the proposed loan; a similar limit of Mex$5 million will be applied to maintenance
equipment purchases (para. 4, Schedule 1, draft Loan Agreement).
54.       SAHOP would update every year its rolling four-year programs for
acquisition and operation of maintenance equipment and for highway construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.06,
draft Guarantee Agreement). In addition, the Government and the Bank would
continue to exchange views to assess prospects and progress in areas concerning
road transport policies and outlined in paras. 35-39 above (Section 3.06, draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
55.       Civil works and equipment eligible for financing under the proposed
loan will be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines (Schedule 2, draft Guarantee Agreement). Civil works
contractors would be subject to prequalification. Mexican equipment suppliers
will receive a preference of 15 percent on CIF prices or the prevailing custom
duty, whichever 'is lower. In view of the advanced stage of development
reached by the local contracting industry, foreign contractors are not expected
to be the lowest bidders for civil works; foreign suppliers are likely to be
awarded all contracts for heavy equipment, such as bulldozers, rollers and
motor graders. The terms of reference, qualification and experience of the
consultants and their terms and conditions of employment would be approved by
the Bank (Section 3.03(a), draft Guarantee Agreement).
56.       The Bank's contribution to civil works would be based on the foreign
exchange component estimated at 45 percent. The 45 percent contribution would



- 18 -
be achieved by disbursing 47 percent of all payments to contractors except the
repayment of the 5 percent retention money withheld from contractors during
the guarantee period following the completion of the works. The loan will
cover the CIF cost of imported equipment or 100 percent of the ex-factory
costs of locally produced equipment awarded under international competitive
bidding. As for studies, the foreign exchange component is likely to vary
substantially depending on whether local or foreign firms (with or without
association or subcontracting with local firms) will be hired. It is proposed
to disburse 47 percent of total expenditures; this percentage would broadly
correspond to the foreign exchange component of the studies.
57.       SAHOP has already submitted to the Bank 22 highway construction
subprojects, which are now being reviewed. It is estimated that US$35 million
of Bank funds would be disbursed by the end of 1980. The loan is expected to
be fully disbursed by December 31, 1983.
Project Justification
58.       The predominant role played and expected to be played by the road
transport in the development of Mexico is the basic justification for con-
tinuing Bank support of the highway sector. The realization of Mexico's
development objectives over the next decade will depend, inter alia, on the
continued availability of reliable and efficient road transport. The project
would help implement an effective highway program that takes into account the
financial constraints imposed on SAHOP and gives special emphasis to the
maintenance and improvement of existing roads. Because of the Government's
policy of spatial development and decentralization, road development will
continue to play a major role in the integration of remote and underdeveloped
regions.
59.       Benefits from federal highway expenditures accrue to the economy at
large in the form of savings in, or avoided increases of, vehicle operating
costs, and time savings are also important benefits. Stepped-up maintenance
and timely pavement strengthening will result in savings in future reconstruc-
tion requirements. The direct impact of SAHOP programs will be felt first by
the road transport industry and by users of private automobiles.
60.       Savings on the operations of not-for-hire freight vehicles would
directly reduce production costs. Savings by for-hire trucks and buses would,
in the long run, be passed on to the rest of the economy. Small truck operators
who generally operate with a smaller margin would benefit directly, as would
bus riders who are generally not affluent. The relatively affluent auto users
are important beneficiaries from federal road programs; however, commercial
intercity traffic in Mexico plays a determinant role in the highway sector,
and the overall level of road user charges indicates that major direct
beneficiaries pay a large proportion of the cost of road investments and
maintenance.
61.       The trucking industry and the road construction industry are major
employers of semi-skilled and unskilled labor. Indirectly, economic growth
supported by a well-designed and maintained highway network will generate
employment opportunities in Mexico. The information necessary to approach the



- 19 -
subject of benefit distribution in terms other than the general considerations
made above is not available, but these considerations suggest that benefits
from investments in the highway sector are broadly distributed.
Project Risks
62.       Past experience on the economic performance of Bank-financed highway
projects as well as the current orientation of SAHOP's program toward incre-
mental projects which yield high returns, suggests that there is no undue risk
affecting the economic soundness of subprojects: the rates of return for the
22 subprojects already submitted by SAHOP for Bank consideration are above 14
percent and most of them are in the range of 21-69 percent.
63.       SAROP's estimated budget projections have been carefully prepared
and are conservative; it is highly improbable, given the economic outlook of
Mexico, that actual expenditures would be below these estimates. The amount
of the loan has been set prudently and there is no serious risk that SAHOP's
program would not provide a sufficient basis to commit and disburse the loan
as scheduled. The wide range of subprojects and the flexibility afforded in
the commitment of loan funds would prevent a situation wherein the loan would
be tied to a relatively small number of large subprojects stretching over an
extended implementation period.
64.       One area of uncertainty concerns the transport policy objectives of
the loan under the jurisdiction of SCT. The possibility to affect improve-
ments through scheduled consultations would depend on the opening of a full
dialogue with SCT to review the implications of its policies, in particular
with respect to the regulation of the trucking industry. The relative modesty
of the objectives set in this area reflects the intricacy of the related
issues on which there would be continuing close consultations (Section 3.06,
draft Guarantee Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
March 7, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 1 [D'
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS '(ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MEXICO                                                    /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1972.5                                                     SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      950.0                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   360.0        660.0    1110.0            1066.7      867.2       1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       770.0      1047.0    1221.0             911.1       578.3       1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAI POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(Mll.LIONS)                         36.0        50.4       64.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.7           58.7      63.3              57.9       46.2         52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         18.0         26.0      33.0             25.6        50.8         27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       36.0         52.0      68.0             77.6        93.3        116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           45.8         46.2      46.3             42.0        42.9         34.8
15-64 YRS.                           50.9        50.1       50.3             52.2        53.5         56.0
b5 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.3          3.7        3.4             3.7         3.5          5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.1          3.4        3.5             2.7         2.5          1.6
URBAN                                4.9          4.8        5.1             4.3         4.7          3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.1         43.8      42.0              35.8       37.8         27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       14.0         10.2       8.6               9.1       10.8          9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2          3.1        3.0              2.6         2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..         25.1     608.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..      13.1              15.1       20.0         19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970=100)               87.5        100.0      99.1            102.1       107.3        103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    107.0       105.0      117.0            103.9       105.3        110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            65.0         65.0      66.9             60.3        63.0         77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0         28.0 /f   27.5             26.7        21.7         22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       12.7          9.8       8.4               8.7        8.0          1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.3           62.4      64.7             62.6        57.2         63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             74.0         68.5      52.0             56.9        53.9         38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        54.0       62.0             60.7        56.8         67.7
URBAN                                 ..        71.0       70.0             78.0        79.0         83.5
RURAL                                 ..        29.0       49.0             34.9        31.8         41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..         ..             61.1        30.9         70.3
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..             80.3        45.4         90.7
RURAL                                 *-         13.0      14.0             25.4        16.1         38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1800.0       1480.0        .-           1899.3      2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2830.0 /g   1620.0 /h      ..           1220.1      1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1900.0       960.0      830.0            422.3       493.9       275.4
URBAN                                 ..        780.0        *-            258.2       229.6        129.9
RURAL                                 ..      1310.0 /i      ..           2281.6      2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..         ..            25.6        22.1         18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4         5.7         ..              5.2         5.2          3.9
URBAN                                5.7          5.7        ..               ..         5.0
RURAL                                5.2          5.8        ..               ..         5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.9          2.5        ..              2.0         2.0         0.9
URBAN                                2.6          2.2        ..              2.1         1.5          0.8
RURAL                                3.4          3.2        ..              2.7         2.7          1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..        59.0         ..             51.2        64.1        59.2
URBAN                                 ..        80.7         ..             77.3        67.8        78.0
RURAL                                 ..        28.0         ..             12.8        34.1        12.5



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MEXICO                                                   /a
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION Xc   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  80.0        10740     112.0             103.5       99.8         97.6
FEMALE                77.0        102.0      109.0            102.9        93.3        87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         22.0      30.0              37.2       33.8         47.8
FEMALE                 8.0         17.0       29.0             37.9        29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0           24.0        ,.              14.7       12.8         22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             44.0         46.0      46.0              32.8        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                           13.0         14.0       17.0             17.8       22.2         24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         62.0         74.0       76.0             74.9        71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          14.0         24.0      40.0              26.9       12.4         32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                          95.0        276.0     301.0             173.5      104.5        201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          19.0         59.0      84.0              69.4       28.1         97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   79.0           ..         ..             72.8        45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0            5.0        4.1              4.3         4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    11300.0        13000.0   16600.0
PERALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         17.4      18.5              21.4       25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               54.0         45.0      41.0              37.8       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.5        22.9       24.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.2         28.8       28.8             30.8        33.8         33.7
MALE                                  51.1         47.4       46.8             47.2        48.1         50.8
FEMALE                                 9.2         10.1       10.7             13.2        17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          2.0        1.8              1.7         1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.7 /h        27.9         ..             28.9        23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEdOLDS  58.8 /h        58.3        ..              57.7       52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.5 /h         3.4        ..               3.2        4.3           3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.3 /h        10.5        ..              10.7       13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..             251.9       191.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..     350.0             200.6       193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     484.0             403.1       319.8       448.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..     345.0             258.0       197.7       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       29.0             24.8        19.8         23.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..       40.0             65.2        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Latin America & Caribbean; /d Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /e Upper
Kiddle Income (91136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  Av. 1964-66;  /j  Including midwifery and nursing
auxilliaries;   /h  1963;   /i  Data refer to rural health centers only.
September, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONI  OF iiCIAL INDICATORS
Notes   Although the data are drawn from sources generally judged the most authoritative and reliable, it should  lso be noted that they may not be inter-
nationally  ceparable because of the lack of stendardieed definitions and concepta usd by different countri*s in co-lcting the data.  The data  ra. no-ethele.
.eeful to deecribe orders of magnitude, indicate trends, and tharecterite certain major differences between countries.
The adiusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geo tric means, excluding the entreme valnee of the indicator nd the mont
populated coontry in each group.  Coverage of countries  mong the indicators depends on  -veilability of date and in cot uniforn   Due to lack of data.
group averages for Capitel Surplun Oil Exporters and indic.tore of access to water and eacreto disposal, housing, incore distribution end poverty or
simple populntion-weighted geometric means without the extluiion of extreme valua.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kr)                                                           Population per hospital bed - total  urban, end  reral - Population (total,
Total - Total nurface area coxprising land area and inland waters.                     urban, end rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent eatimate of egriculturel erma used teparerily               aveileble in public  nd private general nd apecialised hospitcl and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market snd kitchen gardens or to                 habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                          at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
ctre are nor included. Rural hospitale, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capite estimates at current market prices,              ctl centers not pernently ataffed by a physician (but by a medical an-
culculated by same conversio- method as World Bank Atlas (1976-77 basis);            eistent, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                           provide a limited renge of medical facilities.
Admisions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
gNERGY CONSHPTIOl PIH CA;PIT  - Ansl co.nsuption of coenrctial energy                   from hospitals divided by the nhber of beds.
(coal end lignite, petroleum, natural gam and hydro-. nuclear end geo-
therl electricity) in kilogrems of coal equivelent per capita.                   HOUSING
Average sine of household (persona nor household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AID VITAL STATIiTICS                                                         A hou ehold consists of a group of individuals who  hare living quarters
Tota  pouation  aid-ar (milliasa) - An of July 1; if not available,.n   hi   anmas        ore   rlde   a   cmynth  nlddi
average of two end-year etimetee; 1960, 1970, end 1977 date,                         the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitios- of hosse-
Urben populatian (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                  hold vary.
tion; different definition  of urbsn ersas my effect comparability                 Average number of persons per room - tutal. urban, and rural - Average num-
of data _sng countrIes                                                               ber of persona per roon in all. urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                     dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  s4. km. - Mid-year population per squats kilometer (100 hectaree)                unoccupied parts.
of total ere.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per eq. km. agriculture land - Computed ae sbove for agricultural lend                Conventional dwellings with electricity in living querters as percentage
only.                                                                                of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (parcent) - Cbildren (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and ovir) as percentages of mid-           EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                Primary school - total, and female - Total and femal. enrollment of all age
groth rates of total and urban  id-year pepulations for 1950-60,                     at the primacy level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                   different lengths of primary education; for countries with univarn..  edu-
mid-year population; tan-year arithmetic averages eding in 1960 end                  cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below ur
1970 and five-year averag  ending in 1975 for met recent  stimatte                  bsove the official school ago.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                 Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary aduca-
yer popul-tion; ten-year arithmetic everege anding in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and fiv--ye-r  v-resge eading in 1975 for met recent estimate.                       vides geoc.rl vccational, or teacher training inetructi.n.  fur pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average nurbar of daughters a woman vill bear                usually of 12 to 17 peers of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal oeproductive period if she aeperiances present age-                    excluded.
specific fertility rates, usually five-year averages   ding in 1960,              Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970. and 1975.                                                                      clude technical, industrial, or Other prograems vhich oper-te independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousende) - Annual nusber of                     or as departments of secondary institutions.
ecceptore of birth-centrol devisee under  uspices of nation-al foily              Pupil-teacher ratio - prsiary. and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                    primary and secondary levels divided by numbera of teachers in the .cm-
Family planning - users (percent of married w )  - Percentag  of                       sponding levels.
mrried women of child-bearing age (15-44 yars) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all mrried woman in Same sge group                                        a percentage of total adult populution aged 15 years and over.
FO0D AND NUITRITION                                                                 CO_NSUiPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Ind   number of per                Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger curs conprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food to_oditiee,                                   seating lens than eight persons; excludes ambulanoes, hearses and =ilitary
Per capita supply of calanien (percent of requirements) - Computed from              vehicles.
energy equivalent of not food supplies available in country par capita            Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.   vail-ble supplies toaprias domestic production, imports less            broadcnata tn general public per thoussnd of population; excludes anlicensed
exports, snd changes in stock. Net supplies aclude animl feed, seeds,              receivers incauntrire  and in years when csioccatinn of radio sets ws in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-               effect; date far recent years may not be comparable since mast countries
quirme.nts were estimted by FAO based an physiological neads for nor-              abolished licensing.
cal activity and health conidering eaviroometal tmperature. body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV ceceivers for broadcast to generil
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-               public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                   tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of orotein (cram  per day) - Protein content of per               Newpappec circulanion (per thousend popul3tion) - Shous te average circuls-
capita net supply of food per dy.  Net supply of food is defined es                  tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above. Requirements for all cnumtries established by USDA provide for                catitn devoted primarily to recording general nes.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grms of total protein per day and 20 groma                 be "daily" if it appears at least four tines a  eek.
of animal nd pulse protein, of which 10 graem  should be  niml protein.           Cinema annual attendance par capita per year - Based on the nuber of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grme of total protein and                 sold during the yeat, including admissions to drive-in cinonas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                  units.
FAO in the Third World Pood Survey.
Per cpitan protein suPoly from animl and pulas - Protein supply of food            EMFLOYMENT
derived from animls and pulses in grate per day.                                  Total labor force (thousands) - Econonically action persons, including armed
Child (aes 1-4)  ortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-               forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  DeFni-
and in age group 1-4 ypers, to children in this age group.                           tions in various co-ntrien are not comparable.
Fe-ale (percent) - Fenule labor force mu percentage of toct1 labor forc.
hEALTh                                                                               Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and finhbng
Life empectancy at birth (years) - Average number of yeers of life                     as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually fire-year everages  nding in 1960, 1970,              Industry (percent) - Labor force in  ining,  onstruction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                            electricity, water and gas as percentage of total laboc forre
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under               Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, ..I., and
one ysar of age per thousand live birbte.                                            female labor force as percentages of their respective ?opulations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urb-, and rural -                These ure ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting age-sen
Number of people (total, urb-n,  nd rural) with reasonable access to                 atructurn of tho popuiation,  nd long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untr.eeed but               Eronomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 1S and 65 ond over tc
unoontaminated wpter such as that from protected boreholee, springs,                 the labor force in age group of 15-64 yours.
and sanitary o11) ae percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban sr" e public fountain or standpost located not sore                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters fru. a house my be considered  as being within rte-               Percentage of private Income (both in cash and kind) received by richest S
nonabla arcees of that house,  In nurel areas reasonable access would                percent.  ichest 20 percent. poorest 20 percent.  nd po-rest 40 porcoot
imply that the housewife or mbers of the household do not have to                    of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the fmily's
water needs.                                                                     POVERTY ThRETI_GROUPS
Acceass to eacreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban,                                               i-u                                    cnd rura1 -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                    Absolute poverty income Ieve  is that  ocoma level below  hich a  inima1
disposal as percentages of their respective population.  Excreta                      nutritionlIly adeqnate diet plas essentia1 non-food require-ents in .ci
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with on without                     affordable.
treatment, of human eucreta and waste-water by water-borne systese                Estimated relatice poverty income level (US5 per capita) - urban and rura1 -
or the  -so of pit privies and similar installations.                                 Relative poverty income level is that income levo   loss than one-third
Popul.t_c-n_Fer physician - Population divided by mumber of practicing                  per capita Perso.a.  income of tin country.
phys  X sns qualified from a medical school at university level.                   Itimated population below coverty income local (corcoot) - urbun ard rural -
PopulatIon Per nursing Person - Population divided by number of                         Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either 'abspuie poor" or
practicing male and female gredoete nurses, prenticnl nurse, snd                      "relatice poor" whichaver is sreoter.
asoistantonurses.
rE.conicr Jd Soc-ial Dr- Ducisvon
Econosic Analysis and Projectcons Depatment



ANNEX I
MEXICO - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET                                                                   Pa       of 5
Preliminay
Actual                                 Estimae                  Prajecred            Ornth Rate.                       As .  o f GIST
1965           1970          1975          1976         1977           1978          1982         1966170  1971/75  1976/87         1965         1979        1982
NATIONAL ACCOUINTS                                                            Cons.tant 1972 Price., 92$ MillEons
Cross DE...stin Product                        26,603.2      36,978.6      46,556.9    49,283.5        50,700.5      54,375.0      75,948.5           6.6      5.6       6.6         99.96        99.1       95.9
Gains from Term  of Trnde                            6.0          88.1         689.5         554.4         456.3         734.8      3,223.6          61.6     51.3      24.9          0.54         5.9        4,1
Gros  Do-etic Incom                            26,611.2      37,066.7    49,187.4        49,797.9      51,156.8      55,110.0       79,172 .1         6.9      5.8        7.0       100.11       100.0      100.9
Imports (inninding NFSI                         2,754.0       3,850.6       5,884.2       4,843.5       4,203.0       5,693.2    N 9,79.7             6.9      8.8       7.6         1.            15        1.
Eupnrts (Import o-p-ity5                        2,489.9       3,090.2       4,E47.0       4,850.9       4,107.0       5,421.0      10,147.7           4.4      6.1      13.6          9.9          8.1       12.8
R.snur.  Ca Gp                                     264.2         760.6      1,737.2         792.6           96.0        272.2       - 349.0         23.6    18.9         -            0,5          3.4       ,0.,4
Consum ptIon                                   22,354.1      39,662.1      40,397.1      40,643,3      42,070.3      44,130.8      61,643.1           6.6      5.7       6.2         81.7         80.9       77.8
Invetment                                       4.571,3       7,165.2      10, 527.6      9,935.2       9,182.6      11,251.3      17,180.1          9.4       8.0       7.2        1M9          22.5        71.1
Gross. Domestic Savings                          4,872.0      6,404.6       8,790.5       9,142.6       9,586.5      10,979.2      17,529.1           5.6      6.9      10.4         19.3         19.1       22.1
Gros .. sNtiun..l Savings                        4,520.0      6,100.4       8,005.8       8,205.9       8,181.9       9,827.2      16,530.9           6.2      5.6      10.9         17.0         16.9       20.9
TPADE IN GOODS AND NFS                                                            Cnrreut Prc S,$3 Millions                                                                                         fT..
IMPORTS,TOTAL                                       2,073.2       3,416.9       9,636.7      8,241.5        7,582.6      9,825.6      21,822.8          10.5    20.4        14.2       180.0        100.0      100.0
Food                                   ~~~~         ~~~~~       ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~5.9  746  430  TS$  71.5  337.8   502.8         WY     T2 746T¶3.              --"            Ti.        -2.
Petroleu  and Products                              26.2          54.2         291.1        279.9          109.1        192.7        -              13.7    40.0         -            1.3          3.4        -
Other Goode                                      1,527.5      2,223.4       5,879.7       5,643.3       5,138.7       6,899.0      i6,708.9           7.8     21.0      16.1         73.2         68.1       76.6
No-Factor Service                                  513.6       1,064.7      2,222.9       2,170.2       2,064.3       2,396.1       4,611.1         15.7      13.7      12.5         24.8         23.4       21.1
EXOT,TOTAL                                     ,9_S4.6       12S,74.        6,081.7      6.770,3       7,45423       9,366.0      22,614.3           6.9     17.2       20.6       111.0        155.0      100.0
Oriented Agricultural Goods -        ~642.4         711.6         91.        1,220.2        1,414.7      1,3~75.       1,861.7           2.        %        10          5.7           57         82
Petroleu    and Products                            4C.1          38.4         460.1         557.0        915.8       1,791.8       9,230.3         -0.9    64.3        55.5          2.0          7.6       40.8
Snlectod Mineral                                   189.7         244.3        457.6         464.3         510.4         558.2       1,008.5          5.2      13.4      12.0          9.7          7.5        4.5
m-anfucturn                                        132.5         326.9       1.069,3      1,190.8       1,3 90.6      1,436.7       3,630.4         19.8      26.8      19.'l         6.7         17.6       16.0
Other Cuod                                         153.9          26.6          63.3          43.8          46.9          52.6          81.1       -29.6      18.9        3.6         7,8          1.1        0.4
_Non-Factor Seri-e                                 906.3       1,392.7       3,077.2       3,294.2       3,175.9       3,951.0       6,802.3         11.6    17.1        12.0        41.0         50.6        30.0
TRAISE INDICES                                                                            A-ergs 72sl00
inp-nt Price lade                                   7 7.7         89.3         169.5         166.4        165.9         199.8         326.6           2.6     13.9       9.8
Impart Price IAnn                                   74.6          85.9         149.8        152.9         160.6         172.7         222.9           2.9     11.8       5.0
Term   of Trade                                    134.2         1022,8        113.2         118.8         103.3         115.7        146.6          -0.5      1.9       3.8
VALUE AIDED BY SECTOR                                                         C-tnist 1972 Princ, 01$ Millines                                                                                A. , af Tetal
Primay                                          3,644.6       4,139.0       4,403.2       4,347.1       4,467.2       4,805.1       9,514.0           2.6      1.6        3.0        19.2         12.7        7.3
S-cod-ry                                        8,139.9      12,416.9      16,948.2      17,428.6      18,120.1      29,521.1      30,264.1           8.8      6.4       8.6         26.4        30.9        39.8
Geri-ry                                        14,818,7      20,422.7      22,079.5      27,907.8      28,108.2      29,048.8      40,170.4           6.6      5.8       5.8         54.4         56.8       52.9
Total (oDP)                                    26,603.2      36,978.6      48,506.9    49,283.0        50,790.5      54,375.0      75,948.9           6.8      5.6       6.6        100.0       100.0       100.0
CONlSOLIDATED PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCES                                                                                                                                                          As.7. af lIDt
Currant R s.eipte                               3,042.0       5,388.0       9,263.0      10,129.9      10,254.5       8,917.5      16,404.9          12.1    1i.4        8.5         11.4        15.0        15.0
Current Eopeediares                             2,329.0       3,853.2       8,345.5       8,837.3       8,571.2       6,579.4      10.632,8          10.6     16.7       3.5          8,8        12.7         9.8
Public Savings                                     713.0      1,534.8         91 7. 7     1,292,6       1,683.3       2,338.!       5,772.1          16.6    -9.8       30.0          2.7         2.3         5.2
Rssoure ..For Invetmen t                           776,3      2,291.6         987.1       1,392,1       1,773,8       2,592.0       5,924,0         23.2   -14.8        29.2         2.9          2.4         7.3
Investment                                      1,741.5       2,279.5       5,234.9       5,103.8       4,375.1       5,220.0       8,202.4           5.5     18.1       6.61.2      6.6          9.1        11.7
Dafinit (net)                                      961.2         664. 9     4,247.4       3,711.7       2,601.3       2,827.0       2,278.4         -7.D      44.6      -8.5        -3.6         -6.7        -4.4
ALLOCATION OP 40011S PUBLIC SECTOR
EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                                                                                 AsGuf lutol
19751         1977       19832
E-ery                                            --                         5,333.1       5,228.8       6,496.6        ---                                     -          -         27.9         29.0          -
Trans.port  and Con-onl-rons--                                              1,739.7       1,744.1       1,738.4        ---                                     -          -8.8                    7.9-
Social h.Iel-r                                   --                         4,194.3       4,626.5       4,597.8        ---                                     -          -         21.3         20.35
1ndnstry                                         --                         1,629.2       D,521.4       1,578.2        ---                                     -          -8.3                    7,0-
Agni-alt-r                                                                  1,964,2       1,469.5       1,623.3        ---                                     -          -         10,0          7.3-
Ce...r-l Administration and Defens..                                        3,269.3       3,811.8       4,910.6        ---                                     -          -         16.6         21.9-
C-essce-                                                                    1,521.7       1,221.9       1,329.9        ---                                     -          -7.7                    5.9-
Touism-                                                                         62.8          64.7          73.7       ---                                     -          -0.3                    0,93
Tatal                                                                      19,717.       1969.         22J,388         ---5                                                        109.9        100.0-
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                                                                                                                                    196          A"17/5"    968
ICOR                                                 2.49          5.66         13.56          7.01         2.50          2.97          2.84         -         -         -3.34                    5.50      3.22
Impart Elasticity                                    0.75          1.29          0.07       -11.05         -4.60          4.89          1.44         -         -         -1.01                    1.57      1.15
Nargisai Savings  uRtio                             -0.16      -0.04                           0.45        -0.02          0.44          0.19         -         -          -0.2                    0.13      0.28
Value Added per lurker (1972 prices)
In  Millio.a    As . of ToEd1           196041970                                       , of Averge
LABOR FORCE All OUTPUT PIER WIOERE                   195       90       1960      19~70 rO         hNt          1960         1970        1960          1970             Greeth Rats
Agricultur                                      5.4       5.1      50.5      39.2           -0.6              608.8       939.0       34.7          33.0                4.4
Industry                                        2.1      3.0       19.6      23.1            3.6           2,468.9    4,154.9        140.6        145.0                 5.3
Or-Ec-                                          13.2     14.9      129.9     37.7            4.4           3,222.8    4,044.8        183.6        142.9                 0.3
Total                                          10.7      13.0     103.0)    170.0            2.0           1,355.6    2 847.6    100.0             100.0                5.0
if  Includes-    gr
-'This 1-  rote of growth in ou-od bya pooh in public  invet-et in 1975.  The pr-jeccd rate fur 1977-82 is about 137,



ANNEX
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual                      Preliminary  Estimates                        Prolections
1970            1975             1976         1977          1978                     1980            1982
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                      2,745.4         6,081.5          6,770.3       7,454.1        9,356.0                17,499.0       22,599.8
Imports (including NFS)                      3,416.9         8,636.6          8,241.5       7,582.7       9,825.6                 15,008.0      21,822.8
Resource Balani7                             - 671.5        -2,555.1         -1,431.2        -128.6         -469.6                 2,491.0          777.0
Interest, net -                              _ 307.0        -1,266.5         -1,572.6      -1,794.8        -823.5                 -1,979.0      -1,879.2
Direct Investment Income                     - 267.5        -  657.5            -715.5       -480.8          231.4                -1,072.1       -1,383.9
Workers' Remittances                            122.7           174.6            193.0        211.3          190.5                   280.0          338.8
Current Transfers, net                           55.3           123.4            153.0         173.2     -2,758.0                    230.5          279.0
Current Account Balance                     -1,068.0        -4,181.2         -3,413.3      -2,019.7          679.7                   -18.9       -1,834.3
Private Direct Investment                       322.8           748.8            588.7        436.5       2,350.0                    875.4        1,098.2
Public Med. and Long Term Debt, net             258.6        3,565.8          4,264.5       3,937.3      (5,985.9)                  -580.4        1,404.8
(Disbursements)                             (821.3)       (4,418.6)        (5,417.9)   (6,232.3)   (-3,635.9)                   (4,170.6)     (5,944.7)
(Repayments)                               (r562.7)        (-852.8)       (-1,153.4)  (-2,295.0)          100.0               (-4,758.5)   (-4,539.9)
Other Capital                                  588.7             31.7         1,1773       -1,883.4       (-200.0)                   200.0         -100.0
(Public Short Term)                         (139.6)         (842.8)          (839.8)      (-950.0)       (300.0)                 (-200.0)      (-200.0)
(Other Capital, n.e,i.)                     (449.1)        (-811.1)       (-2,612.8)      (-933.3)       -371.6                   (400.0)      (-300.0)
Change in Reserves (- = increase)              -102.1          -165.1            333.1       -470.7                                 -476.2         -568.7
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                        843.0         4X304.9          5,628.8      6.123.3
PUBLIC MED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                           146.8           310.0            410.0         162.0          -                         -              -
IDA                                            11.               2.               7.          28.                                        
Other Multilateral                               78.312.8  317             .2   2703          20.0           -                         -              -
Governments                                      78.8           317.2            270.3        250.0
Suppliers                          ~~~69.7         115.3             99.5         150.0          -                         -              -
Suplies adFnnilIsiuin                          435.4         3,300.3          4,512.2       3,889.8          -                         -              -
Banks and Financial Institutions                  -             140.3            165.9        600.0          -                         -              -
Bonds
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                                EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed          3,227.8        11,256.9         15,554.0      19,883.0                                 Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                                                                                                                    on Dec. 31. 1977
Interest on Public Debt                       -227.3          -827.7         -1,075.4    -1,234.0
Repayment on Public Debt                      -496.0           -762.0        -1,217.4    -2,461.7                                     $ Millions    Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                       -79.7          -438.8           -497.2        -560.8                                   $ Millions    Percent
Total Debt Service (net)                      -803.0        -2,028.5         -2,790.0    -4,256.5                  Public M & L.T.
Burden on Export Earnings (%) -                                                                                        Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                       25.2            25,4             32.9          48.2
b.  Total Debt Service                        28.0            32,4             40.1          55.5               IBRD                  1,456.8         7.6
c.  Total Debt Sergice and                                                                                      IDB                     772.7         4.0
Direct Investment Income                 37.3           42,9              50.3         61.8                Governments            853.5         4.5
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                       Suppliers              335.1         1.7
a.  Interest as % of prior                                                                                      Bonds                 1,821.6         9.6
year's D.O. and D.                        7.8            10.2              9.6          7.9                Other Financial
b.  Anortization as a of prior                                                                                   Institutions        13,852.6        72.6
year's D.O. and D.                       17.0             9,4             10.8         15.8               Total                19,883.0       100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBRD D.O. & D. as % of
Public D.O. and D.                        18.0            10.0              7.9          7.7
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                        7.4             9.7              4.5          4.2
IDA Exposure
- Not applicable or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes worker remittances



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of December 31, 1978)
Loan                                                        Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
33 loans fully disbursed                        1,486.4
793      1972  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 22.0        0.5
909      1973  NAFINSA                    Water Supply            90.0       41.8
968      1974  NAFINSA                    Roads                   90.0       48.2
969      1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              77.0        7.5
970      1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              47.0       42.2
1022      1974  NAFINSA                    Airports                25.0       12.0
1053      1974  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          50.0       43.9
1110      1975  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         110.0       43.6
1111      1975  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              50.0       49.9
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry                50.0       10.8
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                   Water Supply            40.0       36.0
1205      1976  NAFINSA                    Industry                50.0       14.8
1217      1976  NAFINSA                    Agricultural and
Livestock Credit   125.0         7.6
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                100.0       79.0
1420      1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 42.0       41.7
1462      1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0      106.7
1524      1978  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 50.0       50.0
1552      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry                47.0       47.0
1553      1978  NAFINSA                    Agriculture             56.0       56.0
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                   Urban Development       16.5       16.5
1560      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry               100.0      100.0
1569      1978  NAFINSA                    Agricultural Credit  200.0        200.0
969-1    1978  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              25.0       25.0
1643      1978  NAFINSA                    Small-scale Agri.       60.0       60.0
TOTAL                                            3,128.9   1,140.7
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               507.4
Total now outstanding                            2,621.5
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        75.2                17.1
Total now held by Bank 1/                        2,604.4
Total Undisbursed                                           1,140.7
1/     Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                             US$ Million
Year          Obligor                  Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/         Industrial Equipment       0.8      --     0.8
*         1958        Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                 A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5             0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/       Twist Drills               0.3     --      0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
66/68      Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.         Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/         Steel                      0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                 Sodium Sulphate            0.7     --      0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                    Construction Equipment   --         2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,   Iron Ore Mining              1.5     --      1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.  Textiles                    12.0     --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                    Pulp and Paper              2/       2/     2/
1973       Cemento Veracruz           Cement                    10.5     --    10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel       Tourism                    1.0     0.3    1.3
1975/78    Mexinox, S.A.              Steel                     12.0     3.2   15.2
1978       Papeles Pouderosa, S.A.  Pulp and Paper               9.0     2.6   11.6
1978       Tereftalatos Mexicanos,
S.A.                    Petrochemicals            19.0        -   19.0
1979       Empresas Tolteca de
Mexico, S.A. 3/         Cement                   100.0        -  100.0
1979       Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.            Tourism                             2.3    2.3
Total Gross Commitments                            170.5    31.9  202.4
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                        107.3    22.1  129.4
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                   63.2      9.8   73.0
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Loan of US$100 million, of which US$85 million has been sold to
paticipants.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:  $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
All infrastructure works at Ixtapa and in the town of Zihuatanejo
are complete. The international airport at Zihuatanejo is now
being served by 35 flights a week from Mexico City. A new
bilateral air agreement between Mexico and the US was signed
in January 1978 that will allow Mexican and US air carriers to
serve Zihuatanejo directly from 23 US cities.  A comprehensive
hotel staff training program has been approved by the Bank and
is under implementation.
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by early 1980. The Government has
proposed that savings in carrying out some components of
the projects be applied to finance new works which would
serve the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area. A recommendation on changes in
the project description will be submitted to Executive Directors
shortly.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a change in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 67,000 ha were
planted in the previous season; on full development the
project will provide irrigation to 137,000 ha. The technical
assistance program and the land settlement program are pro-
ceeding satisfactorily.  However, inflation has been greater
than estimated at the time of appraisal, and project costs have
risen to about US$366 million equivalent from the original
estimate of US$208 million. A US$25 million supplemental Bank
loan has been approved July 11, 1978 to help finance the
increase in cost of this project.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially
behind the original schedule; the pace is, however, acceler-
ating as additional budgetary support is being provided.
Project authorities are rephasing project construction and
integrating parts of the project with the neighboring Rio
Fuerte Irrigation District. Project costs have risen from
US$146 million at appraisal to US$560 million because of higher
inflation than projected at appraisal and delays in project
execution. A substantial reduction in project scope will be
proposed with deferred works to be included in a later project.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been
postponed by the Government because of interim improvements
of the existing airport carried out by the local municipality
with its own resources. At Campeche, the Government has
decided to construct a new airport with its own funds
instead of improving the existing airport. Loan proceeds
allocated to Guaymas and Campeche were reallocated in August
1977 to complete construction of the six airports retained
in the project. The Roza Rica airport has been completed and
works in the other five airports are proceeding satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. Budget levels have been inadequate
but were raised in 1979. A reprogramming of the project is
planned during early 1979 to adjust for these delays.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date:  October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule and management
is taking actions to further strengthen project implementation.
Special inter-agency agreements regarding the development
credit, agricultural extension, and farmer organization compo-
nents are being implemented. PIDER management is giving
priority to ensuring the proper operation and maintenance of
earlier PIDER investments. Emphasis is also being given to
improve cost recovery, investment analysis and programming,
monitoring, and rural industries.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Government and the Bank have agreed that, in view of
the size and complexity of the project, its high cost and
the Government's current policy of restraining fiscal expendi-
tures, it would be advisable to carry out the project in
several phases over a longer period of time than the seven
years originally visualized. As explained in Memorandum
R77-305 of December 13, 1977, the loan amount has now been
reduced from $150 million to $50 million to be applied
to the first phase of the project which would be implemented
over four years. A recent mission reviewed the Government's
reprogramming of project investments and a memorandum is about
to be distributed to the Executive Directors to notify them of
the mission's findings.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;                     S
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1980.
Construction delays were encountered early in 1977 due to a
shortage of resources following the peso devaluation, and
the problem was aggravated by changes in the company s



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
management at about the same time. Progress on the
Salamanca project has been slow and culminated in termina-
tion of the main construction contract in March 1978.
Since the appointment of a new contractor in May 1978,
the FERTIMEX construction management organization has been
strengthened, the speed of the work has improved and completion
is now scheduled for June 1979. Construction of the 1,500 TPD
urea plant at Coatzacoalcos is also behind schedule, but work
in this project is now proceeding satisfactorily and is
expected to be completed by February 1980.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with five cities where
construction has begun. The additional subprojects (which
would fully commit the loan funds) are being reviewed by the
Bank. Several positive measures have been taken by the Mexican
authorities to accelerate project execution, including the
preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the Special Project Unit in
charge of project execution. Construction in three cities is
substantially on schedule and in two others, construction is
expected to begin in ealy 1979.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
The loan is almost fully committed and 75 percent has been
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
Total disbursements as of December 31, 1978 were US$117.4 million.
The medium-income producers' category is fully disbursed and
priority is being given to accelerating the project component
benefitting low-income farmers.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Operating and technical improvements on the railway continue.
The traffic took an upward swing in 1977, continued to rise
in 1978, and is expected to increase substantially in 1979. As
a result, the operating and working ratios improved significantly



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
in 1977 and 1978 and the outlook for 1979 is even better. Due
to budgetary cuts imposed by the Government in 1976-1977, the
railway has prepared a revised investment plan on the basis of
which revised financial targets and a revised list of goods
have been prepared and substantially accepted by the Bank.
Confirmation by the Government is expected shortly. Due to
delays incurred in 1976-1977, the project will be completed in
late 1980 and a postponement of the closing date to June 30,
1981 has been proposed to the borrowers.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28. 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto is also under construction.
Project implementation is slightly behind schedule. An outline
for the ecological and environmental study is being reviewed
in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic as well as
North American tourism are complete and the economic study of
tourism will be completed by June 1979.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5. 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12. 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4. 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Management of the project has now been integrated with that of
FOGAIN, one of its main components. Training of the first
group of extension agents has started and submission of sub-
projects is expected to start soon.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation is on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress on institutional and on some work related aspects
of this project has advanced beyond original expectations.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Demand for industial investment financing is proving to be
stronger than anticipated. About one quarter of the loan has
been committed and there are numerous other applications at
hand with FONEI.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The loan was made effective on January 12, 1979. Implementa-
tion is on schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The loan was made effective on January 12, 1979. Implementa-
tion is on schedule. See earlier reference to this project
(Ln. No. 969) on page 4 of this Annex.



ANNEX III
MEXICO
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         About one and a half year
(b)  Agency which prepared project:         SAHOP
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        April 1977
(d)  First mission to review project:       July 1977
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:        July 17, 1978
(f)  Completion of negotiations:            February 15, 1979
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         end April 1979
II.   Special Bank Implementation Actions
Periodic reviews of SAHOP's highway infrastructure program and
of important highway sector policy issues (para. 54).
III.   Special Conditions
(1) SAHOP will prepare and submit to the Bank for its review all
subprojects to be financed under the loan. All highway sub-
projects to be financed under the loan will be in conformity
with agreed design standards and have a minimum economic
rate of return of 12 percent (para. 53).
(2) By December 31, 1980, SAHOP will complete a study on the regional
development impact of highway investments. The Bank will be
given a reasonable opportunity to comment on the draft study
(para. 50).
(3) SAHOP will carry out the second phase of a road moderniza-
tion study by December 31, 1980. The Bank will be given a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the draft recommendations
(para. 46).
(4)  SAHOP will study the future long-term requirements for road
infrastructure under various scenarios concerning motorization
rates, economic growth and spatial distribution of economic
activities (para. 49).
(5) Every year, SAHOP will update its highway programs in
consultation with the Bank (para. 54).



I B R D  13977R
% 2   .. 2 ye v  =hip.:                                                                                                                                                                 ; ,er pe o' y6M  Movbleon  JANUARY 1979
W.,d$. 4k ,Lfm  i.'e4sW'Mro                                     Atlacoff Ico 
\\ \X[n-ip"                           the i                                      t ~                         Morelia        Zinapecuoro                         3, Tepexpon
E _nsenada                                                                                                          -          !           broeededu,.                       Quirogo     Huajurmbar                  NI                  eouolp
-C:Y.                                                                             h5'he~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Admf m k-e?i eLos Reye
Pt10P*SC            Nogale                                                                                                                                                                          uc              MEXICO CITY  Tiax  lr
|ua Prei=                         O                                      AT ,                                                               Temo.scaltepec                               Pubat
0                                                            j                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CuernooacoOic
3C 9 \ 51 W 2 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uevoCG nes   ;r  1 c      
"C1'Bejucos
Ciudod       ,
Altamirano  
~Hermos illogul
\ 0lSahuaripc  Moder algocIc                                                                                                                                                          Los P
Tcripa                      hhauoe                                              Neg~ros-                                                              Babecs                      Tecomatld
0)  20 4p 6>m ;  X   X   /   \   <   '     ; ; '  t Huamuxtitlan
~ejo            KILOMETERS                     Chilapa
\>   a   %< Obreg6n  X/o            VJim6nX                       )    \           X              :tit5t  :: 0                        o0      20    40    60           hcn  
Chliponcingo        Tlopo
i men    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~AIIMILES
atro  nag          Moncl uotroCicMova.eoo                          .,s
Vil4o Cornstitvci6nX     a   -T~lobWam          Guamuchil
Topia,                            o ter~~~~~~ul                                                f    46X/O
Lonrern orelos  O
~~~~~~~~,es ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~Poes                                            l.Jae
24-                                                                                         nL\tf&pdYcof0  <0Vj  :;:;  0l       v
0 9 0 0 : 0 8A2~~~~~~~~rport                              &Zaccotecas              '3leo1t9I    000:j00t      
EIGHTH  HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                     e            o                                                                                     ida of Compec  m'n
U                                                                      l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ViIodol'd
MAIN HIGHWAY NETWORK                                                                                  elec  P'  IraOu
Highways completed or under conistruction                                    Cocuie>                                iS"i Celey                                                                       Cho e R  otto
finonced by previous Boank loans,                                                                                                           cingone                                                                  Carrillo Plto
268-ME, 311-ME, 354-ME, 401-ME, 
528-ME and  W~-ME                                                                       c lo
Othrm r Main highways                                       B0rr ie                                       n                                                              fFreiiteac                                            t
-----Rallways                                                                                      oCarCamino                                            Crdsobceg
-    Rivers                                                                          -      13                                              h                                               Vllhenns
968-MC  SEVENTH   HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                x pec 1 .  Area oi i  e  Hsoijapan
ln*tttaotin   buatnj riesch   , Tiera                                                                                                                                                     ciadJ Osa  c4 7  T (utlo          BE -EI
Donaji        Cnlbp    Gui,errez           %    ~     '
0    '    P0 : irr; t.1                                       * , . ,>     -  gnotepa  ajComitdn  %, E   I
0       100     200      3G0      40O     59                                                                                                             Miohutla                 Arr/*go
0            1O0           200          300                             P          cSoEeo    Pluerto Angpl
MILES                                                                                                                                                                  x
1146                                             108'             s02                                                                               9 1 .n



