CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1671 ME
Loan Agreenent
(Highway Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.A.
Dated August 23, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1671 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS S.A. (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions):
(a) The words "and Sub-projects" are added after the words
"the Project" at the end of Section 5.03; and
(b) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (b) of Section .3.05 of the
Guarantee Agreement no Sub-project proposals permitted under
such Section shall have been received by the Bank in respect
of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have not been considered acceptable by the Bank, or (c) after
the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall remain unwith-
drawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall have
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07
with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice
to the Guarantor at-' the Borrower terminate the right of the
Cuarantor to send such proposals or the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may
be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Sub-project" means any sub-project included in
the Project and to be partially financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred and twenty million dollars ($120,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven per cent (7%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Guarantor
providing for the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the
Loan for the purpose of carrying out the Project. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail
to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any external debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at
no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provi-
sions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created
on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement are legally binding on the parties thereto; and


﻿-4-
(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guaranto, and the
Borrower to perform all of the respective covenants, agreements
and obligations of the Guarantor and the Borrower in the Guar-
antee Agreement and the Loan Agreement contained, together with
all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been
duly and validly performed or given and no other such acts,
consents and approvals are required to be performed or given for
said purpose.
Section 5.02. The date November 27, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Addresses
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
P'blicos, S.A.
Insu.gentes Norte 423
Mexico 3, D.F.
Mexico


﻿*-                             5  -
5-
Cable address:                    Telex:
BANTECARIO                        01772619
Mexico City                       Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their, representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Eugenio F. Lari
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
PUBLICOS S.A.
By-/s/ Octavio Hernández
Authorized Representative
AP,j~


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The tatl,e below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  88,000,000        47%
under Parts A
and C of the
Project
(2) Vehicles and highway         30,000,000
maintenance equipment
under Part B of the
Project
(a) imported                                  100% of for-
eign expen-
ditures
(b) locally                                   100% of ex-
manufactured                             factory cost
(3) Consulting services           2,000,000        47%
TOTAL        120,000,000
2.   For purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than the
Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the territory of
any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,


﻿-7-
or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of pa-agraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) payments made for expenditures for a Sub-project, unless
such Sub-project has been considered acceptable by the Bank;
(c) payments made for expenditures for a Sub-project under
Parts A or C of the Project, unless the estimated expenditures for
such Sub-project shall, on the average, excluding the year of
lowest expenditures, exceed 10,000,000 pesos per annum;
(d) payments made for expenditures for a Sub-project under
Part B of the Project, unless the estimated expenditures for such
Sub-project shall, on the average, excluding the year of lowest
expenditures, exceed 5,000,000 pesos per annum; and
(e) any amounts retained as guarantee of civil works con-
tracts.
For purposes of this paragraph, "peso" means the currency
unit of the Guarantor.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentagexs set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category: (i) the Bank and the Borrower may agree to reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
is not agreed or cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, the
Bank may by notice to the Borrower, reduce the disbursement


﻿-8-
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower,, shall have
reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in the Guarantee Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
I


﻿9
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1983
through   December 1, 1995                  4,615,000
On June 1, 1996                                  4,625,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 10 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.25%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.55%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             6.20%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.00%


