CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1671 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Highway Sector Project)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 23, 1979


﻿IDAN NUMBER 1671 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1979, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pfiblicos S.A.
(hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred and twenty million dollars ($120,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on
condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the purpose of the Loan is to assist the Guarantor
in:
(a) improving coordination among the various agencies
operating its highway system;
(b) carrying out its policy of increasing reconstruction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing highways;
(c) assessing the regional development impact of specific
highway investments; and
(d) developing and carrying out adequate policies relating
to highway use; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,


﻿-II
-2-
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, economic and highway engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement
with the Borrower. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of
such arrangements.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Guarantor in carry-
ing out Part D of the Project, the Guarantor shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank.
(b) The Guarantor shall: (i) not later than December 31,
1979, furnish to the Bank the draft terms of reference for the


﻿-3-
studies included in Part D.2 and Part D.3 of the Project; and
(ii) not later than December 31, 1980, furnish to the Bank the
final drafts of such studies, and afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.04. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-project to be included in Part A of the
Project shall meet the following criteria: (a) have an economic
rate of return of at least twelve per cent (12%), calculated in
accordance with a method satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) conform
to the design standards set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank the following documentation in respect of Sub-projects
presented to the Bank for financing out of the proceeds of the
Loan:
(i) Sub-projects under Part A of the Project: a basic
data sheet for each Sub-project substantially
in the form of the sample included in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement;
(ii) Sub-projects under Part B of the Project: a program
for the renewal of highway maintenance equipment
and vehicles, including an analysis of future
capacity requirements and of availability of
existing equipment and vehicles;
(iii) Sub-projects under Part C of the Project: an analy-
sis of functional requirements of the Secretaria
de Asentamientos Humanos y Obras PGblicas of the
Guarantor in the area where the Sub-project is
located, justification of the Sub-project location,
and layout of the facilities included in the
Sub-project; and
(iv) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) Except as the Guarantor and the Bank may otherwise
agree, all Sub-project proposals shall be furnished to the Bank
not later than June 30, 1981.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall:
(a) not later than September 30 in each year, starting not
later than September 30, 1979, prepare and furnish to the Bank:


﻿(i) the proposed program for highway construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation and routine mainte-
nance for each of the next four fiscal years, and
the corresponding proposed budget for the next
fiscal year;
(ii) the proposed program for acquisition and operation
of highway maintenance equipment and vehicles
for each of the next four fiscal years and the
corresponding proposed budget for the next fiscal
year; and
(iii) a schedule, presented on a quarterly basis, of
the estimated withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan for the following fiscal years until the
Closing Date, such estimate to be calculated on
the basis of contracts already awarded and con-
tracts proposed to be procured for purposes of the
Project;
(b) not later than January 31 in each year, starting not
later than January 31, 1980, furnish to the Bank:
(i) the approved budget for highway construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation and maintenance for
the current fiscal year and the schedule referred
to in paragraph (a) (iii) above adjusted on the
basis of said budget; and
(ii) reports on axle weight control, road user charges,
road transport regulations and the development of
the coordinated use of highway transport with other
transport modes; and
(c) exchange views with the Bank on the program, budgets,
reports and schedules referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b)
above.
Section 3.07. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Guarantor to replace or repair such goods.


﻿- 5-i
-5-
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. (a) The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank, from time to time, all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the Sub-projects, their cost and the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor
and the Bank, the Guarantor shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report on the execution of the Sub-projects, their cost and
benefits and on the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.10. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of


﻿-6-
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivi-
sions, or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency
or instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political subdivi-
sion of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or
organization which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly
by the Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor
or the operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest
of or for account of the Guarantor or any political subdivision of
the Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall: (a) cause all the roads
and bridges of its highway system, its highway maintenance equip-
ment and vehicles, and the facilities included in Sub-projects


﻿-7-
under Part C of the Project to be adequately maintained, and all
necessary repairs thereof to be promptly made, all in accordance
with sound appropriate practices; and (b) take all reasonable
ateps necessary to ensure the proper use of such roads, bridges,
equipment, vehicles and facilities.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Director General de Cr6dito Piblico of
the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Direcci6n General de Cr6dito Pfiblico
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito Pfiblico
Moneda 4
Mexico 1, D.F.
Mexico
Telex:
HDA-01777
HDA-01313
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex:
440098 (ITT)
248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By Is/ Octavio Hernfndez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is! Eugenio F. Lari
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 9 -
'9-
SCHR)ULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of financing technically and economi-
cally feasible Sub-projects which have a high priority for the
economic and social development of the Guarantor and which consist
of:
Part A:   Construction, reconstruction or rehabilitation of a
particular highway, or a portion thereof, or a partic-
ular bridge.
Part B:   Acquisition and utilization of vehicles and highway
maintenance equipment.
Part C:   Construction, equipping and furnishing of workshops,
warehouses and office buildings for the Secretaria de
Asentamientos Humanos y Obras PGblicas of the Guar-
antor.
Part D:   Studies:
1.   to ascertain future requirements of the road transport
infrastructure in Mexico;
2.   to quantify the regional development impact of highway
projects; and
3.   to: (i) define the need for increasing the capacity
of the highway network and for strengthening highway
pavements; and (ii) investigate the frequency distribu-
tion of axle weights of trucks.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿171
- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Guarantor shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of a general procurement notice, a draft of such notice in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Guarantor and the Bank shall agree; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Guarantor shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   (a) Bidders for the civil works shall be prequalified
as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
(b) Each invitation to bid will be sent to at least eight
prequalified local firms and all, up to a total of eight, pre-
qualified foreign firms which have shown interest in being
invited. If thiAre are more than eight such prequalified foreign
firms, they may be invited on a rotational basis.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Guarantor of inland freight


﻿- 11 -
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place oL their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A:    bids- offering goods manufactured in
Mexico if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Guarantor and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in Mexico.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿- 12 -
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Prequalification. The Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank:
(a) the list of prequalified foreign bidders, together with a
statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the
exclusion of any applicant for prequalification; and (b) the list
of prequalified foreign bidders which have shown interest to be
invited to specific tenders.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Guarantor shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request in
consultation with the Guarantor. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Guarantor shall, promptly after the
execution of each contract and prior to sending to the Bank the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect thereof, furnish to the Bank two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendatic, for
award, the updated Basic Data Sheet and such other information as


﻿- 13 -
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Guarantor and
state the reasons for such determination,


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 3
Sub-projects under Part A of the Project
Basic Data Sheet
(Sample)
1.   Basic Data
Road:                    Queretero-San Luis Potasi
Section:                 Queretero-San Jose Iturbide
Length:                  46 km
Cross-section present:   1.80 + 7.30 + 1.80 = 10.90 m
Cross-section proposed: Two 11 m carriage ways
Pavement proposed:       5 cm asphalt carpet
Design Class:            four-lane special
2.   Traffic
AADT 1976:               3,586 cars, 538 buses, 4,840
trucks, total 8,964 v.p.d.
Growth rate traffic:     7% per annum
Estimated 1982 traffic: 13,452 v.p.d.
3.   Bridges
7 bridges for a total length of 180 m
4.   Cost Estimate
Mex$ 267 million
5.   Economic Justification
ERR 62%, FYB 69%
6.   Tenders and Construction
Tender dates:            one each 1979 and 1980
Completion time:         three years
Tentative budget
allocation Mex$        1979      45 million
1980     124 million
1981     107 million


﻿- 15 -
7.   Technical Description
The basic proposal is to construct a second two-lane car-
riageway parallel to the existing road, which is already built
to adequate standards, lacking only sufficient capacity for
present traffic volumes.
8.   Economic Description
The 201 km Queretaro-San Luis Potosi road is an extension
of the Mexico City-Queretaro road, which is already four lanes.
This is one of the most heavily traveled corridors in Mexico
for both rail and highway, carrying north-south traffic in the
Mexico City-Monterrey corridor. While the entire 201 km of four-
lane construction can be easily justified, this first section of
46 km outside Queretaro is particularly congested, carrying
approximately 5,000 trucks per day; it is the scene of numerous
traffic accidents whose costs are not estimated herein. It is one
of the highest priority road projects in the country.
9.   Alternatives Considered
(a) Four lanes with no median.
(b) Reconstruction of the existing two lanes from 7.50 m
of pavement to 10.9 m (a three-lane highway).
(c) Four-lane limited access expressway with overpasses.
(d) Four-lane with median and at-grade intersections (the
alternative selected).
10. Date of Feasibility Study
August 22, 1978.


﻿116
- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Flat              Medium     Heavy
Geometric           and      Hilly     Moun-     Moun-
Standard    Design    Unit   Rolling   Country    tainous   tainous
Special     Design
Speed     km/h    110      100-90     80-70    70-60
A          "         "    90-110      90-80     70-60    60-50
B          "         "      80         70         50       30
C          "                70         60         40       25
D          "         "      60         50         30       20
Special 2 Embankment
Width      m    9-13.5    9-13.5     9-13.5    9-13.5
Special 4     "         "    22.5 or   22.5 or    22.5 or 22.5 or
2x12      2x12       2x12     2x12
A          "         "      9          9          8.5       8
B          "                8          8          7.5       7
C          "         "      7          7           7        7
D          "         "     6.5        6.5         6.5      6.5
Special     Medium
Radius      m     380       250         150       95
A          "         "     380        210          95      64
B          "o              210       150           64      18
C          "               150         95         38       16
D                           95         64          18      16
Special    Minimum
Gradient     %      4        4.5          5         6
A          "         "      4          5           6        7
B          "               4.5         6           7        8
C          "                5         7           8        10
D                           6          9         12        14


