Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21797-POL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR1 10.0 MILLION
(US$101.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO POLSKIE KOLEJE PANSTWOWE S.A.
(POLISH STATE RAILWAYS S.A.)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
FORA
RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
April 30, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Poland and Baltic States Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Polish Zloty (PLN)
PLN1 = US$0.2418
US$1 = 4.13
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EBRD          =      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB           =      European Investment Bank
ER            =      economic rate of return
FMS                  financial management system
IAS           =      International Accounting Standards
IFAC         =       Intemational Federation of Accountants
ISPA         =       Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-accession
KBI          =       Capital Investment and Privatization Office
KAAZ          =      Agency for Retraining and Reemployment ('Kolejowa Agencja Aktywizacji
Zawodowej')
LHS          =       Linia Hutniczo-Siarkowa (broad-gauge railway between Ukraine and Silesia)
LRS          =       labor redeployment services
MLSP          =      Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MTME         =       Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
NLO           =      National Labor Office
PLK S.A.      =      Polish Railway Infrastructure Joint Stock Company ('Polskie Linie Kolejowe
Spolka Akcyjna')
PKP           =      Polish State Railways ('Polskie Koleje Panstwowe')
PKP S.A.      =      Polish State Railways Joint Stock Company (Polskie Koleje Panstwowe Spolka
Akcyjna')
PMR          =      project management report
PSO           =      public service obligation
SKM          =      Fast Municipal Railway ('Szybka Kolej Miejska', the regional service for
Gdansk/Sopot/Gdynia)
TA           =       technical assistance
UIC           =      International Railway Union ('Union Internationale des Chemins de Fer')
WKD           =      Warsaw commuter railway ('Warszawska Kolej Dojazdowa')
ZUS           =      Social Insurance Fund CZaklad Ubezpieczen Spolecznych')
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Michael Carter
Sector Director:    Ricardo Halperin
Sector Manager:    Eva Molnar
Program Team Leader:    Graham Smithl



POLAND
RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      3
2. Key performnance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     13
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        16
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                           18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  19
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          20
2. Financial                                                                         21
3. Technical                                                                         27
4. Institutional                                                                     28
5. Environmental                                                                     31
6. Social                                                                            32
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                37
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    37
2. Critical risks                                                                    38
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    40



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           40
2. Other                                                                             41
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         41
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        42
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         44
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   47
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  53
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              59
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      67
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    76
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 80
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           82
Annex 11: Letter of Railway Reform Policy                                               84
Annex 12: Project Implementation Plan - Summary                                         88
Annex 13: PKP Employment Profile                                                        92
MAP(S)
IBRD 31302



POLAND
RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: April 30, 2001                              Team Leader: Graham Smith
Country Director: Michael Carter                  Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: P040795                               Sector(s): DV - Privatization, SE - Labor Markets &
Employment, TW - Railways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     1 ] Credit   [ ] Grant     [ 1 Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/CreditsiOthers:
Amount (US$m): EUR 110.0 ($101.0 rnillion equivalent); comniitmnent-linked with level repayments
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% first four
years, standard charge of 0.75%
thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Sourc                                      oca      l    orei gngtil
BORROWER                                                       78.19           0.00         78.19
IBRD                                                           98.54           2.46        101.00
EUROPEAN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND                           83.72           8.08         91.80
DEVELOPMENT
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                             58.40           0.00         58.40
MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED)                        0.00           5.91          5.91
Total:                                                        318.74          16.56        335.30
Borrower: POLSKIE KOLEJE PANSTWOWE S.A.
Responsible agency: POLSKIE KOLEJE PANSTWOWE S.A.
Polish State Railways (Polskie Koleje Panstwowe - PKP)
Address: 62 Szczesliwicka Str.
00-973 Warsaw, Poland
Contact Person: Mr. Krzysztof Celinski, Director General
Tel: (48) 22-524-9000                                    Fax: (48) 22-524-9020
Email: k.celinski@pkp.com.pl



Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
Address: 4/6 Chalubifiskiego Str.
00-928 Warsaw, Poland
Contact Person: Mr. Jaroslaw Waszkiewicz, Deputy Chairman, Coordinating and Monitoring Unit for the UA B, EIB, NIB
and EBRD Projects
Tel: (48) (22) 630-1359                                 Fax: (48) (22) 830-0088
Email: jwaszkiewicz@mtigm.gov.pl
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/USSM):
9                         2000lQIW' 02  2003m,    2004t                             '
Annual   21.00       67.00       7.00       6.00
Cumulative    21.00      88.00      95.00     101.00
Project implementation period: FY 2001 - FY 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2001 Expected closing date: 06/30/2004
XS PAD F,:0 F3 M. 200
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Polish government proposes to commercialize, restructure and partially privatize Polish State
Railways ("Polskie Kolejowe Panstwowe" - PKP) over the period 2001-2003. This reform
initiative aims to encourage the provision of rail transport services which are more responsive to
the needs of a market economy, to reduce the burden on the state imposed by PKP's heavy losses,
and to help prepare the transport system for Poland's entry into the European Union. Within this
program (referred to below as 'the Program'), PKP plans to restructure its labor force by laying
off some 37,000 workers, in order to cut its costs, facilitate the transition to a new sectoral
organization, and make subsidiary units more viable for privatization. This labor restructuring is
taken as 'the Project' for the purpose of the proposed loan.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(a) Program
Efficient supply of railway services (i.e. traffic units / employee increases from 431 in 2000 to 574
by 2003).
Presence of more than one railway freight operator in 2003.
Phasing out of de facto cross-subsidy from freight services to passenger services.
Improved enterprise profitability. The ratio of total working expenses to total operating revenues
(excluding govemment subsidies and privatization proceeds) should decline as follows:
1999 -110%
2000- 110%
2001 - 99%
2002 - 97%
2003 - 96%
2004 - 92%
2005- 91%
(b) Project
Workforce reduced (from 182,000 in August 2000 to 153,000 by December 2001 and to 145,000
by December 2002).
Labor costs decline as share of railway revenues (from 56% in 2000 to 43% by 2003).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex l)
Document number: R99-167        Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/25/99
The April 1997 CAS identified four areas of World Bank/IFC support for Poland: sustaining
private sector growth, managing the transformation of the state in support of the market
economy, achieving environmental sustainability, and enhancing social sustainability of reforms.
- 3 -



The August 1999 CAS Progress Report specifically refers to the railway as one of two
state-owned enterprises whose restructuring would contribute to managing the transformation of
the state in support of the market economy. Bank assistance is described for financing social
packages for railway workers, once a satisfactory restructuring program is agreed with all part es,
including the railway unions.
The proposed Program and Project therefore contribute directly to implementation of the
Assistance Strategy in several dimensions. The Program fosters privatization in one of the largest
state-owned enterprises and the redefinition of the State's role from a direct provider of certain
services to a strategic planner and regulator. It will initiate competition in a market that has until
now been a monopoly. It will assist in the decentralization of important responsibilities from the
national level to sub-national governments. The Project, an essential part of the Program, will
also contribute to strengthening social sector reforms by requiring co-operative implementation of
the railway labor package by PKP and the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy (MLSP).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The collapse of the planned economy had a wrenching impact throughout the Polish industrial
sector, especially in coal, steel and transport, and in transport especially in the rail subsector.
Compared with 1988 (which appears to have been the peak output year for the planned
economies), PKP carried in 1999 only 46 percent of the ton-km and 50 percent of the
passenger-km (see Figure 1). This is not unusual for the transition economies: in fact, PKP's
passenger traffic shrinkage since 1988 is about average for the CEE railways, and its freight
shrinkage is actually somewhat less than other CEE railways. As Figure 1 also shows, PKP's
labor force has fallen more slowly than its traffic (1999 is about 57 percent of 1988), putting
pressure on its financial performance.
Figure 1
PKP Traffic and Employment Indices
1 988= 100
120
100,  ~ 
80
60
+4Ton-km                                                  I 
40   --M_-Pax-km       |
20   --_-Employment|
1980            1985            1990            1995
-4-



Over the past three years (1998-2000) the sharp decline of the coal industry, its biggest customer,
and an increase in PKP's labor costs have led to financial losses exceeding $1 million per day.
These have been funded largely by delaying payments to suppliers and transfers to the State for
taxes and pensions, which by August 2000 exceeded $1 billion, equivalent to $30 per head of
population. This solution is unsustainable and threatens PKP with acute illiquidity, not to mention
the damaging effect on state fiscal flows.
Driven by the downward spiral of PKP's output and the resulting deterioration in its physical and
financial condition, the Polish parliament on September 8, 2000 passed a law on
"Commercialization, Restructuring and Privatization of Polish State Railways State Enterprise".
Its provisions are summarized below.
The other main transport sector issue is how best to prepare for accession to the European Union
(EU). This requires that institutions responsible for railway regulation be strengthened and
subsidies be made more transparent. It also threatens PKP's market by stimulating competing
transport modes, as well as by enabling intra-rail competition through liberal rights of access to
tracks. This could lead to "cherry-picking" of profitable traffic by stronger foreign railways. The
institutional harmonization alone is not an easy task, but the opening of the market to competitors
from outside the country, both railway and other modes, is an even bigger challenge. An
evaluation of the costs and benefits of enlargement for the Polish transport sector (PHARE
Multi-Country Transport Program, October 1999) highlights the following points: (a) costs for
domestic road hauliers will increase by 13% while costs for international road hauliers will
decrease by 18%, (b) the main changes in cost structure for road transport are increased diesel
fuel taxes, reduced maximum hours of driver operation, higher maintenance and safety
requirements, greater gross weights and axle loads permitted, and reduced border crossing times.
In inland water transport the Polish industry already largely conforms to EU legislation, and
liberalization of market access through relaxation of the existing bilateral agreement with
Germany will have a favorable sub-sector impact.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project will help implement the Law on Commercialization, Restructuring and Privatization
of Polish State Railways. In brief, commercialization means the required transformation of the
state-owned enterprise called Polskie Koleje Panstwowe (PKP) into a joint stock company (jsc)
called PKP Spolka Akcyjna (PKP SA) within three months of the passage of the act. PKP and the
Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME) completed this transformation in
December 2000.
Restructuring means the further breakdown of PKP SA into a series of subsidiary jsc's or limited
liability companies. One company (called Polskie Linie Kolejowe, or PLK SA) will operate and
maintain the railway infrastructure and provide access to the freight and passenger operating
companies for a fee. A second company will be a single freight operating company (PKP Cargo)..
A third unit will be a specialized freight company, Linia Hutniczso-Siarkowa (LHS), which will
own the iron ore line from the Ukrainian border to a steel mill near Katowice. Because it is a
- 5 -



separate gauge (Russian broad gauge of 1,520 mm rather than the European standard gauge of
1,43 5 mm in the rest of PKP's main network), LHS is an independent company. Two urban
passenger companies are being set up, Szybka Kolej Miejska (SKM) in the Gdansk/Gdynia/Sopot
("Tri-Cities") area and Warszawska Kolej Dojazdowa (WKD in the Warsaw area) which will own
and operate their own infrastructure. There is very little interaction of the SKM system with
freight and with other passenger flows, and the WKD is essentially an urban tram separate from
the rest of the PKP network. There will be an inter-city express passenger operating company
which is expected to be profitable, a slow-speed interurban passenger operating company whic?i is
unlikely to be profitable in its present form, and a number of regional passenger companies which
will provide services pursuant to contracted subsidies administered by the voivodships. Finally,
there is a collection of related rail and non-rail companies, notably the railway telecommunications
and electric power subsidiaries, which are being set up separately. All of these subsidiary
companies are required to be established within six months after the establishment of PKP S.A,
that is, by June 30, 2001.
Under the privatization rubric, PKP SA, supported by MTME, is committed to privatizing LI-IS,
SKM and WKD in the near tern. Requests for expressions of interest in SKM and WKD have
already been issued and there has been strong interest expressed from a number of potential
operators. EBRD, through its PHARE facility, is providing a grant to fund privatization advisors
for SKM and WKD, who mobilized in March 2001. Several sources of support for the
privatization transaction for LHS are being explored, and there is every reason to believe that the
LHS transaction can be completed within a year of advertisement. PKP is also committed to
commencing the process of privatizing PKP Cargo as soon as feasible, though preparation may
take one to two years. In later phases the intercity passenger company may be privatized, to be
followed by other passenger companies. The September 8, 2000 law requires that PLK SA
remain under public ownership.
The objectives of the restructuring go beyond the need to respond to financial crisis (in itself a
compelling argument). As a candidate country for EU membership, Poland will need to conform
to EU policy on railways. EC Directives 91/440, 95/18 and 95/19 established the framework i;r
railways reform, requiring an accounting separation of infrastructure from the various operating
functions so that costing transparency could be instituted. The member governments are also
required to clean up the finances of their railways, and to permit the railway enterprises of other
member states to have access to the national railway infrastructure on non-discriminatory terms
and conditions. Further, Directive 91/440 in effect allows no operating subsidies except to local
passenger transport and the infrastructure, and requires that the railway's books be kept in a way
that will make any cross-subsidy from profitable services (freight and intercity passenger)
transparent; such cross-subsidy is not permitted. In its later policy statements, the EC is
advocating institutional separation of rail infrastructure, not just accounting separation, because
this makes the separation of accounts and objectives much clearer and easier to enforce. On al:'
counts, including the actions needed to reduce operating losses, the Polish approach meets the EU
requirements. Put another way, the Polish program would be necessary for EU membership es en
if there were no financial crisis.
-6 -



The EC acquis communautaire does not address privatization, mainly because there is continuing
debate within the EU as to the role of the private sector in delivery of rail services. Some EU
countries have already advanced quite far in privatization (notably the UK) while others are still
considering the idea. Most EU countries are approaching a decision in principle to keep
infrastructure ownership in the public sector (though they may have it managed privately through
concession or management contract). A growing number of countries (e.g. UK, Netherlands and
Sweden) are allowing local passenger services to be competitively concessioned through minimum
subsidy arrangements. Several countries (UK, Netherlands, soon Germany) have sold or will sell
their freight operations to private operators: indeed, with open access to infrastructure and
potential freight competition, it is difficult to argue that freight operations should remain in the
public sector. Many other EU countries have an announced policy of developing private-sector
freight operations within the foreseeable future. In most countries, the public/private division of
intercity passenger operations is still in flux. Looking at the requirements of the law and the
policies announced by MTME, the Polish approach is well within the boundaries of currently
required EU practice, and it is a good balance between the need for efficient rail services and
Polish values and objectives.
In summary, the aggressive railway reform program is fully in accord with the EU requirements
for railway reform and, in its privatization element, is a creative approach to the need to revitalize
the Polish transport sector. The financial and fiscal benefits of the program are significant and
immediate. Implementation of other aspects of the new law, including regulation of infrastructure
access charges and formulation of subsidy policy, are being supported by technical assistance from
the Bank and EBRD as described below.
The labor program
Why are workers redundant? For some, there is no longer demand for the transport services they
used to provide; low-density lines are to be closed. Others are no longer needed because of the
radical improvements in technology --especially information technology. Computers have
replaced manual accounting. Electronic train control equipment is safer and more reliable.
The Polish government (as was also the case in all other countries choosing to restructure and
privatize or concession their railways) has realized that success depends on reaching a fair and
agreed approach to the need to re-deploy labor from rail to other sectors of the economy. After
painstaking debate and consultation with all affected parties, the law includes provisions for the
reduction of PKP's large and uneconomic labor force. In total, approximately 37,000 jobs (out of
182,000 in mid-2000) will be removed: 5,800 through induced early retirement, 2,000 through
"railway leaves" (a voluntary form of early retirement) and about 29,700 through a redundancy
payment of PLN 20,000 or 30,000, depending on the unemployment rate in the area where the
employee lives. This is equivalent to about 10 months' average wage, or 15 months respectively.
Most are entitled to six months' notice, during which they are expected to continue to perform
their duties and/or receive job search counseling and training; a few will qualify for only three
months' notice. In addition, all present workers will be eligible for an extensive labor
redeployment program (job counseling, vocational training, small business assistance, labor
market information) and will participate in a fund in which 15 percent of the proceeds of the
privatization sales will be deposited.
-7 -



The payroll cost of the 37,000 employees approaches $22 million per month ($260 million per
year). The financial rate of return of the program to shed them is therefore extremely high (over
100 percent) and the economic rate of return is good (20 to 25 percent depending on
assumptions), even not counting the likely economic benefits from increased transport efficiency
and enhanced quality of transport service, or the sale price for the various operating companies
The system for managing the compensation system, including redeployment services, is
professionally formulated and competently managed. Given that the Government must carry out
this program to ensure survival of rail service in Poland and to comply with EU entry
requirements, the labor compensation program is fair, well conceived, and has been subjected to a
fully adequate analysis and public consultation.
The act was signed into law on September 8, 2000. Accordingly, PKP SA had to be --and was--
set up from January 1, 2001. By the end of December 2000 employment was terminated for
7,790 employees eligible for one-time severance. These were dismissals under agreement of the
parties and the employees did not receive training.
The plans for PKP Cargo privatization
PKP plays a major role in the Polish transport sector. PKP Cargo carries the same amount of
freight (tonne-km) as Deutsche Bahn, and far more than any other CEE or EU railway.
Privatization of PKP Cargo will create by far the largest privately operated freight railway in
Europe, and one of the larger ones in the world. If the economic and service quality
improvements achieved through privatization are at all similar to those achieved elsewhere, the
total benefits of restructuring and privatization, in terms of deficit reduction and reduced transport
costs (and improved market share), will be highly beneficial to the Polish economy. There is
every reason to conclude that this is a well formulated program with a good likelihood of success.
PKP will start by privatizing LHS, to gauge the response of investors and the reaction of the
Polish public. Lessons learned will then be applied in the privatization of PKP Cargo. The
proposed loan will finance part of both privatization transactions, complemented by a grant frorn
another source under discussion. The loan is also to fund a strategic advisor to the PKP
Management Board. LHS privatization should be a relatively simple transaction, but the PKP
Cargo privatization could be complex, expensive and time-consuming.
Subsidizing passenger services through regional governments
During the year 2000 PKP was able to discontinue service on some marginal passenger lines,
which decreased the annual losses on passenger services from PLN 1.5 billion ($360 million) in
1999 to PLN 1.2 billion ($290 million) in 2000. The Law sets out the Government's commitment
for an annual passenger service subsidy to cover losses due to public service obligations. In 2001
this subsidy is PLN 300 million to be channeled through voivodship governments, to complement
PLN 500 million financed from government-backed bonds to be issued by PKP S.A. In 2002 the
proportions are reversed with PLN 300 million from the bonds channeled through PKP S.A. ani
PLN 500 million subsidy through the voivodships. Finally for 2003 to 2005 the subsidy of PL`N
800 million is maintained, channeled through the voivodships.
- 8 -



The channeling of the subsidy through the voivodships decentralizes decisions about passenger
transport to the local governments. Regional and commuter services will be operated by several
daughter companies of PKP, to be set up in 2001. SKM and WKD will be the first passenger
services to be privatized --in this case together with their infrastructure-- and will serve as test
cases for privatization. The decentralization is expected to provide services which are more
responsive to local needs. There is some difference of opinion among PKP management on the
adequacy of the mandated subsidy to continue the current pattern of services at the current levels
of fares. The benefit from the result of the labor restructuring will begin to be seen in results for
2001 (with ultimately the removal of the 37,000 employees from the rolls by the end of 2002).
Passenger services employment will decline by about 2,800 by the end of 2002, lowering
passenger service costs directly. Infrastructure employment will decline by about 15,000 by the
end of 2002. The lower infrastructure costs charged against passenger services will also lower
passenger service costs. The predominant view among the officials seems to be that the cost
reductions will mean that the PLN 800 million/year subsidy will be adequate to preserve current
passenger services. It remains to be seen, however, whether the regional governments have the
capacity to administer such subsidy funds appropriately.
Financial restructuring
The Law also mandates sources of funds for addressing PKP's financial problems. It authorizes
borrowing from the international financial institutions and the floating of bonds, all backed by
sovereign guarantees, up to PLN 3.9 billion ($ 943 million). The main source for repaying these
loans and bonds is to be the proceeds of sales of assets and subsidiaries.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
PKP's labor restructuring is an essential part of the Polish government's strategy to commercialize,
restructure and partly privatize Polish Railways, as mandated by the Law. The Government has
summarized this strategy in a "letter of railway reform policy", attached in Annex 11. It underpins
the present project and is incorporated by reference into the loan agreement. In the period
2001-2002 PKP and its successor companies will offer their workforce structured incentive
packages, consistent with national labor laws and social security provisions as well as enterprise
labor contracts, with a view to cutting the workforce by about 37,000 employees. For the
purposes of the proposed loan, the labor restructuring activities are taken as "the Project", it being
understood that their justification lies in the successful implementation of the broader
restructuring and privatization strategy ("the Program"). The Project will also cover advisory
services on railway restructuring and privatization. Thus the Project consists of three
components: income support measures, labor redeployment services (including training), and
technical assistance.
1) Temporary income support. Four income support measures are foreseen, of which three will
be eligible for financing from the proposed loan. This component is estimated to cost $296
million, of which the World Bank loan will cover $99 million and an EBRD loan about $85
million.
-9-



* " Severance": Employees declared redundant by PKP will receive fixed lump sum severanc.-
payments of either PLN 20,000 (about $ 4,800) or PLN 30,000 (about $ 7,300) --the small-r
sum being paid to workers who live in areas of below-average unemployment, and the largcr
sum being paid to those who live in areas of above-average unemployment. About 29,700
employees will be eligible. PKP estimates that those to be laid off will be distributed between
areas of low and high unemployment in a 65% to 35% split, respectively. World Bank
financing of $66 million, together with a PKP contribution of $15 million, will cover about
12,700 workers; EBRD's parallel co-financing of about $85 million will cover about 13,200
workers. PKP will cover an additional 3,800 employees entirely from its own resources at a
cost of $25 million.
* "Pre-retirement benefit": Starting in June 2000 PKP has laid off certain long-term employees
who, having joined PKP in their teens, have worked long enough for the railway to be eligible
for full pensions but who have not yet reached pensionable age; PKP pays them a sum sii:.ar
to their pension until they reach the legal retirement age and start receiving their regular
(state-funded) pension --typically after 3-4 years. About 5,800 employees are to be laid off in
this way. The loan would finance payments made in the period October 2000 - December
2001. The average total payment per person will be about $9,900 or $2,650 annually. World
Bank financing: $17 million
In all the above cases the Bank loan will finance 81 % of the benefit; 19% will be funded by PK-P,
corresponding to personal income tax withheld at source.
* "Railway leave": Older workers who, by end 2001, come within three years of the legal
retirement age and who have worked more than a set number of years with PKP may choos-z
to go on railway leave early and receive the equivalent of a pension from PKP until they reach
retirement age, when their state-funded pension kicks in --at most 3 years. It is expected th at
about 2,000 employees will apply for this out of some 4,500 eligible. The average total
payment per person will be about $12,500. World Bank financing in this case will cover 60c%o
of the total, or $15 million. The remainder, corresponding to personal income tax and social
security payments withheld by PKP, will be funded by PKP.
*  "Unemployment benefit": Under a general program available to all unemployed workers
seeking jobs, those laid off from PKP will be eligible for a basic benefit of about PLN 420
($ 100) per month for up to 12 months. In areas of high unemployment the benefit may be
higher. The cost of this benefit for PKP workers, estimated at $22 million, will be borne
wholly by the Polish government.
2) Labor redeployment services will include worker information sessions, aptitude testing,
career and social advisory services, information regarding local labor markets and job mediation
activities, vocational training, on-site training, and promoting of entrepreneurship. Vocational
training includes: vocational, general education and literacy, and formal small business skills
training. On-site training is to be provided to PKP staff, after they have been placed on notice of
disrmissal but before their employment contract ends, who are placed "on loan" or secondment to
a firm interested in hiring them and willing to provide training on their premises in skills required
for the likely future jobs. These services will be administered through local offices of the railwa"
labor redeployment agency (KAAZ), in coordination with local offices of the Ministry of Labor
- 10 -



and Social Policy.
The total cost of these services is estimated at $24 million. PKP will bear this cost except that
beneficiaries (the employees) will have to pay 20% of the cost of vocational training.
3) Technical assistance (consultant services) to advise PKP on the organizational, legal,
regulatory, financial and social aspects of the program (Annex 2, Table 3). In addition to the
three PHARE-funded contracts already launched by PKP, eight new contracts have been
identified as necessary. Three will be managed by MTME and funded from the on-going World
Bank Privatization Technical Assistance Loan ($0.9 million). The proposed loan will fund the
strategic advisor for PKP and part of the LHS and PKP Cargo privatization advisors ($1.45
million). Grant sources are being sought for the remainder.
1. Methodology for regulating access rights and pricing for infrastructure (for MTME).
2. Subsidies: principles for Government support of passenger railway operations and railway
infrastructure development (for MTME).
3. Analysis of the transport market and the likely future role of the railways (for MTME).
4. Strategic advisor to PKP's Management Board.
5. Privatization advisor (transaction manager) for privatization of LHS.
6. Privatization advisor (transaction manager) for privatization of PKP Cargo.
7. Advice to regional governments on contracting for rail passenger services and administering
corresponding subsidies (for MTME).
8. Low-density lines: review of institutional and regulatory barriers to forming and operating
short-line railways; preparation of a plan for their marketing, including identification of the
potential for transfer to local control, privatization or abandonment. Review of environmental
issues.
Project Costs:
,                                                                              . ~~~~~~~~~~~~r
1) Income support                  SN                              0.0                  0.0
Severance lump sums              SN                190.97       57.0     65.96       65.3
Pre-retirement benefits          SN                 58.15       17.3     17.48       17.3
Railway leave                    SN                 25.22        7.5      15.13      15.0
Unemployment benefit             SN                 21.86        6.5      0.00        0.0
2) Labor redeployment              SN                 23.68        7.1       0.00       0.0
3) Technical assistance            BP                   7.30       2.2       1.45       1.4
Other - Non IBRD                                        6.15       1.8       0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                 333.33       99.4    100.02      99.0
Front-end fee                    1.93        0.6      1.01        1.0
Total Financing Required                   335.26     100.0    101.03      100.0
- 11 -



Sources of financing will be as follows:
PKP                                     78                     23 %
Polish Govermment                       58                     17 %
World Bank                            101                      30 %
EBRD                                    92                     28 %
Other Intemational                      6                       2 %
Total ($million)                      335                     100%
Polish Railways Restructuring - Time Chart
World Bank Fiscal Year     2001           2002            2003           2004           2005
FYQuarter   1 2   3 4   1 2   3 4   1 2   3 4    1 2   3 4    1 2   3 4
Calendar Year  2000       2001            2002           2003            2004          2 305
CY Quarter   3 4   1 2   3 4   1 2   3 4   1 2   3 4    1 2   3 4   1 2  3 4
LABOR
COMPONENT
Pre-retirement
Railway Leave
Severance pay
Redeployment
ORGANIZATIONAL
COMPONENT
Restructuring Law
set up PKP SA            *   *
set up PKP Cargo
set up PKP Passenger (s)
WKD, SKM Privatization
LHS Privatization
PKP Cargo Privatization
FINANCIAL
COMPONENT
Bridge Loan
Restructuring Bond
Work out arrears to agencies
ADMINISTRATION
EBRD Loan Signing
IBRD Loan Signing
IBRD Loan Review                             U
IBRD Loan Closing                                                               -
NOTES:           indicates a major activity
*    indicates lead up to or continuation of a major activity
- 12 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Program aims to realize the national goals for railway reform and revitalization. The Project
directly addresses the need for PKP to shed surplus labor and redeploy workers to more
productive jobs. It will also provide support for the continuing analytic, regulatory, and
organizational work which must be completed for the unbundling and restructuring to succeed.
The key reforms sought are to:
a) Commercialize the railway enterprise, a legal pre-requisite for restructuring.
b) Restructure the enterprise. One principle underlying the restructuring is that organizational
separation of PKP's main constituent parts and consequent separation of their financial
accounts will strengthen management incentives for improved performance. Calculating the
costs of specific services and matching them with the corresponding revenues at lower levels
than top management is expected to improve the quality of information for decision makers,
by showing which services are profitable and the severity of losses on others. Restructuring is
also a pre-requisite to privatization of certain functions.
c) Allow intra-rail competition on separated infrastructure. A second fundamental policy reform
is to stimulate the provision of rail transport services that are more responsive to the demands
of the market, by making it possible for multiple train operating companies to compete among
themselves while sharing a common infrastructure.
d) Reduce and rationalize subsidies and other forms of state financial aid to the railways.
e) Implement such reforms in the railways as will be required for Poland to join the European
Union.
3. Benefits and target population:
The restructuring and partial privatization of PKP will improve transport services throughout
Poland and contribute to stronger growth in industrial and export sectors. Rail operations will
immediately become some 20% more productive. By stopping the decline of the railway's market
share, it will slow somewhat the growth of road transport, easing the pressure on the Government
to build more roads and benefiting the environment. Better rail transport --of greatest value to
long-distance freight movements-- will help Poland participate more fully in the European Union.
A revitalized commercial railway will also contribute to the growth of competitive railway
equipment and services suppliers.
The ending of indirect and unplanned government subsidies to PKP for freight services and the
more transparent subsidies for passenger services will help the government to manage its own
budget and keep expenditures under control.
The primary target group is workers directly displaced by PKP restructuring and their families.
Secondarily the project will have an impact on the population of areas with a high proportion of
their workforce employed by PKP. The primary benefit to the Polish economy is that workers
will be redeployed from jobs where they add effectively no value, to ones where they add positive
- 13-



value. There are indirect benefits which accrue to PKP staff not laid off, as their employer will
have eliminated the largest source of losses, and in the long run their salaries may be enhanced.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The loan will be to PKP S.A., with a sovereign guarantee of the Republic of Poland. Within PKP
the Agency for Retraining and Reemployment (KAAZ) will administer the labor restructuring
program, while PKP's Capital Investment Office (KBI) will manage the other technical assistan ze.
The Director of KAAZ reports directly to the Management Board of PKP. The temporary
income support measures and labor redeployment programs will be implemented by KAAZ's eiight
regional offices, which have been operating since 1999 and have the necessary capacity, including
trainers duly trained and a network of contacts with the MLSP's local offices.
The project will be implemented over three years, from January 2001 to December 31, 2003, wvith
disbursements possible through June 30, 2004. The legal, organizational, financial and workfoice
restructuring of PKP is laid out in a number of laws, implementing decrees, management board
decisions and internal regulations, which are summarized in the Project Implementation Plan
(Annex 12).
Procurement: The major part (about 98%) of the loan will finance temporary income support
payments, net of income tax. These expenditures are not subject to commercial procurement
practices and therefore no specific procurement arrangements are applicable. The technical
assistance to be financed from the loan consists of three large consulting contracts to be procured
by KBI. Details are given in Annex 6.
Disbursement: The labor restructuring program entails a very large number of small financial
transactions, most of which PKP wishes to complete between March 2001 and June 2002.
Accordingly, the most convenient disbursement method for both PKP and the Bank is that based
on Project Management Reports (PMR). PKP has taken the necessary steps to strengthen its
financial management system, and is now eligible for PMR-based disbursements.
Retroactive financing is required for labor restructuring expenditures incurred since October
2000, when the Restructuring Law came into force. Their value is expected to be at most $15.2
million equivalent or 15 % of the loan total. This will allow PKP to finance the pre-retirement
and railway leave benefits already extended to some staff.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project represents a fundamental change in the way railway services are provided in Poland
To continue with the status quo is not a viable alternative. In 1999 and 2000 PKP lost money at a
rate of over US$ I million per day, sustained only by ad hoc land sales and by building up
liabilities to suppliers (of electric power, rolling stock, etc.) and the national government (income
tax, social insurance, labor fund, and disability fund). It is unable to attract funds for capital
replacement or modernization. The quality of its transport services is deteriorating.
- 14 -



The first alternative considered to the proposed restructuring and partial privatization was
continuing incremental changes, extending the measures taken during the 1995-1999 period. The
emphasis would have been on the gradual reduction of costs, while avoiding structural changes.
The problem with this approach is that it slowly incurs the expenses of restructuring but does not
fundamentally change the way of doing things or create stronger incentives to effective
management. Reforms do not reach the point where new investment is attracted from private
sources. The danger is that the restructuring would go on for ever, draining state budgets but
never reaching completion in self-sufficiency. PKP's management board, as well as the Polish
government, rejected the incremental approach as inadequate.
The second alternative considered was a complete privatization over a short period of time. This
would entail the creation and immediate sale of a rail infrastructure company (similar to Railtrack
in the U.K.) and creation of rail operating companies to provide freight and passenger services.
This approach did not have the necessary political support. However, the chosen approach could
create a stepping stone to eventual full privatization.
In steering a middle way between gradual incremental changes and immediate full privatization
one other aspect needed to be resolved, namely the phasing of the two aspects "unbundling/
restructuring" and "commercialization". MTME initially preferred to unbundle/ restructure PKP
and then commercialize it. Again political feasibility dictated that commercialization would
precede unbundling/restructuring, a route chosen by several other central European governments
in reforming public enterprises.
As regards World Bank support an alternative considered was a Sector Adjustment Loan. This
approach would focus on fundamental policy reform, where the legal, regulatory, and institutional
changes needed to put them into effect are agreed upon, whereafter the loan is disbursed in two or
three tranches upon adoption or implementation of the agreed measures. While a viable option, it
would have entailed disbursing to the State Treasury. This runs contrary to the wishes of the
Polish government, which requires PKP to take responsibility for any borrowing associated with
its restructuring, to be repaid ultimately from the proceeds of PKP's privatization and asset sales.
This is what the Law mandates. Provision by the State of a sovereign guarantee may be thought
to blur this distinction, but it is a distinction to which the Ministry of Finance attaches great
importance. Disbursements will occur only as and when employees leave PKP. If for any reason
lay-offs were halted, disbursements also would stop. This guards against the risk that PKP might
otherwise encumber itself with debt without the benefit of the labor shedding. Furthermore, while
at least four fifths of the proposed loan will be disbursed within 12 months, the tail of $ 13 million
will be spread evenly over two further years. In the case of PKP the evidence shows fundamental
support for change but weakness in the execution of the program. The Specific Investment
Loan's focus on labor restructuring and technical assistance will allow a more continuous dialogue
with the client over these three years of rapid transition.
A fmal alternative which was rejected was a traditional Specific Investment Loan for railway
infrastructure, rolling stock, information systems, or telecommunications. As with the option of
gradual reform, this would have avoided the main systemic problem and provided unsustainable
support to the symptoms of the problem.
- 15-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
To improve institutional and      Poland - First Transport (Loans  HS           HS
management structures in railways and 3193 & 3194), completed
highways.                         December 1996
To support and speed up the       Poland - Roads (Loan 3564),      S            HS
modernization and transformation of   approved March 1993, closed
the national road network and its  December 2000
administration, the General Directorate
of Public Roads.
To develop efficient administrative/    Poland - Port Access and   S             S
managerial structures and improve  Management
physical facilities giving access to the  (Loan 4080-0/4080-1),
three major ports (Gdansk, Gdynia and approved August 1996
Szczecin-Swinoujscie).
To support and speed up the       Poland - Roads 11                S             S
modernization of the road sector  (Loan 4236), approved
according to the policy initiated under  October 1997
the First Roads Project.
To support the government's Hard Coal Poland - Hard Coal Sector    S             S
Sector Restructuring Program, and the Adjustment (Loan 4490),
implementation of socially acceptable  approved June 1999
employment restructuring (which
includes addressing the needs of miners
leaving the industry, ensuring adequate
funding of social support activities,
safeguarding a transparent flow of
funds, and helping unemployed workers
find jobs).
- 16-



To help implement the new institutional Poland - Szczecin-Swinoujscie
framework for ports, by strengthening  Seaway and Port Modernization
the landlord function of the new port   Project (Ports 11), approved
authority in Szczecin through a   December 2000
concrete example of capacity
modernization and development in
partnership with the private sector.
(This is a natural follow up to the Port
Access and Management Project.)
To help create a country-wide labor   Poland - Employment          S             S
services system, including labor  Promotion and Services Project,
redeployment, retraining, and small   closed June 2000
business assistance, and introduce
modern labor re-deployment programs
throughout Poland.
To restructure and privatize railways   Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria;
facing decline of market share and large Argentina, Brazil, Mozambique
financial losses                  (1997-2000)
Other development agencies
See text below
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Other Development Agencies
Substantial investments in the railway sub-sector are also being made by the EIB, the EBRD, and
the EU through the Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-accession (ISPA). The EIB has
made six loans to PKP for a total of EUR 615 million: four for upgrading parts of the main
east-west line between the German border and Warsaw (EUR 460 million); one for post-flood
rehabilitation, mostly on the E-30 line in the Southwest (EUR 75 million); and one for priority
capacity improvements throughout PKP's network (EUR 80 million).
The EBRD has lent PKP EUR 50 million for upgrading other sections of the E-20 line and EUR
100 million for labor restructuring as co-financing for the present project. It also expects to lend
a further EUR 50 million for a programn of improved train control on five railway lines and
improved power management systems in two regions, with loan signing expected in the third
quarter of 2001.
The EU through ISPA is contributing to infrastructure development in the so-called Trans
European Network corridors for rail, road, and inland water. ISPA funding is not available for
work outside of these corridors. Nineteen transport projects have been identified in Poland for
ISPA funding totaling EUR 2.7 billion over the period 2000-2006. Of these, six are railway
projects valued at EUR 1.1 billion. Four of them complete the modernization of the
Berlin-Warsaw-Moscow corridor (E-20) begun through the EIB/EBRD financing. Of these four,
two projects cover the E-20 line from outside Warsaw (Minsk Mazowiecki) to the border with
- 17 -



Belarus (Terespol), 173 km in total. One covers the last section remaining at the Poland-German
border (Rzepin to the border), approximately 14 km. The fourth covers modernization of the rail
interchange yard in Poznan (also on the E-20 line). Implementation of the two projects covering
the E-20 line from Warsaw to the border with Belarus is expected to begin in 2001. Two other
projects cover 109 km of line between Wroclaw and the German border (E-30) and
approximately 130 km from outside Warsaw towards Gdansk (Warsaw-Dzialdowo, E-65).
The E-20 line is important, not only as part of the Berlin-Moscow line, but also for the Polish
economy. It is one of the most heavily traveled lines, and the inter-city passenger trains which are
a major user cover their costs. The cost-cutting measures foreseen as part of the restructuring
program, together with the floating of bonds authorized by the new Law and the expected
proceeds from privatization and asset sales, will allow PKP to generate sufficient cash to service
all its loans from the IFIs. However, if the pace of cost cutting measures were slowed and
privatization postponed, so that PKP fell short of its financial targets, the railway might have litt: e
choice but to defer some of these infrastructure investments.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
One of the Bank's first loans to Poland went to PKP, as part of the Transport Project launched iil
1990. The project, co-financed with EIB, was largely successful. Several important restructurir.g
measures were implemented, procurement was handled competently, and a firm start was made on
trimming the workforce to the reduced level of demand. However, financial targets were not fu ly
met. This experience allowed the Bank and PKP to get to know each other well, a relationship
which was continued during implementation of the Mercer study (see below).
Comparisons with the productivity of other, financially viable railways suggest that PKP's
workforce needs to be 25-45% smaller than that in mid-2000. In a 1997-98 restructuring study
funded by the Japan International Cooperation Agency, Daiwa consultants concluded, taking Ul C
norms as their reference, that PKP would need no more than 160,000 employees by 2005.
Mercer Management, funded by a US$ I million Japanese PHRD grant in 1995-97 and managecl
by the Bank, went further, arguing that PKP will need only 115,000 (in transport and transport
related operations), provided it can draw on modem technology and better equipment --even
allowing that PKP will need 20% more staff than in equivalent West European countries to bridge
the technology gap.
The Bank's assistance to Romanian and Croatian railways has shown the importance, for success,
of commitment to reform in both the Ministry of Transport and railway management. Those
operations also show the merit of the regulatory framework for reform being in place in advance
of the Bank's financing. These lessons were applied in the case of Poland. While the need for
Bank support was identified as early as 1993, full-scale preparation of a financing operation was
launched only once the restructuring law was passed. An implementing regulation setting up the
railway market regulator was approved in December, 2000.
The Bank started direct financing of severance payments through investment-type loans in Brazi!l
in 1996, when it helped Brazilian railways to privatize. Since then it has also financed severance
payments for the ralways of Mozambique and Croatia. The Bank has also been deeply involved n
- 18 -



the restructuring and downsizing of the Polish coal industry, through its (first) Hard Coal
Restructuring Sector Adjustment Loan approved in June 1999, which in turn drew on the lessons
of the Russia Coal Sector Adjustment Loan. The lessons from these experiences are being taken
into account in the detailed design and implementation of the proposed operation. In particular:
a) the proposed severance payments equivalent to 1-1.5 years of wages are reasonable and in
line with sound business practices; and
b) a workers' share program, as proposed, is a useful incentive.
A further lesson learned is that the administration of social support programs for workers being
displaced by privatization is best centered in one agency which has a direct interest in ensuring the
program operates. This concern over fragmented implementation has been addressed by the
creation of KAAZ.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Poland, MTME, and PKP have shown a strong commitment to reforming the
railway since the early 1990s. In 1989 PKP had 440,000 employees. Early efforts at staff
retrenchment included separating out non-railway functions (leading to 70,000 staff coming off
the railway's books) and during 1991-93 'group dismissals' of 17,000 workers. Staff reductions
using early retirement have accelerated in the last two years, resulting in another 21,000 being let
go and have largely exhausted this mechanism as a way of cutting the workforce.
Initial restructuring steps were taken by MTME and PKP in 1998 when PKP was divided into
separate departments for passenger train operations, freight operations, and infrastructure.
Separate accounts for each were set up and internal transfer prices were established to allow
greater clarity as to which services are making money and which losing, and giving greater
prominence to marketing functions. In September 1999 a new management board took over PKP
bringing a new president, a new financial director (with experience of privatization), and a new
director in charge of restructuring and privatization, all of whom show exceptional ability and
commitment to changing the railway.
MTME and PKP drew up the current reform program and in September 1999 the Council of
Ministers adopted it. A special parliamentary subcommittee on railway transport held extensive
hearings on the proposed law during spring and summer 2000. The subcommittee included
representatives from three major trade unions representing more than half of the workers of PKP.
(More detail on the Parliamentary consultation process is provided below in Section E: Summary
Project Analysis - Social.)
By opting for this approach, MTME and PKP are seeking to avoid the experience of the coal
industry where productive mines and loss-making mines were combined so that, in theory, the
profitable mines could subsidize the improvement of the loss-making mines. This approach has
failed. The railway restructuring will avoid this result by not mandating combinations of services
for the purpose of cross-subsidy as a condition of sale.
- 19-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The key added value of Bank support will be the financial resources to allow PKP to shed exc- ss
labor as a precursor to privatization, at a time when it is effectively bankrupt and therefore lacks
access to commercial financing. By easing the social dislocation through payment of early
retirement and severance packages, in conjunction with the provision of labor redeployment
services, the Bank helps ensure a co-operative rather than a hostile relationship between
management and the workforce through this transition, unblocking reforms that might otherwise
be delayed. The commitments to be entered into by MTME and PKP with IBRD and EBRD nmlay
also give them an incentive to stay the reform course in the face of political resistance.
The Bank's involvement will accelerate institutional development within MTME and the rail
subsector and the Bank's involvement as a trusted third party will improve overall practices in
social assistance, especially coordination between PKP and the Ministry of Labor and Social
Policy. The Bank has experience due to its related work in Poland (e.g., Coal Restructuring) and
elsewhere in the region (e.g., Romania, Macedonia, and Turkey) to ensure that criteria and
procedures used to apply these resources are efficient and effective and result in resources getting
to those who qualify for them.
With wide and successful experience elsewhere in the world in railway restructuring, the Bank can
also credibly assert the complexity and subtlety of rail restructuring and so encourage MTME and
PKP to tackle the strategic issues as well as devote enough attention to details. In the past we
have contributed to relevant advisory services and will continue to do so. We have been available
to MTME and PKP for discussions on railway modernization issues since 1990. The offer of
eventual financial support for restructuring has helped to keep the Banks advice and counsel high
in the regard of our Polish counterparts. The Bank organized seminars for Central European
railways in 1989 and 1993 as well as more recently in September 1997 and September 1999. PKP
managers attended these seminars. In particular we have, through these events, developed a
strong working relationship with the man who was Director of the Railway Department in MT'vIE
throughout most of the 1990s and was appointed President of PKP in 1999. The Bank is planning
a further seminar for September 2001, to disseminate the lessons of the Polish experience among
other ECA countries engaged in railway reform.
EBRD's parallel loan of EUR 100 million is at their lirmit of lending capacity. The EIB cannot lend
for labor restructuring.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$143 million; ERR = 20 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
PKP Restructuring and Privatization (the Program): Developing an estimate of the benefits
of the total rail reform program is highly conjectural and, since the costs of the entire progran can
- 20 -



be justified solely by labor benefits alone, not essential. However, the following suggests what the
lower end of the range might be.
There is considerable room for efficiency gains to reduce Polish rail freight tariffs. US rail freight
rates have fallen by half (in real terms) since deregulation of the US transport sector. In the
Brazilian and Argentine rail freight concessioning, rail freight tariffs fell by between 10 percent
and 30 percent on each concession within five years. Even a 10 percent reduction in Polish rail
freight tariffs would be worth US$ 250 million annually: if this 10 percent in rail tariffs caused a
related 1 percent reduction in for-hire truck tariffs, that would be worth an additional US$ 80
million annually. It is also thought likely that the sale price for PKP Cargo will be at least $0.5
billion and possibly well above $1 billion. Privatization of LHS and of various passenger services
is likely also to yield positive proceeds, but their scale is far smaller and taken together, they are
probably within the margin of uncertainty about PKP Cargo's value. But it is not hard to predict
near-term economic benefits from freight privatization alone, which are far greater than the entire
investment cost of the reform program.
The Labor Restructuring Measures (the Project): The economic benefits of the severance
packages are based on the future earnings of the redundant employees, with the assumption that
their current productivity is close to zero but that their future jobs will add far more to Polish
GDP. Economic benefits commence when the redundant workers start new jobs, and they are
measured by the new wages earned by the workers. Economic benefits terminate when the
worker retires. Thus, the commencement of economic benefits will be based on the time it takes
each worker to find a new job, and will depend on the worker's new wages. The contribution to
GDP will be greater to the extent that the jobs filled by redeployed workers are higher
productivity jobs. The specialized counseling, requalification training, and improved job
placement services to be provided by KAAZ aim to raise productivity by bringing about more
efficient matching of job seekers and the skill requirements of vacancies to be filled.
KAAZ has completed an analysis of the benefits of corporate restructuring ("Estimation of Costs
and Advantages of Restructuring of Labor Employment in PKP", July 2000 and Annex, October
2000), which evaluates the economic and financial feasibility of the labor restructuring program.
Their analysis makes use of a detailed profile of the PKP employee base broken down by age, sex,
education attained, location (voivodship), and current work assignment (Annex 13). This, along
with location-specific labor market data, has allowed the application of factors specific to these
variables in estimating the probability of finding a new job, expected wage, and length of time
until normal retirement age.
The KAAZ analysis has been incorporated into the Bank's own review and sensitivity analysis of
the economic costs and benefits. The ERR of the labor program is expected to be at least 20
percent and perhaps as much as 25 percent, even if there were no other benefits of the program.
Details are to be found in Annex 4.
- 21 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 1014 million; FRR = 100 % (see Annex 4)
(a)   Restoring the Railway's financial health
PKP's financial position has deteriorated rapidly, reaching unsustainable levels. Recent trends in
the key financial indicators are given in Annex 5. To turn around the railways' financial condition,
the PKP Restructuring Law:
* sets out a program for restructuring railway debts to sustainable levels. Throughout 2001 and
2002, 20 percent of arrears will be repaid in monthly installments, with the remainder to be
repaid also monthly over the three years 2003-05. Interest and late penalties due on arrears,
will be forgiven provided (i) the railway stays current with tax and social security obligations
and pays off arrears over these five years; and (ii) salary increases are limited to the rate of the
consumer price index.
 sets out a labor restructuring and compensation program. About 37,000 redundant workers
are to be laid off with an estimated cost of PLN 1.37 billion (US$333 million), envisaging
downsizing of over 20 percent by end of 2002.
e creates the basis for transferring urban and regional networks to local authorities. An annual
subsidy of PLN 800 million to cover losses due to public service obligations (PSO) will be
channeled through the regional governments.
* vests ownership of railway land in the PKP holding company (PKP S.A.), which will permii
sales, leasing and disposal of redundant properties including housing.
* authorizes sovereign guarantees for funding to implement the above program. A Sovereign
guarantee will cover the World Bank and EBRD loans and a PKP restructuring bond in the
amount of PLN 800 million to be issued in the next two years to complement the PSO
subsidy. PKP S.A. is authorized to issue bonds for a maximum of PLN 3.9 billion (U$943
mIillion).
(b)   Projected future financial situation
The Bank's financial projections have been prepared for the holding company PKP S.A. which
will function through its separate subsidiaries: infrastructure, freight, and passenger operations.
The projections are no more than best estimates; the actual performance will depend on the speed
of privatization of the subsidiaries and the market response to the planned reforms. It should b-
noted that these projections are made by the World Bank for internal purposes and reflect the
opinions of Bank staff, not PKP.
The projections show that the implementation of the agreed restructuring measures, provision cf
passenger services compensation, and the inflow of funds from a bridge loan and the planned
bond issue, will allow the railway to improve its financial situation gradually. Realization of
privatization proceeds will greatly speed up the recovery. Beginning in 2001, operating expenses
are expected to be covered by operating revenues together with the PSO subsidy, although
- 22 -



depreciation would be covered only partially. This is mainly as a result of decreasing operating
costs. Staff reduction is the principal restructuring measure leading to an annual cost reduction of
over PLN I billion (US$242 million). In the opinion of the World Bank, a further staff reduction
of about 27,000 is required in the year 2003 to maintain investment at a desirable level. The
planned privatization of PKP Cargo will enable this. As a result, labor costs would be reduced by
37 percent in real terms from PLN 5.2 billion (US$1.3 billion) in 1999 to PLN 3.4 billion
(US$822 million) in 2005. Staff productivity (traffic units per 1000 employees) would improve
from 407 in 1999 to 665 in 2005.
The financial forecasts are in constant prices of end-2000 and based on the following key
assumptions. Details are shown in Annex 5. (Again, these are all Bank staff estimates; PKP's
own estimates are somewhat more optimistic about future traffic and revenues and hence foresee
less need for further shedding of labor.)
*  Freight traffic will decrease by 2 percent in 2001 but will remain constant in 2002. It will
gradually increase in the following three years (1, 2, and 5%), reflecting the planned
privatization of PKP Cargo.
*  Passenger traffic will decrease in the next five years but with declining rates (-9, -3, and -2%
thereafter) as the loss-making regional and commuter services are either withdrawn or
transferred to municipal or local authorities. These projections are also based on: (i) increased
responsiveness to the needs of cross-regional and commuter traffic; (ii) increased activities of
local governments in contracting out regional services; and (iii) improved competitiveness of
PKP relative to road transport operators.
*  Freight rates have been declining (-5% each in 1999 and 2000) in real terms. Average freight
revenue per ton-km, now estimated at US$0.024, will increase to US$0.025 and remain
constant for the next two years. It will decrease gradually beginning in 2003, as the planned
restructuring would strengthen management incentives for improved performance.
3  Passenger unit revenues (without subsidy) are expected to increase, in real terms, by 5 percent
in 2001. Passenger fares are then held constant (in real terms) over the next four years by
expanding high-revenue services and discontinuing low-revenue services.
*  Total revenues will decrease by 5 percent in real terms between 1999 and 2005, due mainly to
a 23 percent decrease in passenger traffic during this time.
*  Total operating expenses will decrease by 23 percent in real terms during the same period.
Labor costs will reduce by 37 percent in real terms with unit wages largely remaining
constant. Unit costs of other operating costs will also remain constant. During the year 2000,
PKP discontinued service on some marginal passenger lines, cutting the losses by PLN 300
million. Channeling of the PSO subsidy through the regional and local government will help
eliminate unprofitable services.
*  PKP needs the commitment of the Government to provide in the next five years subsidies
totaling about PLN 9.6 billion (US$2.3 billion), including PLN 2.9 billion to compensate for
discount fares, PLN 3.2 billion for other PSOs, and PLN 3.5 billion for infrastructure
investment.
*  In the opinion of the World Bank, PKP needs to retrench an additional 27,000 surplus
workers in 2003, reducing the total number of staff by about 19 percent from 144,000 to
117,000. Total cost of this labor restructuring would be about PLN 864 million (US$209
- 23 -



million) in 2003, but would result in a payroll saving of PLN 780 million (US$190 million l per
year thereafter.
*  The capital expenditures have been declining, resulting in a substantial backlog of capital
overhaul. The annual investment program will continue declining to PLN 1.3 billion in 20)1
but will increase to PLN 1.8 billion (US$430 million) each year between 2002 and 2005,
subject to the further staff reduction of 27,000 (as considered in the Bank staff analysis). Two
EIB loans for EUR 200 million are planned for the next two years for rehabilitation of PKP's
network, along with EU grant financing averaging PLN 350 million per year.
*  PKP S.A. needs about PLN 2.8 billion (US$683 million) in the next five years to cover its
cash requirements for complementing the PSO subsidy, reducing its overall indebtedness,
servicing the IFI debts (estimated at US$100-200 million per annum), maintaining investment
at an adequate level, and covering its share of the planned labor severance scheme. This will
be covered with the bond and bridging finance. The financial forecasts assume issuance of the
bond at the end of 2001, considering the lead time required for flotation. In the second
quarter of 2001, PKP is negotiating a bridge loan of PLN 700 million from a consortium of
five commercial banks. The bond will be repaid through the use of privatization proceeds.
The first repayment of the bond estimated at PLN 350 million is planned for 2005.
-  Liabilities to the State creditors will decrease as specified in the PKP Restructuring Law. The
end-of-year balance amounts to about PLN 3.1 billion in 2000, 2.8 billion in 2001, 2.5 billion
in 2002, 1.7 billion in 2003, 830 mnillion in 2004 with final pay-off by end-2005.
With these assumptions, gradual, though modest, improvements can be expected.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed by decreasing freight and passenger traffic by 15 percent
below the base case; delaying labor restructuring by 6, 12, and 24 months; decreasing freight and
passenger traffic by 15 percent as well as delaying the layoffs by 24 months; and PKP Cargo ;lot
being privatized. Summary results are as follows. In cases less favorable than the base case, PKP
together with the Government would have to take a combination of measures including further
staff retrenchment, rationalization of network and operations, reduction of its investment
program, deferral of capital overhaul, and increase of subsidies. However, if PKP were to fall to a
plausible financial worst-case scenario with a 24-month delay in staff retrenchment and traffic
decrease of 15 percent, the Government would have to bail out with additional subsidies of PLN
3.3 billion ($ 800 million) between 2001 and 2005. Without layoffs, the impacts of other
mitigation measures would not be sufficient to eliminate cash shortages. The need for such
actions will be monitored during supervision.
- 24 -



Sensitivity of Financial Targets to Various Risk Factors
(end-year cash in PLN million)
Senario                     2000                    2001                     2002                     2003                     2004                     2005
end-                   end-                     end-                     end-                     end-                     end-
DSCR DSCR year        DSCR DSCR  year          DSCR DSCR  year          DSCR DSCR   year          DSCR DSCR  year         DSCR DSCR  year
WR   (1)   (2)  Ca  WR   (1)   (2)   Cash  WR   (1)   (2)   Cash  WR   (1)   (2)   Cash  WR   (1)   (2)   Cash  WR   (1)   (2)   Cash
BaseCase                       103   (0.6)  (0.6) 35   89   1.8    25      64   85   1.9   3.1      64  81    2.1   3.4      73  77   17   3.8        76  77   2.4   3.8   il1
Sc. 1: Freight Traffic 15%     103  (0.6)  (0.6) 35   95   0.8   1.1  (475)  90   1.2   1S  (1,008)  86    1.5   2 3  (1,530)  81   13   2.8  (2,051) 81   1.8   28  (2,549)
below the base case
Sc. 2: Passenger Traffic 15%   103   (0.6)  (0.6) 35   90   1.6   2.2   (72)  86   1.8   2.8   (202)  82    2.0   3.1   (321)  78   16   36    (443) 78   2.3   36    (530)
below the base case
Sc. 3: Labor Restruuring
Delayed by 6rmonths         103   (0.6)  (0.6) 35   90   1.7   2.3   (10)  86   1.8   2.9    (13) 81    2.2   3.4   (176)  77   1.7   3.8   (166) 77   2.4   38    (122)
Delayed by 12 mnths         103   (0.6)  (0.6) 35   94   1.0   1.3  (192)  90   1.3   2.0   (563) 86    1.7   2.6   (865)  82   1.4  3.1  (1,498) 77   2.5   3.8  (1.547)
Delayed by 24 mnonths       103   (0.6)  (0.6) 35   94   1.0   1.3  (192)  95   0.6   0.9   (745)  91    1.1   1.7   (963) 66   1.1   2.3  (2,007) 81   2.0   3.1  (3,264)
Sc. 4: DisasterScenario        103   (0.6)  (0.6) 35  102  (0.3)  (0.4)  (868) 103  (0.4)  (0.6) (2,083)  98    0.2   0.3  (2,959)  93   0.5   1.1  (4,653) 87   1.2   1.9  (6,565)
Freight and passenger traffic
15% below the base case,
labor mestructng delayed
by 24 months
Sc.5: PKPCargonotprivafzed    103   (0.6)  (0.6) 35   89   1.8   2.5    64  86   1.9   2.9          (7) 8B    1.4   2.0   (571) 91   0.7   1.4  (1,784) 94   0.6   09  (3,263)
No staff reduction d 27,000
in 2003, freight rates increase by
1% per annum and freight voiume
decrease by 2% (2001-02).
5% (2003-05) per annum
Notes:
(i)  WR (%): working ratio including subsidy
(ii)  DSCR (1): debt service coverage ratio, trncludin  the debt incurred pursuant to the provisions of the PKP Restructuring Law.
(ii) DSCR (2): debt service coverage ratio, excluding the debt incurred pursuant to the provisions of the PKP Restructuring Law.
(iii) Tariff adjustments and cost increase expressed in nominal terms.
(iv) Sensit)vity analysis on increase in passenger traffic is not run because this does not appear to be a likely scenario.
(v)  Sensibvity analysis on tariff increases is not run because tariff decreases are anbcipated for freight, while passenger tariffs are forecast to be constant
Source: World Bank StaffEstimates
- 25 -



Measures to Eliminate Cash Losses under Scenario 4 (Worst Case)
(Amount in PLN million)
2001       2002       2003       2004       2005        Total
Annual Cash Losses under Scenario 4      (912)    (1,216)       (876)    (1,693)    (1,912)    (6,609)
Capital Overhaul Cost                     788        797        799        806        831       4,021
Reduction in Capital Overhaul             10%        10%        10%        10%        10%         10%
Savings                                    79         80         80         81         83        402
Non-labor Operating Cost                2,154      2,180      2,193       2,216      2,348     11,091
Savings from Rationalization               5%         5%         5%         5%         5%          5%
of network & operation
Savings                                   108        109        110        111        117         555
Capital Expenditures                    1,350      1,750      1,750       1,750      1,750      8,350
Financed by the Govt                      600        750        750        650        700       3,450
Financed by EU                            350        350        350        350        350       1,750
Financed by EIB                            19        114        190        266        171        760
PKP own funds                             381        536        460        484        529       2,390
Reduction of investment                   381        536        460        484        529       2,390
Revised Capital Expenditures              969      1,214       1,290      1,266      1,221      5,960
Total savings achieved by PKP             568        725        650        675        730       3,347
Additonal Government subsidies            345        491        226       1,018      1,183      3,262
Net result                                  0          0          0          0          0           0
Source: World Baok StaffEstimates
(c)    Financial return on the labor restructuring program
The financial benefits of the severance program are defined by the savings of labor costs to PTP
relative to a do-nothing alternative under which the labor force remains largely unchanged in size.
Labor benefits from the program commence when the worker is removed from the PKP payroll
and terminate when the worker becomes eligible for retirement. Since the severance payments are
equivalent to 1-1.5 years of wages, the net saving starts as early as the second year. PKP's payroll
will be cut by $230 million per year. The internal rate of return is extremely high --well above
100%.
The KAAZ analysis referred to above has been incorporated into the Bank's own review and
sensitivity analysis of the financial costs and benefits. Details are to be found in Annex 4.
- 26 -



Fiscal Impact:
The amount of State budget funds transferred to PKP in recent years was as follows:
PLN million         |          US$ million           l
Exchange rate PLN/$                                 3.28    3.48   3.97      4.3
1997   1998   1999   2000    1997    1998   1999   2000
Passenger services   712    562    568    579        216    161    142       135
(compensation for
discount & free tickets)
Railway Health Care   469    469   discon-  discon-    142    134   discon-  discon-
Service                             tinued  tinued                 tinued  tinued
Infrastructure       352    347    416    720        107     99    104       167
investments         I_I_I_I_I
Total               1,533  1,378    984   1,299      465    394    246       302
Total as % of GDP         I              I_ _       0.32    0.25    0.16    0.19
An indirect burden on the State budget has accumulated through PKP's non-payment of taxes and
contributions to the pension fund (ZUS) and disability fund, which by the end of December 2000
totaled PLN 3.1 billion ($728 million). The increase during 1999 was PLN 1.6 billion ($390
million) -- nearly 1.6 times the formal transfers from the State budget. The increase during 2000
was PLN 0.9 billion ($206 million). Penalty interest due on these arrears will be forgiven, once
PKP has paid off the arrears. If PKP pays off the arrears steadily over the next five years, the
forgiving of the penalty interest will constitute an implicit subsidy of about $630 million.
The restructuring and privatization of PKP will not reduce the planned formal State transfers to
PKP, but by moving it toward financial health, they aim to enable it to stay current with its tax
and social security obligations and pay off, over five years, the $728 million in arrears. This will
remove the need for the State to provide unplanned financial support such as the forgiveness of
penalty interest; it will also greatly reduce the risk of the State having to assume PKP's debt
service in the event of a default.
3. Technical:
The overall railway restructuring program is a technically complex undertaking involving several
stakeholders, new practices and assignment of responsibilities, and requires an acceptance of
change from segments of industry and society which have not previously had to cope with change.
Setting appropriate access charges and physical standards for railway infrastructure is critical. If
the standard is set too high, then the infrastructure company can and will charge too much for
access and train operation. The physical standard must reflect ultimately the prime user's
willingness to pay and the economic level of capital input for each service using that portion of
infrastructure. Passenger operations differ from freight operations as to weight, speed, and
pattern of train operation. This results in different requirements in strength of track, track layout,
and communications and signaling.
- 27 -



Infrastructure, communications and signaling, safety and environmental standards will need to
meet EU standards for purposes of EU accession, including the use of Polish railway
infrastructure by other EU operating companies.
The technical assistance on rail infrastructure being funded by EBRD/PHARE includes advice on
these issues.
4. Institutional:
The current capacity of several agencies needs strengthening before they will be able to effectik iely
perform their required roles in the new railway environment. These include the regulatory arm of
the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy, and the departments of the regional
(voivodship) governments to be responsible for supervising passenger transport services.
The General Railway Inspectorate has functioned as the rail safety agency, responsible for
standards compliance, safety and accident investigation. This agency has been renamed the
Railway Transport Office and substantially augmented to include the role of rail regulator, access
charge arbitrator, competition agency, and environmental watchdog. The President of the Office
will report annually to the Prime Minister through the Transport Minister. His duties include:
1 ) approving charges for access to railway lines,
2)  commenting on draft investment plans of railway administrations (in effect, PLK) with
regard to railway lines of national importance,
3) commenting on intentions to close a railway line in whole or in part,
4) coordinating timetables in railway transport,
5) approving contracts related to granting access to railway lines to operators and making
sure that access rights to railway lines granted to individual operators are
non-discriminatory,
6) imposing fiscal penalties under relevant regulations of the law,
7) cooperating with relevant authorities with regard to:
(a) counteracting monopolistic practices of railway administrations and railway operators,
(b) providing the legal framework for the railway transport system,
8) setting standards for cooperation between railway administrations and railway operators,
9) monitoring the railway market,
10) supervising safety in carriage of dangerous goods by rail,
11) performing examination proceedings and issuing licenses for railway advisors for safety in
carriage of dangerous goods by rail,
12) issuing and maintaining a register of certificates of approval for operation of structures
and facilities assigned to run railway traffic,
13) controlling conformity of rail lines and rail vehicles with conditions of safety,
environmental protection, and employee qualifications,
14) controlling track vehicles,
15) participating in investigation of railway accidents to establish causes thereof,
16) acting in the capacity of architecture and construction authority as well as construction
supervisor as regards rail transport, provided for in relevant regulations, taking steps to
- 28 -



increase safety in railway transport.
The regulation establishing this office was approved by the parliament on December 8, 2000 and
entered into force on January 14, 2001.
The advisory assignment on regulating access rights, to be funded from the Bank's Privatization
TA loan in the second half of 2001, will provide guidance on these tasks.
Regional governments (voivodshipsl  In January 1998, under a major reform initiative for fiscal
decentralization, the previous 49 voivodships were consolidated into 16. At the same time their
scope of activity was expanded to take on more functions of local government and for the first
time 'marshalls' were elected to be responsible for certain functions at this level. The PKP
restructuring law makes them now responsible for administering subsidy funds provided by the
national government and using these funds to purchase local transport services as they see fit. At
this point the administrative capacity of the voivodships is small. There are few staff expert in (i)
administering the transport subsidy funds, (ii) deternining local public transport priorities, (iii)
procuring transport services and administering service contracts.
One of the proposed technical assistance contracts will address the need for institutional
strengthening in these areas.
A further important question is whether PKP S.A., the future financial holding company, will have
sufficient incentive to move beyond the creation of separate operating companies and privatize.
The Government has declared its firm intention to impose a hard budget constraint on PKP, so
that asset sales and privatization will be the only way to pay down its large obligations to the state
budget, commercial suppliers, and future bond holders. The project is vulnerable to the risk that a
future government may relax this hard budget constraint. However, the downsizing of the
workforce needs to precede the privatization and is urgent as the only way to cut costs
substantially and quickly.
The Letter of Railway Reform Policy (Annex 11) confirms the Government's conimitment to
implement the reforms, including --after appropriate planning-- privatization.
The advisors for the privatization of SKM and WKD began work in March 2001. Privatization
advisors for the freight operations will be mobilized before the end of 2001, funded from the
proposed loan and --it is to be hoped-- grants being sought.
4.1 Executing agencies:
PKP top management has demonstrated considerable capacity in designing the program well and
securing political commitment throughout the Government. It remains to be seen if middle level
managers will be willing and able to make the profound changes required of them, not least as
regards corporate culture. This is an element of risk which will have to be monitored carefully
during project implementation. A 'mid-term' review will be conducted a year after loan signing.
4.2 Project management:
KAAZ, the special agency set up within PKP, will co-ordinate all aspects of the labor
- 29 -



restructuring program. Its good performance in preparing the program augurs well for the
implementation phase.
KAAZ will use PKP's existing computerized employee records system (SEREK) to set up
registers of workers entitled to severance, railway leaves and other benefits. This database
(known as SAPAZ) will contain each redundant worker's name, the amount of benefit and sou -ce
of funds. Details in registers will be confirmed a month in advance. Since the amount of the
severance payment depends on the level of unemployment in the worker's county ("powiat") o:
residence on the day of departure from PKP, KAAZ will monitor carefully any changes of
residence during the period of notice. Workers will have an option of receiving their payment; in
cash or as a transfer to their bank account; KAAZ will recommend bank transfers.
To handle disbursements from the EBRD and World Bank loans, KAAZ is to open special
accounts for each IFI. Disbursements from the Bank loan will be in accordance with Project
Management Reports (PMRs). EBRD's co-financing loan has been disbursing rapidly since
January 2001 (EUR 75 million by March 31st). An international auditing firm has reviewed Pk:LP's
procedures for authenticating the identity and eligibility of beneficiaries of the severance
payments. The auditors also conduct random checks on individual payments. EBRD made a i
initial disbursement of EUR 25 million to its special account, and replenished it upon receipt ol a
disbursement request and progress report, accompanied by a satisfactory report from the audit r.
Similar provisions will be made for disbursement of the World Bank loan (see Annex 6), with the
authorized allocation to the special account being $23 million equivalent (23 % of the loan
amount).
4.3 Procurement issues:
The technical assistance will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" of January 1997, revised September
1997 and January 1999 (hereafter referred to as the Consultant Guidelines). Consultants will 1: e
selected on the basis of quality and cost (QCBS). The Borrower will use the Bank's Standard
Request for Proposals for Selection of Consultants.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Assessment of the Financial Management System. The project team's overall assessment o:"
PKP's financial management system as of December 2000 is that the risk is medium. KAAZ has
in place satisfactory internal information and control systems for disbursements against Project
Management Reports. The steps taken to strengthen PKP S.A.'s financial management systerr. are
listed in Annex 6.
Reporting Arrangements. KAAZ will prepare quarterly project management reports and anm ual
project financial statements. The latter will show all project components and funding sources.
PKP's annual financial statements will also be furnished to the Bank, since its financial viability is
vital to project success. The formats of the PMRs have been discusssed and agreed with KAAZ
(see Annex 6).
Audit Arrangements. The project annual financial statements and annual PKP financial
statements will be subject to the standard audit provisions, which are set out in Annex 6.
- 30 -



The planned rapid disbursement during the first months of the project makes it essential to have
the auditor for the project accounts appointed early on, so that he can advise the borrower on the
systems to be followed. To verify the Project accounts (i.e. disbursements from the World Bank
loan and related co-payments from PKP) in CY2001 PKP proposes to hire the same auditor as
that already auditing use of the EBRD's loan --which is also the firm which conducted the
enterprise audit for 1999. Accordingly, it was agreed at negotiations that PKP will appoint the
auditor before loan effectiveness.
5. Environmental:               Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental assessment is not required for the social support components financed by the
World Bank.
PKP is complying with all relevant environment-related legislation and regulation. Its
environment-related performance is subject to periodic (usually annual) audit by the Ministry of
Environment and the inspectorate of hygiene and safety. The main audits have been satisfactory,
as is evident from the steady decline in penalties that are normally imposed by the auditors for
non-compliance with the audit recommendations. The fact that penalties imposed in 1999 came
to less than $40,000 testifies to PKP's satisfactory record in meeting environment-related
standards. An Environment Plan for 2000 is currently under implementation and is aimed at
reducing the levels of noise, safe transportation of goods classified as dangerous, an overall
decrease in the unit consumption of fuels and energy, efficient water-sewage management, and
efficient utilization of waste materials. In spite of financial constraints, about 15% of the total
outlay on investment during 1999 was allocated to investments and modernization related to
environment protection and a similar investment is proposed for the year 2000.
PKP has established a special environment directorate to undertake environmental analysis,
internal environmental audit, and development and implementation of environmental plans and
programs. The directorate currently employs a total of nine specialists possessing
environment-related qualifications and skills. Three of the staff are certified by the Ministry of
Environment to carry out formal environment impact assessments. Additionally, one or two
environmental specialists each are also attached to infrastructure, passenger and freight units. The
directorate also uses external consultants to augment analysis where necessary. PKP has been
active in keeping abreast of developments in the field of environment and, during 1999, sponsored
or participated in international conferences on transportation of dangerous goods, noise questions,
and experiences in environment protection.
PKP has also developed a long-term (20-year) strategy for environmental protection that focusses
on significant improvements in the areas of noise, atmosphere, soil, and electromagnetic fields.
The strategy takes account of the requirements of the EU's acquis communautaire. PKP claims
to have established environment-related standards that are stricter than those specified by the
national agencies or the UIC.
Since the proposed project does not involve investments for expanding the network or creating or
- 31 -



modernizing any physical facilities and is focused only on facilitating the organizational, labor, and
financial restructuring of PKP, environment category "C" has been assigned to the Project. N . o
special environmental review or audit of PKP is necessary in view of PKP's having developed: (a)
adequate in-house institutional capacity for environmental analysis and protection: (b) a long- erm
environment strategy; and (c) an on-going action plan for environmental protection.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not required.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and statLs of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EB,i
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
While the Project itself (the labor restructuring) is not expected to have any environmental impact,
the broader prograrn to restructure PKP includes the closing of about 6,000 kmn of lightly usedi
lines. The Law allows PKP to offer such lines for sale to whomever is willing to take over their
operation, but market interest will probably be modest and limited to lines serving specific frei ght
movements (to quarries or factories). It is expected that local governments will introduce bus
services to replace passenger trains where warranted by demand. The proposed study on
low-density lines (grant funding to be secured) will explore the potential for finding buyers to
keep such lines operating. It will also evaluate the possible environmental and social impacts of
the line closures and recommend appropriate mitigation measures, taking into account the public
consultation process.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The main group negatively affected by the restructuring of PKP will be workers to be laid off
Successful restructuring requires effective programs to ease the social costs of large-scale layeffs.
As part of appraisal, the project team conducted an evaluation of the social impacts of the pro ject.
It is available as a separate report, entitled: "Identification of Labor Programs and their Costs, as
Applied to Polskie Koleje Panstwowe (PKP) Employment Restructuring". It was led by a
consultant experienced in social programs in Poland and familiar with the Bank's earlier work :n
social programs and coal restructuring. This review took into consideration income support a ad
redeployment programs available for the general unemployed in Poland, in addition to those that
will be available solely for redundant railway workers. These programs are described in Annex 2,
Table I and Table 2 respectively. Note was also taken of the experience and lessons learned in
Poland's coal and steel sectors, which have undergone extensive labor restructuring. The curr-nt
budget constraints facing the Labor Fund were noted, as well as the experience of the Ministrn of
Labor and Social Policy (MLSP) and the National Labor Office with tracking take-up trends and
monitoring the impact of redeployment programs for the unemployed.
- 32 -



Much of the social impact will depend on the response of PKP's workers to the various packages
and incentives offered and on their subsequent success, or lack of it, in the Polish labor market.
Unemployment currently runs high at over 15% in many parts of Poland, especially in the
northeast and southeast. This is aggravated by the limited residential mobility found in Poland.
Fortunately railway workers are not concentrated geographically like coal and steel workers. The
largest number of rail services to be cut are in the western regions, where unemployment is not so
high.
After reviewing prospects for future profitable traffic and the potential for technological
improvements in railway operations, PKP top management has established criteria as to skill
group, age, length of service, and disposition (or lack thereof) to acquire new skills, to govern
decisions on who is to be considered redundant. On the basis of these criteria regional managers
will have to decide, worker by worker, who is to be laid off. A profile of the specific staff to be
laid off will therefore not become available until PKP management has finalized its decisions. In
accordance with the restructuring law, this began in December 2000. As an interim indicator, a
profile of the existing labor force of PKP is provided in Annex 13. Workers to be laid off will
come disproportionately from less-skilled categories.
An estimate has been prepared on the length of time it will take workers to re-enter the labor
force based on the following information:
Central Statistical Office data on the length of time it takes unemployed to find a job
information from KAAZ that there is a significant number of workers with a rural
background owning agricultural land, effectively disqualifying them from eligibility for
general unemployment benefits
experience of former workers in the coal sector
interviews with MLSP and the National Labor Office
The research leads us to conclude that 20% of laid-off workers will find a job within 3 months,
50% will find a job within 3 to 18 months, and 30% will not find a job in the foreseeable future.
Several factors make it unlikely that there will be a large take-up by ex-railway workers of normal
redeployment programs available from local labor offices. These include the current under-funded
state of the Labor Fund, and the need for railway workers to compete with the general
unemployed for local labor office assistance. The experience of labor offices with ex-miners
shows that, while some registered for unemployment benefits, their take-up of labor redeployment
programs offered through local labor offices was low. These considerations led PKP to set up its
special programs for redundant railway workers through KAAZ.
KAAZ offers its programs during the notice period, prior to each worker's departure from PKP.
International experience with labor adjustment services offered to redundant workers shows that
this is the most effective time to provide redeployment assistance; KAAZ expects it will
encourage a higher-than-normal take-up rate. Training to be offered will include setting up small
businesses. Workers who do not take advantage in 2001-2002 of the services offered by KAAZ
may eventually come back to local Labor Offices for general employment assistance such as job
search. Follow-up monitoring and tracer studies of redundant railway workers will provide a
- 33 -



better indication of likely future demand for general employment services (see Section 6.5 bl.low).
Redundant workers living in rural areas of high unemployment may be vulnerable in the med: um
term. Many PKP workers come from a farming background. If these workers consume thejr
severance payments over the short term without finding alternative employment, some may piot
qualify for either unemployment benefits or social assistance, because they own land. Althoi gh
the proportion of would-be redundant rail workers in this situation is unknown, many have I. w
mobility and only limited schooling. Redundant railway workers who live in voivodships of Ihigh
rural unemployment, such as Podlaskie or Podkarpackie, may therefore be more vulnerable t nan
their urban counterparts and may benefit from participating in labor redeployment components of
the World Bank's Rural Development Program, now in the implementation stage. Relevant
sub-components of that Program include micro-credit and labor redeployment services (assistance
to improve labor mobility, training, and temporary community employment). In recognition if
this potential vulnerability, KAAZ is in contact with voivodship offices, with a view to assisting
affected railway workers to benefit from special labor redeployment programs aimed at rural
areas.
[Note: Another relevant resource is the Bank's Social Protection Discussion Paper, "Evaluating the Ir-ipact
of Active Labor Programs: Results of Cross Country Studies in Europe and Central Asia" (June 199',),
which includes the results of active labor programs in Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, and Turkey ]
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Labor Unions and Civil Society
After the draft law to restructure PKP was introduced into Parliament (October 1999) a spec al
subcommittee on railway transport was set up to ensure good understanding of the bill and t,.,
gather a broad range of comments. The subcommittee held extensive hearings during spring and
summer 2000. The subcommittee included representatives from Solidarity and two other major
trade unions representing more than half of PKP's workforce and 70% of its unionized employees.
All 21 trade union centers involved with PKP were able to and did appear at the committee's
sessions to present their views.
The bill was amended to reflect union concerns by, among other changes, adding the railway
leaves and the pre-retirement benefits --an extension, to be funded by PKP, of benefits previa isly
paid out of the general Labor Fund. The structure of the severance payments was also simpli fied
from four categories based on absolute unemployment rates to two categories based on relati ve
unemployment rates. The value of the maximum severance payout remained unchanged, but the
average was raised significantly.
In June 2000 five of the smaller unions called for a strike to protest the restructuring proposals.
However, in the event few workers heeded the call and the strike did not materialize.
The Worker's Ownership Fund is an innovation in Polish privatization law that was introduced
into the original PKP draft legislation after consultation with the labor unions and after the
experience gained from the privatization of Polish telecommunications. It provides a way for all
present PKP workers to gain some of the "capital value" of their enterprise as assets are
privatized.
- 34 -



The political system in Poland has demonstrated over the last ten years a strong degree of
maturity, flexibility, and sophistication in dealing with the stresses of a transition economy. It has
peacefully ensured changes in government with quite different opinions on the direction of the
country. Civil society in Poland has been very active since before the collapse of the communist
state. There is a tri-partite structure of consultation (government, labor, business) that is well
established and effective. There is no reason for the Bank to doubt the results of the political
debate as being unrepresentative of workers views.
Direct Communication with PKP workers
PKP has devoted considerable effort to being sensitive to workers' needs in this restructuring.
KAAZ uses employee bulletins for internal communications on its activities in labor restructuring,
and press releases for external communications. In addition to regular articles in the company
newspaper, there is now an Internet site (www.kaaz.pkp.pl) for the use of employees as well as
would-be employers and the public. All employees given notice will be asked to fill out a
questionnaire to express their opinion of the separation package and the way in which KAAZ and
PKP will have handled the process.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As noted above, the political debate leading to passage of the Restructuring Law entailed
extensive consultations with the 21 trade unions that represent PKP workers. PKP and KAAZ
have also been engaging in widespread communication and consultation on labor restructuring
with a wide range of organizations, agencies, and persons considered instrumental in helping PKP
achieve its employment restructuring goals. These include groups within PKP such as
management and workers' organization representatives, as well as organizations outside PKP such
as local governments, especially local labor offices, and social agencies. Information on the labor
restructuring plans has been provided and cooperation has been established with groups
responsible for social and labor issues and with economic development agencies at the local,
voivoidship and national level. Cooperation agreements are also being signed with local
governments as well as with other national railways on such initiatives as the Leonardo da Vinci
program, which assists and funds development of training instruments such as screening, training
design, and evaluation tools.
The project team considers that the railway restructuring is well conceived, organized, and carried
out.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
KAAZ, established as a professional agency to support PKP workers during their transition, has
been and is being well supported through funding and management attention. Implementation
cooperation between KAAZ and the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy, at both national and
local office levels, has been found to be very good. In addition to the counseling, job search and
other employment services offered by KAAZ, a number of labor redeployment programs are
available to the unemployed through the local Labor Offices. Of these, training, work place
intervention, and public works are the three most widely used programs, according to the NLO
- 35 -



and MLSP.
PKP's operational unit managers are obliged to cooperate with KAAZ on the following:
providing information to KAAZ on surplus assets, which can provide the basis for
establishment of own businesses by workers;
* providing information to KAAZ on organizational and restructuring plans; and
allowing KAAZ professional staff to organize meetings with workers.
KAAZ Organization and Staff
KAAZ's 84 professional staff members have been recruited from elsewhere in PKP and have a
railway background. In anticipation of labor restructuring, KAAZ has trained them to deliver and
organize labor redeployment assistance to redundant workers in eight regional offices throughout
the country. In all, 111 people work for KAAZ, including head office administration. With the
focus of assistance on early intervention, it would be difficult for an outside organization to have
the same degree of knowledge of the complexity of the organization. In addition, KAAZ has
direct access to PKP's human resource database to enable monitoring of benefit entitlement as
well as personnel details. To prepare for the next phase of intensive labor restructuring, KAAZ
staff have been trained using materials, methods, and assistance provided by the NLO. The NL()
holds a high opinion of the capabilities of KAAZ staff and, over and above training support to
KAAZ staff, has provided licensing as an employment agency and access to the NLO's "Hollanc."
occupational test and permission to use the "Advisor 2000" occupational and career interest
software.
KAAZ reports that between January and December 2000 the agency was able to develop 12,81 0
potential job openings and has already placed 426 PKP workers. In the months before the Law
was passed, workers' interest in placement was low, but KAAZ expects greater take-up of
potential job offers by affected workers now that the Law is in effect and workers absorb the new
reality of redundancy. In summary, KAAZ appears as a highly professional, competent agency
with respect to its institutional capacity to deliver and monitor labor redeployment assistance to
redundant railway workers.
6.5 How will the project monitor perfonnance in terms of social development outcomes?
For the labor restructuring component two types of monitoring survey will be undertaken during
implementation. The first of these, a random sample of employees after they finish or exit from
the redeployment program, will track the results of the program. This includes (i) the package,
payment, or labor redeployment services taken; (ii) the result of the effort --new job found or not,
after how long, using what search method, new wage rate, new business started or not; and (iii),
the employee's opinion on the effort and suggestions for improvement. The survey will include a
full set of demographic questions and include measures of the PKP labor changes on other familv
members and the family as a whole. The second survey will be a random sample of all employees
laid off, in order to understand their views on the redundancy incentives and redeployment efforis
overall. It will also include demographic and family-related variables.
- 36 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safepuard olicies ap1ly to the 2roject?
01,                 ~~~~PoiyAplcbit
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Program and Project Sustainability
PKP's present financial situation is unsustainable, so any action to cut its costs and increase its
revenues promotes a more sustainable future. The railway reform program aims to slow,
hopefully halt and perhaps even reverse, the decline in rail's share of the Polish transport market.
The restructuring and privatization will give railway managers greater incentives to serve their
customers well. The funding and budget arrangements required for regional passenger services
and public service obligations, explicitly provided for in the restructuring law, create a breathing
space for the transfer of passenger services to regional governments, an essential part of the
restructuring. And several features of the labor restructuring program militate against a reversal
of the downsizing.
The restructuring and initial privatization will put in place multiple operators, each more focused
than before on its particular part of the sector. This will lead to competition by suppliers for the
business of these operators. It will lead to public relations competition by the operators for broad
acceptance of their new companies. Most importantly it will begin the process of competing for
freight and passenger markets.
Under more competitive markets the operators will, for the first time, have real incentives to
reduce costs, improve service quality, use marketing to drive operations, and make investment
decisions on the basis of profitability. This change in behavior improves the productivity and
sustainability of the sector as a whole by lowering the cost of rail transport and raising its value.
The market focus will better match the transport service to its market demand and may result in
stabilizing the decline in freight and passenger traffic.
- 37 -



Operators will also have an incentive to coordinate or integrate their business with other modes
and neighboring operators where this makes business sense. On the freight side coordination wvith
major shippers, maritime ports, inland container terminals, and neighboring railways will be driven
by the need to improve the logistics chain on offer. On the passenger side coordination with
complementary modes and again neighboring railways will be driven by passenger expectation s of
through service and advance reservations and convenient payment for through tickets. These
working relationships with other operators will help to make the new Polish operators more
mature, more quickly, than they would be in isolation.
Moral hazard: The risk is minimal that staff, once laid off, will be rehired. Firstly, 94% of tho se
to be laid off in 2001 (that is, except those taking the "railway leave") will be designated by PKP
management; it is not a voluntary scheme. The criteria underpinning decisions on who is to be
laid off focus on those who add least value to present operations. Secondly, it is PKP, not the
State, which has to finance the severance benefits, and the continuing financial pressures on
railway management make rehiring on any scale improbable; very likely they will have to start
planning soon for further substantial labor shedding in 2003-5. Thirdly, the law requires that
anyone laid off then rehired by the railway should repay all severance benefits received. Fourthly,
the severance lump sum is relatively modest in size and the risk of fraud is commensurate. The
planned tracer studies will document what happens to the laid-off workers.
Centralized verification of payroll information is possible through PKP's computerized staff dat a
base. However, there remains a risk of payments being made to bogus (or 'ghost') employees.
To mnitigate this risk the project auditors will be instructed to conduct such checks as they deer
warranted before certifying each PMR.
A review of progress in achieving the Program's and Project's goals will be conducted one yeai
after loan signing.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   R^sk Ritt~ig            RIpItMitik~ti on i4,asur
From Outputs to Objective
Gov't & Management commitment to            S        PKP Restructuring Law already signed.
follow through on restructuring and to
implement privatization.
Necessary skills have been retained.       M         Initiative to offer incentive package rests with
PKP.
No undue wage increase for remaining       M         Law limits average wage increases to the cost of
staff.                                               living until arrears to the State are paid off.
High unemployment moderates wage demands.
Labor union support retained.               S        Unions continue to be consulted on redundancy
packages and labor redeployment services.
Good potential for remaining public ancl new
private rail industry to stabilize market share.
- 38 -



Local governments able to administer       H         Desire by local govenmments to control regional
devolved regional rail concessions.                  services locally. TA to assist their capacity.
Financial allocations made in local        M         Law mandates such allocations through 2005.
budgets for regional rail subsidy.                   Desire by local governments to keep regional
services operational.
From Components to Outputs
Ability of PKP to administer the program   S         Strong commitment by PKP and MTME to
and achieve projected schedule for                   make restructuring a success. Competent
initiating the program.                              implementing agency.
Take-up of assistance/incentive packages   M         Careful assessment during preparation, use of
achieves assumed target.                            locally knowledgeable consultants, building on
coal restructuring experience.
Re-employment success rate achieves        S         Careful assessment during preparation, use of
assumed target.                                     locally knowledgeable consultants, building on
coal restructuring experience, close cooperation
with Ministry of Labor.
The delivery of incentive packages is      M         Strong commitment by PKP to make
responsive to changes in local labor                 restructuring a success, close cooperation with
market conditions during program.                    Ministry of Labor, use of locally knowledgeable
consultants, building on coal restructuring
experience.
No fundamental shift in policy on          S         Widespread support for EU accession.
restructuring government enterprises.                Strong commnitment throughout Polish
goverunent (including Treasury, PKP, MTME)
to make restructuring a success.
Local governments accept devolved          H         Desire by local governments to control regional
services.                                            services locally. However, they are weak and
inexperienced in this area; TA will be sought to
assist building their capacity.
PRECONDITION OF LOAN
Railway market regulator set up within     N         Law mandates its creation and functions. Desire
MTME.                                                to bring technical / regulatory capabilities up to
EU standards.
Overall Risk Rating                        S         Widespread support for EU accession.
Strong commitment throughout Polish
government (including Treasury, PKP, MTME)
to make restructuring a success. Inability to
continue funding massive losses.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 39 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Concerns about financial management raised by PKP's 1999 Audit
In early 2000 Arthur Andersen Sp. z.o.o. performed what may be the first thorough and
comprehensive audit of PKP's financial statements, when they audited the enterprise's 1999
accounts. The auditor issued a qualified opinion on the financial statements. The auditor has
identified a number of issues, the most important of which relate to contingent liabilities,
depreciation, capitalization of assets, valuation of investments, and bad debt provision. The main
reasons for these issues stem partly from the difference between the accounting principles
underlying the Polish National Accounting Standards that are applied by PKP and the
International Accounting Standards (1AS); and partly due to weak internal controls.
Three concluding remarks were made: (i) Although PKP could not be declared bankrupt,
survival of the enterprise depended on receiving substantial financing. (ii) Much of the land
owned by PKP did not have clear title. And (iii) costs and losses from liquidation and sales of
tangible fixed assets and costs of labor restructuring should be reflected in the financial
statements of the enterprise at the date of approval of the detailed restructuring plan by the
Management Board.
While very critical and exposing a side of the enterprise that managers might wish hidden, doing
the audit nevertheless shows how serious PKP's current management is about making a success
of commercial and eventually private operation. As such the audit should be viewed in a positive
light as the first step toward normal financial activity.
At the Bank's request PKP S.A. has started taking remedial measures to ensure that the control
weaknesses identified by the auditor are addressed in a time-bound manner including preparation
of financial statements in conformity with IAS that would enable a full audit with a possible
unqualified audit opinion.
Implementation of such actions will be closely monitored during supervision.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
A key sectoral condition, the PKP restructuring law, was passed before the pre-appraisal rnission
in September 2000. This was also the sole substantive condition of effectiveness of EBRD's
parallel loan.
Conditions of loan effectiveness
1. PKP shall have appointed auditors satisfactory to the Bank to audit the Project's
implementation.
2. PKP, through approval by its Management Board, shall have adopted the Project
Implementation Plan satisfactory to the Bank.
- 40 -



Condition precedent to disbursement of Loan Category 1
1. The Bank shall have received satisfactory evidence that PKP has adequate funds for carrying
out the Project's training component.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Financial covenants
1. PKP S.A. shall maintain a debt service coverage ratio in its fiscal years 2001 and 2002 of at
least 1.0. In fiscal year 2003 and thereafter PKP S.A. shall maintain a debt service coverage ratio
of at least 1.5.
Withdrawal of the proceeds of the Loan
2. Retroactive financing is agreed for labor restructuring expenditures incurred after October 27,
2000, up to a maximum of EUR 16.5 million ($15.2 million equivalent).
Implementation: monitoring, review and reporting
3. By November 1 of each year PKP S.A. shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and
concurrence, an annual work program for the Project for the following year, including
procurement and financing plans.
4. By March 31, 2002 PKP S.A. shall send to the Bank a report reviewing progress with its
Restructuring and Privatization Program, especially with reference to the Letter of Railway
Reform Policy and the agreed performance monitoring indicators; by June 30, 2002 it shall
review this report with the Bank, and thereafter take measures deemed necessary to complete the
Program and the Project.
5. By October 15, 2001, PKP S.A. shall submit to the Bank, the results of the first stage of a
monitoring survey of the immediate effects on laid-off rail workers of their termination. The
results of an evaluation survey examining the longer-term effects on laid-off workers and their
families shall be submitted to the Bank by August 31, 2003. Based on the findings of each such
survey and the Bank's comments thereon PKP S.A. shall adjust, if necessary, its redeployment
programs accordingly to take into account said findings and the Bank's comments.
Implementation: corporate restructuring
6. In setting up its subsidiaries, PKP S.A. will, in conjunction with the relevant Polish authorities,
ensure that the statutes, policies and procedures of each train operating company and the
infrastructure company shall observe the policy measures mandated by EU Directive 91/440.
Specifically each entity shall have independent books of account, there shall be no cross-subsidies
among the entities, and the accounting policies and practices employed by said subsidiaries with
respect to any government subsidies received shall be consistent with relevant European Union
policies.
H. Readiness for Implementation
El 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
- 41 -



12 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
fD 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
12 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies wi-h
all other applicable Bank policies.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing is required amounting to about 15 % of the loan ($15.2 million equivalent),
to pay pre-retirement benefits to personnel laid off starting in late October 2000, when the
enabling law became effective. Most corresponding payments were made in the second quarter )f
2001. PKP lacks alternative long-term sources to cover these payments (the EBRD does not
cover pre-retirement benefits). Approval for this exception to the normal Bank limit of 10 % ha i
been received from the Regional Vice-President.
Authorized Allocation to Special Account
Provision is to be made for an authorized allocation to the Special Account of $23 rmillion
equivalent. This is 23% of the loan amount and thus slightly over the normal Bank limit of 20%
This has been approved by the Loan Department.
Waiver of negative pledge within PKP Restructuring Law
When PKP negotiated its parallel loan for this Project with EBRD, it was required, in accordance
with the terms of the PKP restructuring law, to promise to the State Treasury, as collateral for the
guarantee from the Republic of Poland, to pledge shares in its future subsidiaries. This action will
trigger the negative pledge clause under the loan made by the World Bank to PKP in 1990 for the
(first) Transport Project (Loan 3194-POL). PKP will be repaying that loan until 2007. The
negative pledge clause of the Bank's General Conditions requires that non-sovereign borrowers, if
they provide collateral to other creditors, should provide the World Bank with equal and ratable
security for its loans outstanding.
The restructuring law authorizes sovereign guarantees up to a limit of PLN 3.9 billion (currently
equivalent to about $940 million) to secure not only the proposed loan and EBRD's, but also
other borrowings by PKP S.A. from the international financial institutions, as well as bond issues,
all subject to the pledging of shares as collateral. In the event of default by PKP S.A. on its debt
- 42 -



service to IBRD, lBRD would seek payment from the sovereign as the guarantor of all IBRD
loans Jn this case, as the lien is being created in tavor of the sovereign, it does not diminish the
sovereign's capacity to iieet its obligations as guarantor. Furtheinore, the pledge is limited to
shiares in PK P's subsidiaries. Since tnder Polish law shareholder claims would ranik below the
claims of creditors to the subsidiaries, the shares in such subsidiaries may be of little practical
value in any case as a source of lunds for the repayment of the Bank loans.
B3V Lheir nature, the proposed pledges of P)KP's assets will not materially allect the probability that
Poland will default to IBRD and thereifre imply no heightened finanicial risk for the Bank.
Management has therefore granted a waiver covering both the EBRD loan and all other
borrowings or bond issues permissible under the PKP restructuring law. This will avoid the need
for PKP S.A. to seek a waiver for eachi transactioni as it comes up.
Graham Smith                       Ri ardo Haperin                    Michael Carter
Team Leader                        Se'tor DirDi                      Country Director
- 43 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Iniator:              Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Restructuring of State Owned  Government expenditures on  National statistics.      That the restructured services
Enterprises (SOEs) -        railway services held below    Sector statistics.        better match the structure
Railway Restructuring,      0.2 percent of GDP. Total                               function, and finance of
including agreement on how   expenditures, national plus    Regional passenger transport  government and
to substantially reduce the    local, to be measured.   statistics.                 non-government activities to
workforce.                  Intra-rail competition      Annual Reports of private    the needs of the market
(presence of more than one    operators.                economy.
railway freight operator).
Project Development         Outcome / Impact            Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                  Indicators:
Restructure the Polish State   Efficient supply of railway  Sector statistics.      Freight operations/services
Railway to increase efficiency, services (i.e. passenger-km +  .      .         .   sold to private sector.
improve finances, and       tonne-km /1000 staff        Railway operational statstics.
privatize selected activities   increases from 431 to 574 by  Railway financial statistics.   Inter-city passenger services
within a sound regulatory   2003).                                                  passenger tariffs.
framework.                  Labor as % of railway
revenues declines from 56%                              Regional passenger services
to 43% by 2003.             For all Project Development   devolved for local contracting
Objectives:                 with efficient subsidy
Improved enterprise          Supervision mission reports. arrangements.
profitability (positive profit /    Evaluation mission reports
little subsidy, cost recovery   (mid-term and final).
ratios).
Competitive freight rates
(comparable to equivalent
shipment by road).
-44 -



Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Corporate labor            Workforce reduced from        Railway financial, personnel,  Target reduction in workforce
restructuring completed and    182,000 in August 2000 to    and operational statistics.    achieved.
labor costs reduced through    145,000 by December 2002.   Monitoring survey.              Necessary skills have been
smaller and reorganized       Expenditures on labor                                        retained.
workforce.                    reduced from PLN 5.1 bn in
2000 to PLN 3.8 bn by 2003.                                 No undue wage increase for
remaining staff.
Workforce acceptance of the                                 Labor union support retained.
restructuring program.                                      No disruptions due to strikes
etc.
2. Corp rate organizational   Polish Railway Joint Stock    Track access agreements.       Financial allocations made in
and legal restructuring       Company (PKP S.A. - a         Concession d       t           national budget for public
completed.                    holding company) and Polish                                  service obligation services.
Corporate asset restructuring   Railway Lines Joint Stock   Local government resolution   Local governments able to
completcd (sale of housing    Company (PLK S.A. - an        or letter.                     administer devolved regional
estates, clear land title).   infrastructure and railway    Asset/real estate sale or lease  rail concessions.
.management company)          agreements.
Corporate financial           established.                                                 Financial allocations made in
restructuring completed,      Infrastructure separation     Operating timetables.          local budgets for regional rail
includini- conversion of      snfasrutueiepraio
agreements, including         Railway financial, personnel,  subsidy.
liabilities (income tax, social  rail/access pricing        and operational statistics.
insurance, labor fund,
inua.  . lao fn,             arrangements, concession
disability fund) into shares  documents.
and stock of companies to be
established by PKP S.A.       Framework for short-line
Clear revenue obligations of   freight established.
the infrastructure company.   Clear title or leasing               For all Outputs:
Clear mechanism/level of      arrangements for real estate     Monitored and evaluated
payment for public service    being devolved (e.g.              through project reports,
obligations (PSOs).           passenger stations, parking     supervision mission reports
areas, disused sidings and          (semi-annual) and
yards).                         evaluation mission reports
Ancillary businesses (e.g         (mid-term and final).
rolling stock repair units)
reorganized/sold.
Reorganization of inter-city
passenger services complete .
Viable (marketable) train
paths available for use by
regional passenger services.
3. Devolution of regional
passenger services ready.
45 -



9;e
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Income Protection       US$ 296 million component  Number of employees leaving Ability of PKP to administer
total, supplied by:        PKP.                        the program and achieve
*  IBRD US$ 99 million   Rate of taking up the       projected schedule for
*  EBRD US$ 85 million  incentive packages, by type of initiating the program.
*  PKP/GOP US$ 113       package and by type and     The delivery of incentive
million               location of employee        packages is responsive to
(monthly).                 changes in local labor market
Local labor market conditions conditions during program.
(monthly).
2. Labor Redeployment      US$ 23.7 million component  Tracking survey of employees Take-up of assistance/
total, supplied by PKP     after exiting/ finishing from   incentive packages.
incentive program, in three    Re-employment success rate.
waves. Evaluation survey,
after appropriate elapsed time.
3. Technical assistance (to    US$ 7.30 million component  Completion of TA, final  Government approves legal,
MTME, PKP, other railway   total, supplied by:        reports.                    regulatory, and financial
enterprises) on organization,    *  IBRD US$ 1.45 million                         frameworks for sale,
legal. regulatory, social    *  EBRD US$ 2.75 million                             restructuring or devolution of
aspects of the restructuring  *  Other US$ 3.10 million                           assets and services .
program.                                                                          No fundamental shift in
policy of restructuring
government enterprises.
Local government accepts
devolved services.
For all Components:
Monitored through
disbursement and progress
reports (quarterly), evaluated
through supervision mission
reports (semi-annual) and
audit reports (annual).
- 46 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$296.20 million
Temporary Income Support Measures. These will be offered as part of the comprehensive
restructuring, commercialization and partial privatization of PKP. In the period 2000-2003 PKP
and its successor companies will offer their workforce structured incentive packages, consistent
with national labor laws and social security provisions as well as enterprise labor contracts, with a
view to cutting the workforce by about 37,000 employees.
The incentive schemes to be offered are: temporary income support measures (pre-retirement
benefits, one-time severance payments) made up of: (a) general social benefits from existing
general income support programs (e.g. unemployment benefits, social assistance) and, (b) special
severance packages anticipated for PKP layoffs (e.g. early retirement, special lump-sum payments,
etc.).
Table 1 summarizes what programs are generally available to laid off workers in Poland. Table 2
summanzes the programs specific to PKP.
TABLE 1
General Social Benefits Available in Poland
Program   Basic Eligibility               Amount of Benefit  Duration of Benefit   Comments
Unemploy- Unemployed citizen not attending  Basic benefit is  Up to 12 months.    Other benefits (e.g. travel
ment       day schooling and ready to accept  about 450 PLN per                   to work and lodgings) may
Benefit    employment:                    month (adjusted    In area where        be included in areas of high
Minimum age: 18                depending on level  unemployment does   structural unemployment.
Maximum age for eligibility: 60    of unemployment in not exceed half of  May also include training
women and 65 for men           area of recipient).   average rate in the  benefits.
Must not be collecting other   E.g. in area       country, may be      Recipients must fulfill
benefits or pensions           regarded as        shortened to 6 months. general obligations of
Must not be owner/holder of    threatened with                         reporting, work search and
agricultural real estate or related   high structural                  must be willing to accept
pensions.                      unemployment,                           work. If beneficiary refuses
Must not be self-employed.     benefit is 160% of                      two offers of suitable
Deemed unable through disability  the basic benefit                    employment, benefits are
to work for more than half time.                                       subject to suspension for 6
months.
Social     Unemployed and meets criteria of  Current level of                     Social assistance recipients
Assistance  poverty.                      benefit 380 PLN per                     usually come from the
Means tested.                  month.                                  ranks of registered
Persons with land are not eligible.                                    unemployed who have
exhausted their benefit
Pre-       Workers in sectors undergoing  90% of the normal  Paid by Labor Fund    Benefit may be enhanced by
Retirement restructuring:                 retirement benefit  until an eligible   agreement of sector
Benefits   35 years of pensionable service in                worker reaches his/her restructuring program by
case of women,                                    normal retirement    Council of Ministers.
40 years of pensionable service in                age: 65 for men and
case of men.                                      60 for women
-47 -



The measures specifically available to PKP workers are:
TABLE 2
Summary Overview of Special PKP Income Support, Other Financial,
and Labor Redeployment Programs
Basic Eligibility          Amount of Benefit     Eligibility for other  Source of
Criteria                                              benefits     Fund,
Severance      5 years of continuous   20,000 PLN              * Eligible for      PKP (from loan
(Non-          employment at PKP and  if unemployment in the    unemployment       funds or other
voluntary)     in the same position for   powiat of residence of  insurance        sources)
the last 6 months.     beneficiary is below    * Support programs
national average;       provided by KAAZ
30,000 PLN              (e.g. counseling,
if unemployment in the    training) or local
powiat of residence of  Labor Offices
beneficiary is above    * Workers
national average        Ownership Fund
Enhanced Pre-   PKP employees with at   100% of normal retirement Workers Ownership   Labor Fund (to
Retirement     least 33 years (women)   benefit (60% of normal    Fund             be reirnbursed
Benefits       and 38 years (men) of    salary) until regular                      by PKP)
(Non- voluntary) service counting towards  retirement (gross payments
All workers in   pension.              with contribution for social
this category are  Workers within two years security)
eligible; take-up   of retirement cannot be
is based on    forced to leave on
funding        pre-retirement.
Railway Leave   All employees within   60% of normal salary until Workers Ownership  PKP fiom loan
(Voluntary)    three years of reaching   regular retirement (gross   Fund          funds nr other
PKP retirement age or    payments with contribution                 source;
satisfyring railway    for social security)
retirement conditions.
PKP retirement age is 60
for men and 55 for women.
(Normal retirement age is
65 for men and 60 for
women.)
Worker         Minimum of ten years of  15% of proceeds of sale of Severance, railway    Proceeds of
Ownership Fund PKP employment relation PKP assets              leaves or           sale of PKP
pre-retirement      assets
benefits
-48 -



Basic Eligibility Criteria    Amount of Benefit    Eligibility for other Source of
benefits      Funds
Labor          All redundant PKP      * Employment services    Eligible for Local    KAAZ program
Redeployment   workers departing with   such as job placement,    Labor Office    funds
Support        severance              aptitude testing, vocational employment programs (source(s) to be
Programs                              assessment, medical                         determined)
Workers to pay 20% for  examinations
training               * Counseling provided
free of charge
* 80% of training cost of
vocational and
entrepreneurial training.
Workers will be encouraged
to take training during the
six month notification
period, while still on salary.
* 80% of training
reimbursed up to a
maximum limit of two
months salary if training is
purchased by worker
Fund of Workers Ownership
This fund represents an innovation in Polish privatization law. The provision for a fund of this
type has been created for the first time by the Law on Restructuring PKP. This Fund will be
entitled to 15% of the proceeds of all sales of assets by PKP or its successor companies. All
present PKP workers will be entitled to shares in the new Fund and after a qualifying period will
be able to sell their shares for personal gain.
The Fund provides a way for existing PKP workers to capture some of the "capital gain" of their
enterprise. It was introduced into the PKP legislation after consultation with the Labor Unions
and after the experience gained from the privatization of Polish telecomms.
Project Component 2 - US$23.70 million
Labor Redeployment Programs. These programs are made up of re-qualification training as
well as professional and social advice and other forms of professional guidance. They are
generally offered free of charge, on a one-time basis. As part of the PKP restructuring program,
these include: (a) general labor redeployment programs (existing active labor programs, e.g.
retraining, small business assistance, intervention works, community temporary employment, etc.
for the unemployed), and (b) special labor redeployment programs anticipated for PKP layoffs.
The following is a summary of activities connected with PKP labor redeployment that KAAZ is
undertaking:
Provision of information to all social partners
- 49 -



Investigation of local labor markets
Career and social counseling and advisory services
* Worker information sessions with respect to benefit entitlements of redundant workers, s
well as redeployment options including job search
Training of KAAZ professional staff
Familiarization and information on local labor markets
* Referral of workers to vocational training and retraining
On-site training (on-the-job training)
Administration of training contracts
Job mediation activities
The operational unit managers of PKP and PKP S.A. are obliged to cooperate with KAAZ on the
following:
* Providing information to KAAZ on surplus assets, which can provide the basis for the
establishment of their own businesses by workers
* Providing information to KAAZ on organizational and restructuring plans
* Allowing KAAZ professional staff to organize meetings with workers
Details of the programs, the organization and operation of KAAZ, and procurement procedures
are spelled out in greater detail in the KAAZ program implementation manual.
Monitorin2 Surveys
Monitoring surveys will be administered by KAAZ by surveying employees after they finish or
exit from the redeployment program. This will track operational quality control of the labor
redeployment program to all employees who participate. Details of these quality control surveys
are provided in the KAAZ manual.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.30 million
Technical Assistance The Project will include technical assistance to advise the Ministry of
Transport and the main railway enterprises on the organizational, legal, regulatory, financial and
social aspects of the program. The following studies have been identified as necessary.
- 50 -



TABLE 3
Advisory Services to Support Restructuring and Privatization of Railways in Poland
Topic                                                  Executing      Estim.       Funding       Start      End        Remarks
Agency        Cost        Source         Date      Date
______ USswco    ____l_
ASSIGNMENTS ALREADY AWARDED
1. Analysis of rail infrastructure and its market environment.  PKP      $1000 EBRD/PHARE 2d2nd Q                           Under
Preparation of business plan for PLK S.A. (Polish Railway Lines)  PKP    $1,000   EBRD/PHARE    22001   implementation by
2. Preparation and implementation procedures in                                                                             Under
commercialization and privatization process of PKP S.A.      PKP          $500    EBRDIPHARE 3rd Q 200    2001   implementation by
__________    _________               ~~~~Proinvest
3. Privatization Advisor (Transaction manager) for prvatization  PKP     $1,250   EBRD J PHARE   Mar01         200    Implementation b
of SKM and WKD                                                              .                                            A. Anderson
Sub-Total, already awarded                                               $2,750
ASSIGNMENTS TO BE AWARDED
1. Methodology for regulating access rights and pricing for                            IBRD
Infrastructure                                              MTME          $300      (Privatization    Jul-01    Dec-01   RFP issued
Loan)
IBRD
2. Subsidies: Principles for Govemment support of passenger  MTME         $300      (Privatization    Jul-01  Dec-01     RFP issued
railway operations and railway infrastructure development                              Loan)
3. Analysis of transport market including definition of likely role of  MrME  $300  (PnIvton        Jul0 o              EOI have been
railways                                                     LTE(rvtztoan)                          Jl0       D 0          invited
IBRD ( Rwy                         TOR drafted,
4. Strategic Advisor to PKP Board                            PKP          $500      Restruduring   Sep-01      2002     invutants to
Loan)I PPIAF                      consultants to be
sought                           issued shortly
IBRD ( Rwy
5. Prvatization Advisor (Transaction manager) for pnvatization  PKP       $800      Restructunng    Oct-01     2002   TOR to be drafted
of LHS.                                                                             Loan)/ PPIAF
sought     _____     ___   __
IBRD ( Rwy
6. Privatization Advisor (Transaction manager) for pivatization  PKP      $1,600    Restruuring   Jan-02       2003      outline TOR
of PKP Cargo.                                                                       Loan) I Grant                          drafted
______ _____   ____ _____ sought  __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
7. Advice to regional govemments on contracing for rail     MTME          S510      Grant sought  Fall 2001    2002   TOR to be drafted
passenger services and administering corresponding subsidies.
8. Low-density lines: Review of barriers to forming & operating
short-line railways; preparation of plan for their marketing,  MTME       $250      Grant sought  Fall 2001    2002      outline TOR
including identification of potential for transfer to local govt                                                           drafted
control, privatization or abandonment.
lBRD Privatization $900
Sub-Total, to be awarded                                  PKP $4,400     $4'550       IBRD Rwy Restructuring $1450
MTME $1,400                          Grants $2,200
PKP $5,900            IBRD Privatization $900
TOTAL, all assignments                                    P7P $51,00       7,300       IBRD Rwy Restructuring $1,450
MTME $1,400                          Grants $4,950



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Summary Project Costs
Polish Zloty                        Zloty million
Total      IBRD     EBRD    Other          PKP       GOP
LABOR                                             az                Int'l i''oi
Severance                         789.7       272.8     350.6                166.4
81%                            19%
Pre-retirement, 2000 - 2001        89.2        72.3                           17.0
Pre-retirement, 2002 +            151.2                                                151.2
60%                            40%
Railway Leave                     104.3        62.6                           41.7
Unemployment benefit               90.4                                                 90.4
subtotal                         1,224.8      407.6     350.6                225.0     241.6
Training                           97.9                                       97.9
Total Labor related              1,322.7      407.6     350.6                322.9     241.6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 30.2         6.0       0.0      24.2
Subtotal                           1,352.9     413.6      350.6      24.2      322.9     241.6
OTHER
Front End Fee            1%         8.0         4.2       3.8
Capitalized Interest               24.7                  24.7
Auditor                             0.8                   0.8
TOTAL                              1,386.3      417.8     379.8      24.2      322.9     241.6
Foreign Exchange                                      Euro 1US$  0.9185
(as at 31 January, 2001)                             ZI / US$ 4.1350
Zl I Euro 3.7980
US Dollars                          US $ million
Total      IBRD     EBRD    Other          PKP       GOP
Int'l ^*
LABOR
Severance                        $191.0       $66.0     $84.8                $40.2
Pre-retirement, 2000 - 2001       $21.6       $17.5                           $4.1
Pre-retirement, 2002 +            $36.6                                                $36.6
Railway Leave                     $25.2       $15.1                          $10.1
Unemployment benefit              $21.9                                                $21.9
subtotal                         $296.2       $98.6     $84.8                $54.4     $58.4
Training                          $23.7        $0.0                          $23.7
Total Labor Related              $319.9       $98.6     $84.8                $78.1     $58.4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 $7.3        $1.5                $5.9
Subtotal                           $327.2     $100.0      $84.8      $5.9      $78.1     $58.4
OTHER
Front End Fee            1%        $1.9        $1.0      $0.9
Capitalized Interest               $6.0                  $6.0
Auditor                            $0.2                  $0.2
TOTAL (US$)                       $335.3    $101.0    $91.8          $5.9    $78.1      $58.4
TOTAL (in Euro)                     365.0       110.0     100.0       6.4       85.0      63.6
100%        30%       27%        2%        23%        17%
Notes:  - this includes IBRD Privatization Loan, Phare, and potential bi-lateral grant funds
- 52 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PKP Restructuring and Privatization (the Program): Developing an estimate of the benefits
of the total rail reform program is highly conjectural and, since the costs of the entire program can
be justified solely by labor benefits alone, not essential. However, the following suggests what the
lower end of the range might be.
In 1998, average revenue per ton-km for for-hire trucking in Poland was about US$ 0.10 at
official exchange rates and US$ 0.19 at PPP exchange rates. By comparison, average rail freight
tariffs were US$ 0.02 and US$ 0.04 per ton-km respectively, a difference between rail and truck
of US$ 0.15 at PPP exchange rates. In 1998 rail carried 62 billion ton-km and for-hire trucking
carried 44 billion ton-kin: the average Polish rail tariff of US$ 0.04 compares with an average in
the US rail industry of US$ 0.014 (i.e. 1.4 cents). Allowing for the fact that hauls in the USA are
longer, but considering that commodity mixes are similar, there is considerable room for efficiency
gains to reduce Polish rail freight tariffs. US rail freight rates have fallen by half (in real terms)
since deregulation of the US transport sector. In the Brazilian and Argentine rail freight
concessioning, rail freight tariffs fell by between 10 percent and 30 percent on each concession
within five years. Even a 10 percent reduction in Polish rail freight tariffs would be worth US$
250 million annually: if this 10 percent in rail tariffs caused a related 1 percent reduction in
for-hire truck tariffs, that would be worth an additional US$ 80 million annually. If the sale price
for PKP Cargo is also positive (a Mexican concession sold for US$ 1.4 billion and a Brazilian
concession sold for US$ 800 million --both of which carried significantly less traffic than PKP
Cargo, which is projected to earn between US$ 100 million and US$ 150 million annually after
privatization), then it is not hard to predict near-term economic benefits from freight privatization
alone, which are far greater than the entire investment cost of the reform program.
The Labor Restructuring Measures (the Project): The economic benefits of the severance
packages are based on the future earnings of the redundant employees, with the assumption that
their current productivity is close to zero but that their future jobs will add far more to Polish
GDP. Economic benefits commence when the redundant workers start new jobs, and they are
measured by the new wages earned by the workers. Economic benefits terminate when the
worker retires. Thus, the commencement of economic benefits will be based on the time it takes
each worker to find a new job, and will depend on the worker's new wages. The contribution to
GDP will be greater to the extent that the jobs filled by redeployed workers are higher
productivity jobs. The specialized counseling, requalification training, and improved job
placement services to be provided by KAAZ aim to raise productivity by bringing about more
efficient matching of job seekers and the skill requirements of vacancies to be filled.
KAAZ has completed an analysis of the benefits of corporate restructuring ("Estimation of Costs
and Advantages of Restructuring of Labor Employment in PKP", July 2000 and Annex, October
2000), which evaluates the economic and financial feasibility of the labor restructuring program.
Their analysis makes use of a detailed profile of the PKP employee base broken down by age, sex,
education attained, location (voivodship), and current work assignment. This, along with
location-specific labor market data, has allowed the application of factors specific to these
- 53 -



variables in estimating the probability of finding a new job, expected wage, and length of time
until normal retirement age.
The KAAZ analysis has been incorporated into the Bank's own review and sensitivity analysis :)f
the economic costs and benefits.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The economic NPV (10% discount rate) is US$ 143 million. The EIRR is 20%.
Main Assumptions:
The analysis has been prepared based on a spreadsheet model which includes the following five
sections: 1) Assumptions and Analysis; 2) Early Retirement Programs; 3) Severance Program; 4)
Re-Employment Buildup; and, 5) Redeployment Support Services. An electronic copy of this
spreadsheet is attached at the end of this section for use by those who are accessing this docunment
directly through Lotus Notes.
The several assumptions (Average Monthly Salary, Assumed Salary Growth Rate, and the Income
Tax Rate on the Severance Payment) apply to all sheets. The Income Tax Rate applies to the
economic analysis because this amount is irnmediately deducted from the severance payment and
is thus a reduction in the economic cost (but not the financial cost). The assumptions regarding
percent of employees finding interim jobs, interim wages, cost of holiday employees, and early
retirement period are used in the Early Retirement calculations. The Severance Program
assumptions include total number of workers severed, percent workers entitled to only 3 months
notice, notice (or acceleration) benefit, percent of employees receiving ZI 20,000 benefit, percent
of employees receiving Zl 30,000 benefit, percent of severed employees who will get new jobs,
percent of current wages earned by re-employed workers, percent of workers eligible for
unemployment benefits, monthly unemployment benefit. The Redeployment Assumptions
(take-up rate for counseling and advisory services, take-up rate for general retraining, unit cosi
for general retraining, take-up rate for entrepreneurial retraining, and unit cost for entrepreneurial
retraining) are used in the Redeployment Support Services calculations.
The following example shows the assumptions used in the base case:
- 54 -



Basic Assumptions or Variables:
Average monthly salary                                   1,995ZI
Loading on salary for ZUS                                 21.0 %
Average monthly employee cost                            2,414 ZI
Assumed salary growth rate                                   0 % annually
Income tax rate on severance payment                        19,%
Pre-Retirement
Percent of employees finding interim jobs                 - %
Interim wages (minimum wage)                               450 zl
Cost of holiday employees:                                  60 % of average
Early retirement period                                   0.00 1 for 4 years,
Pre-retirement Taken in 1999                                 0 workers
Pre-retirement Taken in 2000                             4,393 workers
Pre-retirement Taken in 2001 (Dec 2000)                  1,419 workers
Railway Leave Taken in 2000                                  0 workers
Railway Leave Taken in 2001                              2,000 workers
Railway Leave, 2nd year decline factor                  1.0000
Railway Leave, 3rd year decline factor                  1.0000
Severance Program
Total number of workers severed                         29,6681workers
Percent workers entitled to only 3 months notice        25.7531%
Percent workers with 6 months notice taking acceleration bet  501%
Percent of total workers receiving acceleration benefit  37.1235 %
Acceleration benefit                               |months wage
Percent of employees receiving ZL 20,000                       %
Percent of employees receiving ZL 30,000               66.1723 %
Percent of severed employees who will get new jobs          50 %
Re-hired employees earn this percent of current wages       70j
Percent of workers eligible for unemployment benefits       70 %
Monthly unemployment benefit                          412.6246 ZI
Redeployment Support
KAAZ Advisory Overhead, per year                          19.5 ZI million
Duration of Redeployment Support Services Program           24 months
Takeup rate for counseling and advisory services           100 percent
Takeup rate for general / vocational re-training            40 percent
Unit cost for general I vocational re-training           3,750 ZI per worker
Takeup rate for entrepreneufial training                    1 0 percent
Unit cost for entrepreneurial training                   4,750 Zi per worker
VAT tax reduction on training costs                          0 percent
The Financial Analysis and the Economic Analysis examples shown below consolidate
calculations from the other spreadsheets, and then calculate the NPV of the financial or economic
flows. The base case is shown using the assumptions presented above, a discount rate of 10%,
and figures are in Polish Zloty. Because some of the periods are quarter-years, and some are full
years, it is necessary to calculate the NPV separately (using a Present Value factor rather than the
- 55 -



r   UZ        F |                   N A N N N   N  U) U UN      N        ~N a) a                )U  )E    U)  1 Z a U 
.= ~~~~~~~~~~ Z: ntf                                    6                                                     {
-   - - - - O-- O  - --
tS          c           m. a>,>Ke esa>  nsse,,  ........ .. .. . ..  . .  ., . . . . . .
g   E     IC E              _-  _              .,   ...   ,  ..... ..          ,..... ...... 
i 1  eDg(DID@  < 1 4 e. .    . . . .                  . . .   . . . . .    . . . . .    . x. . . . .    .
G.a
e LC vCO R I I ~~. . .  @  .    .I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
oo                   Le f!N                  e 
g    _               0         . .     .     .     .a .o  .C  .C   .     .2 OD    .2   . .     .     .     .   .    . .     .     .   . .=
10                   .      .   .   .   .   .        .   .        .   .                                          
0
'4- .    a Y  ,    ->  |  s  e  S  0  <22 0 Cz 02 $ C2 , r.   . . . . . . . .
U;i .                                   .     .    .    .    .     .    .    .     .    .    .    .
g  z   ~~~~E-                                     U) U) U) U) a) a       NO=08     
-66 66 66.    .. ..    .     .. ..                            .     .. .. 
.8                   88                  U)CU        UU)HM MCN
.UU'-U)U)U)-U           U)U. NUU)N)N-)-    ) )                       NUNU  )U



Economic Analsis   zloty millions)
|                                      ~~~~~COSTS                        I                           ECONOMIC BENEFITS
I     Redeployment          I
Acceleratl
Pnm-                        on                 KAAZ    General                         Pren               Sveranc                      NPV of
Year and                             Retireme Railway  Severanc (Notice   Unemploy Adtvisory  Retrainin Business            Rebreme Railway  e (wage  Total    Net          Net
Quarter   Period  PV Factor          nt       Leave    e         Pay)      ment    Ovedread g           Training  Total Cost rt       Leave    eamed)  Beneofts  Benefits  Benefits
1999       0   1.00000     -                   -                  -        -         -
2000-I       0.25   0.97645                             -              -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -             -
2000 -1l       0.5  0.95346
2000-111     0.75  0.93101                     -        -         -        -         -                       - -                 -  - 5  -   -      -
2000 -IV        1  0.90909    11.5        -                            --                           -        -         11.5      -         -                  -      (11.54)   110.49)
2001 - I      1.25  0.88769    194                         201.7      16.8      6.6       4.9       5.6      1.8      256.7                                         (256.73)  (227.90)
2001 -:I       1.5  0.86678    19.4                 8.7    176.0      14.7     12.7       4.9       5.6      1.9      243.7      -         -         55       5.5  (238.18)  (20645)
2001-111      1.75  0.84637    19.4       -         8.7                -        10.9      4.9       5.6      1.8       51.2                         16.3     16.3   (34.86)   (29 50)
2001-tV         2   0.82645    19.4                 8.7    161.0      13.4     16.4       4.9       5.6      1.8      231.2      -                  24.9     24.9  (20628)  (17048)
2002-i       2.25   0.80699     -        194        &7       -         -       10.9       4.9       5.6      1.8       51.2                         35.6     35.6   (15.59)   (12.58)
2002-It       2.5  0.78799      -        19.4       8.7    209.7      17.5     12.5       4 9       5.6      1.6      280.0      -         -        44.1     44.1  (235.69)  (185 88)
2002-lit     2.75   0.76943     -        194        8.7      -         -       11.1       4.9       5.6      1.8       51.4      -         -        554      55A       3.98      3D7
2002 - IV       3  0.75131      -        19.4       8.7      -                  5.0       4.9       5.6      1.8       45.3                -        63.9     63.9    18.57      13 95
2003-I       3.25   0.73362     -        19.4       8.7      -         -        4.4            -             -         32.6                         67.9     67.9    35.31      2590
2002-11        3.5  0.71635     -        19.4       B7       -         -                                               28.1      -         -        70.7     70.7    42.54      3046
2003 - III    3.75   0.69948    -        19.4       8.7                         -         -                            28.1                         72.3     72.3    44.22      30 93
2003-IV         4   0.68301     -         -         8.7                                                                 8 .7     -         -        73.4     73 4    64.76      44 23
2004 - I     4.25  0.66693                     -        - 8.7                                                           8.7      -         -        71.7     717      63 01     42 02
2004- tt       4.5  0.65123          -         -        -         -         -        -              -        -          -        -         -        71.7     71.7    71.70      46.69
2004f-ltt    4.75   0.63589          -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -          -             -        71.7     71.7    71.70      45.59
2004-IV         5  0.62092      -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -          -        -         -        71.7     717      71.70     44.52
2005       6  0.56447                -         -        -         -        -         -             -          -         -        -            279.6    279.8   279.78    157 93
2006       7   0.51316      -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -          -         -        -       272.     272.8   272.80    139.99
2007       8   0.46651               -         -        -         -             -         -        -          -         -             -       265.8    265.8   265.79    123.99
2008       9   0.42410                    -        -         -             -         -         -        -          -         -        -       258.8    250.8   258 80    109.76
2009      10  0.38554      -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -          -         -        -       251.8    251.8   251.79      97.08
2010      11   0.35049          -         -        -         -             -         -         -        -          -         -        -       244.9    244.9   244.66      85.82
2011      12  0.31863      -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -          -         -        -       238.0    238.0   23800       75.84
2012      13  0.28966    -                         -         -             -         -         -        -          -        -         -       231.2    231.2   231.16      66.96
2013      14  0.26333                -         -             -             -         -         -        -          -        -         -       224.3    224.3   224.30      59.07
2014      15  0.23939      -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -          -        -         -       217.5    217.5   217.46      52.06
2015      16  0.21763       -        -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -          -         -        -       210 6    210.6   210.60      45 83
2016      17  0.19784           -         -        -         -             -         -         -        -          -         -        -       203.8    203.8   20375       4031
2017      18   0.17986          -         -        -         -             -         -         -        -          -         -        -       196.9    196.9   196.89      35 41
2018      19  0.16351      -         .         -        .                  -         -         -        -          -         -        -       190.1    190.1   19005       3107
2019      20   0.14364          -        .       .                         -                   -              -    -             -            183.2    183.2   163 19      27 23
-                                                     p76.3   172~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.m5 25
656,27
tO . .V4                                                  7-K    ~.5           0.        - t39 .6'. ....  ............... 4&-  1.1 7      -    4,4.6.3-  4,462.3 3,134.0    656,27
The analysis of the pre-retirement programs includes the costs and benefits from the early
retirement programs (both the "pre-retirement" and "railway leave" benefits). This analysis
includes an option for setting the early retirement period at either 3 or 4 years, and the capability
for calculating economic benefits from those (however few) people who get jobs while on early
retirement or leave status.
The analysis of the severance program includes all severance costs and benefits. One can adjust
the percent of severed employees who eventually get a job, and one can adjust the percent which
their future job earnings are of their current earnings. These two factors are the most
important in the whole analysis. They are explored below in the section on sensitivity. An
earlier assumption on re-employment rates (20 percent get jobs within the first 3 months, 70
percent within 18 months) has been generalized to a reemployment curve which shows what
happens to jobs over time between the 3rd month and the 18th month. The KAAZ study showed
that the number of people who do get jobs will decline over time as they retire, or otherwise leave
the workforce. The attrition percentages as showrt in the KAAZ study (see KAAZ,
"Restructuring of Polish State Railways: Estimation of Costs and Advantages of Restructuring of
Labour Employment in Polish State Railways Enterprise", KAAZ - 0 140/01/2000, Warsaw, July
2000, page 28) have been used here to predict the employment level over time of those of the
severed employees who do get jobs. A large percentage (85 percent is used as the base case level,
based on KAAZ data) of the workers are entitled to 6 months notice, but can elect to leave at the
- 57 -



end of three months with the remaining 3 months paid in cash. This is the "notice" or
"acceleration" benefit. Note that the severance benefit and the acceleration benefit are used
directly for the financial analysis, but are reduced by the income tax rate for use in the econornic
analysis.
Attached for reference is the complete labor analysis model.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The most critical assumptions are those of (1) the rate at which laid off workers find new job ,
and (2) the wages earned in those new jobs. Allowing each of these two assumptions to var' in
10% increments produces the table shown below of the resultimg EIRR.
Economic Rates of Return
Percent of
new wages      Percent of workers getting new jobs
to current     40        50        60        70
40          5         7        11        14
50          7        12        16        20
60         11        16        21        26
70         14        20        26        32
80         18        24        31        38
- 58 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Railway's financial performance
PKP's financial position has progressively deteriorated and reached unsustainable levels. The poor
financial performance is caused mainly by a sharp decrease in freight traffic due to restructuring of
the coal and steel industries. Compared with 1989, PKP carried in 1999 only 51 percent of the
ton-km. Coal has always accounted for more than half of PKP's freight business and generated
much of its net cash flow. The near collapse of Poland's coal industry has deprived PKP of its
single largest revenue source. Traffic in steel and other bulks has been also shrinking. Likewise,
PKP carried in 1999 only 46 percent of the passenger-km. Traffic volumes (tkm + pkm)
continued shrinking by 4 percent on average in 2000.
1989         1994          1999         2000
Freight
Tons (million)      379          215           187          187
Ton-km (bil)        110           66            56           55
Passenaers
Number (million)    952          494           496          361
Passenger-km (bil)   56           28            26           24
Traffic Units
(tkmn + pkm) (billion)  166       94            82           79
The quality of long-distance passenger services remains good and suburban/regional services still
carry large volumes of commuters, but passenger traffic has always lost money heavily. In the
period 1997-2000, passenger services covered 42 percent (excluding subsidy) to 58 percent
(including subsidy) of costs on average. While freight operations have been profitable and able to
cross subsidize passenger services, cost coverage is falling fast as a result of the persistent
shrinkage of the freight market and PKP's inability to cut costs commensurately. This was due
mainly to increasing labor costs, lack of commercial orientation and institutional rigidities.
Cost Recoverv
(in PLN million)
1997      1998       1999       2000
Freight revenues                     5,657      5,538      5,410      5,554
Freight expenses                     3,941      4,835      4,819      5,340
Income (deficit)                     1,716       703        591        214
Costrecovery                         144%       115%       112%       104%
Passenger revenues                   1,360      1,491      1,744      1,867
Subsidy for discount fares/PSO        710        560        568        579
Passenger expenses                   3,447      4,188      3,763      3,890
Income (deficit) - w/o subsidy      (2,087)    (2,697)    (2,019)    (2,023)
Income (deficit) - with subsidy      (1,377)    (2,137)    (1,451)    (1,444)
Cost recovery - without subsidy      39%        36%         46%        48%
Cost recovery - with subsidy         60%        49%         61%        63%
- 59 -



PKP incurred growing operating deficits during the 1990s and is in financial crisis. Net losses rc se
to PLN 1,328 million (US$380 rnillion) in 1998 and further to PLN 2,522 million (US$630
million) in 1999, averaging over US$1.73 million per day. Net losses in 2000 were reduced to
PLN 2,304 million (US$536 million), averaging US$1.47 million per day. Whereas passenger
fares in 2000 were about 10 percent above their 1997 level, freight tariffs fell by 6 percent (in real
terms). Between 1997 and 2000, operating costs fell by only 12 percent in real terms, although
operating revenues fell by 29 percent in real terms. Continued surplus labor, despite regular
downsizing, led to excessive cost levels. Progressive revaluation also increased depreciation.
PKP also suffered a 15 percent reduction in the overall level of public subsidy during this perioc..
PKP was forced to finance its deficits by borrowing and accumulating arrears to suppliers and the
State and other budget entities for pensions and social funds. PKP's short-term liabilities
including liabilities to the State were PLN 1.6 billion (US$0.5 billion) in 1997, more than doubled
in real terms to PLN 4.3 billion (US$ 1.1 billion) by the end of 1999, and reached PLN 4.4 billion
(US$1 billion) in 2000. Total arrears to state creditors rose from PLN 225 million (US$68
million) in 1997 to PLN 2.2 billion (US$560 million) in 1999, and reached PLN 3.1 billion
(US$728 million) in 2000. Maintenance of infrastructure and rolling stock was postponed and ihe
quality of service deteriorated, but the working ratio (ratio of operating expenses, excluding
depreciation, to operating revenues with subsidy) still deteriorated from 86 to 103 percent.
Although the trend was slightly better in 2000 than in 1999, financial losses have reached an
unsustainable level.
1997        1998         1999         .000
Net losses (PLN mil)                          (81)       (1,328)     (2,522)      (2,304)
Passgr rev (US$/pkm)-w/o subsidy             0.016        0.017        0.017       0 018
Passgr rev (US$/pkm)-with subsidy            0.024        0.023       0.022        0 023
Freight revenue (US$/tkm)                   0.0248       0.0257      0.0245        0 024
Number of staff (end of year)              223,924      211,536      189,929      175,581
Total subsidy (PLN mil)                      1,533        1,378         984         1 299
Total subsidy as % of GDP                   0.32%        0.25%        0.16%        0.19%
Working ratio(with subsidy)                   86%          94%         104%        10)3%
Short-term liabilities (PLN mil)             1,633        2,533       4,343        4.433
Liabilities to the State (PLN mil)             225          693       2,245        3,129
- 60 -



Income Statement
Years Ending December 31, 1997 through 2005
(In Millions of Zlotys)
1997-2000 current prices; 2001-2005 constant end 2000 prices
actual    actual    actual  unaudited                   Forecast
1997     1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      2004      2005
Operating Revenue
Passenger Services                                 1,360     1,491    1,744     1,867     1,690    1,641     1,609     1,576    1,545
Contract Revenue (PSO's)                              0         0         0       50       300       500       800      800       800
PSO financed by bond issues                                                                500       300
Gov. subsidy for discount fares & health care      1,181     1,031      568      529       598       571       568      578       593
Freight Operations                                 5,657     5,538    5,410    5,554      5,498    5,498     5,497     5,495    5,654
Other Revenues                                     1,454     1,621    1,500      984       376       381       388      393       498
Total Operating Revenue:                            9,652     9,680    9,221     8,984     8,962     8,891     8,862    8.842    9,090
Operating Expense
Wages and saiaries                                  3,054    3,441     4,178    4,055     3,721     3,352     3,038    2,724    2,724
Social insurance contributions                      1.601    1,756     1,027    1,007      924       832       754       676      676
Fuel and electricity                                1,116    1,124     1,243    1,394     1,467     1,484     1,486    1,500     1,546
Material expenses                                    814       744      450       253       291      294       294       297      306
Maintenance                                         1,003      979      802       843      927       938       939       948      977
Other expenses                                       719     1,033     1,847    1,727      660       668       680       689      774
Depreciation                                        1,356    1,868    2,107     1,864     1,957     2,055    2,158     2,265    2,379
Total Operating Expenses:                           9,663    10.946    11,653    11,142    9,948     9,624     9,351    9,099     9,382
Operating Income                                      (11)   (1,265)   (2,432)   (2,158)    (986)    (734)    (489)    (257)    (292)
Financial Expenses including Interest                  71        63       90       146       152      145       162       188      186
Bond interest expense                                                                        42        74       138       184      190
IBRD & EBRD loan interest                                                                      8       39        39        36       32
Income before Tax                                     (81)   (1,328)   (2,522)   (2,304)   (1,188)    (992)    (828)    (665)    (700)
Tax
NET INCOME                                            (81)   (1,328)   (2,522)   (2,304)   (1,188)    (992)    (828)    (665)    (700)
Labor restructuring costs                               0        0         0      231       604       482       895       26         0
Final Results including labor restructuring costs     (81)   (1,328)   (2,522)   (2,535)   (1,793)   (1,475)   (1,722)    (691)    (700)
Ratios
Working ratio (induding budget subsidy)               86%       94%     104%      103%       89%      85%       81%       77%      77%
Working ratio (excluding budget subsidy)              98%      105%     110%      110%       99%      97%       96%       92%      91%
Total budget support as % of GDP                     0.32%    0.25%    0.16%     0.19%     0.19%     0.21%     0.22%     0.20%    0.19%
Sources:  Actuals - PKP
Forecasts - World Bank staff estimates
- 61 -



Cash Flow Statement
Years Ending December 31, 1997 through 2005
(In Millions of Zlotys)
1997-2000 current prices; 2001-2005 constant end 2000 prices
actual    actual    actual  unaudited                     Forecast
1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005
Cash Flow From Operations
Net income                                              (81)   (1.328)   (2,522)   (2,304)   (1.188)     (992)      (828)     (665)    (700)
Add: Interest                                           71        63        90       146       202       259       339       40E       408
Depreciation                                    1,356     1,868     2,107     1,864     1,957     2,055     2,158     2,26f     2,379
Cash Flows From Operations                            1,346       603      (325)    (294)       971     1,321      1,669    2,00S     2,087
Debt Service
Interest                                                 71        63        90       146       202       259       339       401       408
Principal Repayment                                      73       112       217       298       317       274       339       37!       749
Total Debt Service                                     143       175       306       444       519       533       678       78>      1,157
Changes in Working Capital Otherthan Cash              (325)     (556)   (1,791)     (303)      105       260       877       72P       865
Cash Flow Available for Capital Expenditures          1,527       984     1,160     (435)       347       528       113       49;        64
and Labor Restructuring Costs
Capital Expenditures                                  2,044      2,046    1.888     1,300     1,350     1,750      1,750     1,751)    1,750
Restructuring Costs, of which:                                                        231       604       482       895        2i         0
Severance                                                                          195       386       209        864         )         0
Pre retirement                                                                      12        78       151          0                  0
Railway leave                                                                        0        17        35         26        :         0
Unemployment benefit                                                                 0        47        39          4         )         0
Training                                                                            14        56         28         0         )         0
Technical Assistance                                                                0.5        11        20         0         )         0
Capitalized interest (EBRD loan)                                                     7         5
Front-end fee (IBRD & EBRD loans)                                                    4         4
Financing Gap                                          (518)   (1.062)    (728)   (1,967)   (1,607)   (1,704)   (2.531)   (1,279)   (1,686)
Financed by:
Foreign borrowing                                       234       222       556       318       440       253       206       2E2       171
IBRD                                                     2                   1                 255       131        16         16        0
EBRD                                                     2        18       105       206       166         8         0         0         0
EIB                                                    230       204       382                  19       114       190       2 6       171
Other                                                                       68
Local borrowing                                         237       195         1        50                  10        80
Proceeds from Issuance of bonds                                                                 200       150      1.150                500
Total Debt Financing                                 471       416       557       368       640       413      1,436      212       671
GOP (for labor fund and unemployment benefRt)                                                    47       191         4
Government Grants for Infrastructure Investment         352       347       416       720       600       750       750       650       700
EU Grants for Infrastructure Investment                                               342       350       350       350       3iO       350
Increase in Cash                                        305      (299)      244     (537)        29        (0)        9         3        35
Cash at beginning of year                               321       626       327       571        35        64        64         '3       76
Cash atend of year                                      626       327       571        35        64        64        73         6       111
Ratios
Debt Service Cov. Ratio, incl. debt incurred under the Law  7.7 x  2.0 x    (0.7)x    (0.6)x    1.8 x     1.9 x     2.1 x     1 x      2.4 x
Debt Service Cov. Ratio, excl. debt incurred under the Law  7.7 x  2.0 x    (0.7)x    (0.6)x    2.5 x     3.1 x     3.4 x     38 x      3.8 x
Sources:  Actuals - PKP
Forecasts - World Bank staff estimates
- 62 -



Balance Sheet
Years Ending December 31, 1997 through 2005
(In Millions of Zlotys)
1997-2000 current prices; 2001-2005 constant end 2000 prices
actual    actual    actual  unaudited                   Forecast
1997     1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003      2004      2005
Assets
Current Assets
Cash and Equivalent                                   626       327      571        35        64       64        73        76      111
Marketable securities                                   0       196        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
Accounts Receivabb                                   1,383    1,582    1,861     1,633     1,882     1,736     1,690     1,615    1,581
Inventory                                             540       488      424       439      317       314       311       310      409
Total CurrentAssets                                 2,549     2,593    2,857    2,107      2,263     2,114     2,074    2,001     2,101
Fbked Assets
Gross Fixed Assets in Operation                     43,321    43,747    44,070   46,527    47,157    48,815    50,787    51,977   53,373
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                      24,155    24,947    25,644    27,508    29,465    31,520    33,677    35,943   38,321
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                       19,166    18,800    18,426    19,019    17,692    17,295    17,110    16,034   15,052
OtherFixedAssetsind.workinprogress                  1,517     1,953    2,079     1,021     1,460     1,172     1,464    1,500    1,550
Total Fixed Assets                                 20,683    20,753   20,505    20,040    19,152    18,467    18,574    17,534   16,602
Total Assets                                       23,232    23,346   23,362   22,147    21,415    20,581    20,648    19,535   18,703
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                     1,069     1,363     826       895       899      730       697       608      596
Liabilities to the State and Social Funds             225       693     2,245    3,129     2,816     2,503     1,669      834        0
Short-term Loans                                       71       162      204       200       347      404       352       471      472
Other Current Liabilities                             268       315     1,068      209       392      408       401       401      447
Total Current Liabilities                            1,633    2,533    4,343    4,433      4,455     4,045     3,119    2,315    1,515
Long-Term LIabilitis and Equity
Long-term Loans                                     1,313     1,585    1,926    2,713      2,516     2,418    2,463     2,706    2,839
Bonds Payable                                           0         0        0         0       700     1,150     2.300    2,300    2.456
OtherLong-termmLiabilities                             23        49       44        40        70       70        70       110      110
Special Funds                                         158       171      191       208       107       95        90        90       90
Deferred govt. grant/deferred Income                   80       163      339       537       540      767      1,398     1,471    1,850
Total Long-Term Uabilities                           1,574    1,968    2,499    3,498      3,933     4,501     6,321     6,678    7,346
Shareholders' Equity
Capital                                             19,888    19,975   19,043    19,043    19,043    19,043    19,043    19,043   19,043
Revaluation and Other Adjustments                     479       541
Retained Eamings                                     (342)   (1,670)   (2,523)   (4,827)   (6,016)   (7,008)   (7,836)   (8,500)   (9,201)
Total Shareholders' Equity                          20,025    18,846   16,520    14,216    13,027    12,035    11,207    10,543    9,842
Total Liabilities and Equity                       23,231    23,346   23,362   22,147    21,415    20,581    20,648    19,535   18,703
Ratios
Current Ratio                                          1.6       1.0      0.7       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.7       0.9      1.4
Current Ratio (Excl. Cash)                             1.2       0.9      0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5       0.6       0.8       1.3
Debt/Equity                                            7%        8%      12%       19%       19%      20%       22%       26%      29%
- 63 -



Sources:  Actuais - PKP
Forecasts - Wortd Bank staff estimates
Assumptions
1997-2000 current prices; 2001-2005 constant end 2000 prices, unless otherwise noted
actual    actual    actual   unaudited                      forecast
1997     1998      1999      2000       2001       2002      2003       2004       2005
Macroeconomic Assumptions
Domestic Inflation (CPI)                          12%       12%        7%        10%         6%        5%        4%        :;%         2%
GDP Growth (nominal)                                        17%       11%        14%        12%       10%        9%         t'%        7%
GDP (In millionsof zlotys)                     472,350   553,560   617,040    701,490    782,610   864,630   942,990   1,019,&40  1,092,250
GDP(inbillionsofUS$)                               144       159      156        161        189       209        228        247       264
Exchange rates - period average (US$1 = zlotys)    3.3       3.5       4.0        4.3       4.1        4.1       41         : 1        4.1
Revenue Assumptions
Unit Revenue (In Zlotys)
Passenger (zloty per pkm) - excl. subsidy       0.053     0.058     0.067      0.077      0.077     0.077      0.077     0.07 7     0.077
% change                                                  10%       15%        16%        0%         0%        0%        1:%         0%
Passenger(ziotyperpkm)-inci.subsidy             0.080     0.080     0.088      0.099      0.118     0.127     0.143      0.144      0.147
% change                                                   0%       10%        15%        5%         9%       13%         C%        -1%
Freight (zloty per ton-km)                       0.082     0.090     0.098      0.102      0.103     0.103     0.102      0.1 )o     0.098
% change                                                  70%       9%          5%         1%        0%       -1%        -2%        -2%
Traffic Unit (zloty per pkm+tkm) - ex. subsidy   0.074     0.080     0.088      0.094      0.105     0.104     0.103      0.1)1      0.098
TrafficUnit(ziotyperpkm+tkm)- In.subsidy         0.082     0.087     0.095      0.102      0.117     0.119     0.122      0.120      0.116
Unit Revenue (In USS)
Passenger (S per pkm) - exd. subsidy            0.0161    0.0167    0.0168     0.0177    0.0186    0.0186    0.0186      0.0136     0.0186
% change                                                   4%       0%          6%        5%         0%        0%        C:%         0%
Passenger (S per pkm) - inc.subsidy             0.0245    0.0230    0.0223     0.0228     0.0285    0.0308    0.0345     0.0349     0.0354
% change                                                  -6%      -3%          2%       25%         8%       12%         1%         1%
Freight (US$ per ton-km)                        0.0251    0.0258    0.0246     0.0235    0.0249    0.0249    0.0247      0.02:42    0.0237
% change                                                   3%       -5%        -5%        6%         0%       -1%        -:- %      -2%
Traffic Unit (S per pkm+tkm) - ex. subsidy       0.023     0.023     0.022      0.022      0.025     0.025     0.025      0.025      0.024
Tramffc Unit (S per pkm+tkm) - In. subsidy       0.025     0.025     0.024      0.023      0.028     0.029     0.029      0.029      0.028
Unft Operating Cost
Trafflc unft (per pkm+tkm) - In zlotys           0.102    0.125     0.143      0.142      0.132     0.129      0.125      0.1,1     0.121
Traffic unit (per pkm+tkm) - In USS              0.031    0.036     0.036      0.033      0.032     0.031      0.030     0.0i 9     0.029
Traffic Growth
Passenger (passenger-km mililon)                25,796    25,652    26,187    24,226     21,931    21,300    20,874     20,4t7     20,047
% change                                        -3%       -1%        2%        -7%        -9%       -3%        -2%       -2%        -2%
Freight (ton-km miliion)                        68,632    61,747    55,460     54,478     53,388    53.388    53,922     55,0)1     57,751
%change                                         0.5%     -10%      -10%        -2%        -2%        0%        1%         i%         5%
TrafflcUnit(pkm+tkm)mililon                     94,428    87,399    81,647     78,704     75.319    74,688    74,796     75,457     77,798
% change                                       -0.5%      -7%       -7%        -4%       -4%        -1%        0%        e.s%       3.1%
Total Budget Support                             1,533     1,378      984       1,299     1,498      1,821     2.118      2,028      2,093
% of GDP                                       0.32%    0.25%     0.16%      0.19%      0.19%     0.21%      0.22%      0.2(%     0.19%
- 64 -



Sources: Actuals - PKP
Forecasts - World Bank staff estimates
Staffing Profile
actual    actual   actual  unaudited                       forecast
1997     1998      1999      2000       2001      2002      2003      2004       2005
Numberof Staff onJanuary 1                    231,385   223,924   211,536    189,929    175,581   143,913   143,913    116,913    116,913
Staff Reduction,of which:                       7,461    13,495   21,957     14,429    31,668       -       27,000       -          -
severance                                                -      15,678       -       29,668       -      27,000        -         -
pro retirement                                           -      6,279      5,812
railway holidays                                         -        -          -        2,000
old age retirement                                                          8,617
New Hires                                                1,107      350         81
Numberof Staff onDecember31, of whch:         223,924   211,536   189,929    175,581    143,913   143,913   116,913    116,913    116,913
Infrastnbcture                                                               57,725    48,000    48,000    48,000
Cargo                                                                        61,828    54,814    54,814    27,814
Passenger                                                                    29,615    20,000    20,000    20,000
PKP S.A.(incl. railway power engineering, IT)                                26,413    21,099    21,099    21,099
Total                                           -         -        -       175,581    143,913   143,913   116,913
Total salaries and wages (PLN million)          3,054    3,441     4,178      4,055     3,721      3,352     3,038     2,724      2,724
Total social Insurance (PLN million)            1,601     1,756    1,027      1,007       924       832       754        676       676
rotal labor cost (PLN million)                  4,655    5,197     5,205      5,061     4,645     4,185      3,792     3,400      3,400
Avg. annual salaries and wages per person (PLN)  13,415    15,804   20,814   22,186    23,295    23,295    23,295     23,295     23,295
Avg. annual social insurance per person (PLN)   7,033    8,065     5,115      5,508     5,783      5,783     5,783     5,783      5,783
Avg. annual labor cost per person (PLN)        20,448    23,869   25,929     27,694    29,079    29,079    29,079     29.079     29,079
Staff productivity(TUper'OOOstaff)               415       401      407        431        471       519       574        645       665
Labor cost as % of total revenues                48%       54%      56%        56%        52%       47%       43%        38%       37%
Note: PKP staff total as of 12131/00 is 171,494. Of the 29,668 shown as severance in 2001, 4,087 left PKP in December 2000. Therefore, 175,581 is is appropriate for
financial purposes for the year 2000.
Sources: Actuats - PKP
Forecasts - World Bank staff estimates
- 65 -



Projected Operational and Financial Improvements
(PLN million -1999: current prices, 2003-05: end 2000 prices, unless otherwise noted)
', change
1999        2003         2005     between 99-05
Freight (m tkm)                                                             55,460       53,922       57,751            4%
Passenger (m pkm)                                                            26,187      20,874       20,047          -23%
Passenger avg. revenue ($ per pkm) - excl. subsidy                            0.017       0.019        0.019           11%
Passenger avg. revenue ($ per pkm) - incl. subsidy                            0.022       0.034        0.035           59%
Freight rates ($ per tkm)                                                     0.025       0.025        0.024           -4%
Transport revenue                                                             7,153       7,106        7,199            1 %
(in US$ million)                                                            1,803       1,718        1,741           -3%
Other revenue                                                                 1,500         388         498           -67%
(in US$ million)                                                             378           94         120           -68%
Total revenue (inc. subsidy)                                                  9,221       8,862        9,090           -1%
(in LIS$ million)                                                          2,324        2,143        2,198           -5%
Total operating expenses, of which:                                          11,653       9,351        9,382          -19%
(in LIS$ million)                                                          2,938        2,261        2,269          -23%
labor costs                                                                 5,205        3,792        3,400          -35%
(in US$ million)                                                           1,312         917          822           -37%
fuel, electricty and material                                                1,693       1,781        1,852            9%
maintenance                                                                   802         939          977            22%
other expenses                                                               1,847         680         774           -58%
depreciation                                                                2,107        2,158        2,379           13%
Net income                                                                   (2,522)       (828)       (700)            n.a.
PSO payments                                                                     0          800         800             n.a.
Subsidy for discount fares                                                     568          568         593             4%
Subsidy for investments                                                        416          750         700            68%
Total subsidy                                                                  984        2,118        2,093          113%
Liability to the State and budget entities                                     225        1,669           0          -100%
Number of staff (end-year)                                                 189,929      116,913      116,913          -38%
Staff productivity ratio ('000)                                                407          574         665            64%
Operating expenses/total TU (pkm+tkm) in zloty                                0.143        0.125       0.121           -16%
Maintenance expenses/total TU (pkm+tkm) in zloty                              0.010        0.013       0.013           28%
Wage ratio (as % of operating expenses)                                        45%          41%         36%
Current ratio (current assets/current liab)                                     0.7         0.7          1.4
Working ratio - % (incl. subsidy)                                             104%          81%         77%
Working ratio - % (excl. subsidy)                                             110%          96%         91%
Operating ratio - % (incl. subsidy)                                           126%         106%        103%
Operating ratio - % (excl. subsidy)                                           135%         125%        122%
Debt service cov. Ratio (incl. debt incurred under the PKP Restructuring Law)  (0.7)        2.1          2.4
Debt service cov. Ratio (excl. debt incurred under the PKP Restructuring Law)  (0.7)        3.4          3.8
Sources:  Actuals - PKP
Forecasts - World Bank staff estimates
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The financial NPV (10%  discount rate) is US$ 1,051 million. The FIRR is over 100%
- 66 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Procurement
The major part of the Project cost is the financing of severance payments. These expenditures are
not subject to any procurement procedures and therefore no specific procurement arrangements
are applicable.
About 7% of the Project cost covers labor redeployment services (job search counseling and
vocational training) and 2% is technical assistance (consulting services). The labor redeployment
services, to be funded from other sources, will be procured by KAAZ (Railway Labor
Redeployment Agency), which will act as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The total value
of IBRD-financed contracts is estimated at US$ 1.45 million equivalent for technical assistance.
This will be procured by KBI (Capital Investment and Privatization Office) in PKP's headquarters.
A Country Procurement Assessment Review for Poland was prepared in July 2000 (copy available
in Regional Procurement Advisor's office). PKP has substantial experience in applying World
Bank procurement rules for goods, civil works and consulting services from the First Transport
Project (Loan 3194-POL), as well as with the procurement practices of the EIB and EBRD
through the several loans it has obtained from them. Its procurement capacity is considered
adequate. The procurement administration capacity of the implementation units KAAZ and KBI
has been assessed (report available in the project files, see Annex 8). They were both assessed as
an average risk.
Advertisement: The General Procurement Notice was published in the Development Business
issue dated 31 January, 2001. Large contracts (those expected to cost over US$ 200,000) will be
advertised in Development Business and in the national press to seek expressions of interest.
CONSULTANT SERVICES
Contracts for all assignments are to be awarded in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines on
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", January 1997, revised
September 1997 and January 1999 (hereafter referred to as the Consultant Guidelines) on the
basis of quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS). All the contracts will be subject to Bank prior
review.
KBI has two procurement specialists with prior experience with World Bank procurement
methods.
- 67 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
I( Works                             0.00             0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.00            0.00           0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00           1.45          5.85         7.30
(0.00)          (0.00)         (1.45)        (0.00)       (1.45)
4. Severance                          0.00             0.00         211.43         84.77       296.20
(0.00)          (0.00)         (98.58)       (0.00)      (98.58)
5. Front-end fee                      0.00            0.00           1.01          0.92         1.93
(0.00)          (0.00)         (1.01)        (0.00)      (1.01)
6. Labor Redeployment                 0.00             0.00          0.00          23.68       23.68
(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
7. EBRD Capitalized Interest,         0.00            0.00           0.00          6.15         6.15
auditor                              (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                              0.00             0.00         213.89        121.37       335.26
_0.00)          (0.00)        (101.04)       (0.00)     (101.04)
ii Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes:
(i) Technical Assistance - QCBS: US$1.45 million equivalent
(ii) Severance Payments - specific procurement arrangements: US$211.4 million equivalent
- 68 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
S1ebetiom Method
E#nd"re             - Qc8S    QBS       SFB     LCS      CQ      Other   N.8*F. Totat Cost
A. Firms               1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    29.53    30.98
(1.45)   (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)    (1.45)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  1.45    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    29.53    30.98
(1.45)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)    (1.45)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other =
* NOTE In this table N.B.F. includes funds from the following sources:
(1) World Bank Privatization and Restructuring Loan (IBRD 33420/3342A), $0.9 million,
procured by QCBS;
(2) EBRD/PHARE, $4.1 million;
(3) PPIAF (requested), $0.85 million
(4) KAAZ own staff and resources contributed to training, $23.68 million.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 69 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                     not applicable           not applicable            not applicable
Z2. Goods                    not applicable           not applicable            not applicable
.3. Services                 >US$ 100,000                 QCBS                      1.45
4. Severance Pay             not applicable            not applicable           not applicable
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: About US$1.45 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
T-he capacity of the Capital Investments and Privatization Office (KBI) is reviewed in "Report on the
Assessment of the Capacity of the Proposed Project Implementation Unit to Conduct Procurement",
completed January 2001and available in the project files (see Annex 8).
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 70 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proceeds of the Loan of $10 1.0 million equivalent will be disbursed from the date of
effectiveness to June 30, 2004. The annual estimated disbursements are indicated in a table in the
first section of this Appraisal Document.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Severance, lump-sum  payment                                  59.37                                      81 %
Severance, pre-retirement benefit                             15.73                                       81 %
Severance, railway leave                                       13.62                                     60 %
Consultants' services                                          1.31                                      100 %
Premia for interest rate caps &  collars                       0.00
Unallocated                                                    10.00
Total Project Costs                                           100.03                _
Front-end fee                   1.01
lTotal                                                        101.04                _______________
Table D: Procurement Plan
Description          Special    Draft RFP   Bank No   Issue RFP to   Submit        Award       Start of     Contract
Procurement   to Bank    Objection   shortisted    Proposal   Contract    Contract   Completion
Notice,                 to RFP    consultants                            Execution
Request for
EOI
Consulting Services
to be procured by KBI:
I Strategic Advisor to PKP    June 2001    June 2001   June 2001    June-July    Aug 2001   Sept 2001    Sept 2001    Dec 2002
(USS 150,000 from loan                                            2001
plus USS 350,000 other
source)
2 PLvatization Advisor for   June 2001    June 2001   June 2001    July 2001    Sept 2001    Oct 2001    Oct 2001  Oct2002
LHS, US$ 800,000
(USS 550,000 from loan
plus US$ 250,000 other
source)
PKP Cargo, USS 1.6        July 2001     July 2001   Aug 2001    Sept 2001    Nov 2001    Dec 2001    Jan 2002     Dec 2003
million
(USS 750,000 from loan
plus USS 850,000 other
grant source)_
Procurement method: each of these contracts will be procured using QCBS.
- 71 -



Special account:
To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for services and severance payments, PKP lias
opened a Special Account in a commercial bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, to cover parts of the Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The Special Account will be in
the name of PKP. The authorized allocation of the Special Account would be EUR 25.0 millicn
(US$ 23 million equivalent). PKP will be responsible for submitting quarterly replenishment
applications for the special account with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures.
Outline of Disbursement Procedures for Severance Payments
The procedures entail the following key steps:
(a) Once a staff member is declared surplus, PKP completes the retrenchment formalities and
computes the severance withdrawal payments for each staff member.
(b) The retrenchment papers are then sent for endorsement.
(c) PKP then prepares invoices for groups of staff providing computation details for each
employee included in the invoice with regard to the severance payment.
(d) PKP makes the severance payments to the staff in accordance with the invoices.
(e) These invoices are audited by an independent auditor. This audit certifies that the paymeni of
severance is in accordance with the PKP Restructuring Law retrenchment formula.
(f) PKP periodically requests replenishment of the special account.
(g) The World Bank reserves the right to not replenish amounts corresponding to any invoice
deemed ineligible.
Financial Manaeement Arrangements
1.    The financial management assessment
The assessment was conducted between October 2000 and January 2001. The overall risk is
assessed as medium. In implementing the labor restructuring components of the Project, KAA2
will be supervised by the PKP Director General's Office (Headquarters). KAAZ has in place
satisfactory internal controls and information systems. Prior to negotiations KAAZ took steps to
strengthen its financial management system, making it eligible for conventional disbursement
procedures based on statements of expenditures. Subsequently, KAAZ installed accounting
software and completed training of financial management specialists in its use. On this basis the
Bank in late April declared PKP S.A. eligible to use the PMR disbursement method.
The flow of funds and banking arrangements. Funds will flow from the loan account in
Washington to the Special Account opened by PKP. Then on the day of payment funds will be
translated into local currency and transitionally sent to KAAZ against the Project Account and
eventually paid to the regional offices of KAAZ or directly to beneficiaries (if they hold bank
accounts). The Bank has reviewed.the detailed flow of funds and procedures related to funds
transfers submitted by PKP. All accounts included in the flow of funds are secured against any
unauthorized use or third party claims. PKP has opened the Special Account in Bank Handlowy
with sub-accounts for KAAZ and KBI. The World Bank already has a satisfactory working
- 72 -



relationship with Bank Handlowy, a reputable bank listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.
Project financial management capacity. KAAZ as the project implementing unit has the
institutional capacity for PMR-based disbursement. Additionally PKP is cooperating with other
financial institutions --notably EBRD-- which will provide valuable experience. The action plan at
the end of this section sets out the steps taken by PKP and KAAZ to allow PMR-based
disbursements to be used from the outset.
The project annual financial statements and PKP's corporate annual financial statements will be
prepared in accordance with appropriate Polish regulations and principles that respect
International Accounting Standards (IAS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards
Committee. PKP maintains its books and records in accordance with the Polish law on
accounting. Therefore financial statements prepared on the basis of the general ledger should be
adjusted to comply with IAS.
Auditors opinion for 1999. In 1999 PKP was audited by Arthur Andersen according to Polish
accounting standards, which provided an opinion with several qualifications. Details are provided
in the section "Review of Financial Management System" in Annex 8. The qualifications should
be taken into account in the preparation of income statement and cash flow forecasts and the
calculation of financial ratios. It seems that PKP is recording only certain costs and probable
costs or losses (e.g. provisions for diminution in valuation and disputed obligations) are recorded
on a cash basis. Therefore the forecast should also include the cost items as specified in the
auditor's qualifications. The qualifications are subject to review by the Ministry of Transport.
The Bank has reviewed the explanations furnished by PKP's management to the PKP supervisory
board.
2.    Reporting Arrangements
KAAZ will prepare quarterly project management reports and an annual project financial
statement, which includes all funding sources and all components cited in the PAD (not only the
World Bank-financed components). The annual financial statement of PKP will also be required,
since its financial viability is vital to project success. Fonrats for the PMRs are presented in the
Program Implementation Manual. PKP S.A. will update the procurement plan periodically.
3.    Audit Arrangements
Audits of the Project and PKP corporate financial statements will be performed annually for each
fiscal year of the life of the project, as well as at the completion of the Project, in compliance with
the International Standards on Auditing as issued by the International Federation of Accountants
(IFAC). The Project audit will include an audit of the Annual Project Financial Statement
including the Special Account Statement and PMRs. The objective of the audit of the quarterly
PMRs is to enable the auditor to verify and confirm the eligibility of expenditures and the
reasonableness of the Project cash forecasts as the basis for disbursement of funds from the World
Bank loan. The terms of reference are attached in Annex 8.
- 73 -



The auditor is expected to issue an opinion on the Project Accounts, Special Account Statement
and PMRs and provide a management letter including recommendations on the accounting
system, internal controls, and compliance with the financial covenants of the financial agreements.
The auditor will also review and report on procurement activities.
The project auditor should be a member of a professional auditing and accounting body that is
acceptable to the Bank, e.g. a member of IFAC. For CY 2001 PKP has selected Arthur Andersen
as the auditor of the Project, which is acceptable.
PKP has agreed to hire the auditors of its corporate financial statements by October 31 of each
year until completion of the Project. The audited financial statements together with the
management letters (for PKP and the Project) will be submitted to the Bank within 6 months aifter
the end of each fiscal year.
4.     Action plan for strengthening the financial management system of PKP before
negotiations and board presentation
Date of
Action                                          Responsibility   Deadline   accomplishment
1  Identify Project Team responsible for managing the  KAAZ       Negotiations   December 22,
Project. Providing team members' job descriptions.                               20(:0
2  Prepare flow of funds and procedures related with  PKP - KAAZ  Negotiations   December 22,
funds transfers.                                                                 2000
3  Select bank to hold Special Account for the Project.  PKP       Negotiations    January 16,
2001
4  Submit the short list of auditors for Project Financial  PKP    Negotiations    January 16,
Statements to the World Bank for acceptance.                                     2001
5  Include the requirement of audit according to        PKP        Negotiations    Januar>y 16,
International Standards on Auditing and International                            2001
Accounting Standards in the Terms of Reference for
project audit. Submit selected auditor for World Bank
acceptance.
6  Prepare accounting & financial control procedures &  KAAZ       Negotiations   December 22,
instructions related to the project.                                             2000
7  Submit PKP's response to the qualifications in the   PKP        Negotiations    January 16,
report of auditor of PKP's financial statements for                              2001
1999.
8  Submit a plan, satisfactory to the Bank, of actions to be  PKP     Board     April 26. 2001
taken in response to the auditor's report on PKP's 1999        Presentation
_accounts.
9  Open the Special Account for the Project in loan and  PKP          Board      April 24. 2001
local currency. Provide the World Bank with the                 Presentation
comfort letter. All sub-accounts included in flow of
funds must be secured against any unauthorized use or
third-party claims.
- 74 -



10 Update the chart of accounts in accounting system  PKP - Finance    Board   April 24, 2001
allowing for gathering information needed for    Department   Presentation
generating reports. Prepare PMR formats according to
the Project specifications.
1 I Customize or install reporting module in accounting  PKP - DG   Board      April 24, 2001
system enabling generation of PMRs or providing               Presentation
alternative method of PMR preparation including
actual expenditures and budgeting modules.
12 The Borrower shall have appointed auditors        PKP - DG    Effectiveness
satisfactory to the Bank to audit the Project's
implementation.
- 75 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             04/01/93                      04/01/93
Appraisal mission departure                     07/17/97                      12/03/2000
Negotiations                                    01/08/2001                    02/14/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/31/2001
Prepared by:
William Denning
Preparation assistance:
Canadian Consultant Trust Fund, Central and Eastem Europe
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Graham Smith                      Program Team Leader
Robert Kietlinski                 Operations Officer
William Denning                   Transport Economist
Louis Thompson                    Railways Advisor
Yash Pal Kedia                    Principle Railway Engineer
Sunja Kim                         Financial Analyst
Iwona Warzecha                    Financial Management Specialist
David Fretwell                    Labor Economist
Darrell Prokopetz                 Employment Specialist
Elena Kastlerova                  Procurement Specialist
Zoe Kolovou                       Lawyer
Joseph Forrnoso                   Disbursement Officer
Jolanta Hess                      Employment Specialist
Damika Somasundaram               Program Assistant
- 76 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Restructurinu Program For Polish State Railways, Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy, as
adopted by the Council of Ministers 7 September 1999.
PKP Restruct Prog.dc
2. Text of the Law on Commercialization. Restructuring and Privatization of "Polish State Railways" State
Enterprise, final version as passed on September 8, 2000.
PKP_Law on commercialization etc_final-08SEPI
3. PKP Board Resolution of August 1. 2000 and Ordinance on managment of labor resources and financial
means allocated to labor restructuring. This sets out the principles and proceedures to be followed by the
Railway Labor Restructuring Agency (KAAZ).
PKP Resolution on labor restructuring
4. Report on the Assessment of the Capacity of the Proposed Project Implementation Unit to Conduct
Procurement. World Bank, January 2001.
U
Procurement_Annex02.dc
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Back-to-Office Reports or Aides memoire:
May 8, 1998
May 28, 1998
September 30, 1998
January 11, 2000
September 22, 2000
U
AM0900.doc
- 77 -



December 12, 2000
U
AM1200_02.doc
2. Draft of the Review of Financial Management System of Railway Retraining and Remployment Ageivy
(KAAZ)
Is
Review FM System PKP neg.(
3. Draft of TOR for Audit of Project Financial Statement and Quarterly PMR
AuditTOR(4).doc
C. Other
1. Summary of consultations with labor unions 1999-2000.
U
Consultations with unions over PKP reform
2. Polish Railways Labour Restructuring Loan Due Diligence on Behalf of EBRD, Booz Allen &
Hamilton - Warsaw office, Warsaw, November 1999.
3. Cost/Benefit Analysis of PKP Labour Restructuring Prograrnme, Booz Allen & Harnilton - Warsaw
office, Warsaw, July 2000.
U
BAH_FinalEN_Attl_2.d6
4. Identification of Labor Programs and their Costs, as Applied to Polskie Koleje Panstwowe (PKP)
Emplovment Restructuring, Jolanta Hess, October 2000.
U
jhess02.DOC
5. Details of the economic analysis presented in Annex 4.
Labor_analysisl 2_BrdOl_Final.
6. Costs and Benefits of Enlargement - Poland Country Report, PHARE Multi-country transport
programme, October 1999.
7. Statistical summary of PKP activities.
- 78 -



PKPstatsO3.xIs  PKPstats_Poland.xl
8. Law on Railway Transport (1997). This is the basic law setting up railway activities in accordance
with EU directives.
Rail_Law-27-06-97-English.d,
9. Proposed changes to law on railway transport (2000).
a
MTME_Standard text of chgs to rwy law.
10. Draft resolution of MTME (Sept. 2000).
U
MTME_Draft Resolution on principles of acces
11. Draft resolution of MTME (Sept 2000).
MTME_Draft Resolution on access charges
*Including electronic files
- 79 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Feb-2001
Difference beween expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbun.ements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P008615       2001 SZCZECIN-SWINOUJSCIE SEAWAY & PORT MOD             38.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00      38.67       0.00      0.00
P050660       2000 RURAL ENV. PROTECTION                               2.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00       1.77       0.73      0.00
P037339       2000 GEOTHERMAL AND ENVIRONMENT (PODHALE)               38.20      0.00                  0.00       0.00      32.75       0.42      0.00
P057993       2000 GEOTHERMAL & ENV (PODHALE) (GEF)                    0.00      0.00                  5.40       0.00       4.98       1.33      0.00
P058202       2000 RURAL DEVELOPMENT                                 120.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      96.11      12.26      0.00
P059613       2000 RURAL ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION (GEF)                  0.00      0.00                  3.00       0.00       2.86       0.70      0.00
P055988        1999 WHOLESALE MKT. II                                 11.10      0.00                  0.00       0.00       0.14      -1.26      0.00
P053796        1998 FLOOD EMERGENCY                                  200.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      94.48      90.02     44.68
P035082        1998 MUNICIPAL FINANCE                                 22.00      0.00                  0.00      13.30       3.83      17.71      0.00
P008593        1998 ROADS II                                         300.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     180.13      79.85      0.00
P036061        1997 PORT ACCESS & MGMT.                               67.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      28.82      10.74      0.00
P035081        1997 ODS PHASEOUT (GEF)                                 0.00      0.00                  6.21       0.00       0.26       6.21      6.17
P008595        1996 BIELSKO-BIALA WATER                               21.50      0.00                  0.00       0.00       7.19       8.76      0.00
P008604        1996 POVVERTRANSMISSION                               160.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      68.82      91.33      0.00
P008563        1995 COAL TO GAS CONV (GEF)                             0.00      0.00                 25.00       0.00      12.80      16.06      -0.36
P008587        1992 HEALTH                                           130.00      0.00                  0.00      35.00      33.58      68.58      6.43
P008571        1991 PRIVATIZN & RESTRUCT                             280.00      0.00                  0.00      67.28      33.70     100.98     30.30
Total:    1390.80        0.00               39.61      115.58      640.90     504.40     87.22
- 80 -



POLAND
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998               BWP S.A.                      0.00    1.75    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.75    0.00    0.00
1996               Baltic Malt                   2.96    0.00    1.93    0.00    2.96    0.00    1.87    0.00
1997               CPF                            0.00    1.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.38    0.00    0.00
0                ESCO Polska                    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.00    0.00
1996/97            Gaspol                         0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.98    0.00    0.00
1998               Global Hotels                 2.72    3.60    3.40    0.00    0.00    3.20    1.87    0.00
1993               Huta Warszawa                 7.85    0.00    3.75    0.00    7.85    0.00    3.75    0.00
1995/97/98         Intercell                      0.00    3.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.79    0.00    0.00
1995               Nesky                          1.87    0.50    0.00    0.00    1.87    0.50    0.00    0.00
1997               Norgips                        7.95    0.00    0.00    14.64    7.95    0.00    0.00   14.64
1993               PEF-Poland                     0.00    1.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.92    0.00    0.00
1998               Paroc Polska                   6.90    2.13    0.00    0.00    6.90    1.93    0.00    0.00
1994               Peters                         5.58    0.00    1.00    0.00    5.58    0.00    0.88    0.00
1993               Sandoglass                     7.98    0.00    0.00    1.34    7.98    0.00    0.00    1.34
Total Portfolio:        43.81    18.27   10.08    15.98   41.09   15.66    8.37   15.98
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1997              AmerBank                       8000.00      0.00   7000.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     8000.00      0.00   7000.00      0.00
- 81 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
POLAND: RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Europa 5    uppr-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central   middle-
Poland      Asia  Income        Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        38.7       475       573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atfes method, US$)                    3,990     2,150      4 900
GNP (Atlas method US$ bitiOn1s)                       154.2      1,022    2,811
Averaeg annual growth, 1993-99
Population 0%l                                                     01        14      G                                G
Labor force f%)                                         0.4        0.6       21      GNP                              Gross
per                            p \ 7 prmary
Most roCent estimate (atest yasr avtilable. 1993-99)                                 capita 0  0                  enrollment
Poverty f% of population below notional poverty line)   24          -
Urban ptouiation e% of total Popufation)                66         67        76
Lle expiectancy at birth (years)                        73         69        70
tnfant mortality per 1,000/ive bifflhsI                 10         22        27
Child malnutrition (% of childtrl under 6)                          8         7                Access to safe water
Access to Improved water source (% of 00opuelion)        ..         .        78
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatIn age 15+)                       0          3        10
Gross prirrary enrollment Xof schoo/-age Poputation)    96        100       109            Poland
Male                                                  97        101                         Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                96         99
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     19S9       1998      1999
Economic ratlos*
GDP tUSS billionst                                              152,6      158.2
Gross domestic investmentUGOP                             -      26.4
Exoorts of goods and services/GOP la                             28.4                                Trade
Gross domestic savingsGOP                                 .      211
Gross national savi'snsGDP                                       21.6
Current aecount balancre/OP                                       4           3      Domestic                    Investme
Interest aymeonts/GOP                           .                 0.9        1.2     SavInvestment
Tttal dobt/GDP                                  .                31.3                 avings
Total debt service1exports                                        12.4
Present value of debtGDP                                         28.9
Present value of debt/exports                    .              120.8
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(averago annult gtowth)
GDP                                    ..     4.7       4.8       4.1        5.2               Poland
GNP Der caita                                 S 6       4.8       3.3       51=   Upper-middle-income group
Exoorts of goods and servies                 t16       14.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999     Growth of Investment and GDP IS)
(% of GDP)                                                                          30
Aqriculture                                                       4.8        3.8
Industry                                                         36.1      36.5    20
Manufacturing                                                   21.6      21.3    10
Services                                                         59.1       59.7
Private consumption                                              63.3      63.3             94   9s   96   97   98   99
General aovemment consumption                                    15.6                         _GDI         ----GDP
Imports of coods and services /a                                 33.6
(average annual growth)                   1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                            -0.2       6.1       -2.0    30
Industry                                                6.3       4.3       4.6
Manufacturing                                                                    z20
Services                                                4.1       5.1       7.3    ,
Private consumption                                     5.6       4.7       5.1
Generai qovernment consumption                          2.3        1.6               o -
Gross domestic investment                              11.9      13.8       6.3            94   95   93   07   99   99
ImPorts of goods and services                          17.7      18.5                         -Exports   -Imports
Gross national Droduct                                  5.8       4.8       3.4
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 82 -



Poland
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflaton(%)
Domestic prices
(9%o change)
Consumer prices                                 .1711.8                     7.3    30
Implicit GDP deflator                           .        .       11.7       7.9    20
Govemment finance                                                                  10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0 l                       I i
Current revenue                                ..       ..       23.0      20.4            94   95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                                           -0.7     -0.8             -     GDP deflator  -O-CPI
Overall surplus/defcit                         ..       ..       -2.4      -2.0
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..              28,229    27,407    00,000
Coal, coke, and briquettes                     .              1,232         .     oo*
Meat and meat preparations                            5..        66
Manufactures                                                 22,905
Total imports (cif)                            ..        .    47,054    45,911                          J
Food                                         ..               2,968     2,537
Fuel and energy                               .        .      2,964    3,281      10000
Capital goods                                 .         .d_
93  94  9g  96  97  9g  99
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       130       141
Import price index (995=100)                   ..       ..       129       139                 *  Exports    Mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..       101       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services /b                .        ..   33,799    29,657      6
Imports of goods and services lb               ..       ..   48,028    45,661
Resource balance                                         ..  -14,229   -16,004      3
Net income                                      ..       .       -567     -804      o 
Net current transfers                          ..       ..    1,942      1,604 g
Current account balance                        ..        .     -6,858   -11,569
Financing items (net)                          ..              12,566    11,349
Changes in net reserves                         .        ..   -5,708       220    .9
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          .        ..   27,382   25,494
Conversion rate (DEC, locaIUS$)                          -        3.6       3.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  43,096    47,708
IBRD                                          .,       0      2,156    2,185               G          A:2.156
IDA                                           .        0         0                         G. 6,      A1
Total debt service                              .   1.542       4,534
IBRD                                          .        0       306       322
IDA                                          ..        0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              ..        0       549                 F- 1_
Official creditors                           ..   -253         -487                  1444E: 24,919
Private creditors                            ..   -149        2,319
Foreign direct investment                     .       11      6,365
Portfolio equity                             ..        0       969
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..        0        20       303      A-IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..        0       153       247      B rA    D Other multilateral  F - PGrvate
Principal repayments                          .        0       175       188      C IMF                       0- Short-term
Net flows                                     ..       0        -23       59
Interest payments                            ..        0       131       134
Net transfers                                          0       -153      -75
Development Economics                                                                                               12/09/00
- 83 -



Additional
Annex 11
Letter of Railway Reform Policy
la Jan 01  11:58         MTiGM TF-MIF                       +48226301364                p.
e                                                 Warsaw,#. January 2101.
REPUBLIC OF POLAND
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
AND MARITIME ECONOMY
Under-Secretary of State
Witold Chodakiewicz
TKs-2/2001
TF-MIF-084-27/200 1
Mr. James D. Wotfensohn
President
oftthe World Bank
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
At the request of the World Bank and with reference to loan negotiations between the Bank
and Polish State Railways S.A., which are expected to comrnmence on January 22 and cover
proposed loan financing labor restructuring, I hereby present supplemental characteristics of
PKP restructuring process.
Policy of the Polish Government with respect to railway reform and legal framework for
proposed actions have been established in the following documents:
*  Polish State Railways Restructuring Program, approved by the Council of Ministers for
implementation on 7 September 1999;
*  The law dated 8 September 2000 on commnercialization, restructuring and privatization of
PKP state owned company;
  The law dated 8 December 2000 on approximation of, among other regulations, the law
on railway transport to acquis communautaire.
First two documents have been already submitted to the Bank.
Possibilities to improve the PKP situation through limited organizational changes have been
exhausted. For the last several years, profitability of railway transport has been constantly
failing along with gradual increase of PKP operating costs. Cross subsidies of passenger
operations from profits of freight services resulted in insufficient investment in rolling stock,
which in turn deteriorated competitiveness of railway transport on freight market. At the same
time structure of transport has rapidly changed. Less raw materials-and more processed goods
are transported. Incentive for a major change has been provided by rising awareness that
railway transport, which carnot effectively compete with roads will eventually fail in
competition with Western Europeans operators once access to railway infrastructure is
liberalized. Accumulating losses of PKP required preparation of cost reduction measures,
including labor costs, while high level of overdue liabilities forced the enterprise to develop a
financial restructuring program.
The most urgent needs of railways - in many ways efficient and friendly to the environment
mode of transport - compel such comprehensive PKP restructuring, which would enable
railways to compete effectively within the EU.
The law calls for three stages of reforms of Polish State Railways.
Commercialization, is an initial step already completed. Its purpose was to transform legal
status of PKP from state owned company to a joint stock company, which facilitates
- 84 -



18 Jar 01  11:58          MTiGM TF-MIF                      +48226301364                 p. 2
restructuring and privatization of individual functions and provides for more efficient
management structures. On 1 December 2000 PKP state owned enterprise was transformed
into PKP S.A., which was registered on i January 2000.
Restructuring means a series of transformations within basic functions of the company:
labor, finance, organization and assets.
From the point of view of required reductions of costs the most important is labor
restructuring process, which was started two years ago and will peak in 2001. It is expected
that the optimal level of employment will be achieved in the end of 2002.
Experience from restructuring of other sectors of economy, and in particular coal mining and
steel sectors, was used as a basis to develop a program of social protection measures (pre-
retirement benefits, railway leaves, and lump severance payments), which would lead to
optimization of workforce and reduction of related costs. Provisions of the law draw heavily
on lengthy consultatiorns with central government units and reflect position of trade unions
representing majority of railway workers.
Currently PKP Management Board has negotiated a schedule of layoffs with the trade unions.
During numerous meeting with unionists, the Minister of Transport and Maritime Economy
has fully supported such initiatives.
The labor redeployment program is an integral part of labor restructuring, with respect to
professional and social counseling, retraining of redundant employees to meet the needs of
internal and external labor markets.
The law provides for two sources of funding social benefits: loans and bonds, both with
sovereign guarantee of the state. Long-term loans are more flexible form of fi;nding social
protection measures.
Loan Agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development providing for
a long-term loan of EUR 100 million was signed on 11 December 2000 together with the
Guarantee Agreement. Negotiations with other Banks for funding restructuring, including
social protection measures, are well advanced. In case the World Bank agrees to lend a long-
term loan of USD 150 million to PKP S.A., expected value of bond issue will be adjusted
accordingly. All loans will be repaid by PKP S.A.
Financial restructuring of PKP is set forth in the law in great detail. The restructuring will
cover arrears in liabilities to the State Treasury, Social Insurance Office and Labor Fund.
Deadline to repay principal liabilities was postponed to 31 December 2000 and since this year
they will be repaid in 60 monthly installments. The repayment will be completed in 2005.
Penalty interests on such overdue liabilities will be abolished once the conditions provided for
in the law are met. One of such conditions is that average monthly salary increases in PKP
should stay below consumer price index set froth in the budget law for a.given year.
The law gives no preferences to PKP as regards repayment of overdue liabilities to
commnercial suppliers. They may be restructured under generally applicable regulations.
Organizational restructuring will consist in transformation of. PKP S.A. into a holding
structure. The law requires PKP S.A. to establish the following subsidiaries (on the basis of
current organizational units) within six months after the registration: railway line management
company - PKP Polish Railway Lines S.A., passenger services company and freight services
company. All three will be established before end of June 2001.
PLK S.A. will be of particular importance to the Government. The law calls for a large degree
of influence the minister relevant to transport may exercise, including approval of the statute,
any changes thereto, recommends members of the Supervisory Boards for approval by the
General Assembly.
- 85 -



18 Jan 0 1 1 1:59          MTiGM TF-MIF                       +48226301364                  p. 3
Establishing passerger operating subsidiaries PKP SA. xvill need to take account of existing
legal frarnework for railway operations and related passenger subsidies.
There has been no provision for deadline to establish other subsidiaries. however works are
progressing well.
As a transitions form, organizational units of PKP S.A., which would eventually evolve into
joint stock companies, will be first transformed into branches of PKP S.A.
The objective of restructuring of assets is to clear legal status of property held by PKP. The
law contains particular provisions for hereditary tenure of lands used by PKP and owned by
the State Treasury (so far PKP has had no legal title to such lands) free of charge. Currently,
for 74.4% of PKP property has no such legal title, of which for 28% legal procedure has
aLready started.
Privatization of PKP S.A. subsidiaries is regarded by the Govern:ment as:
*  an instrument to increase competitiveness of such units currently  in internmodal
competition but also against newcorners to the railway market.,
* an element of bridging technical and technological gap of railways,
*  a source of repayment of PKP S.A. liabilities.
 a source of funding restructuring measures,
*  a source of funding Labor Ownership Fund,
* a source of investing into railway infrastructure.
Issues related to privatization of the subsidiaries are considered very carefully and any
privatization process will be implemented with due diligence.
First subsidiaries to be privatized include WKD (Warsaw Commuter Rail), SKQM  (Fast
Cormnuter Rail in Tricity) and LHS (wide gauge line for freight) and thereafter other railway
related functions: telecomnmunication, power supply, qualified services company (Ex, IC, EC)
cross-regional passenger companies and agglomeration services.
We observe that privatization of WKD and SKlI enjoys large interest. Regional passenger
companies would be privatized once the system of regional subsidies (to cover public service
obligations) is organized and has stabilized.
We still intend to privatize PKP Cargo although a timeframe for related actions has not been
decided yet. We would rely heavily on experience from first privatization transactions of
smaller railway subsidiaries and potential social support for such action.
PKP Cargo will become not only one of the largest freight operators in Europe but also more
efficient one, if only sufficient funds are invested into rol.ing stock beforehand. Combined
rolling stock has bee already procured on a pilot basis (under the World Bank loan). Without
new investment in rolling stock, privatization of Cargo would mean sale of market share not a
modern company.
Privatization of PLK S.A (Polish Railway Lines) is not expected anytime soon, although it is
not excluded under the law.
New system of providing and funding passenger services is embedded into railway reforms.
Provision and funding loss mnaking regional passenger services has been decentralized to the
regional level; the mnnister relevant to transport is responsible for cross-regional services,
Regional services account for 70% of all passenger traffic, while cross-regional for remaining
30%. The law provides for important support in the form of state budget subsidy.
PKP restructuring program authorized also closing of about 6000 km of low density railway
lines. Such lines may be transferred to free of charge to local government for management.
- 86 -



I8 Jan 01  1 1: 59        t1T GM TF-MIF                      +48226301364                 p.4
The law dated 8 December 2000 on amending the law on railway transport, among other
regulations, establishes the function of railway regulator. Until Poland becomes the member
of EU the function will be split between two units of national administration: the Minister of
Transport and Maritime Economy and the General Railway Inspectorate. Thereafter, new
Office of Railway Transport will be formed. Basic tasks of railway regulator include:
providing for non-discriminate access of operators to railway lines, investigation of railway
market and supervision over safety in transport of dangerous goods by rail.
In summary, the loan to be negotiated with the World Bank is related to the PKP labor
restructuring, which is an important element of the policy of PKP reformns. Assistance to be
provided by the Bank will facilitate achievement of efficient railways successfully competing
for market in Poland and in Europe.
Yours faithfully,
- 87 -



Additional
Annex 12
Project Implementation Plan - Summary
PKP - POLISH STATE RAILWAYS
PLAN TO RESTRUCTURE ORGANIZATION
Warsaw, November 2000
Contents
I.   Proposed action plan for transformation of PKP into PKP S.A.
11.   Principal directions of changes in PKP organization for pre-establishment period (between PKP S.A.
is registered and subsidiaries are established)
III. Typical procedure to establish and liquidate organizational units
IV. Proposed action plan for establishment of subsidiaries
I. Proposed action plan for transformation of PKP into PKP S.A.
PKP Management Board's formal request to commercialize PKP           31 October 2000
PKP commercialization (notary deed confirming establishment of PKP       before
*     S.A.) by the Minister of Transport and Maritime Economy             30 November 200(1
*     P1KP S.A. Management Board's formal request to enter PKP S.A. into     2 days after
the Commercial Register                                             commercialization
*     PKP S.A. is registered                                                    before
31 December 200('
II. Principal directions of changes in PKP organization for pre-establishment period (between PKP
S.A. is registered and subsidiaries are established)
1. Principal directions for organizational changes in PKP enterprise for the period after PKP S.A.
registration and preceding establishment of the subsidiaries include:
l. I Establishment and registration of PKP S.A. branches on the very same day PKP S.A. is
registered.
1.2  Establishment of "COMPANY HEADQUARTERS" company on the very same day PKP S.A.
is registered.
2. In majority of cases branches of PKP S.A. shall be established on the basis of existing sectors and
directorates and enjoy the same status of economic independence, i.e. they shall be free to make own
balance sheets and income statements independently. In order to enable establishment of PKP S.A.
branches and facilitate registration thereof the following shall be necessary:
- 88 -



2.1 PKP (PKP S.A.) Management Board shall need to take relevant resolutions to establish PKP S.A.
branches (specifying number of branches, names and scope of responsibilities).
2.2 Organizational manuals of PKP S.A. branches shall need to be developed and adopted by PKP S.A.
Management Board.
2.3 PKP S.A. Management Board shall need to appoint senior managers of PKP S.A Branches
(Directorates) and equip them with relevant authorizations. It is agreed that the authorizations shall be
based on the Commercial Code.
2.4 PKP S.A. Management Board shall need to formally request registration of PKP S.A branches.
3.  PKP S.A branches shall be a transitional form within PKP S.A. structure until the subsidiaries
referred to in Articles 14, 15 and 19 of the law dated 8 September 2000 are established on the basis of
such branches. It is expected that the following organizational units shall function in the form of PKP
S.A. branches within the structure of dominant PKP S.A. company:
3.1   PKP S.A. Branch - Directorate of Housing Management
3.2   PKP S.A. Branch - Directorate of Railway Health Services (excluding Pharmacy)
3.3   PKP S.A. Branch - Railway Labor Restructuring Agency (KAAZ)
3.4   PKP S.A. Branch - Directorate of Real Estate Administration
4.  PKP S.A. HEADQUARTERS (a kind of principal branch of PKP S.A.) shall be established on the
basis of the following organizational units of PKP:
4.1   Directorate General
4.2   Real Estate Directorate
4.3   Bureau for Income Control in Krak6w
4.4   Bureau for Income Control in Olsztyn
4.5   PKP foreign rep-offices
5.  Functions and responsibilities of PKP S.A HEADQUARTERS shall significantly differ from today's
responsibilities if the PKP Directorate General and gradually evolve in line with provisions of the law
dated 8 September 2000. It is expected that such evolution of functions and responsibilities of PKP
S.A HEADQUARTERS shall include the following phases:
5.1 PHASE I
First half of 2001
After PKP S.A is registered and before the subsidiaries are established
Focus of efforts on managing the enterprise in the form close to current one and implementing
provisions of the law dated 8 September 2000.
5.2 PHASE II
Second half of 2001
After the subsidiaries are established and before liquidation of organizational units is completed
Focus of efforts on transferring assets (contributions) initiating and implementing mechanisms for
managing the subsidiaries and cooperating with each other.
- 89 -



5.3 PHASE III
2001/2002 onwards
After restructuring of organization and asset structure is completed.
Focus of efforts on managing PKP S.A Holding and preparing the subsidiaries for privatization.
6. Issues discussed in this section are being developed and coordinated by KOR and KBI Offices of P'KP
Directorate General.
III. Typical procedure to establish and liquidate organizational units of PKP
I . The following stages are foreseen for establishment of individual subsidiaries:
1.1 ESTABLISHMENT OF SUBSIDIARY                  NOTARY DEED OF ESTABLISHMENT
OR STATUTE
1.2 REGISTRATION OF SUBSIDIARY                   COURT RULING AND ACTUAL
REGISTRATION
1.3 LAUNCH OF OPERATION                          AFTER THE LICENSE IS GRANTED,
EMPLOYEES AND ASSETS
TRANSFERRED
2.   For the first stage - ESTABLISHMENT OF SUBSIDIARY - the following is expected:
2.1 Agreement on establishing the subsidiary (statute) shall be developed including split in
responsibilities of the subsidiary's management levels.
2.2 Medium-term BUSINESS PLAN for 2000-2005 shall be developed and consolidated with
other business plans at the HOLDING level.
2.3 Individual items of assets to be contributed to the subsidiaries shall be listed in the prescribed
format and in line with procedures adopted to establish and verify value of such items usin.
adjusted net assets method (as required under the law).
2.4 Agreements and side documents related to operation of the subsidiaries shall be drafted.
THE ABOVE SET OF DOCUMENTS SHALL BE PRESENTED TO PKP MANAGEMENT
BOARD AND COUNCIL FOR ADOPTION OF REQUIRED RESOLUTIONS ESTABLISHING
THE SUBSIDIARIES.
3. For the second stage - REGISTRATION OF SUBSIDLARY - the following is expected:
3.1   Senior managers of subsidiaries shall be appointed and Management Board shall apply foi
registration.
3.2   Action plan for implementing the resolutions of PKP Management Board and Council
establishing the subsidiaries shall be adopted.
3.3   Action plan for liquidation of forner organizational units shall be adopted. Typical procedure
to liquidate is presented in the following section.
- 90 -



4.   For the final stage - LAUNCH OF OPERATION - the following is expected:
4.1   The subsidiaries shall apply for relevant decisions and approvals (statistical registration
number, taxpayer identification number, registering with Treasury Offices for the purpose of
income tax and VAT calculations) (license).
4.2   Transfer of assets (contributions provided for in the establishing agreements/statutes).
4.3   Transfer of employees (under Article 23 of the law).
4.4   Transfer of business contracts.
5.  Similar procedure (points 1-4) shall apply to increases of the subsidiary's establishing capital. Such
increases shall result from liquidation of PKP organizational units and condessioning decisions.
6.  Restructuring Unit of PKP Directorate General (KBI) shall coordinate establishment of the
subsidiaries and liquidation of the PKP organizational units on the basis of which the subsidiaries are
established.
7.  Attached figures present procedures applicable to establishment of the subsidiaries and liquidation of
the PKP organizational units.
IV. Provisional action plan for establishment of subsidiaries
No.                  Company                            Estimated deadline to           l
Establish         Register     Launch
operation
1   LHS Ltd.                                   11/2000      Before 31.12.00   1.02.2001
2    CS Training and Advisory Ltd.              12/2000     Before 31.12.00   1.02.2001
3   WKD Ltd.                                    12/2000     Before 31.12.00   1.02.2001
4   SKM Ltd.                                    12/2000     Before 31.01.01    1.03.2001
5   FERPOL Ltd.                                 1/2001      Before 31.01.01    1.03.2001
6   PHARMACY Ltd.                               1/2001      Before 3 1.01.01    1.03.2001
7   POLRES Ltd.                                 2/2001      Before 28.02.01    1.04.2001
8   Railway Power Supply Ltd.                   2/2001      Before 28.02.01    1.04.2001
9   Railway Telematics Ltd.                     2/2001      Before 28.02.01    1.04.2001
10  Passenger Operating Companies              3-4/2001     Before 31.03.01    1.05.2001
11  Cargo S.A.                                  5/2001      Before 31.05.01    1.08.2001
12  Infrastructure Maintenance Companies        5/2001      Before 31.05.01    I .08.2001
13  PLK S.A.                                    5/2001      Before 31.05.01    1.08.2001
- 91 -



Additional
Annex 13
Current Employment Situation in PKP
Table 1       PKP Headcount by Business Unit
Business Unit                                     Headcount                    %
Passenger                                            23,697                   12.8
-Freight                                              66,062                   35.8
Infrastructure                                       62,969                   34.1
Other Directorates & Structures                      28,466                   15.4
PKP HQ                                                 365                     0.2
Other entities (outside the directorate structure)    3,161                    1.7
TOTAL                                               184,701                   100
Source: PKP (14 June 2000)
Table 2       PKP Headcount in core business units by voivodship
Voivodship               Infrastructure   CARGO    Passenger       Total in core
business units
(Sectors)
Dolnocel'skie                5.736        5.801        1.964            13.501         8,7
Kujawsko-Pomorskie           3.848        3.807        1.115             8.770         5,7
Lubelskie                    2.312        5.058        1.149             8.519         5,5
Lubuskie                     2.231        2.288         627              5.146         3,3
6dzkie                      2.702        3.579        1.352             7.633         4,9
Ma3opolskie                  4.376        5.184        1.814            11.374         7,4
Mazowieckie                  7.719        4.213        3.223            15.155         9,8
Opolskie      _              2.584          506         749              3.839         2,5
Podkarpackie                 2.693        2.644        1.162             6.499         4,2
Podlaskie                    1.615        2.217         657              4.489         2,9
Pomorskie                    3.296        3.990        1.721             9.007         5,8
CEl'skie                     9.162       13.721        2.902            25.785        16,7
CEwi6tokrzyskie              2.963        3.960         671              7.594         4,9
Warmifisko-Mazurskie         2.703        1.329         968              5.000         3,2
Wielkopolskie                6.273        4.802        2.503            13.578         8.8
Zachodniopomorskie           3.515        4.029        1.282             8.826         5.7
TOTAL                       63.728       67.128       23.859           154.715        100,0
Source: PKP - KAAZ (1 May 2000)
Table 3       PKP Headcount by education
Education level                            age                               _
18-24    25-34    35-44    45-54    55-59    60-64     Total       %
Basic                      127    3.072    9.446   15.271    1.065       32       29.013     15,5
Vocational                2.129   19.953   35.787   19.971     489       11       78.340     41,9
Secondary                 1.664   13.565   32.297   23.429    1.050      25       72.030     38,6
Higher                      61      991    2.200    3.660      495       34        7.441      4,0
TOTAL                      3.98    37.58    79.73    62.33     3.09     102       186.82    100,0
% of Total employmen1       2,1    20,1      42,7    33,4       1,7      0,1       100,0
Source:PKP-KBP (28 June 2000)
- 92 -



Table 4       PKP Headcount by main categories and types of employment
Business Unit             M&Adm    Direct   Infrastructure  Rolling stock  Technical   Other  Modernisation
Transport  maintenance   maintenance   Support  support  &
rehabilitation
PKP HQ                        350         0            0           0         7       8           0
Infrastructure              8.911         6       46.894           2     4.554    1.322       1.281
Cargo                       8.456     17.562         666      30.412     5.728    3.239          0
Passenger                   2.819     15.475          61       3.379       280    1.650         15
Other Directorates &        7.214       186       12.153         258     3.932    4.538        185
Structures (piony)
Other entities (outside the   889       364          337         782       251     537           0
directorate structure)
TOTAL                      28.639    33.593       60.111      34.833   14.752  11.293         1.481
% of Total employment        15,5       18,2        32,5        18,9       8,0      6,1         0,8
Source: PKP-KBP (14 June 2000)
Table 5       PKP Headcount by length of employment
Business Unit                       <10          11-20        21-30       31-40           >40
PKP HQ                                    46           62          179          76          3
Infrastructure                         7.249        24.311      24.667        6.738        22
Cargo                                  4.215        20.158      32.574        8.968        24
Passenger                              2.129         9.763       9.623        2.140        14
Other Directorates & Structures        2.303         9.033      12.819        4.253        14
(piony)
Other entities (outside the              279         1.135       1.454         298          5
directorate structure)
TOTAL                                 16.221        64.462      81.316       22.473        82
% of Total employment                    8,8           3,9        44,1         12,2       0,0
Source: PKP -KBP (28 June 2000)
Table 6       PKP Headcount by age
Business Unit                        <10          11-20        21-30         3140          >40
PKP HQ                                     21           41           190          112             3
Irifrastructure                         8.968       21.993        25.506         6.510           10
Cargo                                   6.158       22.045        31.983         5.739           14
Passenger                               3.415         9.200        9.067         1.982            5
Other Directorates & Structures         3.031         8.852       13.155         3.373           14
(piony)
Other entities (outside the              333          1.142        1.435          260             1
directorate structure)                       I             I
TOTAL                                  21.926        63.273       81.336        17.976           47
% of Total employment                    11,9          34,3         44,1           9,7          0,0
Source: PKP -KBP (28 June 2000)
- 93 -






-  ~     ~          ~          <1~~~~~~RUSSIAN2S   x
BoIc   Sa'                                                      GfoGortr              _-    FEDERATION                                                   AI
M~~~~h.ro~~~~~~~o  o~~~~~.         -    - ~~~~~~L I'U A NI A                                      /POLAND
T. KoIningrod 
C       Siupok    K.  / *~~~~~~~~~~~oE&   -o~~~~~~"  *-.   ~ ~ ~ ~~~                                                C                       \ ~~ RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING
S-s ~~~~~~   ~ ~~     A,F.orroki  -2
rtKW   U            Okoyn~~~~'~                                  T~\ I~oPru                                  .-.-    MAIN RAILROADS
WLF                                                                                                                  +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--O-*-t  FREIGHT OPERATION TO BE PRIVATIZED (LHS-BROAD GAUGE)
To Rosiork  i~~~~~orA.    oooi  OK~~~~~T2    .oi.  ,Joor~~~~~   I MooR                                                                             14I4  SUBUREAN OPERATIONS TO BEBURAN  PEIVAIOSIIZED PRIATIWEKDWKD5KM)
.                                 Eiolyrlo~~~~~~~~~~~~pk  BEA U5NATIONAL CAPITAL
MO    - Co~~~~  -    Olono        Godo~0.4k.                                                                             PROVINCE )VOIVODSHIP) CAPITALS
s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
~~~W"                                                                    o.hk  H~~~~~~~~orruk.i-  .--                               RIVERS
Z                                          04----   CANALS
Eorlrr              oG, O- -poooPROVINCE (VOIVODSHIP) BOUNDARIES
1<1  3            BUKIE             Noo   Pono*                                                     kol                                  ool       0                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/OAorI.ko  o~~~9-oo       Eon  ~~    (Woirszawa)SnIe                              ~     ~     T  ,o
Dkn2             Morn                                        .                        1?                                  ~     ~    ~~~          ~~~~        ~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 5510  l To1D  20KILOMETERS
f,k6w                  SKIE                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th/sm-p F.oo -odoodyrtheMa.pfD.nig Unit of Th. Word Bor
T-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~lt                                                                       -~                                                                                                nrihn mop do rot i;.ply, -r tEr P., fIrh. World Sork (S-op, nny
j.dgn.rronSnnglnorntnrtonin-yo-ood-Wnoro
~~~~~~  dolor a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p-d- -.
LoUis  MoM.   A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wo0    ~~~~~O    .    00000 ~~~~~~~~~~~---NRA-                             SWEIDEN  ~>           ~RUSSIAN
-    hrr;o          NEro                                     .,               0~~~                                   /              K-B   ;                  VIA 2
'I                          .         InIooo/                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K~~~~LITHUANIAA<
so-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OKRa                                                                                                                     K.                                 C                                ELARUS
rnnorrP..   /               UKRA IN  E                                           POLAND 
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rr                                                                  UKRAINE
-~~~~~  Knynino ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CZECH/
1                                                         o                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REP-
Id           o-                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      ~      ~~SLOVAK    o R EP U  BL IC  -3  2   5-/7o * AUSTRIA  HNAYROMANIA  \tM
I A ~        iSBN.                                                                                   2,02                                                                  2-4ASWIZ                                                                             >
APRIL 2001



