                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 34596

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (TF-29121 FSLT-70540)

                                             ON A

                                            LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 110.0 MILLION
                              (US$ 101.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                           TO POLSKIE KOLEJE PANSTWOWE S.A.

                               (POLISH STATE RAILWAYS S.A.)

                   WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                            FOR A

                            RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT




                                         June 13, 2006




Infrastructure Department
Poland and Baltic States Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective At Completion, December 30, 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Polish Zloty
                                      PLN 1 = US$ 0.3099
                                       US$ 1 = PLN 3.2265
                                      US$ 1     =   Euro 0.8391

                (Exchange Rates Effective at Appraisal, January 31, 2001)

                                  PLN 1 = US$ 0.2418
                                  US$ 1 = PLN 4.1350
                                  US$ 1 = Euro 1.0887
                                     FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1     - December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB             European Investment Bank
EIRR            Economic Internal Rate of Return
FIRR            Financial Internal Rate of Return
FMS             Financial Management System
GoP             Government of Poland
IAS             International Accounting Standards
IFAC            International Federation of Accountants
ISPA            Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-accession
KBI             Capital Investment and Privatization Office
KM              Warsaw Regional Railways ('Koleje Mazowiekie')
KAAZ            Agency for Retraining and Reemployment ('Kolejowa Agencja Aktywizacji
                Zawodowej')
LHS             Linia Hutniczo-Siarkowa (Broad-gauge Railway between Ukraine and Silesia)
LRS             Labor Redeployment Services
MoI             Ministry of Infrastructure
MLSP            Ministry of Labor and Social Policy
MTME            Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
NLO             National Labor Office
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PLK S.A.        Polish Railway Infrastructure Joint Stock Company ('Polskie Linie Kolejowe
                Spolka Akcyjna')
PKP             Polish State Railways ('Polskie Koleje Panstwowe')
PKP S.A.        Polish State Railways Joint Stock Company ('Polskie Koleje Panstwowe Spolka
                Akcyjna')
PMR             Project Management Report
PSO             Public Service Obligation
SKM             Fast Municipal Railway ('Szybka Kolej Miejska', the regional service for
                Gdansk/Sopot/Gdynia)
TA              Technical Assistance
UIC             International Railway Union ('Union Internationale des Chemins de Fer')

UTK         Office for Rail Transport ('Urzad Transportu Kolejowego')
WKD         Warsaw commuter railway ('Warszawska Kolej Dojazdowa')
ZUS         Social Insurance Fund ('Zaklad Ubezpieczen Spolecznych')

                         Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                       Country Director      Daniela Gressani, ECCU7
                        Sector Manager       Motoo Konishi, ECSIE
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Agnieszka Grudzinska, ECSIE

                                           POLAND
                         RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P040795                                                  Project Name: Railway Restructuring (PKP) Project
Team Leader: Agnieszka Grudzinska                                    TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 13, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Railway Restructuring (PKP) Project                      L/C/TF Number: TF-29121; FSLT-70540
   Country/Department: POLAND                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (98%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Improving labor markets (P); State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/05/1993                                     Effective: 07/09/2001                07/09/2001
     Appraisal: 12/03/2000                                         MTR: 10/25/2002                  10/25/2002
      Approval: 05/29/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          POLSKIE KOLEJE PANSTWOWE S.A./POLSKIE KOLEJE PANSTWOWE
                                           S.A.
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Daniela Gressani                               Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:                 Motoo Konishi                                  Eva Molnar
Team Leader at ICR:             Agnieszka Grudzinska                           Graham Smith
ICR Primary Author:             William Denning


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective was to support the commercialization, restructuring and partial
privatization of Polish State Railways ('Polskie Koleje Panstwowe'-PKP), in order to increase efficiency,
improve finances, and privatize selected activities within a sound regulatory framework.

This development objective was consistent with the Government's reform initiative aimed to encourage the
provision of rail transport services which are more responsive to the needs of a market economy, to reduce
the burden on the state imposed by PKP's heavy losses, and to help prepare the transport system for
Poland's entry into the European Union. Within this overall reform initiative, PKP planed to restructure its
labor force by laying off some 37,000 workers; in order to cut its costs, facilitate the transition to a new
sectoral organization, and make subsidiary units more viable for privatization. The Bank project was
designed primarily to support this specific component of the broader reform initiative; it also provided
limited technical assistance to support implementation of the restructuring and privatization efforts.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The principal component of the project was made up of temporary income support/severance packages for
about 37,000 redundant employees to be laid off between August 2000 and December 2002. The project
also included technical assistance on implementation of the restructuring and privatization.          A labor
redeployment services (including training) component was funded by PKP, as were social monitoring
activities. Annex 2 provides additional details on project costs and financing.

Temporary Income Support
Four income support measures for laid-off workers were foreseen, of which three were eligible for
financing from the IBRD loan. This component was estimated to cost $296 million, of which the World
Bank loan was to cover $99 million and an EBRD loan was to cover about $85 million.

1. Severance: Employees declared redundant by PKP received fixed lump sum severance payments.
    About 29,700 employees in total were estimated to be eligible. World Bank financing of $66 million,
    together with a PKP contribution of $15 million, were to cover about 12,700 workers; EBRD's parallel
    co-financing of about $85 million was to cover about 13,200 workers. PKP was to cover an additional
    3,800 employees entirely from its own resources at a cost of $25 million.

2.   Pre-retirement benefit: Starting in June 2000 PKP laid off certain long-term employees who had not
    yet reached pensionable age. PKP was to pay them their pre-retirement benefits (a sum similar to their
    pension) until they reached the legal retirement age. About 5,800 employees were to be laid off in this
    way. World Bank financing: $17 million, was to finance 81% of the benefit in the period October 2000
    - December 2001. The remainder 19% was to be funded by PKP, corresponding to personal income tax
    withheld at the source. Payments made in 2002 and thereafter were to be financed by GOP at an
    estimated cost of $37 million.

3.   Railway leave: Older workers who, by end 2001, had come within three years of the legal retirement
    age and who had worked more than a set number of years with PKP could choose to go on "railway
    leave" early and receive the equivalent of a pension from PKP until they reach retirement age, when
    their state-funded pension begins, at most for 3 years. World Bank financing in this case was to cover



                                                    - 2 -

    60% of the total, or $15 million. The remainder, corresponding to personal income tax and social
    security payments withheld by PKP, was to be funded by PKP.

4.   Unemployment benefit: Under a general program available to all unemployed workers seeking jobs,
    those laid off from PKP were eligible for unemployment benefit. The cost of this benefit for PKP
    workers, estimated at $22 million, was to be borne wholly by the Polish government.

Labor Redeployment Services
These services were to include worker information sessions, aptitude testing, career and social advisory
services, information regarding local labor markets and job mediation activities, vocational training, on-site
training, and promoting of entrepreneurship.         Vocational training was to include: vocational, general
education and literacy, and formal small business skills training.          On-site training with prospective
employers was to be provided to PKP staff, after they had been placed on notice of dismissal but before
their PKP employment contract ended. These workers were to be placed "on loan" or secondment to a firm
interested in hiring them, and willing to provide training on their premises, in skills required for the likely
future jobs. These services were to be administered through local offices of the railway labor redeployment
agency (Agency for Retraining and Re-employment, 'Kolejowa Agencja Aktywizacji Zawodowej' or
KAAZ), in coordination with local offices of the Ministry of Labor and Social Policy. The total cost of
these services was estimated at $24 million. PKP was to bear the cost of this project component except
that beneficiaries (the employees) had to pay 20% of the cost of vocational training. In addition, KAAZ
was to monitor the impact the lay-offs had on the welfare of the dismissed workers.

Technical Assistance
The original technical assistance package contained the following eight consultant tasks to advise PKP on
the organizational, legal, regulatory, financial and social aspects of the program:

      1.     Methodology for regulating access rights and pricing for infrastructure.
      2.     Subsidies: principles for Government support of passenger railway operations and railway
             infrastructure development.
      3.     Analysis of the transport market and the likely future role of the railways.
      4.     Strategic advisor to PKP's Management Board.
      5.     Privatization advisor (transaction manager) for privatization of LHS.
      6.     Privatization advisor (transaction manager) for privatization of PKP Cargo.
      7.     Advice to regional governments on contracting for rail passenger services and administering
             corresponding subsidies.
      8.     Low-density lines: review of institutional and regulatory barriers to forming and operating
             short-line railways; preparation of a plan for their marketing, including identification of the
             potential for transfer to local control, privatization or abandonment. Review of environmental
             issues.

The PKP restructuring loan was to fund the strategic advisor for PKP and part of the LHS and PKP Cargo
privatization advisors ($1.45 million, items 4, 5, and 6 above). Three contracts were to be managed by
MTME and funded from the on-going World Bank Privatization Technical Assistance Loan ($0.9 million,
items 1, 2, and 3 above). Grant sources were to be sought for the remainder (items 7 and 8 above).

3.4 Revised Components:
During the course of the project the technical assistance components were revised to respond to the
evolving situation of PKP, changing government priorities (while preserving the thrust of the reform
program), and to take advantage of alternative funding sources, as these became available, and work done



                                                       - 3 -

by other international agencies, such as the Trade Access Study funded by EIB. As described in Section 4
below, ultimately only the Strategic Advisor to PKP's Management Board was funded through the project.

The hiring of privatization advisers, setting up a track access regime, and restructuring of regional
passenger services were the areas in which it was most difficult to initiate and advance the TA. After delays
in these areas in the early stages of the project, the GOP re-invigorated its policy stance in the "Program of
Further Restructuring and Privatization of PKP Companies to 2006" adopted by the Council of Ministers
on December 16, 2003.

The Loan closing date was extended on February 13, 2004 from the original closing date of June 30, 2004
to December 31, 2005 in order to: (1) make full use of TA funds, and (2) take advantage of the momentum
for reform prevailing in the winter of 2003-2004 aimed at the partial privatization of PKP subsidiaries
including PKP Cargo and Intercity, and regional services reform.

In fall 2004 changes were made in PKP senior management and a new Undersecretary of State for
Railways was appointed in MOI. In February 2005 a new "Strategy for Restructuring and Privatization of
Companies of the PKP S.A. Group in 2005-2007" was adopted by the government. These changes resulted
in revisions in the TA program further delaying its implementation.

The Roads II Loan Agreement was amended in December 2004 to extend the closing date from December
31, 2004 to December 31, 2006 and permit to use $2.8 million of the savings to finance the TA
assignments.

A new government was elected in October 2005 and has indicated that further revisions to the reform
program and thus the TA assignments, can be expected. Activities beyond the loan closing date are
described in Section 7, Sustainability.

In November 2003 loan proceeds of EUR 3.15 million were reallocated from railway leave (category 1B)
to severance (category 1A) to be used for pre-retirement benefits. The railway leave benefit had proved to
attract less demand than had been expected, while the pre-retirement benefit was being more heavily used
than forecast, see section 4.1 below. In October 2005, loan proceeds of EUR 1.34 million were reallocated
from consultants' services (category 2) to severance (category 1A) also to be used for pre-retirement
benefits, in view of technical assistance in support of key reforms being financed by the Roads II Loan and
the extra time needed to finalize this in light of the recent elections and the change of government.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory. The rating is based on: (i) consistency with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) objectives of managing the transformation of the state in support of the market economy,
and sustaining private sector growth, (ii) the commitment of the government to railway reform as evidenced
by engaging all stakeholders, particularly the railway trade unions, in substantive discussions, and in
passing the necessary reform laws, (iii) the project design provided for specialized institutional resources
(KAAZ) to ensure labor redeployment and related safeguards would be effective and efficient.

The project was consistent with the Bank's CAS for Poland. The August 1999 CAS Progress Report
specifically referred to the railway as one of two state-owned enterprises whose restructuring would
contribute to managing the transformation of the state in support of a market economy.

A QAG assessment was carried out in July 2001 and rated the Project satisfactory. The categories of
Concept, Objectives and Approach, and Policy and Institutional Aspects were rated as highly satisfactory



                                                        - 4 -

while all other categories were rated satisfactory. The panel noted the following strengths: (i) clear focus on
the most important action, redeployment of some 37,000 railway employees, (ii) the level of ownership for
this difficult social and political reform program, and (iii) that the project was fully ready for
implementation by the time of effectiveness. The panel noted the following areas of improvement, which it
acknowledged were more related to the overall Program of railway reform than to the specifics of the
Project: (i) more explicit financial analysis related to the future railway system, and (ii) risks arising from;
poor institutional capacity of the local and regional authorities in taking on passenger services, and from
uncertainties associated with the eventual privatization of freight traffic and the economic prospects of the
railways. The panel also would have liked to see a more detailed description in the PAD of the mechanism
used to ensure continued participation of the workers in the retrenchment program.

Referring to the length of time between initial project identification in 1992 and appraisal in 2000, the
QAG panel also noted that although the rapid process of operations is a widely accepted Bank objective,
there are highly justifiable cases, such as this one, where it is appropriate to not process an operation until
the necessary policy framework is in place, even if it adds to overall processing costs and elapsed time
between identification and Board.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. In summary; the project did increase sector efficiency,
did improve the railway's financial situation, and did promote some privatization of selected activities.
Achievement of objectives and outputs under the project was satisfactory.

The project itself clearly achieved its "physical" output, which was to support the reduction in the railway's
workforce from 182,000 staff in 2000 to 145,000 by December 2002 (one of the output targets). The
achievement for this output is rated "high". Staff had been reduced to 145,879 by December 31, 2002. By
December 2005 total staff complement, measured on a comparable basis, was further reduced to 131,327.
Broader measures of efficiency such as railway services provided per employee (measured by
passenger-km plus ton-km per 1,000 staff) have changed by only one-half the level of improvement
expected at appraisal. As discussed in Section 5 below, large decreases in freight and passenger traffic
have hampered the railway by reducing activity and revenue.

The achievement of the financial output is rated "substantial".          The financial situation of PKP and
associated companies has improved but not as much as might be expected given the size of the reduction in
the workforce. As discussed in Section 5 below, promised Government support for social passenger
services and infrastructure investment lagged behind expected amounts and large decreases in freight and
passenger traffic have reduced revenue. Spending on labor has declined from PLN 5.1 billion in 2000 to
PLN 4.2 billion in 2005, a good improvement but short of the PLN 3.8 billion target. Relative spending on
labor has declined from 56% of revenue to 36%, slightly better than the targeted 39%.                 Enterprise
profitability as measured by the working ratio (excluding budget subsidy) has improved steadily from an
estimated 110% at appraisal, to 88% in 2003, to 71% in 2004. The monitoring targets for these years are
100% and 95% respectively. If non-monetary income is excluded (consisting of released provisions,
interest accrued but not received, and unrealized foreign exchange gains, items not considered at appraisal)
the working ratio in both 2003 and 2004 is 97%. The working ratio targets have been met.

Establishing the necessary legal and regulatory framework for more commercial and private operations has
progressed slowly.      An office for rail regulation (Office for Rail Transport or Urzad Transportu
Kolejowego, UTK) was established June 1, 2003. An initial track access regime was put into place to



                                                      - 5 -

govern arrangements between PLK and the operating companies (PKP Cargo, PKP Intercity, PKP
Regional) that was extremely complex and not based on empirical data.              The technical assistance
component of the project for this purpose was not used. Funding through EIB allowed consultants to
develop a revised track access regime that was put into place in January 2006 and is the current access
framework. This is simpler than the first regime however it also is not based on building up empirical cost
relationships but rather on "top-down" allocations of costs. Although still evolving the legal and regulatory
framework allowed private operators in 2004 to capture 8% of the freight market, measured by ton-km,
and 40% of the market, measured by tons, reflecting the preponderance of coal and other heavy
commodities in their traffic mix. Real freight rates, as measured by PKP freight revenue in US$/ton-km
(unit revenue) are one of the outcome indicators of the project with a target of remaining at or below
$0.0242 by 2004. In 2004 real freight rates were 35% higher than anticipated at appraisal, after rising by
16% in 2003 and 12% in 2004.

Operating arrangements for regional passenger services and a framework for public service obligations
(PSO) also had a slow start but have improved in the last two years. Responsibility for suburban and
regional passenger services were devolved to regional governments with a parallel transfer of fiscal
resources from the central government. Regional governments became responsible for PSO payments in
January 2004. In addition, the Mazowiecki Regional Authority is the first regional authority in Poland to
expand on this new role by becoming the majority owner of two separate railways companies, WKD and
KM, details are provided below. The achievement of sector policies and of public sector development is
rated "substantial".

The area of least improvement has been in the privatization of railway activities. At appraisal the railway
had already begun divesting itself of some non-railway assets.         PKP was set up as a commercial
corporation, PKP S.A. (Polish State Railways Joint Stock Company, 'Polskie Koleje Panstwowe Spolka
Akcyjna'), with 100% government ownership in January 2001, as a condition of loan effectiveness. The
legal restructuring has continued with subsidiary companies set up for PKP Cargo, PKP Inter-City, PKP
Regional Railways, PLK (the rail infrastructure company, Polish Railway Infrastructure Joint Stock
Company, 'Polskie Linie Kolejowe Spolka Akcyjna'), a telecomms company, an electricity company, and
numerous other smaller companies. Plans to privatize the eight infrastructure maintenance companies have
been dropped and instead they will be transferred to PLK S.A.

Expected early candidates for privatization were the broad-gauge freight railway between Ukraine and
Silesia Linia Hutniczo-Siarkowa (LHS) and two commuter lines, the Warsaw commuter railway,
'Warszawska Kolej Dojazdowa' (WKD) and the Fast Municipal Railway, 'Szybka Kolej Miejska' (SKM),
the regional service for Gdansk/Sopot/Gdynia. Preparations for their privatization have proceeded slowly
in an on-and-off fashion and none of these lines are yet in private hands. However, as a result of the
privatization process, WKD was purchased by a consortium of local governments including the
Mazowiecki Voivodship, the City of Warsaw, and counties along the WKD line. Mazowiecki Voivodship
is also the 51% owner, along with PKP regional services as a 49% owner, of a new public sector
corporation called "Koleje Mazowiekie" (KM) which has taken over the PKP regional services in the
Mazowiecki region. KM is pursuing an energetic program of reinvigorating the Warsaw regional services.
The achievement of private sector development is rated "modest".

4.2 Outputs by components:
Labor Restructuring
Despite the substantial challenges of railway reform and labor restructuring, the project was implemented
very quickly and all output targets for staff retrenchment were met. By December 2004 the staff had been
reduced by 2,670 more than had been expected at appraisal.



                                                      - 6 -

                              Labor Restructuring Summary - Staff Reduction
                                     Expected at Appraisal      Result at Completion          Difference
                                                April 2000             December 2004
       Severance                                    29,668                      29,793                125
       Pre-retirement                                 5,812                      9,130             3,318
       Railway Leave                                  2,000                      1,227               -773
       Total                                        37,480                      40,150             2,670

Technical Assistance
The TA component underwent several changes during the project, see Sections 3.3 and 3.4 above. Of the
original TA assignments only the Strategic Advisor to PKP's Management Board was implemented.

Labor Redeployment Services, Including Training
All dismissed employees were offered the opportunity to participate in orientation sessions designed to
inform them of the benefits they would be receiving and the further training options available to them.
Virtually all laid-off employees (about 38,000) attended these initial sessions. Subsequent internal training
provided by KAAZ reached about 6,050 former staff and included how to look for work and how to
establish a small business. KAAZ also administered an advanced type of aptitude/psychological testing
(the Holland Test), however it was provided to only about 650 of the dismissed staff. Occupational
training provided by external training institutions reached 724 former staff. This training was paid for
80% by PKP from its own resources and 20% by the laid-off staff. External training has continued even
after KAAZ ceased operation on August 1, 2002.

Labor mediation is the term used by KAAZ for assisting laid-off staff by working through local Labor
Offices to review and apply for posted job offers. Between November 2000 and July 2002 some 44,000
possible jobs were posted. About 72% of these (32,000) could be of relevance for PKP staff. To these
postings 6,436 ex-staff responded and 761 found jobs, or 12% of those who applied. The monitoring of
this use of Labor Offices stopped when KAAZ was disbanded.

Social Monitoring
Monitoring the impact of lay-offs on the welfare of the dismissed workers was accomplished by the use of
follow-up questionnaires. During the orientation sessions that were offered to all laid-off staff, KAAZ
asked for permission to later contact ex-staff to question them on their experiences. For those who gave
permission, KAAZ was to follow up at 3, 6, and 12 month intervals to determine if the staff had found new
employment and ask other social/demographic questions. The complete results of this work are included in
Annex 7, Supporting Documents, where the final report from PKP S.A. (February 7, 2005) is attached
electronically.

The initial monitoring program undertaken by KAAZ was completely inadequate. Attempting to get
permission for follow-up contact was perfunctory and yielded only a 2% response rate (375 permission
forms received from 21,095 persons attending orientation sessions) in 2001. The first supervision mission
in October 2001 pointed out the inadequacies and recommended changes in method and greater
management attention to the issue. The response rate of permission climbed slightly to 4% (119 permission
forms received from 2,929 persons attending orientation sessions) over the period January - June 2002.
The second supervision mission in March 2002 found the methods had still not been adequately improved
and re-recommended changes in method and again greater management attention. The performance rating
for monitoring and evaluation remained not rated or unsatisfactory until fall 2002 after this activity had
been taken over by Management Board of PKP S.A. Headquarters ("Management Board" or "KG").



                                                    - 7 -

After KAAZ was wound up on August 1, 2002, the monitoring program was taken over by the
Management Board, which continued asking permission for follow-up contact until the end of 2002. By
adopting better methods, the response rate for permission for follow-up contact climbed to 67% (2,140
permission forms received from 3,182 persons laid off).          The Management Board continued to ask
follow-up questions of laid-off staff until the end of 2004.

The results of the follow-up surveys by KAAZ and the Management Board indicated that of 1,017 persons
interviewed, 459 (45%) had found new employment, while 558 (55%) had not. These results were used in
re-estimating the economic and financial impacts of the project. The follow-up questionnaires conducted
by the Management Board (577 total responses) provided more information on the background of the
respondents. Of the 325 who were not employed, 191 were still looking for work (59%) while 134 were
not in the labor force (41%).      In the ranks of the employed, men were more successful in gaining
re-employment (52%) than women (30%).

Questions related to household income and wages at new employment were needed for proper evaluation
but were deemed too sensitive to be asked. Survey methods, including specific questions to be asked,
should have been agreed during appraisal. Support for conducting sensitive surveys should have been
provided through technical assistance and by involving those areas of the government concerned with social
surveying.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic cost benefit analysis prepared at appraisal indicated an expected economic net present value
(all NPVs at 10% discount rate) of the project to be US$143 million and the EIRR to be 20%. At
completion the economic net present value of the project is estimated to be US$103 million at current
exchange rates (June 2005) and the EIRR to be 15%.

The differences in returns arise from the proportion of ex-PKP staff finding employment after severance
and the rate at which they found employment. At appraisal it was estimated that 50% of laid off workers
would find employment after six months.          The post-employment surveys conducted by KAAZ and
PKP-KG found that only 45% of severed workers returned to employment within 12 months.                 The
remaining 55% were divided into those still looking for employment (59%) and those not looking for work
(41%). The rate at which workers found jobs built up slightly more slowly than assumed at appraisal.

The other factor which changed was the length of time that ex-staff receive pre-retirement benefits. At
appraisal this was assumed to last for 3 to 4 years. At completion this assumption has been revised based
on actual experience, which is that these benefits can last for up to 10 years. The analysis now includes a
tapered reduction in the staff receiving this benefit over a 10 year period.

The economic results are highly dependent on the wage earned by workers in their new jobs. The
post-employment surveys conducted by KAAZ and PKP-KG did not provide any empirical evidence on this
subject because questions about wages were deemed too sensitive to be asked. The appraisal assumption of
earning 70% of the former PKP wage, derived from Labor Office data, was carried forward at completion.
The sensitivity of this assumption was tested by using a value of 60% of former wages. This yielded an
EIRR of 13.7% (down from 16.7%) and an economic NPV of US$75 million at current exchange rates
(down from $143) . The economic NPV drops to zero when wages are 45% of the original PKP wage.
There is no change to the financial results from varying this assumption.

For consistency the same approach of the PAD, of looking only at the economic effect of the labor
component of the restructuring project, has been used here.              However, similar to the PAD an
order-of-magnitude discussion has been made of likely economic benefits.


                                                      - 8 -

Real freight rates, as measured by PKP freight revenue in US$/ton-km (unit revenue) were estimated at
$0.0235 in 2000 and were expected to rise in the first year of the project and then decline in real terms over
subsequent years as the operating efficiencies of restructuring allowed a more competitive tariff. In US
dollar terms the result has been consistent real rate increases after the second year of the project. In 2004
real freight rates were $0.0333, 35% higher than the appraisal target of $0.0242.             This makes the
evaluation of economic benefit more difficult than it would be in the more unambiguous case when real
freight rates have declined. To have a comprehensive evaluation of the economic effects in the transport
sector would require information on trucking rates over a comparable time period.

In zloty terms the result has been more favorable, with a mix of real increases and decreases, and overall a
real increase of 1.9% per annum compounded over the four years (2000--2004). This result is better for
domestic shippers, however the consistently higher cost in dollar terms is undesirable for export industries.
Table 2 in Annex 3 provides more detail.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial cost benefit analysis at appraisal indicated a financial net present value of the project to be
US$1,014 million and the FIRR to be in excess of 100% (177%). At completion the financial net present
value of the project is estimated to be US$1,338 million at current exchange rates and the FIRR again to be
in excess of 100% (211%). All NPVs are at a 10% discount rate.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The achievement for this output of the project is rated "substantial". The railway corporate changes set out
in the September, 2000 "Law on Commercialization, Restructuring, ..." were made. PKP was transformed
from an operating arm of a government department into a separate corporate structure, PKP S.A., with
100% government ownership. A total of nine daughter companies were set up with 100% ownership by
PKP S.A. principally: the Polish Railway Infrastructure Joint Stock Company (PLK S.A.), PKP Cargo
S.A., PKP Regional Services, PKP Intercity, PKP Energy and PKP Telecommunications. Privatization
has proceeded much more slowly than expected and has been hindered by the slow development of the
necessary regulatory regime and lack of political will. However, in the broader context of railway reform
in the ECA region the project has made substantial and permanent changes to the railway sector.

Early in the project (in late 2001) the former Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME) was
transformed into the Ministry of Infrastructure (MOI). PKP, and its successor PKP S.A., come under the
policy jurisdiction of the Railway Department first located in MTME and then in MOI. For several years
since project effectiveness there have been only "business as usual" evolutionary changes in the policy
capabilities of the MOI.

After the project became effective the GOP continued developing the overall program and in December
2003 the Council of Ministers adopted a "Program for Further Restructuring and Privatization...". It
provided for an updated transport policy, Poland's accession to the European Union, and verified long-term
economic goals for railway transport; it planned to apply new organizational structures to the PKP Group;
and it adjusted the restructuring and privatization plan to the (then) current economic situation, and updated
the timetable of restructuring activities and the need for the introduction of regulatory changes. The GOP
continued to evolve the program with the February 2005 "Strategy for Restructuring and Privatization of
Companies of the PKP S.A. Group in 2005-2007". Most recently the new government elected in October
2005 has indicated it will continue the railway reforms, although with reduced emphasis on privatization.

The capacity of the Voivodship regional governments to undertake local transport policy development and
to negotiate with PKP to furnish regional-level railway services has developed slowly and unevenly across



                                                      - 9 -

the country. TA earmarked to advise regional governments and assist in development of low-density lines
did not occur. Nevertheless some voivodships have remained interested in developing their own rail services
and progress has been made. Since January 2005 the first voivodship railway company has been operating
in Mazowieckie Voivodship ("Koleje Mazowiekie", see Section 4.1 above). The 2005 policy re-affirms that
during 2005-2007 other voivodship railway companies are expected to be set up. Under the 2005 policy
new regional companies are able to: take over employees and lease rolling stock from existing PKP
operations in their own region, accept real estate from PKP, and voivodships can provide public
compensation to the service provider on the basis of negotiated agreements.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Freight and passenger traffic have declined more than expected. Freight traffic has been affected by
restructuring in other industrial sectors.    Both freight and passenger traffic have been affected by
competition from road transport. Section 10, Additional Information, provides a graphic illustration of
these trends.

Joining the EU on May 1, 2004 was the result of government policy. However, once the decision to join
had been made, the follow-on implications of joining were no longer fully under the control of the
government, and were certainly not under the control of PKP. On the one hand, the need to prepare for EU
accession provided a major spur to the restructuring efforts. On the other hand, the need to meet EU
accession criteria for government debt and government deficit constrained GOP's spending during 2002 and
2003, producing a squeeze across all sectors.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the 1990's the government prepared for restructuring and privatization through earlier railway
restructuring and labor reductions. Extensive consultations with labor unions took place prior to adopting
the restructuring law. The severance packages were explicitly defined in legislation, which showed the
strength of GOP's commitment and the strength of the consultative process followed to have the legislation
adopted.

During implementation, government support by way of public service obligations was not provided as
agreed, in part leading to the backlog in infrastructure maintenance now faced by PLK S.A. Repeated
changes in strategy, delays in privatization activities and failure to execute studies on track access and
infrastructure charging were all factors under the government's control. These delays and gaps have
contributed to the slower than desired restructuring of the railway sector. Nevertheless, the government
did, in a stop-go manner, keep up the support for overall reform.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
PKP had control of the labor restructuring process through KAAZ, the time-limited agency it set up for this
purpose. KAAZ was closed down in July 2002 as planned. The social monitoring program was under
KAAZ control until July 2002 when it was transferred to PKP. The social monitoring program was always
secondary to the operations and philosophy of KAAZ, which was largely to do the specific job and then
fade away. As such the monitoring did not receive the attention and resources needed to do a good job.

Arguably, to some degree the large decline in freight and passenger traffic was under PKP influence
through the tariffs charged. At completion (see Annex 1) the freight rates are 33% higher than the level the
PAD had estimated would provide for competitive rail freight services. This view needs to be balanced
against other factors which were outside the agency's control and which made restructuring more difficult,
such as delayed payment of government infrastructure and PSO support.




                                                     - 10 -

The proposed training component was withdrawn from the project during negotiations but completed by
PKP using their own resources as well as a grant from the Council of Europe. PKP felt the training
approach recommended by the Bank was too difficult to implement in Poland. The recommended approach
was to use technical skills training contracts from outside service providers (rather than KAAZ staff) with
payment dependent on reaching a set employment rate for graduates.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The Bank loan was fully disbursed. There were no cost overruns. Counterpart funds were generally
available. Co-financing resources were available as expected. The total final cost of the project was
US$326 million, compared with US$335 million as estimated at appraisal. The loan was made in Euro.
Between appraisal and completion the Euro had appreciated by 17% against the US$. This accounts for
the dollar value of the disbursed Bank loan exceeding the appraisal value.

In dollar terms (appraisal estimates in brackets) the Bank financed US$118 million (US$101 million), the
EBRD US$105 million (US$92 million), PKP itself US$44 million, (US$78 million), and the GOP
contributed US$58 million (US$58 million). Annex 2 provides additional detail on project costs and
financing.

The areas of note where expenditures were not made as planned were: (1) the labor redeployment/training
component, financed entirely by PKP, had only 19% of the expenditures expected at appraisal, and (2) the
technical assistance component, financed by the Bank and PKP, where only 1% of expected expenditures
were made. As described elsewhere the technical assistance components were not developed during the
project. Only one small consultancy was paid for from project funds.

This underspending did not go to waste as the labor restructuring components, primarily severance, were
increased to take advantage of the additional financing and increase the number of redundancies.

Information was not available at the time the ICR was prepared to confirm the amounts spent by the GOP
on its two components of labor restructuring, namely unemployment insurance payments and pre-retirement
benefits for those laid off after 2002. Since a greater number of employees have been laid off than the
original appraisal estimate, it is not unreasonable to assume that the GOP has made the expenditures that
were foreseen.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the Labor restructuring project is rated "highly likely". The staff complement of the
railway or its derived corporations will not return to the previous level, the achievements generated by the
project will be maintained.

The sustainability of the overall railway program is more nuanced and would perhaps be rated "likely" if
rated separately. Corporatization of PKP and the creation of "daughter" companies has occurred. Despite
the slow adoption of more commercial operations, slow privatization, and slow development of the
regulatory and policy framework, the changes that have occurred to date and are planned for the near future
are significant in the tradition-bound world of European railways. Government commitment has vacillated,
strategies have been revised, and their implementation delayed, nevertheless the Polish railway sector has
moved well away from the monolithic state owned enterprise that it was in the mid-1990's. The correct
time span for evaluating sustainability in this case is comparable to the slow-fast-slow-fast pacing required
to move this project from identification to pre-appraisal, eight years, and then from Board approval to
effectiveness, six weeks.


                                                     - 11 -

Despite these overall positive sustainability ratings the following points serve to illustrate that this
sustainability, though likely, will continue to need strong commitment from industry, stakeholders and
government in order to complete the transformation to a modern transportation sector.

The social impact of the restructuring was presumably somewhat mitigated by the programs undertaken.
The monitoring activities were rudimentary and do not allow a full examination of social welfare with and
without the labor redeployment package. The surveys conducted do show that overall 45% of those laid off
had found re-employment. Of the remaining 55%, 41% were no longer in the labor force and 59% were still
looking for work after one year. This suggests that 32% of the total staff laid off are still seeking
employment.

The PAD forecast the level of staff required in the railway sector beyond the original closing date of the
project (June 2004). The PAD (page 65) envisaged that staff, measured on a comparable basis to the
original PKP, would decline further to 116,913 in 2004 and 2005. As the staff level at December 2005
was 131,327, the momentum for continuing reform expected back in April 2001 has not been realized.

In reviewing the railway sector in Poland during an October 2005 mission and during the final supervision
mission in December 2005, the Bank noted the following areas of concern. Despite good progress in
productivity growth the railway sector was still far from sustainability. Progress in privatization had been
slow and complicated by repeated changes in strategy. The privatization of non-core businesses was
proceeding slowly, with perhaps 20% completed by the end of 2006. PKP S.A. had not yet transferred
significant real estate or related assets to PKP Cargo, nor the track and related assets to the infrastructure
company, PLK S.A., primarily due to the Vat Tax liability such transfers would generate. PLK S.A. was
experiencing serious cash flow problems and an extensive maintenance backlog was continuing to grow
larger. The Bank indicated then that it was willing to consider financing a specifically targeted PLK S.A.
restructuring program.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Progress in freight privatization and institutional restructuring of the passenger services has been extremely
slow. As an EU member country, Poland faces institutional scrutiny and commercial pressures to continue
the process of railway reform. On January 1, 2007 Poland comes under the Trans-European Railway
Freight Network (TERFN) for all freight transport.

The policy approach that was adopted in February 2005, "Strategy For Restructuring and Privatization of
Companies of the PKP S.A. Group in 2005-07" did not guarantee that further reforms would be made and
that the sector would improve.        However, it confirmed the government's commitment to carry on
restructuring and identified the following areas of activity:

            continued commitment to privatize PKP Cargo, PKP Intercity and certain other companies in
             the PKP Group.
             - the sale to a strategic investor of WKD and SKM in 2005, PKP Intercity in 2006, and LHS
             in 2007,
             - the sale of PKP Cargo by 2007 to a "financial investor/public offering/alliance with sectoral
             investor",
             - the sale of PKP Regional Services to companies created with voivodships by 2007,
             - the portion of the other infrastructure companies not being held by PLK S.A. (75% - 1
             share) will be offered for sale during 2006-07.
            anticipated changes in the scope of responsibilities of PKP S.A. to give more commercial
             autonomy to individual companies (subject to maintaining oversight).



                                                      - 12 -

            mandate for cost efficiencies in all companies.
            capital restructuring of a number of smaller companies with partial shareholding by PKP.
            proposed reduction in track access charges, Bank support for this last point is subject to PLK
             making the maximum financial contribution to this reduction through the planned network
             rationalization contained in the Strategy and other efficiency improvements.
             - implement access pricing changes - expected to reduce charges by 15% in each of 2006 and
             2007 - while holding the government to an annual contract to provide financial resources to
             maintain infrastructure.

A new government was elected in October 2005 and has not accepted the above strategy. The details of its
new strategy are being developed but it is likely that plans to privatize PKP Cargo and PKP Intercity will
be deferred for an indefinite period.       The Bank has argued that the successful privatization and
restructuring of PKP daughter companies has been hampered by the slow transfer of assets and that this
process should be accelerated.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. During project preparation the GOP, after several years of moving slowly on this subject,
requested a rapid response in order to have the loan ready for negotiations in very short order. The Bank
accommodated this by strong staff effort and by bringing in additional, CTF funded, resources. Good use
was made of outside consultants to establish reasonable productivity targets and social parameters of labor
restructuring. The satisfactory rating also reflects the continuous, active support provided by the Bank for
several years during which the borrower's interest and commitment to program increased or decreased
according to internal debate.

During negotiations the Borrower requested a change in the project components to delete all Bank support
for the redeployment/retraining component. This meant that substantial earlier discussions on how to
organize and procure retraining became moot. The loan amount was reduced from EUR 125 million to
EUR 110 million. The project was left financing only the severance and other payments (95% of the total)
and technical assistance. The rapid setting up of KAAZ meant that the Bank could not verify by means of
an existing track record the agency's ability to conduct the proposed social monitoring program. The
intended program was well described and well laid-out.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The fast pace of implementing redundancies meant that the Bank had little time to review
KAAZ's efforts at monitoring the social impacts of severances before most of the severances were
complete. The first supervision mission took place four months after effectiveness and by then 20,000 had
been laid off. The loan was quickly disbursed and the Mid-term Review mission took place 17 months
after effectiveness.

The Bank showed good responsiveness in meeting client expectations and encouraging momentum for
reform by bringing in resources from other loans and its TA funds to pay for additional technical
assistance.   However, the fast disbursement meant little leverage on PKP activities. It achieved the
objective of laying off staff but did not allow for good follow up monitoring. The Bank supported the
request to extend the loan and to allow funds to be used from another Bank loan (Roads II) in order to
complete the technical assistance component of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.


                                                     - 13 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The process of loan preparation was drawn out over seven years and three governments
(1992-2000). The effort was sustained by the underlying recognition of the need for reform. PKP had
started internal reforms in advance of the project. Between 1997 and 1999 about 43,000 staff had been
laid off. The government undertook prolonged and substantial discussions with trade unions, ultimately
under the umbrella of Parliamentary committees, leading to changes between the final draft law and law as
passed, particularly in the area of proceeds from sale of assets. The Restructuring and Privatization Law
was passed September 8, 2000.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. This was clearly a major initiative for the government and received high-level attention at all
times. The loan was signed two days after receiving Board approval and all effectiveness conditions were
met in five weeks. PKP was split up into a parent company and 24 subsidiary companies by October 1,
2001. Also by the end of October 2001 $36 million of $101 million loan had been disbursed and 20,000
had been laid off with no sign of labor tension. The national election in September 2001 resulted in a
change of government but with no adverse affect on the project.

For several years the government failed to achieve the expected work on the regulatory framework for an
unbundled railway and track access charges. Not until fall of 2003 was an initial review of track access
charges completed. The government was not able to provide the level of public service obligation for social
services and investment support for infrastructure that had been expected at appraisal.

In support of the on-going reform effort the government did: (i) extend the framework for PKP labor
restructuring to the end of 2003, (ii) agree that ZUS (social insurance) charged on the railway leave benefit
would be refunded to PKP, and (iii) the cost of pre-retirement benefit after January 1, 2003 will be 90%
funded by GOP, with the balance funded by PKP.

In December 2003 the Council of Ministers approved the "Program for Further Restructuring and
Privatization of PKP Companies to 2006" which attempted to revitalize the reform process. The MOI was
to establish a Steering Committee for Reforms including both MOI and PKP managers in order to
overcome deficiencies in information flow between MOI and PKP. In January 2004 PKP requested to
extend the loan and to allow funds to be used from another Bank loan (Roads II) in order to complete the
remaining four technical assistance studies: privatization advisors for PKP Cargo, privatization advisors
for PKP Inter-City passenger, restructuring of regional passenger services in Mazowieckie, and
restructuring of PLK.

A second effort to reinvigorate reform was the "Strategy for Restructuring and Privatization of Companies
of the PKP S.A. Group in 2005-07" which was adopted in February 2005. A new government was elected
in October, 2005 and has not accepted the February 2005 strategy. The details of its new strategy are
being developed but it is likely that plans to privatize PKP Cargo and PKP Intercity will be deferred for an
indefinite period.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Ultimately satisfactory. During the first two years of the project there were delays in financial reporting
and delays in accepting international accounting standards and auditors able to work to such standards.
These problems were corrected. The initial performance regarding social monitoring was unsatisfactory.
Bank recommendations for improvements made during first and second supervision missions (October



                                                     - 14 -

2001, March 2002) were not acted on.          Only after the Mid-term Review (October 2002) was the
monitoring process improved, however by then three-quarters of the severances had occurred.

As planned KAAZ was wound up August 1, 2002 and by September 2002 74% of loan had been
disbursed.

PKP's finances did not improve as expected due mainly to under-funded loss-making social services and
declining traffic volume requiring continuous adjustment of service level and downsizing of workforce,
network and assets.        The financial performance of the project entity was downgraded to an
"Unsatisfactory" rating during the Sept. 2002 to June 2004 period. The bank indicated that a satisfactory
rating would require: (i) adequate and timely compensation of PSO contracts between PKP regional
companies and voivodship governments; (ii) timely implementation of five consultancies to be funded by
the Bank. Financial performance was upgraded back to "Satisfactory" in October 2004.

PKP worked to reach agreement with labor unions and regional authorities to suspend some unprofitable
regional passenger lines. However the parliamentary decision to fund only PLN 300 million not the
expected PLN 800 million in PSO delayed reorganization of regional services. In 2003 the PLN 300
million budgeted for regional services PSO turned out to be only PLN 253 million actual at year-end.
Beginning in January 2004 funding responsibility was transferred to regional authorities and central
government budget support was increased. In 2004 regional PSO budgeted at PLN 538 million turned out
to be PLN 430 at year-end. Total central government support for all services increased from PLN 651
million in 2003 actual to PLN 1,112 million in 2004. Details of government support are provided in the
Supplemental Tables attached in Annex 7.

PKP was proactive in seeking to obtain additional resources to advance the program. In Feb. 2004 PKP
requested an extension of the closing date, from the original close in June 30, 2004, to December 31, 2005
in order to fully use project TA funds. As part of the "Program for Further Restructuring and Privatization
of PKP Companies to 2006" PKP requested that the Bank fund TA, subject to the amendment of the
Roads II Loan Agreement ($2.8 million) and an extension of the Roads II Loan closing date from
December 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005.

The largest problem with the implementing agency was the delay in using the TA provided to accomplish
the TA objectives. Privatization advisors for PKP Cargo, privatization advisors for PKP Intercity
passenger, the restructuring of PLK, and the establishment of an infrastructure access charges regime were
all activities that either did not take place or took place late and in an inadequate manner. These issues
remain as tasks to be completed in moving the reform forward. In 2005 an EU grant allowed consultants to
establish an access charges model based on "best-practice" rather than derived from railway costing
evaluations. The results of this TA are expected in 2006.

In fall 2004 the senior staff of PKP were replaced as a result of changes in the government and some
realignments in the governmental policy. The new management was more supportive to privatization plans,
but did not manage to implement them before the recent elections (October 2005) and yet another round of
policy changes. With the new government the initiative for further reform has been placed with the MOT
not PKP.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.




                                                    - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned

The objective of the loan was to support the restructuring and privatization program through a reduction in
operating expenses and transition to a new organization, by restructuring the railway labor force. This was
a contentious and difficult program for the government to develop and implement. Several lessons are
derived.

Railway Restructuring

       Under the Project, a total of 37,000 employees, or over 20% of PKP labor force was reduced
        between August 2000 and January 2003 rapidly but smoothly with no evidence of labor tension.
        Consensus with key stakeholders, especially with labor unions, is essential in labor restructuring.
       Implementation of the overall Program, in particular the legal and organizational restructuring to
        split a monolithic Railways into a number of subsidiaries and the parent company, was highly
        satisfactory despite the national elections leading to a change of government, mainly because of
        strong political support and local ownership of the Program.
       A protracted period of project preparation time can be worthwhile when: (1) it enables the
        negotiations necessary to build political will for a difficult social change, (2) it keeps dialogue open
        while events (such as the nearing deadlines for EU accession) bring more clarity and pressure on
        the decision makers.
       Even substantial restructuring successes can fail to achieve financial goals when the overall
        business environment evolves negatively, i.e. traffic declines.
       The project design should have included an explicit plan for the transition of the project
        management functions from KAAZ to PKP after KAAZ was wound up.
       Despite substantial labor redundancy a concomitant decline in traffic has meant that physical
        productivity measures have not been met. The will to continue further labor restructuring may not
        be immediately available after a period of downsizing so long as enterprises remain under state
        control.

Social Monitoring

       Neither PKP nor KAAZ really saw World Bank social safeguards as part of their core activity and
        to undertake the post-layoff social monitoring. This could perhaps have been remedied through
        raising client awareness during project preparation and with stronger and continuing liaison
        between the social and statistical ministries, the implementing agency, and the Bank.

       The EBRD loan did not include a social monitoring component and started one year ahead of the
        Bank loan. Starting the labor restructuring without a monitoring component may have reduced the
        willingness of PKP to commence a new activity (the monitoring program) once the basic project
        was up and running well.
       An explicit project performance indicator should have been included related to the monitoring and
        evaluation of the labor redundancy activities. For example, x % of all those laid off have been
        interviewed within 'y' months of lay-off and a further x2 % within 'y2' months. This would have
        focused continuing and formal attention on the implementation of the monitoring and evaluation
        program.
       The results confirm that the telephone survey approach was not adequate in the case of Poland.
        The follow up surveys should have been undertaken on a home interview basis.




                                                     - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PKP Summary

As far as employment restructuring process is concerned, PKP S.A. recognizes that the way of fulfilling of
this process was correct and succeeded in reaching the targets of diminishing the level of employment and
improving its structure.

Restructuring process, what should be stressed, took place in the atmosphere of social peace and resulted in
reduction of employment at PKP SA in the years 2000-2004 by over 53 000 people.

All social protection implemented with the Law commercialization, restructuring and privatization of
"Polish State Railways" State Enterprise, such as:
    -   severance pays
    -   railways leaves
    -   training, occupational and social advisory
    -   labor mediation
influenced significantly on reduction of employment restructuring process social effects.

However the interest of the professional trainings that were offered was not as high as it was expected.
Among others it resulted from the fact that people who lost their employment in PKP had also another
source of living. Usually they worked in their own homestead.

During employment restructurisation process PKP monitored its social consequences with questioners
given to the ex-employees. Nevertheless these actions were not accepted by the redundant employees. Most
of people who were supposed to be questioned did not even take the questioners that were given to them.

As a result monitoring was carried with telephone calls with people who filled the questionnaires correctly.
The analysis said that 45% of examined people found another job after being redundant in PKP.

However, despite some difficulties employment restructuring program under the Loan was successfully
finalized.

In the view of the lack of the financial means from the state budget supporting restructuring process in
PKP, financial means from the Loan constituted the significant support for the financing of this process not
only in PKP S.A. but in the whole PKP Group.

Furthermore the employment restructuring process is not finalized yet. The level of employment is still
being adjusted to the key tasks connected with fulfilling statute tasks of the certain companies. It is
significantly visible in the largest companies of PKP Group which key activity are connected with freight.

As far as privatization process and economic ratios improvement are concerned, their level was not
changed in the extend it was planned at the time of taking the Loan. It mainly results from changes in the
long-term strategies of restructurisation and privatization of PKP and PKP Group prepared by the
following governments.

In our opinion the Bank contribution to the project was satisfactory. Bank was helpful and open on our
changing needs in the area of usage of the founds from the Loan. It accepted our requests of transferring



                                                    - 17 -

financial means among the categories, so that they could be used the most efficiently. Moreover we have
always been able to rely on courteous and professional service of the Bank. Its diligence and willingness to
help many times made our work more efficient and easier. We find our cooperation satisfactory and
successful.

(b) Cofinanciers:
EBRD Project Assessment

Overall EBRD considers the labor restructuring project with PKP SA as a successful operation. The labor
redundancy targets have been achieved within the specified schedule. However it is recognized that the
successful project implementation has been possible as a result of the extensive program preparation. The
labor restructuring program was part of the overall railway restructuring program and has been subject to a
very broad consultation process undertaken by the railway authorities with a full support from the relevant
government authorities. The program had the backing and political support of the Government; extensive
consultation process allowed for a broad support from the unions. The details of the redundancy program
were described in the overall railway restructuring law approved by the Parliament, ensuring its
transparency and adequate support from the state budget. Overall comment: the Polish Railways
redundancy financing program models the necessary steps which need to be taken by the Client and the
Government, before the success of the Polish railways can be replicated in other railway environments.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Trends in Polish Railway Traffic
The spreadsheets used to derive these graphs are attached electronically in Annex 7, List of Supporting
Documents.




                                                   - 18 -

                         POLAND RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
                                    PASSENGER TRAFFIC
                                     (passenger-kmmillions)



28,000



26,000



24,000



22,000



20,000



18,000



16,000



14,000



12,000



10,000
         1997    1998    1999       2000          2001        2002          2003    2004    2005

                            Actual        PAD Estimate         Revised Forecast




                                          - 19 -

                          POLAND RAILWAY RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
                                      FREIGHT TRAFFIC
                                        (ton-kmmillions)


80,000




70,000




60,000




50,000




40,000




30,000




20,000
         1997    1998    1999       2000         2001       2002         2003     2004    2005

                            Actual        PAD Estimate        Revised Forecast




                                          - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                  Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate


1. Efficient supply of railway services,         June 2004: 445,000 (for 2002)           482,000, or 14% under target
passenger-km + tonne-km / 1000 staff             June 2005: 472,000 (for 2004)
increases from 422k in 2000 to 561k by
2003.

2. Labor as % of railway revenues declines       June 2004: 47% (for 2002)               36%, slightly better than target
from 56--58% in 2000 to 39% by 2003.             June 2005: 37% (for 2003)

3. Improved enterprise profitability (positive   June 2004: 92% (for 2002)               71%, considerably better than target
profit / little subsidy, cost recovery ratios).  June 2005: 88% (for 2003)               97%, if non-monetary income is excluded
Working ratio, excluding budget subsidy
declines to 100% by 2003.

4. Competitive freight rates (comparable to      June 2004: $0.0270 nominal (for 2002)   $0.0333 in real terms, or 35% over target
equivalent shipment by road) increase only       June 2005: not collected
from $0.0235 in 2000 to $0.0247 in real
terms by 2003 (freight revenue, US$/ton-km).

Interim results from PSR #8, June 23, 2004 and ISR #10, June 13, 2005
End of Project targets (2003) of: 561, 39%, 100%, $0.0247 respectively.
Annual targets apply to Dec. 31 of the indicated year.
Working ratio is: operating expenses excluding depreciation; divided by operating revenues, including other
operating and non-monetary income, excluding government subsidies and privatization proceeds.




                                                                 - 21 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate


1. Workforce reduced from 182,000 in           Dec 2003: 143,503                       Dec. 2005: 131,327
August 2000 to 145,000 by December 2002. Dec 2004: 138,592


2. Expenditures on labor reduced from PLN      June 2004: PLN 4.4bn                    Dec. 2005: PLN 4.2 bn
5.1 bn in 2000 to PLN 3.8 bn by 2003.


3. Workforce acceptance of the restructuring   Labor union support still positive.     Labor union support still positive.
program.


4. Polish Railway Joint Stock Company (PKP PKP established Jan. 1, 2001                PKP established Jan. 1, 2001
S.A. - a holding company) and Polish Railway   PLK established Oct. 1, 2001            PLK established Oct. 1, 2001
Lines Joint Stock Company (PLK S.A. - an
infrastructure and railway management
company) established.


5. Infrastructure separation agreements,       Partially complete.                     Infrastructure separated with establishment
including rail/access pricing arrangements,                                            for PLK S.A. Satisfactory and sustainable
concession documents.                                                                  pricing arrangements still being developed.


6. Framework for short-line freight            Not yet established.                    Not established.
established.


7. Clear title or leasing arrangements for realPartially.                              Partially, in progress.Track and related
estate being devolved (e.g. passenger                                                  assets not yet transferred to PLK S.A.
stations, parking areas, disused sidings and
yards).


8. Ancillary businesses (e.g. rolling stock    In progress.                            Partially, in progress.
repair units) reorganized/sold.


9. Reorganization of inter-city passenger      In progress.                            PKP Intercity Sp. z. o. o. established.
services complete .


10. Viable (marketable) train paths available  Not yet complete.                       Not completed.
for use by regional passenger services.


11. Devolution of regional passenger services  Not yet complete.                       Partially, in progress. "Koleje Mazowiekie"
ready.                                                                                 regional railway established, Jan. 2005.

1End of project
Interim results from PSR #8, June 23, 2004 and ISR #10, June 13, 2005.
End of Project Targets of: 145,000, 3.8, positive support, company established, agreements complete,
framework established, clear title, ancillary sold, reorganization complete, paths available, devolution
ready, respectively.




                                                                  - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Interest during construction is EBRD Capitalized Interest Front end fee includes $1.010 million for IBRD and $0.919 million
for EBRD

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      1
                                                           Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                 ICB                  NCB                      2            N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                   Other
1. Works                                   0.00                 0.00                0.00               0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                   0.00                 0.00                0.00               0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)
3. Services                                0.00                 0.00                1.45               5.85              7.30
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)              (1.45)             (0.00)             (1.45)
4. Severance                               0.00                 0.00              211.43               84.77            296.20
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)             (98.58)             (0.00)            (98.58)
5. Labor Redeployment                      0.00                 0.00                0.00               23.68             23.68
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)
6. EBRD Capitalized                        0.00                 0.00                1.01               7.07              8.08
Interest, Auditor, Front-end              (0.00)               (0.00)              (1.01)             (0.00)             (1.01)
fees.
     Total                                 0.00                 0.00              213.89              121.37            335.26
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)             (101.04)            (0.00)           (101.04)
2) Includes: (i) Technical Assistance - QCBS: US$1.45 million equivalent
(ii) Severance Payments - specific procurement arrangements: US$211.4 million equivalent

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      1
                                                           Procurement Method
      Expenditure Category                 ICB                  NCB                     2             N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                  Other
1. Works                                   0.00                 0.00                0.00              0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                   0.00                 0.00                0.00              0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)
3. Services                                0.00                 0.00                0.09              0.00              0.09
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.09)              (0.00)           (0.09)
4. Severance                               0.00                 0.00              214.25              98.76           313.01
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (116.44)             (0.00)         (116.44)
5. Labor Redeployment                      0.00                 0.00                0.00              4.40              4.40
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.00)           (0.00)
6. EBRD Capitalized                        0.00                 0.00                1.01              7.07              8.08
Interest, Auditor, Front-end              (0.00)               (0.00)             (1.01)              (0.00)           (1.01)
fees.
     Total                                 0.00                 0.00              215.35             110.23           325.58
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (117.54)             (0.00)         (117.54)

  1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.




                                                            - 23 -

     2/Includes: (i) Technical Assistance - QCBS; (ii) Severance Payments - specific procurement arrangements. Includes
       civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, of contracted staff of the project
       management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the
       project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                     Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank           Govt.         CoF.         Bank          Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt. CoF.
Labor Restructuring
 severance payments              65.96         40.24         84.78         98.96         32.78      98.76      150.0     81.5  116.5
 pre-retirement benefit          17.48          4.10                       11.68          2.66                  66.8     64.9
2000-2001
 pre-retirement benefit                        36.57                                     36.57                          100.0
2002+
 railway leave                   15.13         10.09                       5.80           3.94                  38.3     39.0
 unemployment benefit                          21.86                                     21.86                          100.0
Labor Redeployment -                           23.68                                      4.40                           18.6
Training
Technical Assistance              1.45                        5.85         0.09                      0.00       6.2             0.0
Other (EBRD Auditor)                                          0.18                                   0.18                      100.0
Other (EBRD Capitalized                                       5.97                                   5.97                      100.0
Interest)
Front-end Fees                    1.01                        0.92         1.01                      0.92      100.0           100.0
TOTAL                           101.04        136.53         97.70        117.54         102.21    105.83      116.3     74.9  108.3

   Government includes PKP plus GOP.
   The loan was made in Euro. At appraisal the foreign exchange rate was 0.91850 $/EUR. The weighted average rate used at
   completion (based on the rates applicable at the time of each loan disbursement) is 1.07098 $/EUR. There has been a 16.6%
   foreign exchange appreciation.




                                                               - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic cost benefit analysis prepared at appraisal indicated an expected economic net present value
(all NPVs at 10%) of the project to be US$143 million and the EIRR to be 20%. At completion the
economic net present value of the project is estimated to be US$103 million at current exchange rates (June
2005) and the EIRR to be 15%.

The financial cost benefit analysis at appraisal indicated the financial net present value of the project to be
US$1,014 million and the FIRR to be in excess of 100%. At completion the financial net present value of
the project is estimated to be US$1,338 million at current exchange rates and the FIRR again to be in
excess of 100%.

Table 1 summarizes these results at both current exchange rates and using those employed in the analysis
at appraisal. The complete spreadsheet analysis is attached as an electronic file in Annex 7, List of
Supporting Documents.



TABLE 1 - SUMMARY OF EVALUATION
  (currency figures in millions unless noted)
                                        At Appraisal                            At Completion

Currency                           Polish                        Polish
                                   Zloty         US $            Zloty        US $         US $        US $

Foreign Exchange                                4.6000                       4.6000       3.3370       3.3370
Rate                                          April 2001                      April        June         June
                                                                              2001         2005         2005
Economic Evaluation
Basis of calculation (see
notes below)                        Original     Original        Original     Original    Original     Revised

PV Benefits                                                        1,507         $328         $452         $452
PV Costs                                                           1,042         $226         $312         $349
PV Net Benefits                          656        $143             465         $101         $139         $103
IRR                                     20%          20%            17%          17%          17%          15%
Financial Evaluation
PV Benefits                                                        5,049       $1,098      $1,513       $1,693
PV Costs                                                             991         $215         $297         $356
PV Net Benefits                        4,667      $1,014           4,058         $882      $1,216       $1,338
IRR                                    177%        177%            205%         205%        205%         211%
Notes:
PV - Present Value. Present values were calculated using a 10% discount rate. Figures may not add due
to rounding.
The original basis of calculation of economic return included national unemployment benefits as an
economic cost. In the revised calculation this cost has been dropped. Also, the length of time that pre-
retirement benefits are being received has been revised to match actual experience (up from 3-4 years to 8-
10 years).




                                                    - 25 -

The differences in returns arise from the proportion of ex-PKP staff finding employment after severance
and the rate at which they found employment. At appraisal it was estimated that 50% of laid off workers
would find employment after six months.          The post-employment surveys conducted by KAAZ and
PKP-KG found that only 45% of severed workers returned to employment within 12 months.                 The
remaining 55% were divided into those still looking for employment (59%) and those not looking for work
(41%).

The other factor which changed was the length of time that ex-staff receive pre-retirement benefits. At
appraisal this was assumed to last for 3 to 4 years. At completion this assumption has been revised based
on actual experience, which is that these benefits can last for up to 10 years. The analysis now includes a
tapered reduction in the staff receiving this benefit over a 10 year period.

The rate at which workers found jobs built up slightly more slowly than assumed at appraisal. The chart
below shows the rate of build-up based on post-employment survey results.


                                      Buildup Comparison


                      100
                       90
                       80
                       70
                       60
                       50
               percent 40
                       30
                       20
                       10
                       0
                         0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 101112

                                quarter after severance

                                   Appraisal             Completion



The economic results remain highly dependent on the wage earned by workers in their new jobs. The
post-employment surveys conducted by KAAZ and PKP-KG did not provide any empirical evidence on this
subject because questions about wages were deemed too sensitive to be asked. The appraisal assumption of
earning 70% of the former PKP wage, derived from Labor Office data, was carried forward at completion.
The sensitivity of this assumption was tested by using a value of 60% of former wages. This yielded an
EIRR of 13.7% and an economic NPV of ZL 250 million and US$75 million at current exchange rates.



                                                      - 26 -

The economic NPV drops to zero when wages are 45% of the original PKP wage. There is no change to
the financial results from varying this assumption.

The economic benefits of the labor restructuring are based on the new earnings of redundant employees
who have found a new job. It is assumed that their productivity at PKP was close to zero but that their
new jobs add to Polish GDP. Economic benefits begin when the redundant workers start new jobs. Benefit
is measured by the new wages earned by the workers. The contribution to GDP will be greater to the
extent that the jobs filled by redeployed workers are higher productivity jobs. The analysis incorporates an
attrition rate to allow economic benefits to end when the worker retires.

The financial benefits of the labor restructuring are defined by the savings of labor costs to PKP relative to
a do-nothing alternative under which the labor force remained largely unchanged in size. Labor benefits
from the program begin when the worker is removed from the PKP payroll and end when the worker
becomes eligible for retirement.

A comment on labor analysis in restructuring projects; in economies with no tax distortions or subsidies,
and no fiscal budget constraint, the financial costs of severance would not normally be treated as an
economic cost. Rather they would be seen as a neutral transfer payment. Most developing countries,
however, do have distortions and budget constraints, so severance payments to workers divert public funds
from other uses. Except in a few upper-middle-income countries, a conservative approach would be to
treat the economic costs of severance as 100 percent of the financial costs.

The definitive guide to financial and economic appraisal of labor restructuring can be found in the Labor
Restructuring Toolkit, which is available on the World Bank website through the following link:
(http://rru.worldbank.org/documents/toolkits/labor/toolkit/index.html).

Additional Analysis
At appraisal the economic benefits calculated were based solely on the benefits accruing from labor being
re-deployed from jobs of zero productivity to some jobs of some productivity. However the PAD did
comment on the broader economic effects of the restructuring as follows:

       "Developing an estimate of the benefits of the total rail reform program is highly conjectural and,
       since the costs of the entire program can be justified solely by labor benefits alone, not essential.
       However, the following suggests what the lower end of the range might be.
       There is considerable room for efficiency gains to reduce Polish rail freight tariffs. US rail freight
       rates have fallen by half (in real terms) since deregulation of the US transport sector. In the
       Brazilian and Argentine rail freight concessioning, rail freight tariffs fell by between 10 percent and
       30 percent on each concession within five years. Even a 10 percent reduction in Polish rail freight
       tariffs would be worth US$250 million annually: if this 10 percent in rail tariffs caused a related 1
       percent reduction in for-hire truck tariffs, that would be worth an additional US$80 million annually.
       It is also thought likely that the sale price for PKP Cargo will be at least $0.5 billion and possibly
       well above $1billion. Privatization of LHS and of various passenger services is likely also to yield
       positive proceeds, but their scale is far smaller and taken together, they are probably within the
       margin of uncertainty about PKP Cargo's value. But it is not hard to predict near-term economic
       benefits from freight privatization alone, which are far greater than the entire investment cost of the
       reform program." (PAD, pages 20, 21).

For consistency the same approach, of looking only at the economic effect of the labor component of the
restructuring project, has been used here. However, similar to the PAD an order-of-magnitude discussion
has been made of likely economic benefits.




                                                      - 27 -

Real freight rates, as measured by PKP freight revenue in US$/ton-km (unit revenue), are one of the
outcome indicators of the project. Table 2 below summarizes this information. This was estimated at
$0.0235 in 2000 and was expected to rise in the first year of the project and then decline in real terms over
subsequent years as the operating efficiencies of restructuring allowed a more competitive tariff.

In US dollar terms the result has been consistent real rate increases after the second year of the project. In
2004 real freight rates were 38% higher than anticipated at appraisal, after rising by 16% in 2003 and 12%
in 2004. This makes the evaluation of economic benefit more difficult than it would be in the more clear
case when real freight rates have declined. To have a comprehensive evaluation of the economic effects in
the transport sector would require information on trucking rates over a comparable time period.

In zloty terms the result has been more favorable, with a mix of real increases and decreases, and overall a
real increase of 1.9% per annum compounded over the four years (2000--2004). This result is better for
domestic shippers, however the consistently higher cost in dollar terms is undesirable for export industries.



 TABLE 2 Freight Tariffs as approximated by Unit Revenue (US$/ton-km)

                       1997      1998      1999        2000       2001       2002     2003       2004      2005

 PAD - basis          actual     actual    actual     prelim       fcst      fcst      fcst      fcst       fcst

 PAD - value          0.0251     0.0258    0.0248     0.0235      0.0249    0.0249    0.0247    0.0242     0.0237
 GDP deflator
 (2000=100)                      0.8810    0.9370     1.0000      1.0401    1.0533    1.0592    1.0907

 Unit Revenue
 reported by PKP                                                  0.0251    0.0270    0.0316    0.0364
 (nominal value)
 Unit Revenue
 revised to                                                       0.0241    0.0256    0.0298    0.0333
 constant value
 Actual freight
 rates compared                                                     97%      103%      121%      135%
 to PAD

 Annual change in freight rates, US$
   nominal                                                         7.0%      7.6%     16.9%      15.2%
   real (constant)                                                 2.9%      6.3%     16.3%      11.8%

 Annual change in freight rates, Zloty
   nominal                                                         0.7%      7.4%      8.9%       0.0%
   real (constant)                                                -3.2%      6.0%      8.3%      -2.9%
 Notes:
 Data from the PAD are at current prices for 1997--2000 and at constant end-2000 prices for 2001--2005.
 Complete data for this table are attached as an electronic file in Annex 7, List of Supporting Documents.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                         No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                              (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                    Month/Year       Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               11/20/1992                        4    STE, SFA; PRE; FA
               03/31/1993                        5    STE; SFA; SHE; PS; PRE
               06/20/1993                        5    SRE; SFA; RE; PS; PRE
               06/28/1996                        2    PTL (LTS); SRS
               09/25/1996                        1    PTL (LTS)
               10/25/1996                        1    PTL (LTS)
               02/07/1997                        1    PTL (LTS)
               04/24/1998                        1    PTL (LTS)
               05/26/1998                        2    PTL (LTS); SRS
               09/16/1998                        2    PTL (LTS); OO
               12/17/1999                        3    PTL (LTS); RA; OO

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               09/22/2000                        6    PTL (LTS); RA; OO; RS;
                                                      TC; SC
               12/03/2000                        5    PTL (LTS); RA; OO; FMS; TC

 Supervision
               10/31/2001                        7    PTL (LTS); RA; SFA; PS;               S               S
                                                      OO; FMS; TC
               03/12/2002                        8    TSM; PTL(LTS); SFA; PS; OO;           S               S
                                                      TS; PS; TC
               10/25/2002                        6    MTR: PTL(LTS); RA; SFA;               S               S
                                                      OO; FMS; TC
               06/13/2003                        3    TTL (SFA); OO; FMS                    S               S
               11/07/2003                        5    TTL (SFA); TA; SRS; FMS; PS           S               S
               12/18/2003                        1    TA                                    S               S
               06/09/2004                        5    TTL(SFA); TA; FMS; PS; PTL            S               S
               10/29/2004                        5    TTL(SFA); TA; FMS; PO; TC             S               S
               06/03/2005                        6    TTL(SFA); TA; FMS; OO; FA;            S               S
                                                      TC

 ICR
               12/11/2005                        5     TTL(SFA); SIFO; TA; OO;
                                                       TC

Abbreviations: FA = Financial Analyst; FMS = Financial Management Specialist; LTS = Lead Transport
Specialist; OO = Operations Officer;PO = Project Officer; PRE = Principal Railway Engineer; PS = Procurement
Specialist; PS = Ports Specialist; PTL = Program Team Leader; RA = Railway Advisor; RE = Railways Engineer;
RS = Railway Specialist; SFA = Senior Financial Analyst; SIFO = Senior Infrastructure Finance Officer; SRS =
Senior Railway Specialist; STE - Senior Transport Economist; SHE = Senior Highway Engineer; TA = Transport
Advisor; TC = Transport Consultant; TSM = Transport Sector Manager; TTL = Task Team Leader.




                                                       - 29 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                           Actual/Latest Estimate
                                           No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                       Id/Prep included with
                                                                               App/Neg
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      No longer                      $488,199.00
                                     supported by Bank
                                           Information
                                               Systems
  Supervision                                                               $509,567.00
  ICR                                                                                 n/a
  Total
Notes: (i) SAP no longer gives detailed breakdown for ICR.
         (ii) The above figures exclude an additional $78,556.67 received from trust funds to support
            Lending (Identification/Preparation plus Appraisal/Negotiation).
Source: SAP report, "Project Details At a Glance", query run on April 4, 2006.




                                                       - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

PREPARATION
Restructuring Program For Polish State Railways, Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy,
as adopted by the Council of Ministers, September 7, 1999.


         PKP_Restruct_Prog_07SEP99.doc

Text of the Law on Commercialization, Restructuring and Privatization of "Polish State Railways" State
Enterprise,
final version as passed on September 8, 2000.


         PKP_Law on commercialization etc_final-08SEP00.doc

PKP Board Resolution of August 1, 2000 and Ordinance on management of labor resources and financial
means allocated to labor restructuring. This sets out the principles and procedures to be followed by the
Railway labor Restructuring Agency (KAAZ).


         PKP_Resolution on labor restructuring.doc

APPRAISAL


         PAD-P040795-toc.pdf PAD-P040795.pdf

NEGOTIATION


         summaryofnegotiations.pdfAgreedminutes.pdf

SUPERVISION/IMPLEMENTATION


                  PSR-ratings_02.xls

Later/revised policy statements
Program for Further Restructuring and Privatization of PKP Companies to 2006, as adopted by the
Council of Ministers, July 2003


         Program-For-Further-Restruct-Privatization-of-PKP-Companies-to-2006_July-25-2003.pdf

Strategy for Restructuring and Privatization of Companies of the PKP S.A. Group in 2005-07, as adopted
by the Council of Ministers, February 2005


                  PKP_Revised-Strategy-February_2005.doc




                                                    - 33 -

COMPLETION
ViewPoint Paper on KAAZ


        Jurkowski_Report_2003-April.doc


Outputs of Project
PKP Report of Feb. 7, 2005 includes the post-employment survey results.


        PKP-Qrpt_2005-02-07_English.pdf




        KAAZ_layoff_summary_2005-11-20.xls




        PKPGroup-Employ-by-Company1_ver03.xls


Economic Analysis


        Labor_analysis13_ICR05_longer-pre-retirement-03.xls



Supplemental Tables provided by PKP. These were kept up to date during supervision and attached to
mission aide-memoires. Comments added during the ICR are highlighted in yellow.
  Tab 3, Traffic-Revenue, contains the source data for the freight and passenger charts and the freight rate
information used in Annex 3, Table 2.


        PKP_Supplemental-Tables_ BS-2005_expanded-for-ICR-ver05.xls


Project Management Report of February 2006.


        PMR_2006-02_for-ICR_ver02.xls


Reference source of foreign exchange data.


        Poland-foreign-exchange_1995-2006.xls




                                                 - 34 -

- 35 -

