Report No. PID8627
Project Name                     Poland-Railway Restructuring Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       PLPE40795
Borrower(s)                      Polish State Railway
Mr. Krzysztof Celinski
Director General
4 Chalubinskiego Str.
00-928 Warsaw, Poland
Phone: 48-22-628-3658
Fax:    48-22-624-4410
Environment Category             B
Date this PID Prepared           January 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 2000
Projected Loan Negotiations      November 2000
Projected Board Date             January 2001
Country and Sector Background
1.      Poland is rightly proud of a large railway system which has served the
economy well in the past. Today, however, as the development of a market
economy accelerates and road transport booms, Polish State Railways (PKP) are
in crisis. While the quality of long-distance passenger services remains good
and suburban services still carry large volumes of commuters, passenger
traffic has always lost money heavily. Until recently freight operations were
highly profitable and able to cover the losses on passenger services, but
PKP's freight market is shrinking fast and it has been unable to cut costs
commensurately. Coal has always accounted for more than half of PKP's freight
business and generated much of its net cash flow; the near collapse of
Poland's coal industry has deprived PKP of its single largest revenue source;
and traffic in steel and other bulks is also shrinking. Much of its rolling
stock is overdue for renewal, tracks and signaling are deteriorated and its
technology generally is a couple of decades behind that of western Europe, but
PKP has no ability to finance replacement and modernization of its assets from
internal sources. Whereas in 1997 PKP more or less broke even overall, in
1998 it suffered a net loss of about $400 million (0.25 percent of GDP and
more than one million dollars per day), and the trend throughout 1999 was an
even larger loss. PKP has had to borrow heavily just to cover operating
expenses, and its debt is snowballing.
2.      To tackle this crisis, the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
has drawn up a radical reform program, which the Polish government is now
pushing through the legislative process. The workforce is to be cut back
severely through early retirement and once-off inducements; responsibility
for suburban services and their losses is to be devolved as far as possible to
city governments; and the incentives for railway management are to be
transformed by "unbundling" the monolithic system into many independent
firms and opening services to competition and private capital. Its long-term
goal for railway restructuring is to have multiple companies --state-owned or



private-- operating trains for a fee over the tracks of a commercialized, but
state-owned, infrastructure company for the main network; private buy-outs of
minor lines will be permitted. In September 1999 the Council of Ministers
adopted this comprehensive restructuring program and sent it to the Parliament
with a target for its approval. The declared goals of the restructuring are
to increase railway's share of the surface transport market, reduce costs and
improve profitability, improve the quality of service and safety of
operations, prepare for competition in the European Union, improve suburban
passenger services, and motivate the work force.
3.      A first step, consistent with EU policy, was taken already in 1998 when
PKP was divided into separate departments for passenger train operations,
freight operations, and infrastructure (track and stations, etc.), as well as
a fourth department for rolling stock (an interim arrangement). As soon as
the restructuring law is approved, PKP will be made into a joint stock company
owned by the state. The next steps will be to split off ancillary business
units (e.g. track repair and railway electric power and telecommunications
suppliers) as legally separate companies, and convert the three main sectors
into legally independent companies. Lack of legal title to much of its real
estate today prevents PKP from selling off housing and unused land; fast-
track procedures are to be introduced to provide title and enable PKP to
realize cash from the sale of these assets. All this is programmed to take
place by June, 2000. By then the Government will be looking for strategic
investors for those separate companies.
4.      This radical restructuring is urgently needed, but requires rapid,
concerted action by many stakeholders, as well as financial support.
Downsizing and restructuring of the work force is a key element of the
program, since expenditures on wages and employment benefits -only 36% of
PKP's costs in 1991--now account for 51%.   As of December 1999, PKP employed
about 207,000 persons, of which 178,000 worked in core activities (the four
sectors). Comparisons with the productivity of other, financially viable
railways suggest that PKP's workforce needs to be 25-45% smaller than today's.
In restructuring studies funded by JICA, Daiwa consultants, taking UIC norms
as their reference, have concluded that PKP will need no more than 160,000
employees by 2005. Mercer Management, funded by a PHRD grant and managed by
the Bank, has gone further, arguing that PKP will need only 115,000, provided
they can draw on modern technology and better equipment (even allowing that
PKP will need 20% more staff than in equivalent European countries to bridge
the technology gap). On the other hand, strikes in 1998 and 1999 have
disrupted and delayed proposals to solve PKP's problems.
Objectives
5.      The aim of the proposed project is to help PKP and its successor
companies to achieve financial viability by reducing their workforce to levels
commensurate with the demands of an efficient, market-driven railway, while
easing the social dislocation this might imply by payment of early retirement
and severance packages. By ensuring a co-operative rather than hostile
relationship between management and the workforce through this transition,
such expenditures unblock reforms which might otherwise be delayed.
Description
6.      In the period 2000-2003 Polish State Railways and its successor
companies will offer their workforce structured incentive packages, consistent
with national labor laws and social security provisions as well as enterprise
-2 -



labor contracts, with a view to cutting the workforce by about 60,000
employees. The incentive schemes to be offered are:
pre-retirement benefits,
one-time severance payments, and
one-time re-qualification training as well as professional and social advice
and other forms of professional guidance, free of charge.
7.      These incentives will be offered as part of the comprehensive
restructuring, commercialization and partial privatization of Polish railways.
The Project may also include some financing of essential infrastructure
renewal to make certain services more viable for privatization or devolution
to local governments. It may also include technical assistance to advise the
Ministry of Transport and the main railway enterprises on the organizational,
legal, regulatory and social aspects of the program.
Financing
8.      The proposed employment restructuring is expected to cost PLN 953
million (US$220 million). The Restructuring Plan proposes that PKP should
cover PLN 20 million from the sale of assets; the national Labor Fund should
contribute PLN 98 million to pre-retirement benefits; and PLN 834 million
should eventually be covered by the floating of bonds guaranteed by the State
(total value of the flotation: PLN 3.1 billion). Until the bond proceeds are
available, bridge financing has been proposed in the form of domestic and
foreign loans. The total value of the bridging loans has been estimated at
PLN 1.5 billion (US$ 350 million).
9.      EBRD is processing an emergency loan of EUR 100 million.    It is proposed
that IBRD should finance US$150 million, and domestic commercial banks will be
asked to provide about US$ 100 million equivalent. The EBRD and World Bank
loans would be to PKP, guaranteed by the Republic of Poland. It remains to be
determined whether PKP would indeed ask IBRD for a loan of short maturity, to
be refinanced by a bond, when the latter would probably have a higher
financial cost.
Project Preparation and Implementation
10.     To work out details of the program, MTME is launching a study on
"Identification of methods, resources and effects of employment restructuring
in the state-owned enterprise Polish State Railways" to better assess the
needs. The criteria for qualifying for one or other package are already
defined, but more needs to be known about the number of employees in different
parts of the organization and at different professional levels who are likely
to take up the offers, and the specific value of the packages to which they
will be entitled. The consultant will aim to forecast the overall cost of the
severance program and its cash flow requirements, and will endeavor to
identify risks of adverse selection (that is, staff leaving who would be in
short supply). The study should take 5 months and lead to pre-appraisal of
the project (in the 3rd month) and appraisal (5th month) by the World Bank
Team. Appraisal is planned for September 2000, subject to completion of the
study.
Project Sustainability
-3-



11.     According to MTME, before the end of 2001 railway employment should
decline to about 145,000 persons, based on the following assumptions:
Passenger services will be ended on about 6,000 of low-traffic lines (reducing
the length of lines operating passenger trains from 22,200 km in 1999 to
16,000 km in 2005).
From 2000 on, the State budget will subsidize continuing loss-making passenger
operations at the constant level of PLN 720 million annually, with additional
support, from 2001 on, for regional services coming directly from local
voivodship budgets in the amount of between PLN 100 and 180 million annually,
to compensate for public service obligations (mandated discounts and free
travel).
In consequence passenger traffic will decrease from 383 million passengers in
1999 to 212 million in 2005.
Freight traffic will decrease from 175 million tons in 1999 to 164 million
tons in 2005,
12.     The above employment estimate takes into account that between 1999 and
2003 about 17,000 employees can claim old-age or disability pensions and leave
PKP.
13.     Compared with the alternative of relying solely on normal retirement and
attrition, this accelerated downsizing will pay for itself through reduced
labor costs year by year, as well as its beneficial effect on the climate
within the enterprise for change and innovation.
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
14.     One of the Bank's first loans to Poland went to PKP, as part of the
Transport Project launched in 1990. The project was largely successful.
Several important restructuring measures were implemented, procurement was
handled competently, and a firm start was made on trimming the workforce to
the reduced level of demand. But financial targets were not fully met. This
experience allowed the Bank and PKP to get to know each other well, a
relationship continued during implementation of the Mercer study (para. 4).
The Bank started direct financing of severance payments through investment-
type loans in Brazil in 1996, when it helped Brazilian railways to privatize.
It has also been deeply involved in the restructuring and downsizing of the
Polish coal industry, through its Hard Coal Restructuring Sector Adjustment
Loan approved in November 1999. The lessons from these experiences will be
taken into account in the detailed design and implementation of the proposed
operation.
Poverty Category
15.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
16.     Not applicable.
Program Objective Categories
17.     None.
Contact Points:
-4-



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Program Team Leader
Graham Smith, ECSIN
Telephone: (202) 473-2472
Fax:        (202) 477-3378
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 21, 2000.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-6-



