Document of
FILE copy                         The World Bank
FILE  COpy       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2125-EC
L       N )
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
July 20, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Sucre (SI.)
US$1 = S/. 25
S/.1 =.US$0.04
S/.1,000 = US$40.0
S/.l,000,000 = US$40,000.00
Fiscal Year: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR:
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             The Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiary:          National Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE)
Amount:               US$11.0 million
Terms:                Repayable over 10 years, including a 3-1/2 year
period of grace, with interest at 8.0 percent.
I
Re-lending Terms:     The loan proceeds would be made available to FONAPRE
as a grant. FONAPRE would on-lend the funds to Govern-
ment agencies for 5-10 years, including 1-3 years of
grace, at 4-6 percent per annum.
Project Description:  The project's main objective is to improve the effi-
ciency of the Government's investment machinery while
expanding the pipeline of projects for Ecuador's
investment program. It provides for preinvestment
studies of agro-industrial, other industrial, power,
agricultural, urban development, water supply and
other investment possibilities. The project also
includes technical assistance for advising and training
FONAPRE's staff and that of other public agencies in
project preparation and management; and assisting local
consulting firms. There are no special risks involved
in the project whose principal difficulty will be
recruiting suitable experts and obtaining effective
coordination with the local staff.
Estimated Cost:
Costs %'000
Project Components                 Total    Foreign   Local
A. Project Studies                 16,100    10,280   5,820
B. Institutional Assistance         1,470     1,200     270
C. Assistance to
Domestic Consultants             200       120      80
Total                       17,770   .11,600   6,170
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:
Costs $ Million
Foreign   Local    Total
World Bank              11.0        -      11.0
UNDP                     0.6        -       0.6
Government                 -       6.2      6.2
Rate of Return:       Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:     None.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
technical assistance loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of
US$11.0 million to help finance pre-investment and project preparation activi-
ties. The loan would have a term of 10 years, including 3.5 years of grace,
with interest at 8.0% per annum. Its proceeds would be made available to the
National Preinvestment Fund as a grant. The Fund would on-lend the proceeds
to public sector agencies for 5-10 years, including 1-3 years of grace, at
4-6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Ecuador" (No. 1382 EC) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 1,
1977, and was based on the findings of an economic mission which visited
Ecuador in August/September 1976 and in March 1977. Annex I summarizes the
main economic and social indicators.
3.        Until the emergence of petroleum as a major source of export earnings
Ecuador depended mainly on agriculture. Its major exports were bananas, coffee,
cocoa and sugar. Non-traditional exports, even though they increased rapidly
during the 1960s, only represented a small fraction of total export earnings.
Ecuador's manufacturing sector has been dynamic, growing at an average annual
rate of 8.7% during 1965-75. It consists mainly of small private firms in a
great variety of industries. Petroleum exports began in 1972, and they now
make up half of total exports. Nevertheless, petroleum exports only average
about US$75 per person -- about one-tenth the per capita exports in Venezuela.
Ecuador is the smallest exporter in OPEC. In spite of petroleum exports,
Ecuador is one of the poorest countries in Latin America with one of the fast-
est rates of population growth. Only Haiti, Bolivia, Honduras and El Salvador
have lower GNP per capita (1976 Bank Atlas figures). Likewise, Ecuador is
among the six Latin American and Caribbean countries with the lowest protein
consumption per head; the same is true for its consumption of energy per head.
4.        The recent petroleum boom has improved the country's balance-of-
payments and fiscal situations and has enabled the Government to expand public
investment substantially. The petroleum revenues have also greatly strength-
ened Ecuador's longer run development prospects. The main problem of economic
management in the years ahead will be to maintain a reasonable balance between
the country's petroleum output and exports, on the one hand, and the absorptive
capacity of the-economy (and, particularly, of the public sector), on the



- 2 -
other. Until now this balance has been fairly well maintained, and the in-
flationary problems of 1974 and 1975 have come under better control in 1976.
The fiscal and balance-of-payments problems attending the decline in petroleum
earnings of late 1974-75 due to changes in petroleum pricing and pipeline
disruptions, have also largely been resolved through a combination of prudent
fiscal and monetary policies and of renewed increases in petroleum exports.
5.        Petroleum policies will have a decisive influence on the country's
growth prospects. The main problem is that conventional crude reserves are
now being extracted faster than they are being replaced, owing to the virtual
absence of exploration and development activity. A resumption of such activity
on a substantial scale is warranted by the size of the in situ reserves. The
main responsibility for carrying out a petroleum development program is CEPE's
(the State Petroleum Corporation), which recently acquired the assets of Gulf
Oil and now controls 62.5% of the Texaco/CEPE Consortium which produces all
of Ecuador's petroleum exports. The Government has recently decided to step
up investment in petroleum exploration and development, so as to increase pro-
duction. To this effect, CEPE will receive a larger share of petroleum revenues
than in the recent past for investment, and private petroleum enterprises will
be encouraged to invest. These policies could lead to an increase in petroleum
production from about 66 million barrels/year (1973-76 average) to about 86
million barrels/year within two years. Prospects for natural gas development
in the Gulf of Guayaquil may be good, and further exploration is underway.
6.        Ecuador is one of the few developing countries with enough fertile
land to expand agricultural and livestock output at reasonable cost. Over the
years, agriculture has been the most important source of employment, and im-
provements in the standard of living of the majority of lower income Ecuadorians
will hinge on increased agricultural production and efforts at incorporating
farmers more fully into the market economy. Prospects for industrial develop-
ment are favorable and have been enhanced by better availability of medium-term
credit (due partly to the introduction of more realistic interest rates in 1976)
and by improvements in physical infrastructure (transport, electric power, water).
Most Ecuadorian firms are small and cater to domestic needs.
7.        The Government's record in the allocation of petroleum revenues is
encouraging since they have been largely devoted to economic and social devel-
opment projects. Out of 1976 petroleum exports of US$565 million (net of bar-
ter arrangements with Venezuela), US$480 million accrued to the public sector.
The National Development Fund (FONADE) created to channel petroleum revenues
into social and economic development projects absorbed US$152 million, and the
next largest recipients were the Central Government, the armed forces, the
national power authority, and CEPE. The balance went mainly to the National
Housing Bank, the Ministries of Labor, Education and Health, as well as the
universities. The past allocation of petroleum revenues suggests that the
Government will continue to give priority to economic and social projects.
8.        Public investment has increased from 5-6% of GDP in the early 19708
to 9% in 1976, while GDP was growing at a rapid rate. If petroleum production
rises from its 1976 level of 65.9 million barrels a year to about 90 million



- 3 -
barrels by the early 1980s, a further increase in public investment should
present no serious financial problems. The growth of public investment,
particularly in petroleum, electric energy, agriculture and rural development,
transport, industry, health and education, should encourage the further
development of the economy, particularly manufacturing, agriculture and
construction. As Ecuador's progress to date has alleviated only some of its
development problems, the Government is now preparing a public investment
program reflecting the above priorities. Domestic resources should be suffi-
cient to finance a substantial part of this program, but its full realization
will require continuing support from external financing agencies. Such
support should include an appropriate blend of financial assistance from
international institutions and of borrowing at commercial terms from other
external sources required to finance its investment program while limiting the
increase in the country's debt service ratio from its 1976 level of near 7% to
about 12% by the early 1980s.
9.        The prudent fiscal and monetary policies pursued during 1975 and
1976 have been reflected in a significant reduction in inflation and in a
substantial increase in foreign reserves (during 1976 these increased by
US$189 million to US$515 million, equivalent to nearly five months' imports).
The 1977 budget confirms that the Government intends to continue to pursue
prudent fiscal and monetary policies, thus reinforcing Ecuador's creditworthi-
ness for further lending on Bank terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
10.       Starting with the first loan in 1954, the Bank and IDA have made
twenty loans and six credits to Ecuador totalling (excluding those agreements
not yet signed) US$230.8 million, net of cancellations. At May 31,1977, the
Bank and IDA held about US$184.3 million including about US$115.7 million not
yet disbursed. IFC has made six loans and investment commitments in Ecuador,
two in a large textile company, three in a development finance company, and
one in a sugar mill, amounting to US$9.4 million of which, as of May 31, 1977,
US$3.1 million has been repaid, sold, terminated or cancelled. IFC is
currently examining other investment prospects. Execution of Bank Group
financed projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory, even though it has not
been free of difficulties often caused by the insufficiency of the country's
managerial and technical resources--a constraint that still is a major obstacle
for Ecuador's economic and social development. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of May 31, 1977
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
11.       Bank and IDA lending were originally concentrated in transportation
and power, where there were--and still are--substantial deficiencies to be
overcome. At the end of FY76, these two sectors accounted, respectively, for
about 42% and 7.3% of total past lending. Most of the lending for transporta-
tion was to improve the road network of the country, although two loans were
made to help finance port facilities in Guayaquil. Lending for power has
been concentrated in improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito.



- 4 -
The first livestock development loan (FY67) marked the beginning of a diversi-
fication of lending; since then, the Bank and IDA have made eight more loans
and credits for agriculture and fisheries, three loans to support industrial
develoment through development finance companies, one loan and one credit for
education, one loan for water supply, one loan for improved seeds production
and one loan to assist Ecuador in the preparation of rural development proj-
ects. Bank/IDA assistance for the directly productive and social sectors
has grown to about 50.6% of total lending.
12.       External development financing has also been provided by IDB and AID
and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources.
External Financing by Sector and by Source through December 31, 1976
Other
Bilateral
IBRD     IDA      IDB     US /1      Sources /1
Lending 1954-64                54.0     8.0     35.3     62.7         0.2 /2
Lending 1965-76               140.5    28.9    349.8     73.0        96.5 /3
Transport                    44.0       -     65.1        -         0.8
Power                           -     6.8     92.7      6.2        67.2
Education                     4.0     5.1      4.1      5.3           -
Health and Sanitation        23.2       -     49.3      9.5         4.8
Agriculture and Fisheries    15.3     17.0    64.6     29.1           -
Industry                     54.0       -     53.8      7.8         8.7
Urban Development               -       -     14.8        -           -
Other                           -       -      5.8     15.1        15.0
194.5    36.9   385.1     135.7        96.7
/1   Includes official export credits.
/2   Statistics on lending during this period are probably incomplete.
/3   Through December 31, 1975 only.
IDB is the largest single lender, having extended most of its loans to Ecuador
from the Fund for Special Operations, which has normally carried a 2% interest
rate, a ten-year grace period, and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It is
likely that IDB will remain the major development lender in the immediate
future, although its terms have become less concessionary than in the past.
Meanwhile, no new AID commitments have been made since FY73. There were in
calendar year 1975 over US$205 million of new commitments of external finance,
including those from international institutions, suppliers, commercial banks



and some bilateral sources. Education, health and other socially oriented
activities, as well as agricultural development, have been receiving increasing
attention from external lending agencies in recent years. IDB, AID and .he
Bank Group have coordinated their efforts in these fields to assure the most
effective use of all available resources.
13.        Bank lending is aimed at supporting the Government priorities out-
lined in Part I above. This objective will be met by emphasizing projects
that will help strengthen the institutional framework for development policy--
including project planning, preparation and implementation--in agriculture
and rural development, transportation and other high priority activities.
A major institution-building effort in these fields should yield tangible
benefits for Ecuador. This was.a major objective of the FY76 loan for rural
development planning (EC-1230). It is the basis for the proposed project
as well. In addition, considering the extreme poverty in which most of the
Ecuadorian population still live, the current Bank program includes substan-
tial support for integrated rural development projects and assistance for
the development of the country's agricultural potential. All projects pro-
grammed for this sector include sizable technical assistance components, as
a major part of the overall institution--building effort referred to above.
PART III - PUBLIC INVESTMENT AND PROJECT PREPARATION ACTIVITIES
14.       Ecuador's first attempt at investment planning was made in 1963 as
part of the preparation of the 1964-73 National Development Plan. The Plan's
investment objectives were not achieved owing to the rather limited capabil-
ities of most of the Government's executing agencies. In 1970, a new program
for the period 1970-73 was formulated but the insufficiency of public savings
made its execution impossible. In 1972, the National Planning and Economic
Coordination Board (JUNAPLA) adopted the technique of preparing 5-year devel-
opment plans which would be implemented through biannual public sector program
budgets. Within this approach, JUNAPLA prepared that year the 1973-77 Plan
Integral de Transformacion y Desarrollo which defined the basic economic pro-
gram of the Government. The Plan called for annual increases of 8.6% in total
investment over the 5-year period, reaching a level equivalent to 23% of GDP
in 1977. Public investment would provide an increasing share of total capital
formation.
15.       The participation of the Government in the economy has during the
last three years exceeded even the increased levels planned in 1972, owing
to the expanded petroleum revenues which emerged from the opening of oil
production in the Oriente Province in 1972 and the subsequent worldwide oil
price increases. This produced a substantial change in the economic situation
and prospects of Ecuador. As noted in para. 8 above, public investment
increased in 1976 to 9% of a rapidly rising GDP. The Government was thus
enabled to inititate substantial new programs in highways, energy, agricul-
ture, water and sewerage, and irrigation in order to reduce the many defi-
ciencies prevailing in these sectors.



- 6 -
16.       In the process, the Government's development program has been rela-
tively free of the insufficiency of public savings which had been a character-
istic weakness of the Ecuadorian scene and which had deterred Ecuador's
economic growth in the past. The Government now has a far greater capability
to allocate the amounts needed to finance its share of development require-
ments, as well as to service an increasing public debt while maintaining favor-
able overall long-term balance of payments prospects. However, the improved
financial resource situation has not eliminated the other principal constraint
on Ecuador's public investment process: the lack of adequate public adminis-
tration capacity.
17.       Ecuador's past economic growth came, to a large extent, from the
private sector and, historically, Ecuador's public sector has been quite weak.
This weakness reduced the efficiency of development planning in general, and
particularly deterred project identification and preparation, thus causing a
shortage of adequately prepared projects, and, until recently, a low level
of public capital formation. This vicious circle has limited the capability
of Ecuador to cope with its deep-seated development problems.
18.       This experience, when rising petroleum revenues made it possible to
think of an expanded level of public expenditure, alerted the Government to
the need for increased capacity for preparing and executing priority invest-
ment projects. Substantial improvements have been made in this regard.
At the end of 1973, the Government established the National Development Fund
(ref. para. 7) to finance public investment with the emerging petroleum
revenues. In line with this action, the Government also addressed itself to
strengthening its planning machinery, and to widening the range of investment
alternatives. Both efforts have focused on increasing the quantity and
improving the quality of prefeasibility and feasibility studies of potential
projects. The Government strengthened JUNAPLA's authority for the formulation
and execution of development policies. It organized, under JUNAPLA's
direction, a "national projects system" to promote and accelerate pre-invest-
ment study activities; and to strengthen budgetary and other procedures for
the execution of investment programs. It also began to enlist the technical
assistance needed for these areas. Sectoral planning units were improved and
other organizational measures were taken in strengthening executing agencies,
both at the national and the regional levels. Among these measures, perhaps
the most important was the establishment in December 1973 of the National
Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE) which finances project preparation work carried
out by Ministries and other Government agencies. FONAPRE's functions are
described in paras. 23-27 below. Moreover, the Government also strengthened
its capability to manage public finances effectively by consolidating under
the National Budget many accounts which had been administered in an autonomous,
almost anarchic, manner. The Government has also decided to establish a new
development bank ("Banco del Estado") for which it will earmark a substantial
proportion of the country's oil revenues for financing high-priority invest-
ment projects.



19.       The gradually improving public administration produced by these
measures has enabled the Government to make considerable progress in turmu-
lating and executing economic development policy during the past few years.
Mainly as a result of a generally effective use of its oil revenues, Ecuador
has strengthened its level of economic growth while overcoming severe infla-
tionary pressures. The country's infrastructure is being substantially
improved. Since 1973, there has been a reversal of the previous slump in
agricultural production, in the wake of increased producer support prices, and
of the tripling of agricultural credit. Present national policy is to expand
on these accomplishments in the future so that Ecuador can diversify its
economy. And the public investment program includes a substantial number
of projects designed to help raising the living standards of the poorer
segments of its population. In order to achieve these objectives, the Govern-
ment intends to step up public investment further in the years ahead, and has
requested the help of the Bank to set up a consultative group to assist
in this regard. The Bank is now exploring this possibility. After the last
economic mission's review of the investment projects being prepared by Govern-
ment agencies, the Government has defined a public investment program with a
commitment level of US$3.8 billion over the 1977-81 period, excluding financial
investments. That level would imply a real annual increase of 12% in public
investment outlays during those years over the amount reached in 1976 (about
US$460 million), which was already substantially higher than that prevailing
until 1975.
20.       If the Government is to carry out such an ambitious program,
it will have to extend its recent gains in managerial and physical capacity
even further. At the end of 1974, the Government contracted advisory services
from a non-profit U.S. institution experienced in government administrative
improvements (the Institute of Public Administration) to prepare a program
organized around: (a) the development of Government-wide policies on adminis-
trative reforms; (b) individual initiatives of operating agencies for such
changes; and (c) improvements in the general administrative areas of planning,
financial administration, personnel administration, information systems,
auditing, control and procurement. The emphases of the program's first two
years of operation have been on the Office of the President and the Ministry
of Agriculture, and on guidance to various ministries on in-house adminis-
trative improvements. The program will continue until the end of 1977.
However, in spite of these improvements, and of those others referred in para.
18 above, there remain substantial deficiencies in public administration
policies and practices which hamper Government decision-making, especially
in project identification, preparation and execution. These deficiencies are
partly related to outmoded and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures which unduly
lengthen the decision-making process concerning pre-investment activities.
They also are caused partly by the scarcity of adequately trained personnel
throughout the public sector.
21.       These difficulties have contributed to the relatively slow execution
of the Bank's FY76 loan for financing a technical assistance project for the
preparation of rural development projects (Loan 1230-EC). This loan was
approved on March 30, 1976, and became effective last October. It was agreed



- 8 -
then that it would be channeled through FONAPRE, but no assistance was then
planned to strengthen FONAPRE's technical structure and to solve the remaining
institutional problems connected with project preparation activities. When
this loan was approved, it was expected that disbursements would start soon
afterwards for strengthening the planned central rural development unit within
JUJNAPLA and, subsequently, for the preparation of rural development projects.
It soon became clear however that the problems associated with the establish-
ment of this unit and with JUNAPLA's coordination of the activities of multiple
Government agencies were more serious, and more time-consuming than originally
envisaged. These problems have by now been largely solved--through the
staffing of the central unit and by JUNAPLA's working arrangements with the
Ministry of Agriculture and other agencies. Nevertheless, other bureaucratic
and legal difficulties continued to delay the beginning of the planned pre-
investment studies until June 1977.
22.       These difficulties were mainly related to:    (a) the lack in most
Government executing agencies of technical personnel with adequate experience
in project preparation; (b) the insufficient number of qualified FONAPRE staff
members to substitute for the required expertise elsewhere in the Government;
and (c) the cumbersome procedures for approving FONAPRE's loans to executing
agencies and for hiring foreign consultants to be financed by those loans.
The procedural problems emerged mainly from the need to obtain repeated and
multiple authorizations from various Government agencies (e.g., the Finance
Ministry, the Monetary Board, the Attorney General's Office, and the
Comptroller's Office) for each FONAPRE loan agreement and for each foreign
consultant's contract. The Government has realized the serious effects of
these problems, and has already taken steps toward their solution.
FONAPRE
23.       FONAPRE is the Government's principal agency for preinvestment
activities. FONAPRE is now legally autonomous and possesses independent
capital. It works quite closely with JUNAPLA whose President heads FONAPRE's
board of directors. Its function is to promote, identify, select, finance and
evaluate studies to enable Ecuador to implement public investment projects.
It receives and analyzes proposals for financing a wide range of preinvestment
studies (sectoral, sub-sectoral, pre-feasibility, feasibility, engineering,
design, etc.) from Government ministries, development financial institutions--
both public and private--and regional and other decentralized development
agencies. As a "bank", FONAPRE's principal responsibility is to assure that
Government funds are being committed to well-prepared, high priority and
properly costed preinvestment studies. In its initial operating stage,
FONAPRE has concentrated on encouraging a steady and increasing flow of proj-
ects in order to overcome the past paucity of development opportunities. For
this reason, and because of the still prevailing weaknesses in the planning
units of the Ministries and other organizations, FONAPRE's staff has had to
extend itself beyond the limits of its prescribed functions. That small
staff has thus had to participate in the full range of project preparation
activities, i.e., in defining the purpose and scope of studies, in identifying
and evaluating a range of possible consultants for conducting the studies,



- 9 -
in contracting arrangements and in supervision work. In addition, since it
was established, FONAPRE has conducted, with IDB assistance, a comprehensive
training program on project preparation techniques, for its own personnel
and for the planning staffs of other government agencies. Attachment I
contains a mcrce detailed description of FONAPRE.
24.       Organization and Administration.   FONAPRE functions under the direc-
tion of its Board of Directors, which has three permanent members: the
President of JUNAPLA (who serves as the president of the Board), the Minister
of Finance and the General Secretary of the National Security Council. Other
Government cabinet members may temporarily act as members of the Board
whenever a study in their particular field of activity is being considered.
The Executive and Technical Managers of FONAPRE are Board members with voice,
but no vote. The Board's principal functions are to: (a) establish the
general policies and financial conditions for FONAPRE's lending activities;
(b) approve organizational changes, by-laws, operating regulations, national
and international agreements, and lines of credit to intermediary agents;
(c) review and approve budgets, financial statements, and other reports pre-
sented by the Executive Manager; and (d) authorize loans to executing agencies,
and other expenditures above certain limits. The chief executive officer of
FONAPRE is its Executive Manager, nominated by the President of JUNAPLA and
appointed by the President of the Republic. He is assisted by a technical
manager, who is responsible for coordination between JUNAPLA and FONAPRE;
an operations manager, who is responsible for the execution of FONAPRE's
lending program, including the supervision of the work of loan officers and
project committees, and for maintaining contact with all FONAPRE borrowers;
and a financial-administrative assistant manager.
25.       FONAPRE currently has a total staff 1/ of 25, of which 18 are pro-
fessionals. These include economists, engineers and a complement of adminis-
trative staff. The professional staff is relatively small since it is sup-
plemented by the sectoral units of JUNAPLA which serve, to some extent, as the
technical arm of FONAPRE, carrying out analyses of some technical aspects and
reviewing the socio-economic priority of each study proposal. FONAPRE's
senior personnel are qualified, and the entity is well organized and managed.
Some of its professionals have considerable potential but they lack sufficient
experience in project preparation techniques. Moreover, because of relatively
low salary scales in the public sector, FONAPRE has lost some promising young
staff members to better positions in the private sector. In spite of these
constraints, FONAPRE has been developing some technical competence but still
lacks expertise in major areas, notably in agriculture, infrastructure and
industry. FONAPRE's management has been active in trying to expand the
organization's capabilities by employing consultants, by training programs,
and by drawing on the experience of other preinvestment funds in Latin America.
At the same time, FONAPRE itself has been designated as the regional Latin
American center for the interchange of information and experience among the
preinvestment funds operating in that region.
1/   See Organization Chart, Attachment II.



- 10 -
26.       Operations.   FONAPRE's policies and regulations are consistent with
Bank policy. Within the limited period of its operations, FONAPRE has complied
with those regulations in the approval of studies and the selection of consul-
tants, and appears to be functioning satisfactorily. However, as indicated in
paragraph 22 above, the general legal framework within which the preinvestment
systems has functioned cannot be considered satisfactory. It has hindered
the effective functioning of the organization and does not serve overall
public investment objectives. As a result of these deficiencies, project
preparation and execution have often run well behind schedule; cost overruns
have been frequent; and the ability of the country to obtain development
finance and use it efficiently has been unduly reduced. The Government
has taken during the last two months some important decisions in this respect,
which constitute a satisfactory solution to the most pressing institutional
problems. The main aspects of these measures are as follows:
(a) FONAPRE's loans to executing agencies, and the contracts with
foreign consultants and consulting firms financed by those
loans, will be exempt from the specific approvals required up
to now from the Attorney General, the Government's Comptroller,
the Finance Minister and the Monetary Board, provided that
these loans are wholly or partly financed by international
financial institutions. Those authorizations constituted the
major cause of the substantial delays (about three months in
each case owing to those factors) prevailing up to now in the
execution of pre-investment activities financed by the Bank
and other international institutions.
(b) The Ministries and other executing agencies will not have to
obtain--as was the case up to last month--individual presiden-
tial decrees authorizing them to sign their loan agreements
with FONAPRE, when those loans are wholly or partially financed
by international institutions. This should eliminate delays of
about one month in the execution of pre-investment activities
financed through FONAPRE.
(c) The process of pre-qualifying, hiring and selecting foreign
consultants and consultant firms would be carried out following
procedures agreed upon in each case by FONAPRE and inter-
national financial institutions.
(d) The ceilings established by law for the remuneration of
Government employees and consultants will not be applied
to individual consultants whose contracts are wholly or
partly financed by international institutions.
The proposed loan is intended to complement these measures by: (a) further
strengthening FONAPRE's capabilities through the financing of a group of
high-level internationally recruited consultants; (b) helping to identify
additional ways to simplify existing Government procedures affecting pre-
investment activities; and (c) financing the preparation of high-priority



- 11 -
projects--in addition to those in the rural development field financed through
the Bank FY76 loan--to be carried out by the Government's executing agencies
under FONAPRE's supervision.
27.       So far, FONAPRE has financed studies in several sectors with partic-
ular emphasis on infrastructure (e.g. power, railways and roads), petroleum,
forestry, and sugar production. 1/ Although still a young organization,
having begun operations effectively in mid-1974, FONAPRE expects to be able
shortly to increase its volume of activity. FONAPRE's expansion will have to
be rapid and substantial if it is to meet the volume of requests from numerous
Ecuadorian agencies. In the immediate future, the current status of FONAPRE's
operations indicates a total of 50 additional studies that are expected to be
underway in the period 1977-79. This list of studies 2/ covers a broad range
of development activities and would contribute significantly to the Govern-
ment's inventory of promising investment projects. Of the 50 studies, as of
March 1977, six had already begun; contracts had been signed for eight others;
FONAPRE's directors had approved 28 more for contract negotiations; and the
remaining eight were being processed. Moreover, FONAPRE had received and was
beginning to review last March an additional 39 requests.
28.       Financial Situation and Prospects.   FONAPRE finances project prepar-
ation activities mainly through loans to other Government agencies. These
have to be repaid in 5-10 years, and are granted at 6% interest for projects
in the economic sectors, and at 4% for those directly related to social
objectives. Additionally, FONAPRE also collects an annual 1% on outstanding
balances as a commission for technical services rendered to its borrowers, and
a 1% annual commitment charge on undisbursed balances. FONAPRE's operating
income is intended to cover all its administration expenditures in the near
future (by late 1977), when the disbursed loan balances are expected to reach
the level required for that purpose. In its initial years, FONAPRE has not
had to face any liquidity problems owing to the relatively large amounts
allocated to it in the Government budgets--a fact which reflects the high
priority attached to pre-investment activities within the country's develop-
ment efforts. The Government contributions have reached an annual level of
US$4.62 million, which is expected to be maintained at least until 1979. They
constitute up to now the main source of funds to finance FONAPRE's lending
program. In addition the Government has contracted two foreign loans, for
US$4 million each--one from the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) and the
other the Technical Assistance loan approved by the Bank in late FY76--and has
agreed to allocate their proceeds to FONAPRE on a grant basis, thus further
contributing to FONAPRE's capitalization.. While very little has been disbursed
from these two loans up to now, owing mainly to the institutional problems
referred to in paragraph 22 above, the decisions adopted recently by the
Government (see paragraph 26) should now enable FONAPRE to channel these
1/   See Attachment III.
2/   See Attachment IV.



- 12 -
resources at a much faster pace. Those resources, together with the increased
income that should accrue to FONAPRE from its larger operation volume and with
the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan, should be sufficient to fully finance
FONAPRE's lending program, and its operating expenses, in 1977-78. In 1979,
these resourc.s would have to be complemented by about US$3.2 million in
additional Government contributions, or by additional borrowings. To manage
this increased level of operations.. FONAPRE's capable but relatively small
staff (its total annual cost has not exceeded US$400,000 up to now) will have
to be strengthened by hiring additional Ecuadorian and foreign high level
professionals (see paragraph 33).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.       The project is based on a Government request in September 1976 for
Bank assistance in its public investment efforts and on the findings of Bank
appraisal missions in November 1976 and February 1977. Negotiations were held
from June 13 to 23, 1977. The Ecuadorian delegation was led by Mr. J. Reyna,
Subsecretary of Finance and included also Mr. M. Calisto, Executive Manager
of FONAPRE and other representatives of that institution.
General Description
30.       The proposed project would support a three-and-a-half-year program
of assistance in preinvestment activities. The main objective of the project
is to improve the efficiency of the Government's investment machinery while
expanding the supply of opportunities for the sustained growth of Ecuador's
investment program. The proposed project principally provides for selected
preinvestment studies under Bank supervision. The project would aim also at
enhancing FONAPRE's ability to plan and manage the preparation of preinvestment
studies. In a coordinated approach, the project would help the Government
streamline its decision-making processes in this field. Another component of
the project would be technical assistance to improve the capacity of local
consulting firms to participate in preinvestment studies.
Project Studies
31.       The list of project studies was prepared from FONAPRE's 1977-79
program on the basis of the recent economic mission's findings. Nine studies
were selected which relate to the important objectives of modernizing the
economy, developing Ecuador's natural resources, and creating employment
opportunities. The largest single study would bring improved sector planning
to bear on the Government's estimated US$1.2 billion program to meet the
continuing over 13% annual increase in power demand. It would include hydro-
electric studies; an evaluation of geothermal resources; a feasibility study
of a major hydroelectric project; and the preparation of an electrification
master plan. These would assist the Government in defining an energy policy.
Ecuador's steadily growing industrial sector (8.7% per annum from 1965 to
1975) is the focus of another major part of the project. Studies included in



- 13 -
this group are designed for the possible establishment of new plants partic-
ularly in agro-industry (forest industry and soybean production), construction
materials and petrochemicals. These are important not only because of their
impact on the balance of payments but also because of their capacity to absorb
Ecuador's rapidly growing labor supply. The remaining studies concern the
rehabilitation of the ailing cocoa industry, the improvement of living condi-
tions in the poorest parts of Ecuador's largest city and the expansion of safe
water supplies for small communities. As such, several of the studies concern
projects that are expected to be considered by the Bank for financing and most
appear suitable for submission to external financing agencies. Some may
qualify for cofinancing by export credit agencies or private banks. The
proposed project studies are defined in Attachment V.
Institutional Assistance
32.       Ecuador has increased substantially its absorptive capacity in recent
years, owing to some institutional improvements, of which the creation of
FONAPRE figures as particularly important. However, this capacity is still
constrained by many deficiencies in the country's public administration, which
hamper the Government decision-making process, especially in project identifi-
cation, preparation and execution.
33.       As noted in paragraph 26 above, the Government has recently taken
some important steps toward the solution of the main institutional defi-
ciencies affecting pre-investment activities. But some other important
problems still remain in this respect. Therefore, it is also proposed that
the following internationally recruited experts be financed under the proposed
project:
(a) A general advisor on institutional matters related to project
preparation and execution, and to foreign financing. This
expert would work with FONAPRE and other Government agencies
to:
(i) speed up the project preparation and execution
process, by proposing additional changes required
in FONAPRE's and other entities' regulations and
procedures;
(ii) ensure the consistency of decisions on project
preparation and execution adopted by the Govern-
ment and by autonomous agencies with the require-
ments of external financial agencies;
(iii) devise ways to obtain financing, at appropriate terms
and conditions, from foreign private sources;
(iv) identify projects potentially suitable for external
financing;



-_ 14 -
(v) coordinate Government actions related to the proposed
consultative group.
(b) Three internationally recruited experts in project prepa-
ration including one general project economist and two
project specialists, one for agriculture and the other for
the economic infrastructure sectors. The three experts would
would work in close relationship with FONAPRE's staff to pro-
vide on-the-job training in all the operational aspects of
preinvestment activities. Specifically, the experts would
assist FONAPRE and the executing agencies in:
(i) The identification of study proposals and in their
analysis;
(ii) The preparation of detailed terms of reference, costing
and timing of the studies FONAPRE will finance;
(iii) The supervision of studies, the assessment of study
reports, and of general project preparation work.
In selected instances, the experts would also partici-
pate in the solution of specific technical problems of
individual projects which may emerge in the preparation
process.
These three experts would be financed by the UNDP (ref. para.
39) which has agreed to designate the Bank as executing agency
for this purpose. The project also provides for about 19
man months of services from short-term experts. These
experts would assist FONAPRE and the executing agencies in
(a) preparing terms of reference, cost estimates and work
schedules for selected project studies in the industrial and
some other sectors; and (b) solving specific management and
technical problems which may emerge in connection with the
preparation and execution of investment projects.
(c) An internationally recruited expert, supported by short-term
consultants, to help improve the project management capabi-
lities of various public sector agencies. The Government
has requested Bank assistance to: (a) identify the main
causes of project execution problems; and (b) develop
and conduct training courses for Government officials
responsible for investment projects. The proposed loan
would finance the expert referred to above during a two-and-
a-half year period, and about thirteen man months of services
from short-term consultants. They would work in close
coordination with the Economic Development Institute and
with other Bank staff which will assist these experts in
the diagnosis stage, and in the preparation and supervision
of the courses.



- 15 -
34.       The five experts and the short-term consultants referred to above
would be attached to FONAPRE. Their technical support, however, would not be
limited to FONAPRE itself. The three project experts would work closely not
only with FONAPRE staff but also with project preparation technicians of the
executing agencies. One of the results of this work would be the development
of case studies in project preparation, which would be used in FONAPRE's
training program. The three project experts would participate personally in
that program, particularly in the discussion of the case studies developed by
them and, also in selected seminars on specific project preparation techniques.
The contribution of the three experts to the training program would be coor-
dinated by the project economist referred to in paragraph 33 above. This
program, started in 1974, has been financed mainly through an IDB grant. In
view of its positive results, IDB has just agreed to extend the program until
1979. The participation of the three experts to be financed by the proposed
Bank loan should ensure a more direct relationship of those training activi-
ties with the actual project preparation work being done in Ecuador. The
training to be provided by the expert in project management would become a
part of FONAPRE's overall training program, and would be closely coordinated
with the project preparation activities referred to above. In the case of the
general advisor, a flexible arrangement has been agreed upon to permit him to
work directly, when needed, with the National Planning Board, the Finance
Ministry and the executing agencies, particularly in connection with external
financing matters and the solution of specific problems related to project
preparation and execution. The total cost of the five experts and of the
short-term consultants is estimated at US$1,470,000.
Assistance to Domestic Consultants
35.       The Government of Ecuador has also asked for the Bank's assistance in
developing local economic and engineering consulting firms in order to enhance
their competitive position in relation to foreign companies. By promoting
the greater efficiency of domestic firms, the Government seeks to bring about
eventual foreign exchange savings and to make fuller use of local skills.
Current Government policy is to contract more significantly with local consul-
tants either directly or through sub-contracts to, or joint ventures with,
international firms. FONAPRE has already begun on a modest scale to try to
raise the standards of local firms but much remains to be done. In order to
achieve these objectives, technical assistance would be furnished under the
project directed towards making the industry more efficient. Emphasis would
be placed on training, analysis of existing Government procedures and insti-
tutions, and appropriate research. Consultant services from international
sources with professional expertise and managerial experience in this work
would be employed for this purpose. They would work with a group of domestic
contractors selected on the basis of criteria to be furnished by FONAPRE. The
consultants would review the technical, managerial and financial capacity of
the domestic industry in relation to private and public sector needs. They
would evaluate also the administrative environment in which the industry
operates, especially the impact of Government policies, standards and practices.
The consultants would assess present bidding; contracting, cost control,
financial planning and management practices of consultant firms. They would



- 16 -
prepare recommendations for correction of any shortcomings in Ecuadorian laws
and regulations, as well as measures to improve, as needed, contracting,
payment, performance bonds and bank guarantees, and other techniques. This
assistance would give special emphasis to the long-term training requirements
of the local industry and to the institutional arrangements that might be
required to meet them. In addition the experts financed through the proposed
loan would also provide--in collaboration with FONAPRE and local consultants'
associations--on-the-job training for the solution of the managerial and
technical problems which are faced by the local consultant firms. These
services are estimated to cost about US$200,000.
Project Execution
36.       FONAPRE would be responsible for the execution of the project.    It
would designate FONAPRE's operations manager as the project coordinator, over-
seeing all the aforementioned activities. Should FONAPRE subsequently wish to
change the project coordinator, the experience and qualifications of his pro-
posed replacement would have to be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.05 of
the Project Agreement). The operations manager would serve also as the
counterpart to the general advisor who would head the advisory team for the
institutional assistance component.
37.       The preinvestment studies financed through the proposed loan would
be administered through FONAPRE's normal operating procedures as amended by
the recent decisions adopted by the government (ref. para. 26). During the
execution of the project, the Bank would be afforded an opportunity to comment
on any proposed change in FONAPRE's financing and procurement procedures
(Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement). By January 1, 1978, FONAPRE would
furnish the Bank a schedule for the preparation of the project studies
(Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement). The executing agencies would
prepare the terms of reference for each study with the assistance of FONAPRE
and of the experts referred to in paragraph 33 above. The ministries,
regional organizations and other executing entities would prequalify consul-
ting firms, select the consultants for the studies, and enter into contracts
with them. For every study, FONAPRE would obtain the approval of the Bank
at two stages. FONAPRE would first submit the draft terms of reference, a
short list of qualified consultants and the proposed invitation for proposals
(including the estimated cost) before advertising begins. Subsequently,
before the final award of contracts, the Bank would be advised of the
consultants selected, their proposal and the ranking of the proposals of other
consultants. The Bank would approve the draft contract with the consultants
selected, as well as the provisions of FONAPRE's loan agreements to the
executing agencies.



38.       Assurances have been obtained on the arrangements for the conduct of
the project studies, as specified in para. 37 (Section 2.03(a)(ii) of the
Project Agreement); and on the conditions for the designation of the project
coordinator as specified in para. 36 (Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement).
It was also agreed that the five individual experts to assist FONAPRE's staff,
referred to in paragraph 33 above, would be employed by the Bank (Section
2.04(a) of the Project Agreement). The general advisor would be seconded from
the Bank staff and the remaining four would be hired under fixed term appoint-
ments. The short-term consultants and those to assist the domestic industry
would be hired by FONAPRE, and their terms of reference, qualifications and
terms and conditions of employment would be acceptable to the Bank. FONAPRE
has agreed also to submit to the Bank during the disbursement period:
(a) semi-annual progress reports; (b) an annual forecast of studies planned
for each subsequent twelve-month period; (c) periodic consultants' reports on
each study; and (d) the report of its auditors not later than three months
after the end of each financial year. It is expected that the Bank would also
receive annual reports on FONAPRE's utilization of loan recoveries and addi-
tional contributions to FONAPRE. It was also agreed that the new measures
simplifying FONAPRE's procedures would not be amended or suspended in such a
way as to impede FONAPRE's activities under the project (Section 5.01(c) of
the Loan Agreement).
Cost and Financing
39.       The overall cost of the project is estimated at US$17.8 million,
including a foreign exchange component of US$11.6 million. Its composition
is reflected in Table 1 below. The project would be financed as follows:
US$6.2 million or 35% of the project cost by the Government; US$600,000 or
3% of the project cost by UNDP; and US$11.0 million or 62% of the project
cost by the proposed Bank loan. Costs have been estimated at 1977 prices
with price contingencies based on an estimated annual price increase of
about 8% per year. The Bank's financing would meet (a) the equivalent
of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project studies--US$10.28
million--and of the assistance to domestic consultant firms--US$120,000; and
(b) the cost of the general advisor, the training expert and the short-term
consultants included in the institutional assistance component--US$600,000.
The UNDP would finance the three project experts also included in the insti-
tutional assistance component. With its participation in this project, UNDP
would complement its long-standing assistance to Ecuador's pre-investment
activities with a direct and important contribution to the strengthening of
FONAPRE's technical structure. The Government would provide services and
equipment for this project component at an estimated cost of US$270,000.
The Republic of Ecuador would be the borrower and would grant the proceeds of
the loan to FONAPRE. FONAPRE would on-lend the funds required for the project
studies to the public agencies designated to carry them out. For this purpose,
FONAPRE will use its standard lending terms. The public entities would repay
their obligations to FONAPRE through automatic retention of a portion of their
future budget allocations (via Central Bank transfers from the entities'
accounts directly to FONAPRE). The executing agencies are required by FONAPRE
to finance at least 10% of the total costs of the studies; they usually



- 18 -
finance more than that, with an average participation up to now of about 20%.
Amortization and interest of the proposed Bank loan would be paid by the
Government without any FONAPRE contribution so that repayments from the funds
on-lent by FONAPRE can accrue as a revolving fund to its own resources for
future use in further lending operations. This is considered satisfactory for
FONAPRE's financial circumstances. The effect of this is to provide FONAPRE
with an additional capital contribution from the Government in order to help
ensure adequate funds for FONAPRE's long-term financial needs. FONAPRE would
open a special account for the project within its accounting system, and
cause the executing agencies carrying out the project studies to do the
same.
Table 1: ESTIMATED COSTS
('000 $)
Costs
Total          Foreign       Local
Costs
A.   Project Studies             16,100         10,280        5,820
Agro-Industries              1,500            900           600
Other Industries             4,000          2,400         1,600
Power Studies                5,000          3,500         1,500
Agriculture                    300            180           120
Rural Water Supply           1,200            720           480
Urban Development              620            370           250
Unidentified Projects        1,130            680           450
Contingencies                2,350          1,530          820
B.   Institutional Assistance     1,470          1,200           270
C.   Assistance to
Domestic Consultants           200            120            80
Total                  17,770         11,600       _6170
Note:  Services to be obtained for the project studies are for foreign and
local experts. Foreign consulting services have been estimated at an
average of US$47,000 per man-year for long-term consultants, and an
average of US$7,800 per man-month of short-term consultants, based on
recent Bank experience in comparable projects in Latin America.



- 19 -
Procurement and Disbursements
40.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over an estimated four-year
period against appropriate documentation for (a) 60% of the cost of each
study (other than the power studies); (b) 70% of the cost of preparing the
power studies; (c) 100% of the cost of the general advisor, the training
expert and the short-term consultants; and (d) 60% of the cost of the assist-
ance to domestic consultant firms. As noted above, FONAPRE would obtain Bank
approval of the content and estimated cost of each study to be taken prior to
their inviting proposals, as well as subsequent contracting. In addition, the
individual experts and consultants to be employed under the project would have
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, as would be the procedures used in
obtaining their services. It is expected that, in several of the project
studies, foreign consultants will be involved with Ecuadorian firms in joint
venture or sub-contractual arrangements. Retroactive financing would be
provided up to US$750,000 for expenditures made after March 1, 1977 to cover
initial contractual services under the project.
Benefits and Risks
41.       The services to be provided under the proposed project would help
stengthen the capabilities of FONAPRE and other Ecuadorian agencies to carry
out priority development tasks, and thus reduce the effects of the national
shortage of manpower skilled in project preparation activities. FONAPRE, as
the central coordinating agency for all government activities related to
project preparation, already has considerable potential for achieving an
adequate level of technical competence. Nevertheless, without this proposed
assistance, future project preparation work in Ecuador could result in un-
economic or otherwise ineffective investments, and become increasingly
beset by costly delays. Further, by increasing the number of well-prepared
projects, the project would encourage better resource allocation, thus contri-
buting to more substantial benefits from the public investment effort.
Moreover, the measures recently taken by the Government in connection with
this project, to remove some of the bottlenecks in the rules and procedures
governing the public investment program should help to rationalize and intro-
duce greater discipline in the Government's mechanisms related to pre-
investment activities. Such activities are also likely to be strengthened by
the participation of the experts to be financed through the proposed loan in
the training of the planning staff of Government agencies, and by the project
component directed toward increasing the overall efficiency of Ecuador's
-domestic consultant firms.
42.       There are no special risks involved in the proposed project.    The
presence of the foreign experts would help strengthen FONAPRE's capability
to execute the project. The main risk -- a normal one for projects of this
kind -- arises, therefore, in connection with the recruitment of suitable
foreign experts and ensuring their cooperation with local staff. In order to
minimize this risk, the five experts would be appointed by the Bank. Their
work would be complemented by the training assistance provided by IDB, with
which close coordination will be maintained.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
43.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between FONAPRE and the Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of the draft resolution approving the proposed loan,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
44.       Additional conditions of effectiveness are that the Operations
Manager of FONAPRE has been designated as the project coordinator (see para.
36), and that the necessary arrangements have been made for the employment of
the general advisor and the general project economist (Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement). Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
45.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMIMENDATION
46.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
July 20, 1977



Attachment I
Page 1 of 2
FONAPRE
Identity
1.        The National Preinvestment Fund (FONAPRE) was created on December 14,
1973, by Government Decree No. 1385 and modified by Decree No. 27 of January 9,
1974. It is an autonomous public entity affiliated to the National Planning
Board.
Objectives and Principal Activities
2.        The fundamental objective of FONAPRE is to identify, elaborate,
accelerate and evaluate studies, including final design of projects contributing
to the social and economic development of the country, especially those which,
due to their magnitude and importance, would result in a sizeable investment in
sectors of great priority.
3.        Pursuant to its objectives, FONAPRE will finance directly or through
intermediary agencies the following types of studies, in both the public and
private sectors:
(a) Specific Studies
(i) Prefeasibility and feasibility studies leading to the
execution of investment projects at a national, regional
or local levels.
(ii) Final engineering and design studies, including the
revision of equipment specifications and bidding documents,
and all phases preceding the execution of a specific
investment project.
(iii)  Complementary studies, including all technical, financial
and economic information to prove the final feasibility
of a project, or the necessity of an additional study;
short-term services required to solve a highly specialized
problem prior to investment; or any additional preparation
necessary to fulfill requisites prior to investment or to
obtaining financial credits.
(b) General Studies
(i)  Sectoral or sub-sectoral studies,' national geographical
zones and river basin surveys, when these are oriented
to the identification of specific projects and high
priority programs, including the quantification of
technical, economic and investment requisites and
alternatives.



Attachment I
Page 2
(ii) Air photometry and magnetometric studies.
(iii) Industrial, scientific and technical investigation studies.
(c) Other Studies
Studies designed to improve the administrative, operational,
productive or marketing capacity, or studies not specified
before but which have been authorized by the National Plan-
ning Board on the basis of their priority.
Sources of Funds and Uses of Resources
4.        FONAPRE's resources derive from:   (a) ordinary and extraordinary
budget contributions; (b) annual contributions from the londo Nacional de
Participaciones (FONAPAR): (c) all funds from external and internal loans
contracted by the National Government to finance preinvestment studies through
FONAPRE; (d) recoveries of principal and interest payments on loans granted by
FONAPRE; (e) other sources.
5.        All resources and funds administered by FONAPRE will be deposited
at the Central Bank of Ecuador.
6.        FONAPRE administers three types of funds to finance preinvestment
studies:
(i) Special Fund. Finances preinvestment studies of a general
nature, and specific studies in health, education, low-cost
housing and ecology. The fund will finance studies in
industry, mining, agro-industries, and agriculture for
Municipalities, with the exception of Quito and Guayaquil,
and studies of the private sector involving small benefi-
ciaries. Financing of private sector studies involves a
ceiling of one million sucres (US$400,000).
(ii) Ordinary Fund. Finances preinvestment studies of specific
investment projects and studies to improve the administra-
tive, productive, and operating capacity of public and
private enterprises.
(iii) Non-Reimbursable Fund. General nature studies; sectoral
and sub-sector studies; scientific, technologic and
industrial research. Studies of high national priority
and studies specified by the National Government or an
international financial institution for which special
resources have been allocated.



F O 9 A P R E
B.oarI of
Directors                     -
Eecutive
Manager                                  ruiiil
Technical
Operations Manager                                                           Manager
JtJULLPI. A
_____________                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TechnLical
Deprtaent
ZxtArnal~~~~~~ l 
1sisa                        Socal e           Econuc           Agricultural    |Engineerin     |                       Loan                 a
1  Are               as               Areas   Areas                    Consulting   |ti                     Departent
r    Fins scial.    ll
Ad3inistration
Datain
L Statistics                 Processing 
freasury | rAccoointig |     Adninstrative
Assistance



Attachment III
FONAPRE
Loans Approved 1975/1976
Date               Amount of
Area/Name of Prolect                   Approved         Loan (US$ Million)
I.   Physical Infrastructure                                         4.4
1.   Quito-Guayaquil Expressway        May '75                 0.9
2.   National Railway Study            April '75               0.4
3.   Daule-Peripa Dam                  July '75                1.6
4.   Toachi Hydroelectric Project      October '76             1.5
II. Productive Sectors
1.   Optimization of Petroleum
Transport                       Jan. '75                0.1
2.   Southern Region Forestry
Inventory                       May '75                 3.3
3.   Naval Shipyards                   Sept. '75                0.2
4.   Steel Products Foundry            July '75                 0.1
5.   CV-CFN Line of Credit             Nov. '75                 0.1
6.   COFIEC Line of Credit             May '76                  0.2
7.   Sugar Refineries                  Aug. '76                 1.3
8.   Pastures and Cattle               Oct. '76                 0.1
III. Social Infrastructure
1.   Santo Domingo de los Colorados
Urban Development Study         Nov. '76                0.1
2.   Wholesale market at Guaranda      Feb. '76                 0.1



Attachment IV
Page 1 of 2
FONAPRE STUDY PROGRAM
Name of Prolect
1. Cumbe-Loja Highway
(a) Section Cumbe-Saraguro
(b) Section Saraguro-Loja
2. Cuenca-Azogues Highway
3. Pifo-Papallacta Highway
4. Zozoranga-Macara Highway
5. Alamor-Arenillas Highway
6. Yangana-Zumba Highway
7. Potable water and sewerage systems for Ambato and other nearby areas
8. Water and sewerage systems for El Oro Province
9. Rural Development Unit
10. Rural Development Puerto Ila-Chone
11. Rural Development Tungurahua
12. Rural Development Guayas Basin
13. Rural Development Esmeraldas Basin
14. Mendez-Morona Highway
15. Tambillo-Amazonas-Gualaquiza Highway
16. Esmeraldas road network
17. Casa de Maquinas-Mendez Highway
18. Loja-Zamora Highway
19. Canelos-Montalvo Highway
20. San Juan-Vinces-Macul-Palestina Highway
21. Bilovan-Balzapamba-Magdalena-Balzapamba Highway
22. Hollin-Loreto-Coca Highway
23. Empalme-Canelos-Curaray Highway
24. Zamora-Zumba-Empalme Highway
25. Cuenca Industrial Park
26. Petrochemical complex
27. Esmeraldas urban development plan
28. Babahoyo urban development plan
29. Manta urban development plan
30. Tulcan urban development plan
31. Portoviejo wholesale market plan
32. Complementary studies of different health units
33. Cocoa rehabilitation plan
34. Esmeraldas Basin forestry study
35. Cayapas forestry industry
36. Soybean production and processing
37. Industrialization of silicone sand
38. Rural water supply and sanitation
39. Master electrification plan
40. Chimborazo Province-Morona Province Highway



Attachment IV
Page 2 of 2
41.  Utilization of water from the main lakes of the western mountain range
42. Utilization of water from the lakes of Culebrillas and Patococha
43. Machala and Santa Rosa urban development plans
44. Zaruma, Portovelo and Pinas urban development plans
45. Loja and Macara urban development plans
46. Central wholesale market (Mercalguayas)
47. Cold storage national network
48. National information system of agricultural markets and prices
49. Potable water and sewerage system, detailed engineering and
design in Azuay and Canar
50. Second national environmental sanitation survey



Attachment V
Page 1 of 8
ECUADOR
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Description of the Proposed Studies
AGRO-INDUSTRIES
Cayapas Forest Industry: In 1973 the Bank supervised a UNDP-financed
study concerning industrialization of tropical forest resources in a 213,000
ha. area of the Esmeraldas Province. The study proposed and analyzed three
alternatives: (i) a sawmill of 90,000 m3 capacity per year; (ii) a project
including (i) plus the sawmill and processing capacity required to produce
50,000 metric tons per year of corrugating medium, to be used in manufacturing
banana cartons; and (iii) a project including (ii) plus a plant to produce
115,000 tons of linerboard. This would allow the manufacture of carton in
substitution of imports of linerboard. Industrial Cayapas, a mixed private/
public sector enterprise, chose to proceed initially only with the first
alternative although it showed lower rates of return than the other two and
did not fulfill all the Government's objectives. In line with the Bank's
recommendations, Industrial Cayapas is now requesting financing of the pre-
requisites for proceeding with the two other stages. These were that Indus-
trial Cayapas should: (a) determine the lower limits of required utilization
of long-fiber pulp through extensive pilot-plant tests with various furnish
mixes; (b) confirm the technical and economic viability of the more promising
mixes by making    commercial-sized tests; and (c) carry out inventories
covering in detail the species, sizes, quality and logging methods required to
feed the proposed mills. The required studies involve laboratory tests of
over 200 species for their pulping capabilities; pilot plant tests, including
10 to 20 mixes of selected species; preparation of large pulp and paper
samples; and commercial evaluation of three samples. There also is a require-
ment for a study of rapid growth coniferous plantations to supply the needs
for linerboard. The total cost of the pulping studies is estimated at
US$350,000, and that of the study concerning the rapid growth coniferous
plantations is estimated at US$150,000. These studies would be directed by
the Comision de Valores - Corporacion Financiera Nacional.
Colonization and Forestry Industry: Ecuador's southern region in-
cludes a total of 2.8 million hectares of natural forests, most of them
government-owned. In May 1975, two government regional development agencies
(PREDESUR and CREA) 1/ obtained financing from FONAPRE for a study of these
forest resources. The study's preliminary results identified a 400,000 ha.
zone suitable for the development of a forest industry in the southeastern
1/   Program for Regional Development of Southern Ecuador and Center for
Economic Rehabilitation of Azuay Canar and Morona-Santiago respectively.



Attachment V
Page 2 of 8
Morona-Santiago Province. On the basis of this study, the Government will
prepare a two-stage project. The first stage would include the exploitation
of the forest resources of a 150,000 ha area and the gradual settlement of
about 5,000 families in the same area, which would then be used for agri-
culture and livestock production. Meanwhile, the other 250,000 ha would be
classified as a forest reserve area, to be exploited during the project's
second stage. The proposed loan would partly finance a feasibility study of
this project, to be directed by GREA. Such study would have an estimated
total cost of US$800,000. The project components would include: (a) a
mechanical wood processing complex, geared to the requirements of the settle-
ment scheme and of a size consistent with the expected demand for wood
products in southern Ecuador; (b) the settlement program itself; (c) the
management of the forest reserve; and (d) a plantation for conservation and
local wood supply in adjacent provinces.
Soybean Production and Processing: In recent years, Ecuador imports
of oilseeds and edible oils have been equivalent to more than half the total
estimated domestic consumption. Within this category, imports of soybean have
represented 89% of total domestic demand for that product. Through the
National Diversification Program, the Ministry of Agriculture has started ex-
ecuting a plan to increase domestic production and reduce imports. A recent
study by Ecuador's national agricultural research agency showed that Ecuador
needs a total planted area of 75,000 ha. of annual oilseeds (peanuts, sesame
and soybean) to satisfy national demand. The area planted in 1975 was only
27,000 ha., of which 9,000 ha. were soybean. On this account, Bank assistance
has been requested for the preparation of a soybean oil project, including its
agricultural and industrial aspects. In addition to import substitution, the
objectives of this project would be to increase agricultural and industrial
employment and to promote the utilization of by-products for the production
of balanced foods.
The proposed feasibility study will analyze the following aspects:
(a) Agriculture
(i) Optimum location of the farming areas. Areas with favor-
able ecologic conditions include the Los Rios, Guayas,
Manabi and El Oro provinces.
(ii) Selection of seed varieties and yields. Production
costs and farming requirements.
(iii) Production cost and farming requirements.



Attachment V
Page 3 of 8
(b) Industrial Plant
(i) Domestic market for soybean oils and subproducts.
(ii) Internal pricing policies and its impact on the
project.
(iii)   Optimum capacity and technical specifications.
(iv) Economic and financial analysis.
The study is expected to be completed in a period of six months and its esti-
mated total cost is US$200,000. The Comision de Valores-Corporacion Financiera
Nacional would supervise the study.
OTHER INDUSTRIES
Industrialization of Silicone Sand: Silicone sand and other primary
materials for the production of glass, cement and other construction materials
were found in the provinces of Zamora, Chinchipe and Morona-Santiago in 1970.
Since then, various private and public enterprises have carried out pre-
liminary studies, which verified the quality of the materials and determined
the adequacy of the deposits for commercial exploitation. Two of Ecuador's
regional development agencies working in relatively depressed provinces are
considering the possibility of using these materials as the base of industrial
facilities for processing these mineral raw materials. As Ecuador imports
now most of the glass products and a substantial proportion of the construction
material required by the domestic market, a well conceived industrial complex
could result in considerable foreign exchange savings. There is moreover the
potential of exporting part of the production to other countries in the Andean
Region. An industrial complex of this type could advance the development of
these now primarily agricultural regions, and offer valuable additional
employment possibilities.
A three-stage feasibility study would be carried out to prepare the
project. The first phase would include the exploration of the most promising
areas identified in the preliminary studies referred to in the previous
paragraph. The principal minerals to be covered would be silica sand, lime-
stone and feldspar, but exploration might also include other possibilities.
If the first phase of the study proves that these minerals have the required
quality and are available in commercial quantities, a second phase of the
study will be undertaken to evaluate the marketing possibilities of these
products, both in domestic and export markets. If the existence of suitable
markets is confirmed, a third phase of the proposed study would then complete
the preparation of the project, including the selection of the most suitable
technology and the location of the industrial facilities; the determination
of investment and operating costs and of the project's rate of return, and
the preparation of the financial plan. The estimated total cost of the study,
to be conducted by the Ministry of Natural Resources, is $1.5 million.



Attachment V
Page 4 of 8
Petrochemical Complex. The Ecuadorian Government is interested in
maximizing the benefits of its crude petroleum and natural gas resources. It
wishes to take advantage of the assignment in the Andean market to Ecuador of
the production of certain petrochemical products (ethylene oxide, ethylene
glygol and ethylamines exclusively, along with joint rights for some other
products). It therefore has requested assistance to determine the financial
and economic feasibility of a petrochemical complex--a project to which the
Government attaches the highest priority. It contemplates using the Oriente
crude petroleum resources as primary material for the project. The Government
estimated that this project would represent a total investment of approximately
US$1,500 million. Such a project, when completed, would clearly change the
structure of Ecuadorian industry. The development of petrochemical and
related products in Ecuador presents complex technical, financial and eco-
nomic problems, e.g., substantial differences in product streams, and limi-
tations of the local (even Andean) market. Further, decisions relating to
petroleum refining are complicated by the questions (ref. para. 5) concerning
the country's future petroleum export level. These factors and the complex
nature of the petrochemical industry therefore require careful examination.
Ecuadorian officials have prepared terms of reference for such an assessment
which has been coordinated with the Secretary General on Economic Planning of
the Andean Pact. The prefeasibility and feasibility studies proposed would
aim at the selection of basic, intermediate and final petrochemical products
to be produced on the basis of economic, technical and financial analysis and
a decision regarding the petrochemical complex's optimal capacity. The
study would determine, among other things, the potential of selected products
in Ecuador, the Andean Region, other Latin American and world markets. An
analysis of production costs of the complex as a major factor for determining
competitive prices for the petrochemical products will be included. The
project would include a refinery which, depending on the results of the
prefeasibility studies, would (a) produce only the materials needed for the
petrochemical plant, or (b) produce fuel in addition. In order to establish
the economic and technical feasibility of the proposed project, the studies
will also cover the capacity of the petrochemical complex and its location,
preliminary engineering and the investment program. The first phase, for
which contracting is already underway, would require 7-9 months; the subse-
quent detailed engineering work, which would follow if there is adequate
justification, would require approximately 8-10 months. The estimated total
cost is US$2.5 million. The State Petroleum Corporation (CEPE) would be the
contracting agency for these studies.
POWER STUDIES
Although Ecuador trebled its installed power capacity from 1965 to
1975, bringing it to a level of 551 mw, it still has one of the lowest levels
of both per capita output and consumption in Latin American countries.
There have recently been power shortages in the capital city, where indus-
tries are frequently idled for lack of electricity. Only 8% of the rural
population are presently provided with electricity. In recent years, growth in
national demand has been more than 13% annually. Consequently, there is a



Attachment V
Page 5 of 8
need for further expansion of generation and transmission. Electric service
is now provided by numerous isolated systems, many of which operate at a
financial loss. These systems are now beginning to be integrated. The
Goverment is pursuing a-policy of increased dependence upon hydroelectric
power, but production will continue to be predominantly thermal for the next
several years because of past investments in thermal stations. The program
projected by the Ecuadorian Electrification Institute (INECEL) for the next
decade includes the installation of 570 mw in hydroelectric power, 220 mw of
thermal generation, 1,700 km of high voltage transmission lines and 2,200 kva
in transforming stations.
This program does not appear to be based on a satisfactory assess-
ment of the resources available for electric power generation, and it is
ambitious in the light of INECEL's limited experience. All these questions
pose substantial problems for which extensive, careful planning and direction
are required if the Government is to proceed effectively with its investments.
For this purpose, INECEL has requested Bank assistance for the preparation
of a master plan for electrification. This plan should enable INECEL to
ascertain the potential of Ecuador's hydroelectric and geothermal resources.
It should also provide the basis for a rational selection of investment
priorities both in the near future and over the longer term.
The main objective of the study would be the preparation of an
integrated power development master plan. This plan would provide the basis
for the selection in the near future of investments to be executed up to 1992,
and a longer term framework for investment decisions to be adopted up to the
year 2000. The studies to be partly financed by the proposed loan would
cover the following main subjects: (a) a nationwide study of hydroelectric
resources; (b) a nationwide evaluation of geothermal resources; (c) an energy
demand study; and (d) an investment and financial plan. All of these studies
would include the medium- and long-term aspects referred to above. In
addition, the Master Plan would incorporate the result of several other
studies--including the feasibility analysis of four hydroelectric projects--
already being carried out by INECEL.
Hydroelectric Studies. This part of the proposed studies would
begin with a review of existing information on the country's hydroelectric
potential and the preparation of terms of reference and a detailed work
program for a project inventory. Such inventory would include the determina-
tion and evaluation of the most promising hydroelectric sites; recommendations
of further hydrological and geological investigations needed at each site and
in river basins; and the preparation of terms of reference for prefeasibility
studies of the sites selected. These studies would also include the develop-
ment of cost and output estimates, based on an analysis of optimal river basin
development alternatives, the preparation of a long-term work program in this
area, and the drafting of terms of reference for feasibility level studies.
The estimated costs of these studies is $1.0 million.



Attachment V
Page 6 of 8
Within the hydroelectric subsector, INECEL will have to select in
the near future--before the long-term portions of the Master Plan are
completed--the investment projects to be executed up to the year 1992.
These projects will be chosen from five large hydroelectric possibilities which
are now being considered by INECEL. To determine on time the relative priority
of these projects, it would be necessary to complete the five feasibility
studies within the next three years. For four of them, INECEL has already
made the necessary financial arrangements, and the preparation of the fifth
one--the Second Paute Project--would be partly financed by the proposed loan.
INECEL is now constructing the First Paute Project, and prefeasibility studies
have been completed for the second and most important one, to be built up-
stream from the first. The prefeasibility studies indicate that the second
project could well become Ecuador's cheapest source of electric power in the
late 1980s. Both projects, located in southern Ecuador, would be a part of
the national interconnected network. The estimated total cost of the
feasibility studies for the Second Project is $2.4 million.
Geothermal Studies. These studies would begin with a survey of
possible geothermal areas and the preparation of terms of reference and
detailed work program for geological and geochemical studies. Their objective
would be to identify areas appropriate for geophysical surveys. In a few
selected instances, measurement of temperature gradients would be taken at the
promising thermal areas. This phase would conclude with the design of geo-
thermal projects at prefeasibility stage level, the development of cost and
output estimates for purposes of the Master Plan, and the preparation of terms
of reference for feasibility level studies and of a work program. The total
cost of the geothermal studies is estimated at US$1.0 million.
Other Studies. The other studies required for the preparation of
the Master Plan would begin with an energy demand forecast. Consultants and
INECEL's staff would also prepare recommendations regarding energy pricing
and other measures which may affect demand; estimates of production require-
ments through 1985; terms of reference for a selective list of projects, for
which prefeasibility and feasibility studies would be carried out; and terms
of reference for the long-term portion of the Master Plan. These studies
would also include the preparation of an investment and financial program for
INECEL and the nine regional power companies associated with it. Such program
would include projection of operating costs, tariff levels, total investment
and savings, and of requirements for local funds and foreign financing.
In this connection, INECEL has agreed to consult with the Bank before obtain-
ing foreign financing for any new major hydro or thermal construction projects.
Finally, the preparation of the long-term portion of the Master Plan would
entail an extension of the sector demand forecast and of projections of invest-
ments and savings requirements up to the year 2000; identification of a least-
cost expansion program; and the preparation of terms of reference for feasi-
bility studies of the most promising projects. The estimated cost of the
preparation of the sector demand forecast, of the investment and financial
program, and of the long-term portion of the Master Plan, would be US$600,000.
The total cost of all the power studies described in this section would thus
add up to a total of US$5 million.



Attachment V
Page 7 of 8
AGRICULTURE
Cocoa Rehabilitation: At the beginning of this century, Ecuador
was a major world producer and exporter of cocoa. Production yields have
declined steadily since then because of plant diseases, aging of orchards and
poor cultivating practices. Since the mid-1950s, the plantations have
suffered the impact of two fungi diseases which attacked leaves, flowers and
fruits of cocoa plant trees. While relatively high prices in the inter-
national market in 1976 produced favorable earnings, Ecuador's 1975-76 cocoa
bean harvest reflected the latest consequences of these difficulties, along
with poor weather. Ecuadorian agricultural research workers, in cooperation
with international agencies, have been developing disease-resistant varieties
with satisfactory results. These varieties, however, need to be distributed
and supplemented by modern inputs and by more advanced cultivation practices.
In addition, more attention is required to rehabilitate and replant cocoa
trees, as well as to improve the marketing system for this crop which is
important to many small-scale farmers. A national diversification program,
including cocoa improvement activities, was conducted in the period 1972-76.
However, as this was limited largely to providing credit to farmers, it did
not address the other needs of small cocoa farmers which still require atten-
tion. The Government has identified a project for rehabilitation and reno-
vation of 32,500 ha., or 16% of the present total cultivated area to be
carried out in a five-year period. The project would include training of
extension service workers and farmers in modern cultivation techniques;
spreading the disease-resistant varieties; such infrastructure works as feeder
roads, irrigation and drainage, collective storage centers; and further
research in disease control. A feasibility study to prepare this project, to
be supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, is estimated to cost US$300,000.
RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Ecuador has one of the lowest indices among Latin American countries
of access to safe water supplies and to adequate human waste disposal facilities
by its rural population. Statistics published in December 1975 show that less
than 8% of the rural population have access to potable water and even less than
that for human waste disposal facilities. For this reason, the Government of
Ecuador is attempting to improve this situation by intensifying its efforts
in a national environmental sanitation program. As a first step in this direc-
tion, the Government is planning a major project in the Canar, Azuay and Morona
provinces, where water supply and waste disposal facilities are particularly
needed. FONAPRE and the Instituto Ecuatoriano de Obras Sanitarias (IEOS)
have requested Bank financing for feasiblity studies and final design of
water supply systems for 44 communities, and waste disposal facilities for 47
communities. Final designs would be prepared after financial and economic
feasibility have been demonstrated. The estimated total cost of these studies,
which IEOS would supervise, is US$1.2 million.



Attachment V
Page 8 of 8
GUAYAQUIL URBAN DEVELOPMENT
While Ecuador's population is still predominantly rural, the propor-
tion of urban population in the total increased from approximately 28% in 1950
to 40% in 1974. Total urban population grew during this period at an annual
rate of about 4.7%. The growth rate was even higher in Guayaquil, the
country's largest city. Owing to a sizeable exodus from the countryside, as
well as a high birth rate, a society of migrants now clusters in a poverty
belt there. It constitutes one of the severest slums in Latin America.
Studies of the slum areas have indicated a pervasive lack of adequate water
supply and a serious scarcity of housing, social services and employment
opportunities. It is estimated that 42% of the slums' population was func-
tionally illiterate in 1974. Although there are no reliable employment
statistics, it is clear that the unemployment rate prevailing in this area is
substantially above the national average. In order to alleviate these condi-
tions the Government has recently solicited the Bank's assistance for the
preparation of an Urban Development Project directed, in particular, to
increasing employment opportunities and expanding social services in this
area. Such preparation work would be undertaken by the Municipality of
Guayaquil with the help of consultants. Its total cost is estimated at
US$620,000.
ADDITIONAL STUDIES
In addition the project would permit an element of flexibility in
the planning of preinvestment studies. There is a provision for a small
amount--US$680,000--in the proposed loan (equivalent to slightly over 6% of its
proceeds) to finance the foreign exchange cost--estimated at 60% of total
costs--of some additional studies. This is warranted by the Government's
effort to step up its development program and the availability of plausible
projects. The criteria to be used in the selection of these additional
project studies would be that (a) the studies would relate to priority
development objectives; (b) the studies would have a high probability of
resulting in subsequent investments; and (c) the studies would be consistent
with FONAPRE's processing and supervisory capabilities. FONAPRE would select
the proposals that, in its judgment, merit financing but all studies would be
subject to the Bank's prior approval. The estimated total costs of these
studies would be US$1.13 million.



ANREX I
Page I f  ,I pagea
ECUADOR             - SOCIAL INUICATURS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ---------- - -- - - - -    - - - -     ---- 
ECUADOR                             REFERENCE COLNTRIES (19701
TnTAL      283.6                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.                                 1960      1970    ESTIMATE          ALGERIA       PERU    VENEZUELA *
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    220.0     330.0      550.0              520.0      520.0      1440.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION.4MID-YR, MILLIONI            4.3       e.0        7.1               13.4       13.3        10.3
POPULATICN DFNSITY
PFR SQUARE K4.                       15.0      21.0       25.0                6.0       10.0        11.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          ..        ..         ..               30.0       40.0 /La
VITAL STATIS'ICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/THOU, AV)         46.3      45.0       41.8               50.0       42.9        42.1
CRUOF DEATH RATE (/7HOU,AV)          16.9       12.0       9.5               18.4        14.7        8.7
INFANT MORTALITY RA'E W/THOU)       100.C /a   76.6 /a    70.2                          65.1 /b     49.3 /a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT PIRTH (YRS)       51.0      57.2       59.6               50.7       53.4        63.0
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..       3.3        3.2                3.5        2.9         2.9
POPIJLATICN GROWTH RATE (I)
TOTAL                                 3.0       3.3        3.5                2.9        2.8         3.4
UPEAN                                 5.0 /b    4.1 /b     5.6                7.0        4.7 "c      4.7
UJRBAN POPULATICN IY CF TOTAL)         36.0 /a,e  38.3 /a   41.6               45.4       52.5        75.7
AGr STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.0/a c  47.6 /a    46.1               47.2 2a    45.0 /b     47.1 /a
ES TO 64 YEARS                       51 8/a    49.5 /a    51.2               48.4 Ia    51.9 7i     50. 57
65 YEARS A4ND OVER                    3:2 /a e  2.9 7n     2.7                4.4 /n     3.1 /b      2.4 /a
AGE DFPENDENCY RATIO                    0 9 /a c   I  /a     1.0                1.1        0.9 /b      1.0 /a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1:7 /n,e   1.8 71    1.8 /a            -2.6 La      1.5 7i     1.6 7b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCFPTORS (CUMULATIVF, THOU)           ..      14.2      107.9                 *                    67.0
USEPS (I nF MARRIFr WOMEN)             ..        ..        6.3
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LAPOR FORCE (THO)SANDI         1400.0/a.C 1700.0    1900.0             2600.0 Ia  4300.0 /b   3100.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURF (21         57.0/a.c   54.0        .                50.0 ____  45.0/b      22.0
UNEMPLOYED (t OF LABnR FORCE)            ..        ..         .                15.0n        s5 o7e     6.0
INCCME CISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME PFCI R Y-
HIGHEST  52 OF HOUSrHnLCS              ..        ..         ..
HIGHEST 20t OF HOUSFHOLDS              ..         .
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSFHOLDS              ..        ..         ..
LOWEST   402 OF HOUSFHOLDS             ..        ..         ..
OISTRIBIITION OF LAND OWEFRSHIP
______________________________
S OWNEO BY TOP 10 OF CWNERS             ..        ..         ..
7 OWNED BY SMALLEST 10 OWNERS           ..        ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 ,,    2870.0     2110.0             7690.0     1920.0      1080.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PFPSON            ..        ..     2820.0 /b          2400.0 /c  3200.0       520.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL EEV           520.0/c,d 430.0      470.0 7b           330.0      470.0       310.0
PFP C4PITA SUPPLY OF -
CALOYRlS (I OF RFOUIPFMFNTSI         81.0      89.0       91.0               71.0       98.0       100.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              46.0      49.0       47.0 /c            45.0       62.0        62.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         74.0      72.0         *-                9.0 /d    24.0        32.0
DEATH RATE l/THOU) AGES 1-4            21.5       14.6        ..               12.0 L        .,        5.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT PATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       83.0      95.0       96.0 /b            75.0      107.0       100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     12.0      26.0       25.0 lb            11.0       35.0        41.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PREVIoED
(FIRST AND SECCNO LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       12.0               15.0       12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENPOLLMENT
I( OF SECONDARY)                     29.0      29.0       30.0 /b            20.0       19.0/f
ADULT LITFRACY RATE (2)                  *-      68.0       69.0 Zfi           26.0         ..        77.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.1 /                 ..                2.8 /4ae
OCCUPIEC DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPEO WATER (Xi                                  ..       58.0 /d            77.0 La      *
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(S OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 32.0 /e     ..       41.0              34.0 /a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (Tl                    6.0/e      ..        8.0 /e            12.0 ja
CCNSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PeR THCU FOP)         41.0     279.0         ..               52.0      134.0       164.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           2.0        5.0      5.  /c            10.0       17.0        55.0
ELECTPICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)           89.0      156.0     183.0              138.0      407.0      1229.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               2.0        2.3       3.8                0.01        3.6        8.0
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITICNS CN PEVERSE



ANNEX 2
Paeg 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
b'less othemisie noted, data tar 196 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, end for Moot Rec...t tEti.ate betweto
197 3 en  1975.
atVenesusla has been selected ca an objective country becau..e Of its empertenca in eonomic developmet baeed onptroleta                  emporte.
ECUADOR       1960     I   E toluding nomadIc Indian Jungle poplation           l b  1950-62;    /c   1962;     Id  Govornboo    hospital catahliebheot-
1970     Ia   xtclading nomasdic Indian tribea;      /b   1962-70;     /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to total labor forte;
/d Inc~ recipient.
MOST RECEET ESTIMATE:      Ia  Ratio of population ,nder 13 and 65 and ovr to total labor force;             /b   1972;     Ic  1969-71 average;
Id  Penceotege of occu pied houoes not connected to poblic water eupplies ;           In  1976.
ALGERIA       1970     Ia   1966;    -Lb  Excluding military pereon..el in barreck.aend 274,663 netionalo ubroad of then          229,020 urn ec..o.mically ectlvo;
__  ale  .c nluding 1,200,000 mainly occupied in agriculture;        Ic   Including midione;       fl   1964-66;     /n   Totol, urban end
total.
PERU          1970     Ia   1966;     lb  Enciuding Indian Juangle popu lation;       Ic  1961-70;     Id   Ratio of populotion undor 11 and 65 end ove       to
total labor forte;      ,e   Urban only;      If  Including evening echoolo.
VENZUELA       1970    /a   Including Indian Junglo population;        lb   Ratio of populetion under 15 end 65 and eO,--r.t total lebor force.
R10. January 21, 1977
DEF INITIONS iF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou kn )                                                                     Population per nurosing p--on    - Population dIvided by mombhe     of practicIng
Total- Totel eurface area conprising land arna and inland eaters,                          male and fema1o graduate nurse, "trained" or `certified"l -uree, and
Acrit. - Owt reo.. 0t -tmate of agiuluala na             ad tmnp-rsily or                 nueili-y pecooc-1 with traling Occ-pocincot.
permnetly for crops, Pastures, machot & kItchen gardena or to Sin                      Populaticon per hoonitaI hod - Populnti-n divided by       -b-ho  of hospital bode
fallee.                                                            ena~~~~~~~~~~~~~ilahle in Puhlic and private goonr1 and oPo-ialiod hospital and
rehabilitation cenoters; no-lodronuroing bonee and entahljihhenta for
GNP Per caPita (US$3 - INP Per capita estinatne at current market prines,                  custodialI and prn-nti-o earn.
calculated by eon     -o-e-ao    method no World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);           Per cnpite suPPly of calerino (7. of rngo,irnznoro) - CompOtod fro        ener..gy
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                equivalent of met food euppllen a-ilehir In country per capito per day;
Populatio  and octlartis tics                                                        edcagsiotk;vt opylieo noldn anou                         foo,   noe    qntI-
IPoulato       dy    .   .milion  - As of July first:   if not avaIlable,                  tise used inifood peco-oing and Ioo. e,in diocribution; reqo iremots
a-rago of two sod-year estimates       1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                         wsre natlnatnd by FAO boned on phyotologic-l needs for normal activity
and health cOnsidoriog      trnotltenporturn, body weighte, ago and
Pultodeety-p or enor       n     id-yea   population per square kilo-               ..n ditLributiono of Population, and dietIng 107. for canto at heone-
ote  0hecare~ )of Etotl ae,hold Ied. 
PPonlatiun density - per     q-ar  he of earl. land - Coep.t.d cc bhov        foe        for caPita sePPly of Protein (gr-v      per day) - Protninj content of per
agricultural land onlp.                                                                  caPita met eupply of food per day; net       uPppip of food in defioed uo
aho-n requiremento for all c-otrino nocablished by USDA tco...mic
Vital statistics                                                                           Roearo     Sevcspoiofe               liuhlooc            o   5paso        oc
Crude  irib rts pertheusandl, average - Annua  Ilve hirtho Poe thousand               Protein per day, and 2) gramn of animal and puise prtotin, of which
of mid-year population ; ten-year arithmetic ev-rgos ending in 1960 ood                   10 grema  should be aoimal peotoin; these stemd-rd       are Intr than these
1970, end five-yos    avera,ge ending to 19705 for onet r.cent eatimato                 of 75 grams Of total protein and 23 grov       of animal protein ac an
Crud  deah ras pe  thoasod  everege -Anna    dath. pin    thousand of mi-             avseg  for the .orld, propoond by tAO In the Third World Peed Surv-y.
yea    epl   non    e-yeerarita      eti av.rege   eding int1960 and 1970 and          Per capita protein ecpply from aninal and robae - Protein supply of food
five-year averag   coin    i 1975 for notre         entetimate,                          derived frne a         anlocd pulnec in gram  per day.
iamf   mo -rtality rate (/tthm) - Annual Ideaths of infanta coder one year of            Death rote (/thno) coon 1-4 - Anneal dratho per thoOsc..d in ago group
ago Per thc..a.nd lIve- hirthe.                                                           1-4 yo,r,, to children in thin cgm       -pro; -uggestd cc an iodiectcr of
lIf s manntancy atbirth (yra) - Averge nu,bnr of ysanu of life remining                anutritiun.
at birth; usuallYi five-per everages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
dvlping contri.Edcto
Groso reproduction rate - Average nomber of lion daughters a         eetill              Adjusted enrollment ratio - prinay ochoul - E-1e1-net of all1 agnoc
boar ini her norna   reprnd-uncvs Period If ahsperion.....       prest.ot age-           percen.tage of pri-ay -ehool-a0e PoPulution; i-clud- children aged
speolin fertIlIfty rates     cocall   firm-ea a:hveragsedin        i  1960               6-11 por     u    dutdfrdfeoc               egh      fpiayeuain
1970 and 1975 foe developng c..untrina.y                                                 for onuorie    nth dunivdera   iffdunation,    th en olfn  ma.y nosd.1007.
Populations growth rots (%) - totaln- Compound ann..aI growth rteto of mid-                 sice seen pupileae         o   or ob_o   trifo          echoo  ago
ysr population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                     Adjusted norolle...t ratio - c-cndary och.ol - Cenputed an above;
Population growth rate (71.) - urban - Computed lim. growth rtst of itotl                   secondaory educa.tion requires at loast four y-ar     of appr-vd primary
populatics; di1fferst definiitions of -rhan arsee nay affect tempera-                    Instructin     Provides general, -octioncl on t-oh-r training
hilit   Of  aaamn_      outis                                                            instruction; frpupilo of 12 to 17 year         of ago; -orrepood-ne
Urhan population (7. of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                         eoenurn geneally eacluded.
different definitions of urban ar.sa may affect comparability of data                  Yea.rs ofischooling provided (firet and sec.ond leveis) - Total years of
aemg countries.                                                                          ecoein; at seodr_            ee,nctoa            ntoto        a   epr
A e  tructure C   ron)-        lds      (014.years), -orking-a.ge (10-6b years),           tially or complotely occuded.
adretired   15 years ad over) as prcotgeof             id-yse   population,          loca.tional enr-011-t (7. cf secondary) - Vucotio...l inatitutfona loclodn
Age dependecrai         - Rtio of Population under 11 and 60 and over to                    technical, industrial or other pregmrn whiob operete indopendestly or
'tthose of ages 15 through 64.                                                            ns departments o i seodary in.tit.tions.
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of PoPu lation under 15 and 65 and oven                Adult..literacoyfrate (7.) - literate ado1to (able to read and write) as
to the labor frcec in: agegoupJo       15-_64 ysars.                                     pecetgeo        totaI adult POP-oLtion aged 15 pear      and over.
Pamlyelnema  acetos (snlair. thou) -           nlativ- number of
a-cceptOrs of hirth-onotro1 d-eicee under auspices of national fatly                   Nuco
planning Program sine ,inception.a                                                     Peroono per roo    (rbn     - Average o-ober of pornoon    per roo   in
familyplasnig - usrs(7 of married women) - Percetages of married                   occupied conventionold duIlinge In urban croon; d-elliog.e.iclude
wc,eof child-hearing age (15-744 years)T who use birth-cntrol devices                  ncn-perma..o,ntatructutote  and unoccupied parto.
to all married wonon in anne age group.                                                Occupied dwellings without piped ester (7.) - iccupied conventional 
dwellins in ubanandrural  ros   cithuntPinside or outside piped
Tmt Iymest                                                                                  eate   fatilities as percentg     of all ocooped dwellings.
T   ba eor force (thousan.d) - Etnonoically active perOns, including                 Ane... to electricity (7. of all doellings)      C-CnventIonal dunillnga with
amd forces end ueploe         u    sidn       oewv      s, tudents, etc.;              enlc,trity     n living quarters us percent of total deellinge in urban
definitions   n      .cano  cunrIs   re nt    op arble.                                  and  rua   areo
Labor force in anriculture(.)        Agricultural labor forco (in fanning,               Rural dwellings concocted to electricity (7.) - CooPuted as shove for
forestry,(hunting and fishing) as percentage of total lao           oc.rrldelnsoly.
Unoico   (7 f labor force) - Unemployed ar    usua.lly defined mas peron
.ho are able and tilling to take a Job, out of s job on a given day,                     napto
remaioed out of a Job, and see king work for a esPoi!fied.ninimu-       Period         Rdorcies(per thou Pon) - All tYPes Of recivers for radio broad-
no tfesceeding 000 week; sap nor be comparal be.twee        cootrise duo to              caste to general public par thocsand of populatios; occludes          nicne
different definitions of unemployed and sorc        of data, e.g., employ-               reevesi        cutieindi           easwenrgstaio              frai      et     da
enet office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory unomployment insurance,                in effent; data for rncent years      sye nor be -opar his nic      nest
1-c-.                                                              '.:1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cucnniss mbol(iohed licensing., .  g  
inoedistribution - PercentagetOfOpriva.te income (both in caeh end bind)             Paonge oat    rs  nr thou Pop) - fsogrcare noopriee enter oar.seaet-
recef red by richest 5%, rich.e     207., p Ooet 207., an   poorest 407. of               ing loso than eight persons; occludes ambulncs,herss.nd..itr
households.                                                       veh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~icio..
Di.tributi~~~~~~~~~~~~.,  ~~iEntricity (kwh/yr per can) - Annual cocoamption of industrial, coo-
107. and porest 10. of land o-rs,                                                        generally base.d on production data, without allowance for losses in
grids hut diet-ing for imports and ,oports of olectricity.
Realth and Nutrition                                                                       ..everint (ic/er nar nap) - PePr caPita anonual consumti       ninkilogrm
PPcplation nor Physician - Population divided by. nb-ihr        f practicing                estimated fn       dOei       poutio   plu  nt Ioprt      of nesrit
phscans qualified fret a medical school at university leve. 



Annex I
Page 3 of 4
EONOIQO DEVEIPNE   DATA
(Amounts inmillinapoft     .S   dollars)
Actual            ~Proetd1971*.                                          1976-
Average   2 1975    1161P               _ice                           975      1980191                      175       98
NATIONAL ACCOMMl                    1970-72
At 1970-72 Prices & Exchange Rates                       AverageAnulGohRae                     As Percent or GDY
Gross Domestic Product              1,692     i Z,gspW  2,b462,0                                           1.         6.5                100.0     94.8   94.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (v)           -       136       207                   203-                                                       -        5.2    5.6
Gross Domestic Income               1,692     2,624     2,851                 3,609                        11.6       6.1                1o00.0   100:0  100:.0
Import (incl. NP'S)                   384       650       653                   775                        14.1      4.3                  22.7     24.8   21.5
Exports    "  (import capacity)       296       586       699                   766                        18.6       2.3                 17.5     22.3   21.2
Resource Gap                       '-"*'      --a'      ---                     ""y                                                     ""372    --- 74   "37
Consumption Expenditures            1,368     1,956     2,123                 2,567                         9.3      4.8                  80.9     74.5   71.2
Investment    "   (mncl. stocks)      410       732       682                 1,051                       15.6      11.4                  24.2    27.9    29.1
Domestic Savings                      322       668       728                 1,042                        20.0       9.4                 19.0     25.5   28.8
National Savings                      265       600       692                 1,109                        22.7      12.5                 15.7     22.9   30.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                             Annual Data at Current Prices                                                             As Percent or Total
Irmports
Capital goods                       108       467       425                   728                       44.2      14.4                 34.7     40.9    39.0
Fuels & intermediate goods         162       572       646                   922                        37.1       9.3                52.1     50.1    49.4
Cons    t~ion goods                  41       103       136                   216                       25.9      12.2                J32        9.0    11.6
:HehImorts (nif)       ""T       7E         7TM7                 !fT3.4                                11.5                100.0    100.0   100.0
Exports
Prismary products                   249       950     1,229                 1,681                       39.8       8.1                 94.0     93.8    92.4
Mauatrdgoods                  1         63         719409                                                  20.0                  6    0   6.2     7.6
Toa  ec,Exports (fob)       "2E'     r  i       7  rIETD398                                                  .9TZ                       TMTfl7  i1OT
Merchandise Trade Indices                       Aeage 1970-72 -100
Export Price Index                  100       238      27                    337
Import Price Index                  100       183      195                   248
Terms of Trade Index                100       130       142                   136
Exports Volume Index                100       198      236                   259
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 19 70 7 2 Prices and Exchange Rates              Average Annual Growth Rates          An Pe'rcent or Total
Agriculture                        425       516       546                   639                        5.0        4.0                 25.1     20.7     18.7
Industry and Mining                441       739       733                 1,032                      13.8         8.9                 26.1     29.7    30.4
Service                            826     1,233     1.365                 1.735                      10.5        6.2                  48.8     49.6    50.9
Total                            1, 6-92   2,488     2,644                 3,406                       10-.1       6. 5               -10-0.0  100.0   10.
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                             As Percent or GDP
(central Government)
Current Receipts                   205       432       478                   654                        20.5       8.1                 12.1     17.4    19.2
Crreent Exenditures                 181      299       328                   422                        13.4       6.5                 10.7     12.0    12.4
Bigtr  avings                  24      133       150                   232                        53.4      11.5                  1.4      5.3     6.8
other Public Sector                   -         "        "                      -                        -                                       -       -
Pablic Sector Investment            83       212       241                   361                        26.4      10.6                  4.9      8.5    10.6
1977-81
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                     Actual                    Eat.                  DEITAIL ON PUBLIC SECTOR
As % Total Current Expend.)               197 1*  1-975                 1976                  INVESTHENT PROGRMDYTnew commit"       US$ Mls,      2of Total
Education                                  23        26                   28                nments)     -
Other Social Services                       4         8                    9                  Social Sectors                          142,0           3j7
Agriculture                                 2        10                   11                  Agriculture                             407.3           10.7
Other Economic Services                    13        14                   15                  Industry                                354.1            9.4
Administration and Defense                 24        32                   29                  Petroleum                               531.3           14.0
Other                                      34        10                    8                  Power                                   645.0           17.0
Total Current Expenditures                10065     1005                -100o                 Transport & cormmunications             472.0           12.4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ OO th er  1 2243 9933 2.
Total Expenditures /I                3t7956
SELECTED INDICATORS                                                       1971-                 FINANCING
Average ICON                                                               .                    Total Public Sector Investment
Import Elasticity                                                        1.34                     (Disbursements)                    4,10-69          IOO.o
Pkrginal Ibmestic Savings Rate                                           0.47                    Publid Sector Savings               3,197             7 8.7
Marginal National Savings Rats                                            0.44                    Net External Borrowing                872            21.3
fl Excludes US$505.7 million financial investment.
I.ABOR FORCE AND0                                 Total Labor Force                                   Va-lue Adlded PrWre       17          Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKEN                  In Millions         _ of Total-           1962    75         In U.S.Dollars       Plercent fAvenge
19 62       1975           1975               Annual                  1975                   1975
Growth Rate
Agriculture                                   0.9         47.4                                        1,025                     48
Industry                                      0.3         15.8                                        3,864                    181
Service                            -          0.7         36.8                  2-33132
Total                             174-        1.9        100.0                  2.4                  2,140                     100
not applicable           nil or negligible* Average 1970-72
not available         -"less than half the.
smallest unit shown



dALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DE3T
"'7amsunts in millicns of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual                     Estimated          Projected             Avg. Annual
Average                             1976                1980              Growth Rate
1970-72        1975                                                        1976-80
SUMMARY BAIANCE OF PATMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                                        296        1,073                1,363              1,905                    8.7
Iaports (incl. NFS)                                        384        1,192               1,277               1.932                   10.9
Resource Balance kX-M)                                     -88         -119                  86                 -27
Net Factor Services                                        -44          -78                 -76                -118                   11.6
Workers' Remittance
CurTent Transfers (net)                                     16           29                   21                 25                    4.5
Ba, .. i on Current Accounts                              -115         -168                   31               -120                    -
Private Direct Investzmnt                                  110           41                   20                 40                   18.9
Official Capital Grants                                      -            -                    -                  -                    -
Public M&LT loans
Disbursements                                             68          140                  298                299                    -
-Repants                                                 _-37          -44                 -67               -124                    16.6
Net% Disburse.llnts                                         31           96                  231                175                   -6.7
Other MlcT Loans
Disbursements                                            3.6         2.4                  3.0
-Repayments.,                                             3.4         5.3                 5.0
Net Disbursements                                   0.2        -2.9                -2.0 O
Actual                    Estimated
Capital Transactioons n.e.i.                               0.3       -23.8                 -91                 -16                    l         1973      I9 74     1975        1976
Change in Net Reserves                                     -27          58                 -189                -79
DEBT & DEBT SERVICE
IRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                  Public Debt Out. & Disbr.    302      328       324        430         660
Official Grants & Grant-like             1972        1973        1974         1975                       Interest on Public Debt        10       15         17         17          25
Repayments on Public Debt      27       31        77          32          67
Public MlLT Loans                                                                                        Total Public Debt Service      37       46        94         49           92
IBRD                                     -          20          23           4                         Other Debt Service (net)                                                 ''
IDA                                      7           6           -            -                        Total Debt Service (net)       ..
Other                                    -           3            -          4
Other Multilateral                      11          33           86          33                      Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Governments                             36           8            3          67
Suppliers                                5          19            1          10                        Public Debt Service          10.1       7.3       7.6        4.6         6.8
Financial Institutions                  54          21           18         87                         Total Debt Service      ' 
Bonds                                    1                 -                  -                        TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.        *.
Public Loans n.e.i.                            -                  -
Total Pablic M&LT Loans                  114         T08         T31          205                      Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975                    Int. as % Prior Year DO&D      4.4      4.9       5.2        5.3         5.8
XTERNAL DEBT                                   Disbursed O                 Percent                         Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D  11.9     10.2      23.5         9.9        15.6
World Bank                                         473                        iu.U
IDA                                                28.4                        6.6                     IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Maltilateral                                  59.8                      13.9                          as % Public Debt O&D       11.4     10.9      11.5       10.0         8.2
Governments                                        119.8                      27.9                          as % Public Debt Service   12.2     10.9       6.4       12.0         8.7
Nuonliers                                          59.9                       13.9
Financial Institutions                             105.6                      24.6                     IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                               2.3                        0.5                         as % Public Debt O&D         3.9      5.4       6.6        6.6         4.9
Public Debts n.e.i                                  10.8                       2.5                         as % Public Debt Service      -        -         -          -
Total Public M&LT Debt                            429.5                      100.0
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
. not applicable                                                   e  staff estirmte
not available                                                    - nil or negligible                                                                                                        r r
not available separately                                       --   less than half the                                                                                                        5
but included in total                                               smallest unit shown
April 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at May 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                 ---------US$ million---------
Credit     Fiscal                                       Amount   (less cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower        Purpose            Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
9 loans and 2 credits fully disbursed                    65.5       9.1         -
124        1968     Ecuador          Education             -       5.1        .7
555        1968     Ecuador          Fisheries           4.6         -       1.0
222        1970     Ecuador          Agriculture           -      10.0       3.4
286        1972     Ecuador          Power                 -       6.8       1.0
930        1973     Ecuador          DFC                20.0         -       3.8
425        1973      Ecuador         Irrigation            -       5.5       1.3
1030        1974     Empresa          Water Supply       23.2         -      22.6
Municipal de
Agua Potable
de Guayaquil
1157        1975     Ecuador          Education           4.0         -       3.8
1229        1976     Ecuador          Seeds               3.0         -       3.0
1230        1976     Ecuador          Technical           4.0         -       4.0
Assistance
1231        1976     Ecuador          Highways           10.5         -      10.5
1255        1976     Guayaquil        Ports              33.5         -      32.5
Port Authority
1359 /a     1977     Ecuador          DFC                26.0         -      26.0
Total                                       194.3      36.5     113.6
of which has been repaid                  46.2        0.3
Total now outstanding                       148.1      36.2
Amount sold                         1.8
of which has been repaid          1.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a           148.1      36.2
Total undisbursed                           107.2       6.4     113.6
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at May 31, 1977)
Type of      Amount in US$ Million
Final Year                                        Business     Loan   Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.             Textiles       3.7     0.3      4.0
1969          Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo, S.A.                    -       -        -
1973, 1975
& 1977      Compania Financiera (COFIEC)       DFC             -      0.4      0.4
1976          Sociedad Agricola e Industrial      Sugar Mill    5.0       -      5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
Total gross commitments                           8.7     0.7     9.4
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                          2.6     0.5     3.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                 6.1     0.2     6.3
Total undisbursed                                 2.0       -     2.0



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Credit No. 124-EC - Education Project: US$5.1 million Credit of June 27, 1968;
Effective Date: August 30, 1968; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
The project is behind schedule because of recurrent difficulties in
the staffing and direction of the project unit, and because of shortages in
counterpart funds. The bulk of the project schools are now in operation
although substantial work still remains to be completed on foundation and roof
structures, and on installation of services. The Association has deferred
action on a possible extension of the Closing Date pending the Government's
preparation of a detailed program for satisfactory completion of all project
schools.
Loan No. 555-EC - Fisheries Project; US$5.3 million Loan of September 5, 1968;
Effective Date: September 4, 1969; Closing Date: May 1,
1978
This project had a slow start owing mainly to institutional problems
and less than anticipated demand for the fishing vessels included in the proj-
ect. A feasibility study, financed under this loan, recommended the construc-
tion of fishing harbor and industrial facilities at two locations. The Bank
has agreed to finance the detailed design of facilities at Manta for which
a contractor has been selected. Additional marketing studies are also to be
financed. Training activity is underway at the fishing vessels crews school.
Credit No. 222-EC - Third Livestock Development Project; US$10 million
Credit of December 10, 1970; Effective Date: September 20,
1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The credit is now fully committed. The main objectives of the project
are being met, and the demand for investments for subloans for beef and dairy
development is good but additional time is required in order to have the
participating banks complete the processing of sub-loan disbursements and
comply with the Credit Agreement's accounting covenants. The Closing Date was
extended to December 31, 1977 for this reason.
1/   These notes are designed to inform'the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknessess in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit No. 286-EC - Third Power Project; US$6.8 million Credit of February 15,
1972; Effective Date: December 15, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The major part of the project has been completed satisfactorily. The
remaining item--two substations--should be finished by the end of 1977. The
beneficiary, Empresa Electrica de Quito, has increased tariffs twice recently;
approved new organizational statutes; contracted an asset revaluation study;
and obtained a settlement of the outstanding debts of the Municipality of
Quito. On the basis of these actions, the Association agreed to extend the
Closing Date until December 31, 1977 in order to complete the project.
Credit 425-EC - Milagro Irrigation Project; US$5.5 million Credit of August 17,
1973; Effective Date: January 17, 1974, Closing Date:
August 13, 1979
Progress during the past years was good; disbursements are ahead of
schedule. Almost all of the irrigation and drainage canals have been completed;
most of the heavy equipment has been delivered. The on-farm development work
has been delayed by difficulties in preparing land titles. The initial results
of a feasibility study of a proposed second project have been received.
Loan 930-EC - Second Development Finance Companies Project; US$20.0 million
Loan of August 17, 1973; Effective Dates: COFIEC February 27,
1974; CFN March 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project is proceeding according to schedule, and the loan is now
entirely committed.
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Disbursements have been considerably slow, owing to construction
delays and changes in management and engineering consultants. Government
intervention has partly rectified the situation with a tariff increase and
other remedial measures. However, important long-term financial problems
have yet to be solved, and the procurement practices of the Water Supply
Company have caused the emergence of some additional difficulties.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Project implementation is generally proceeding satisfactorily but
technical and financial difficulties have been increasing. Design work for
the Guayaquil and Quito vocational training centers may be postponed because
of the failure to complete site surveys and tests.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The national seeds council and project unit are established, and
the project director has been appointed. The seed production adviser is
being contracted. Procurement is now underway on the equipping of the seed
processing plant to be built on the coast, and the site has been secured and
initial civil works are also underway. The Quito processing plant site has
been selected. The design of the warehouses at the distribution center is
expected to begin shortly.
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project has been proceeding slowly with the establishment of
the national rural development planning unit and appointment of its local
staff, in addition to the hiring of the first expert. Candidates for other
positions have recently been identified and agreed upon. The preparation
of the project in Tungurahua province is underway, and a team of consultants
will shortly initiate work on the Guayas Basin study. The Government is
preparing the terms of reference of the last subproject study.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highways Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
Invitations to bid for the civil works component of the project have
been published. The technical assistance component has been delayed pending
the selection of an overall coordinator. Negotiations are being conducted
with the consultants selected to carry out an agricultural development study
to be financed under this loan.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1975; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981,
After complex and protracted negotiations, the main civil works con-
tract was signed on February 11,' 1977. Cofinancing arrangements for US$10
million with a private international bank were concluded on March 11, 1977.
Some critical engineering aspects required some additional redesign work by
soil experts which has been completed. Meanwhile, the civil works contractor
has set up the workyard and dredging has already started.



ANNEX III
ECUADOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
sUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification Mission: September 1976.
(b) Preparation by FONAPRE in cooperation with the Bank.
(c) Appraisal Missions: November 1976 and February 1977.
(d) Negotiations: June 1977.
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1, 1977.
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
1.   FONAPRE's operations manager would be the project coordinator,
and the counterpart to the general advisor. Should the present
incumbent be replaced, the experience and qualifications of the
proposed replacement operations manager would be satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 36).
2.   During the execution of the project, any change in FONAPRE's
financing and procurement procedures would be discussed with
the Bank (para. 37).
3.   By January 1, 1978, FONAPRE would furnish the Bank a schedule
for implementation of the project studies (para. 37).
4.   The Government would make the proceeds of the loan available to
FONAPRE at no charge (para. 39).
5.   The Government and the UNDP have made arrangements for financing
three project experts (para. 39).



