                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001583




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IBRD-72830)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 35.0 MILLION
                      (US$ 45.68 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                                     TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF CROATIA

                                     FOR A

                SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROJECT

                                September 26, 2011




Sustainable Development Department
Central Europe and the Baltic Countries Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 21, 2011)
                          Currency Unit = Croatia Kuna (HRK)
                                HRK 1.00 = US$0.19496
                                US$1.00 = HRK 5.1293

                                      FISCAL YEAR

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASSC     Areas of Special State Concern              MIS           Management Information System
CARDS    Community Assistance for Reconstruction,    MoF           Ministry of Finance
         Development and Stabilization
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                 MRDFWM        Ministry of Regional Development,
                                                                   Forestry and Water Management
CBO      Community-based Organization                MSTTD         Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and
                                                                   Development
CBRD     Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and        MTR           Mid-term Review
         Development
CCU      Country Coordination Unit                   NC            New Cooperative
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy                NGO           Non-governmental Organization
CROMAC   Croatian Mine Action Centre                 NMAP          National Mine Action Plan
CSERP    Croatia Social and Economic Recovery        NPV           Net Present Value
         Project
EC       European Commission                         OM            Operational Manual
ERR      Economic Rate of Return                     PAAN          Pre-Accession Assistance Needs
EU       European Union                              PAD           Project Appraisal Document
FM       Financial Management                        PCU           Project Coordination Unit
FMS      Financial Management System                 PDO           Project Development Objective
FRR      Financial Rate of Return                    PHARE         EU Fund for Assistance to Central and
                                                                   Eastern European Countries in their
                                                                   preparation for joining the EU
GDP      Gross Domestic Product                      PMU           Project Management Unit
                                                     RCU           Regional Coordination Unit
HAMAG    Croatian Agency for Small Business          ROP           Regional Operational Program
HRK      Croatian Kuna                               SCI           Small Community Infrastructure
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and   SME           Small and Medium Enterprise
         Development
ICR      Implementation Completion Report            UNHCR         United Nations High Commissioner for
                                                                   Refugees
IDA      International Development Association       VAT           Value Added Tax
ISR      Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation



                             Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                           Country Director: Peter Harrold
                     Acting Sector Manager: Carolyn Turk
                       Project Team Leader: Vera Dugandzic
                          ICR Team Leader: Janis Bernstein
                                                    CROATIA
                                       Social and Economic Recovery Project



                                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................................. 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................................. 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................................... 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............................... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................................. 23
Annex 2. Project Components ......................................................................................................... 24
Annex 3. Outputs by Component .................................................................................................... 30
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................................... 37
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................................ 46
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results .............................................................................................. 48
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................................... 54
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........................................ 55
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ......................................... 69
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................................... 70
MAP IBRD No.33698 ...................................................................................................................... 71
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Social & Economic
Country:                Croatia                 Project Name:
                                                                          Recovery Project
Project ID:             P076730                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-72830
ICR Date:               09/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          CROATIA
Original Total
                        USD 45.68M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 47.85M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 45.54M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, and Water Management
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/09/2002     Effectiveness:          09/30/2005            09/30/2005
                                                                                   07/14/2009
                                                                                   02/19/2010
Appraisal:            11/18/2004     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   07/12/2010
                                                                                   07/13/2010
Approval:             03/29/2005     Mid-term Review:        03/31/2008            05/12/2008
                                     Closing:                06/30/2009            12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                   Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:               Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                          QAG Assessments (if
                              Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                   any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       23                   23
General industry and trade sector                                      23                   23
General public administration sector                                   32                   32
Other social services                                                  22                   22


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                   29                   29
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                             14                   14
Participation and civic engagement                                     14                   14
Regional integration                                                   14                   14
Rural non-farm income generation                                       29                   29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Peter C. Harrold                      Anand K. Seth
Acting Sector Manager:     Carolyn Turk                          Maninder S. Gill
Project Team Leader:       Vera Dugandzic                        Gloria La Cava
ICR Team Leader:           Vera Dugandzic
ICR Primary Author:        Janis Bernstein




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Support the economic and social revitalization of disadvantaged and war-affected areas as
a way to increase social cohesion.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Indicator 1: Number of jobs created through project activities and subprojects;
  Indicator 2: Total additional Revenue generated through grant-supported subprojects for
SMEs/Coops; and
  Indicator 3: Number of direct project beneficiaries including inter-ethnic, vulnerable, and
war-effected.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                             Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                               approval                           Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                              documents)                           Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Number of jobs created through project activities and subprojects
Value
quantitative or 0                           0                   1,000           1,359
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/29/2005                    05/02/2005          07/14/2009      12/15/2010
Comments
(incl. %        The end target indicator was surpassed by 36 percent
achievement)
                Total additional Revenue generated through grant-supported subprojects for
Indicator 2 :
                SMEs/Coops
Value
quantitative or 0                           NA                  100,000,000 81,286,112 HRK
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/29/2005                    05/02/2005          07/14/2009      12/15/2010
Comments        While the end of project revenue target was not met due to the financial crisis, this
(incl. %        is about 82% of the target and still a very substantial achievement under the
achievement) circumstances.
                Number of direct project beneficiaries including inter-ethnic, vulnerable, and war-
Indicator 3 :
                effected
Value
quantitative or 0                           0                   86,000          84,173
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/29/2005                    05/02/2005          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
                84,000 beneficiaries residing in the ASSC concern were reached: 98 percent of the
(incl. %
                target.
achievement)




                                                 iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                 approval                           Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of beneficiaries of social inclusion subprojects
Value
(quantitative     0                          NA                  45,000          41,639
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005                 07/14/2009          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
                  The actual number of beneficiaries, all of which were considered vulnerable, was
(incl. %
                  93 percent of the target.
achievement)
                  Percentage of local stakeholders expressing satisfaction with infrastructure
Indicator 2 :
                  subprojects
Value
(quantitative     0                          80%                 95%             100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005                 07/14/2009          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
                  69 small infrastructure sub-projects were completed and the satisfaction rate by
(incl. %
                  the beneficiaries was 100 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of jobs created through grant-supported subprojects for SMEs/Coops
Value
(quantitative     0                          NA                  500             661
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005                 07/14/2009          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
(incl. %          The number of jobs exceeded the target by 32 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of SME/Coop grants successfully implemented
Value
(quantitative     0                          NA                  240             211
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005               07/14/2009           12/31/2010     12/15/2010
Comments          The number of grants was 88 percent of the target. Due to the financial crisis,
(incl. %          some of the SMEs could not meet the pre-requirements for obtaining the
achievement)      complementary financing from private banks.
Indicator 5 :     Average additional revenue generated per SME/Coop
Value
(quantitative     0                          NA                  370,000 HRK 385,242 HRK
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/14/2009                 07/14/2009          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
(incl. %          The average additional revenue exceeded the target by 4%.
achievement)



                                                   iv
Indicator 6 :     Number of small community infrastructure subprojects completed
Value
(quantitative     0                          NA                  67              69
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005                 07/14/2009          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
(incl. %          The number exceeded the target by three percent.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Square meters (m2) of land cleared of landmines
Value
                                                                 12,000,000
(quantitative     0                          NA                                  12,185,445 (m2)
                                                                 (m2)
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005                 05/02/2005          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
(incl. %          The actual amount of land cleared exceeded the target by 1.5 percent.
achievement)
                  Percentage of trained government staff using new skills learned through the
Indicator 8 :
                  CSERP Project
Value
(quantitative     0                          NA                  90%             90%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005                 05/02/2005          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
                  The target was fully achieved equivalent to 675 of the total number of trained staff
(incl. %
                  (750) reporting active use of upgraded skills.
achievement)
                  Number of individuals, including civil society members and local self government
Indicator 9 :
                  staff, trained through CSERP supported activities
Value
(quantitative     0                          NA                  600             750
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005                 05/02/2005          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
(incl. %          The target for this indicator was exceeded by 25 percent.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Number of social inclusion subprojects successfully implemented
Value
(quantitative     0                          NA                  120             125
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/29/2005                 05/02/2005          12/31/2010      12/15/2010
Comments
(incl. %          The target was exceeded by 4 percent.
achievement)




                                                   v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                         IP                 Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1    04/25/2005         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2    11/15/2005       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                       0.00
  3    02/11/2006       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                       0.00
  4    06/10/2006       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                       0.00
  5    10/17/2006   Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory                4.49
  6    10/30/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   4.49
  7    08/16/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   4.49
  8    12/26/2007    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   4.49
  9    06/20/2008    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                   5.89
 10    12/29/2008         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     20.43
 11    05/01/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     28.91
 12    07/31/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     31.97
 13    11/21/2009         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     39.39
 14    06/29/2010         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     45.91
 15    03/08/2011         Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     48.00

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                                  Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                        Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                              The first order restructuring
                                                              involved: changes in the project
                                                              outcome indicators; reallocation
                                                              of Euro 1.5 million; extension of
                                                              loan closing date to June 30,
                                                              2010 to facilitate completion of
                                                              project and increase project's
  07/14/2009         N           S      S           31.97
                                                              chances for fully achieving
                                                              PDO. Reallocating the Euro 1.5
                                                              million to the economic
                                                              revitalization grants would allow
                                                              a larger number of beneficiaries
                                                              to carry out sub projects targeted
                                                              for economic revitalization.
                                                              Reallocation of loan funds and
  02/19/2010         N           S      S           45.91
                                                              extension of loan closing date.
  07/12/2010         N           S      S           45.91     Reallocation of loan funds.
  07/13/2010         N           S      S           45.91     Extension of loan closing date.




                                            vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. Country and sector issues
Country and sector background. In the beginning of 2000, five years after the hostilities
ended, war affected areas in Croatia continued to suffer from lack of social cohesion and
inadequate economic recovery. Both the national government and international donors
focused on emergency relief and physical reconstruction of damaged housing and
infrastructure. Local administrations from the war-torn parts of the country, referred to as
Areas of Special State Concern (ASSC), were weak and had insufficient funds to support
the affected communities. The establishment of ASSC through the 1996 Law on Areas of
Special State Concern was motivated by the need for physical reconstruction and economic
development in war-torn areas, and for enabling the return and reintegration of internally
displaced persons and refugees. In 2002, the legal definition of ASSC was modified to
include other areas such as those with certain structural difficulties, the border and
mountainous parts of the country, and mined areas.

A World Bank Post Conflict Fund Grant launched in late 2000 was among the first
operations to pilot regional development and community-based approaches to assist in the
recovery of ASSC, and to serve as a bridge between short-term relief efforts and medium-
term social and economic development. Financing from the grant was also used to
establish a dialogue with the European Union (EU) in conjunction with a Regional
Development Vision workshop in two counties, Šibenik-Knin and Zadar. Following the
workshop, the EU Community Assistance for Reconstruction, Development, and
Stabilization (CARDS) program began to support the preparation of Regional Operational
Programs (ROPs) in these two pilot counties, and later in other parts of Croatia. Following
two evaluations of the Post Conflict Fund Grant demonstrating positive results, the
Government of Croatia, with Bank assistance, initiated the design of the Croatia Social and
Economic Recovery Project (CSERP) which would build on the lessons of the grant.

In June 2004, as project preparation proceeded, the European Commission (EC) designated
Croatia as a candidate country for EU accession and scheduled negotiations to begin in
early 2005. In July 2004, the Government adopted the Pre-Accession Assistance Needs
(PAAN) coordinated by the Ministry of European Integration. Among other topics, the
PAAN document analyzes the country’s sector needs and priorities for foreign assistance.
These included: (a) initiating economic development programs in the ASSC through, for
example, SME and employment support; and development of family farms; as well as (b)
design and implementation of alternative models for providing improved access to social
services. The PAAN also stated that the Government would also develop the necessary
capacity and mechanisms for effective use and absorption of EU structural funds.

At appraisal, the project’s design was fully consistent with the priorities of the PAAN and
the objectives of both the previous and proposed FY05-08 CAS. The project strategically


                                             1
targeted the ASSC and aimed to reduce regional development disparities and to strengthen
social cohesion. CSERP also was designed to help strengthen the capacity of public
institutions and local self government to generate project proposals for EU financing.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank would build on its comparative advantage as
the leading donor since the mid-1990s for complex multi-sectoral projects aimed at
reconstruction of war-affected countries in South East Europe. These included three
projects in Croatia: the Emergency Reconstruction Project (closed in December 1999),
Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project (closed in December 2001), and the
Reconstruction Project for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, and Western Srijem (closed in June
1998). Because the Bank also had piloted the means for bridging the gap between short-
term relief and longer-term regional development through the Post-Conflict Fund Grant,
and had been supporting the process of EU accession, it was considered well placed to link
post-war reconstruction and EU accession in Croatia.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDO was to support the economic and social revitalization of disadvantaged and war-
affected areas as a way to increase social cohesion. The original main outcome indicators
to measure progress towards achieving the PDO were:
      percentage of community investment subprojects with participation of inter-ethnic
       and war affected groups; and
      increase over time of inter-municipal and inter-county subprojects as defined by
       absolute numbers of projects.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised. As implementation progressed, however, both the Bank and
client recognized the inherent difficulties in capturing project results through the outcome
indicators. Thus, as part of a project restructuring approved in June 2009, the results
framework was revised to improve the outcome indicators so as to allow the Bank and
Borrower to adequately measure progress in meeting the PDO. The original outcome
indicators were replaced by three new ones: (a) number of jobs created through project
activities and subprojects; (b) additional revenue generated by grant-supported subprojects
for SMEs and cooperatives; and (c) number of direct project beneficiaries, including inter-
ethnic, vulnerable, and war-affected.

The first two indicators would determine the extent to which the project supported
economic revitalization for the beneficiaries. The third indicator would determine how
many people living in the ASSC received the benefits of the project investments.
Although this indicator specifically mentions three categories of beneficiaries, determining
the numbers of beneficiaries in each category presented challenges. It was not meaningful
to report on the number of war-affected beneficiaries because all of the direct project
beneficiaries living in the ASSC were by definition war-affected. Although beneficiaries
may have belonged to various ethnic groups, there was both official and household
reluctance to report on ethnic background. Most beneficiaries were reported as Croatian
nationals and not disaggregated according to ethnicity. However, it was possible to report


                                             2
on the number of vulnerable beneficiaries through the social inclusion subprojects
designed to address the needs of specific vulnerable sub-groups.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The PAD identifies the following as the primary target group for CSERP assistance: war-
affected groups (persons who remained, settlers, returnees, and internally displaced
persons), which still confront barriers to their social and economic integration; and (ii)
local administrations. Among the war-affected, the PAD highlights young people,
unemployed, women, and other vulnerable individuals. It also identifies central, regional,
and local institutions responsible for participatory regional development planning and
absorption of pre-accession funds as another target group.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project had four components, which remained the same throughout implementation:
(a) Community Investment; (b) Demining; (c) Institutional Development; and (d) Project
Management (see Annex 2 for a more detailed description):

Component 1-Community Investment (total €36.50m/ IBRD €23.0m). This component
financed works, goods, and services for three types of demand-driven subprojects: social
inclusion, economic revitalization, and small community infrastructure.

   (a) Social Inclusion Subprojects aimed to improve access primarily to vulnerable to
       community-based services and activities. Subprojects would include: (i) youth
       centers and non-formal education programs; (ii) psycho-social support to
       vulnerable groups, especially for families of ex-combatants, displaced people,
       women and children suffering from domestic violence, and rural women's self-
       support groups; (iii) legal counseling; (iv) multimedia, communication, and cultural
       centers; (v) parents-school association programs; (vi) programs to support the
       disabled; and (vii) capacity building and institutional development for local
       government (county and municipal levels), civil society, and personnel responsible
       for delivering social integration services.

   (b) Economic Revitalization Subprojects supported a wide range of economic
       activities throughout the ASSC communities. They would contribute to increased
       opportunities for small businesses and cooperatives, and would enhance social
       cohesion by creating a more secure base for community revitalization. Three types
       of activities were envisaged: (i) building the productive capacity of existing
       cooperatives and SMEs, (ii) supporting the start-up of new co-operatives, and (iii)
       capacity-building for co-operative development and SME support services.

   (c) Small Community Infrastructure Subprojects aimed at improving the living
       conditions of communities by expanding access to services and public utilities
       through rehabilitation of small-scale social and economic infrastructure. They
       would contribute to social cohesion and economic revitalization by involving
       communities in identifying local priorities and implementing the rehabilitation of



                                            3
       small community and economic infrastructure such as health and cultural facilities,
       markets, feeder roads, small bridges, water supply, irrigation and drainage systems,
       reforestation, and liquid waste treatment.

Component 2 – Demining (total €17.0m/IBRD €8.50m). This component financed
goods and services for mine removal on a demand-driven basis, involving two types of
activities: (a) provision of equipment to Croatian Mine Action Centre (CROMAC) to help
reinforce their capacity, and (b) physical demining activities within ASSC. The
component was seen as critical to and closely linked with the Community Investment
component as land mine risk was often a constraint to provision of basic local services and
infrastructure, and restoration of livelihoods for local population including returnees.

Component 3 – Institutional Development (total €3.5m/IBRD €2.5m). This component
financed consultants, equipment, and goods for building capacity for central, regional, and
local authorities. It would support regional development approaches by central and local
administrations for/within the ASSC, and establish participatory and technically sound
practices in territorial planning, decision-making, and implementation in line with EU
principles. Activities would include: (a) capacity building at the central level; (b)
development of five county Regional Operational Programs (ROPs); and (c) training and
technical assistance for municipalities and organizations initiating subproject preparation.

Component 4 – Program Management (total €3.0m/IBRD €1.0m). This component
financed coordination inputs such as financial management, procurement, beneficiary
outreach, technical support, and monitoring and evaluation. It covered incremental
operating costs, goods, technical assistance, and training.

1.6 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
There were no changes in the project design, scope, or scale. During the latter part of
project implementation, however, there were the following changes.

Change in Implementation Arrangements. As part of the government’s restructuring in
early 2008, the management of the project was transferred from the Ministry of Sea,
Tourism, Transport and Development (MSTTD) to the Ministry of Regional Development,
Forestry and Water Management (MRDFWM).

Major Revisions to the Operational Manual. Early in project implementation, based on
follow-up discussion with EU counterparts, a strategic decision was taken to revise the
operational manual to fully align subproject application procedures with requirements that
beneficiaries would face when applying for pre and post-accession EU funding. An
intensive collaborative process ensued among the client and Bank teams to integrate both
global and EU approaches to subproject evaluation and appraisals, and to harmonize the
capacity building needed by localities and non-governmental beneficiaries. The process
also enhanced the role of regional selection committees to strengthen both stakeholder
participation and the governance and oversight of project selection.


                                             4
Change in Results Framework. The original two outcome indicators were eliminated
because both proved to be difficult to measure and not well tailored to capturing the
contribution of project activities to achieving the PDO. With regard to the first indicator,
data on inter-ethnic participation was difficult to obtain given the lack of official statistics
disaggregated according to ethnicity and beneficiary reluctance to report formally on their
ethnicity. With regard to the second indicator, the first few calls for proposals revealed
that few applications were inter-county or even inter-municipal. Except for the demining
component, most subprojects were small demand-driven activities. The funding ceiling for
sub-projects needed to be considerably higher to create incentives for complex inter-
municipal cost sharing arrangements for long-term operational and maintenance. During a
first order project restructuring on July 14, 2009, three new indicators were selected to
better capture the contribution of the subprojects to social and economic recovery in the
ASSC: (a) number of jobs created through project activities and subprojects; (b) additional
revenue generated by grant-supported subprojects for SMEs and cooperatives; and (c)
number of direct project beneficiaries, including inter-ethnic, vulnerable, and war-affected.

Project Extensions. The project’s original closing date of June 30, 2009 was extended
three times. Due to the initial slow start to project implementation, in December 2008, the
Borrower requested a one year extension to allow sufficient time for successful completion
of approved subprojects, full utilization of available loan proceeds, and achievement of the
PDO. The Bank agreed to a phased and conditional extension. The first phase extension to
January 15, 2010 was granted almost immediately on the basis of the project’s
performance having significantly improved since mid-term; strong ownership on the part
of the new implementing ministry MRDFWM; and recognition that these important
changes had substantially improved the likelihood that the project could fully achieve its
PDO with additional time. The Bank also indicated that it would consider a second six-
month extension if the Borrower met the following conditions by June 15, 2009: (i)
continued satisfactory project performance; (ii) completion of an independent technical
audit confirming the satisfactory quality of civil works; and (iii) adoption of a revised
results framework including revised PDO outcome indicators. The Borrower met these
conditions, and on July 14, 2009 the Bank’s Board approved the first order restructuring
that included the second six-month extension to June 30, 2010. In June 2010, the
Borrower requested another six-month extension to finalize the ongoing Community
Investment sub-projects and to finalize the project’s planned beneficiary assessment. On
June 29, 2010, the Bank approved the extension to December 31, 2010.

Funding Reallocations. There were four reallocations of loan proceeds, resulting in the
transfer of funds originally to be used for operating costs or consultant services and
training, to other important project components (grants, de-mining equipment). The Funds
were not needed for the purpose for which they were originally intended because (a) other
donors were already providing easy access to funds to be used for capacity building, and
(b) local authorities did not need assistance in preparing subproject proposals.




                                               5
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project preparation responded directly to the social and economic needs of the ASSC. The
design benefitted from (a) the experience gained from the implementation and two
evaluations of the Post Conflict Fund Grant which successfully applied demand-driven
mechanisms for social and economic revitalization with territorial cohesion; (b) the EU
CARDS experience in Regional Operational Programs (ROPs) and in SME and
cooperative development; (c) the experience with the Government of Croatia’s policies and
investments designed to promote socioeconomic development; (d) international best
practice in cooperative and SME development; and (e) the findings of a Territorial, Socio-
Economic, and Institutional Assessment carried out during project preparation. The design
of the Demining component built on the lessons learned from two previous Bank-financed
projects in Croatia, the Emergency Transport and Mine Clearing Project and the
Emergency Reconstruction Project.

The participatory processes carried out during project preparation and design were
appropriate for a demand-driven project with collaboration among national, regional, and
local stakeholders. Preparation involved extensive consultations with a wide range of
actors; during the pre-appraisal and appraisal missions, for example, a pre-appraisal
consultative workshop was held with approximately 50 county and local authorities to
discuss the project's concept, scope, and proposed institutional arrangements.

The Bank and Borrower considered alternative designs (rural credit, support only to large
previously state-owned facilities, and a traditional “social fund? approach) that were
justifiably rejected. The chosen design was best for building local capacity for
implementation of pre and post-accession EU-supported operational programs, and for
supporting local cooperatives and SMEs facing constraints on access to credit. The
decision to finance capacity building for regional development in ASSC was forward-
looking given Croatia’s status as an EU candidate country.

Because both the Bank and the Borrower recognized that the demand-driven nature of the
project would require a bottom-up approach, the Operational Manual (OM) detailed
measures to ensure local participation throughout the subproject cycle, and incorporated
multi-stakeholder Regional Approval Committees. Subproject selection procedures
included calls for proposals and weighted selection criteria to encourage inclusion of
disadvantaged groups in both economic and social subprojects. To guarantee “buy in"
from beneficiaries, as learned during implementation of the Post-Conflict Fund Grant, the
OM also specifies requirements for beneficiary contributions.

Project implementation was coordinated by the PCU and involved multiple partners that
ultimately strengthened project performance. They included: (a) UNCHR which provided
key information on potential beneficiaries and supported the subproject selection process
by serving as observers in the regional approval committees for the selection of grantees;
(b) CROMAC, which implemented the de-mining component; and (c) three Regional
Coordination Units (RCUs), which were responsible for promoting and then supervising



                                            6
and monitoring implementation of project components in       their respective regions (the 3
RCUs covered all 13 counties included in the ASSC). A        County Coordinator (CC) was
hired for each of the 13 counties and was responsible         for community outreach and
beneficiary support. They provided a crucial interface        between the PCU/RCUs and
beneficiaries throughout the subproject cycle.

The project design was consistent with the Bank’s safeguard policies. In terms of
environmental impact, the project was classified as Category F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment) and triggered OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) so that a resettlement
policy framework would be in place in the event any of the investments involved land
acquisition. The PAD also realistically appraised most risks the project would face, and
incorporated appropriate risk reduction measures.

Notwithstanding the above, the design had some weaknesses. Among them, the original
PDO was not well articulated and the results framework did not include outcome indicators
that could be realistically measured. Another weakness that ultimately undermined the
effective project monitoring and evaluation was the lack of baseline data.

2.2 Implementation

Overall project implementation. The €35 million loan for the CSERP was approved by
the World Bank Board on March 29, 2005, and became effective on September 30, 2005.
The project closed on December 31, 2010 with disbursement of 99.7%.

Project performance under the MSTTD lagged during the early years of implementation
due to several factors: delays in hiring full-time PCU staff, changes in the project director,
delays in establishing a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework and building
adequate capacity for a properly functioning MIS, the time needed to raise awareness about
the project in the ASSC so that a pipeline of eligible subprojects could be developed (this
would be expected for any demand-driven project where subprojects could not be
identified prior to implementation), and some procurement deviations from the loan
agreement. Other less significant factors included the need to provide guidance to the PCU
on how to be more proactive in using the loan, and delays associated with improving the
OM (for example, early in 2006, it was agreed that the OM should be revised to
incorporate relevant EU modules and more stringent procedures for ensuring transparency
in sub-project selection). Another factor affecting the pace of implementation was that the
ministry staff involved in project preparation was not part of the team that initiated project
implementation. Thus, all of the capacity-building during project preparation had to be
repeated for the new team. The combination of these factors led to the project having
disbursed only 12% of the available funds after 2.5 years of implementation. However,
given the demand-driven, participatory nature of the project, it would not have been
realistic to expect considerably higher disbursement rates after two years, even if some of
these factors did not exist.

Mid-term review. The MTR took place during the period May 12-21, 2008, just before
MRDFWM officially assumed responsibility for the project. The Bank team worked



                                              7
closely with MRDFWM to implement the critical steps needed to enhance project
performance: streamlining implementation of the demining component, clarifying financial
management and disbursement arrangements to be more responsive to subproject needs,
and developing realistic implementation time-lines and disbursement projections. Progress
was being made in the implementation of social inclusion and small community
infrastructure sub-projects, but was expected to accelerate once the MRDFWM acted on
the following MTR recommendations:

      Significantly increase disbursement. The Bank’s expected that once the PCU
       understood that the Community Grants were eligible to be financed 100% from
       loan proceeds (as long as the overall financing for project investments did not
       exceed 85%), disbursement would increase by 40% by December 31, 2008.
      Appoint a full-time project director. The Bank recognized Government’s strong
       support but urged the MRDFWM to appoint a new full-time PCU Director.
      Meet the newly agreed timelines and set benchmarks. These would aim at
       accelerating implementation of all project components.
      Revise composition of the Project Steering Committee and National Approval
       Committee. Both committees had principal roles in the economic revitalization
       subprojects and would need to reflect MRDFWM leadership.

After the MTR, changes in project management had a dramatic impact on project
performance. In June 2008, the project was officially transferred from the MSTTD to the
MRDFWM. The subsequent appointment of a new full-time PCU Director, who remained
in her position until project closing, also had a positive impact. As noted in the December
20, 2008 ISR, all recommendations made during the MTR were addressed in a fully
satisfactory manner, and disbursement rose to 42%, higher than anticipated.

Project restructuring and extension. As discussed in section 1.7, the project was
restructured four times and the closing date was extended three times.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design. Although an M&E framework was developed at appraisal, it was the weakest part
of project design. The original outcome indicators and the inter-ethnic aspect of one of the
revised indicators could not be used for measuring progress in meeting the PDO given the
challenges outlined previously. Moreover a formal baseline was never established, nor
was the MIS system fully operational. This would later complicate the task of fully
capturing project results.

Implementation. Despite efforts on the part of the Bank team to support M&E, it was not
assigned priority by the Borrower until late 2008. Moreover, until relatively late in the
project implementation period, the original outcome indicators would not be used for
measuring progress in meeting the PDO due to several factors. First, by the time CSERP
became effective, social integration for members of war-affected minority groups had
progressed in some parts of the ASSC. As project implementation proceeded, the RCU
M&E staff reported that beneficiaries were reluctant to identify their ethnicity, a factor that
prevented monitoring of the original indicators or full disaggregation of one of the revised


                                              8
indicators. Second, the project tended to highlight support for improving economic
conditions in ASSC communities. Another factor was that most of the RCU M&E
specialists did not have the necessary expertise in M&E and relied on the leadership from
the central PCU which itself lacked adequate M&E capacity until a suitably qualified
expert was hired in 2008 following a staffing change. The system also was affected by
ongoing changes in the central M&E staff.

Despite pressure exerted by the Bank team during the project’s early years to prompt the
PCU to intensify its efforts to revise the results framework and define meaningful
monitoring indicators, it was not until the PCU hired the M&E specialist in 2008 that the
Bank and PCU agreed on new outcome indicators, and the PCU and RCUs proceeded with
data collection. The revision of the outcome indicators also followed the main
recommendation of the FY2009 Joint Portfolio Review that the Borrower should improve
the outcome indicators as one of the steps needed to improve quantification of the project’s
results. Nonetheless, the absence of a properly functioning MIS did not allow the central
M&E staff to assemble and evaluate trends and results.

Utilization. Although the revised outcome indicators significantly improved the project’s
results framework, their introduction came too late to fully meet expectations for ongoing
project evaluation. Nonetheless, by project completion, the PCU was able to collect
adequate regional and subproject level data to assess the project’s progress in meeting its
targets by component. The data collection strategy included extensive field visits to
beneficiaries as part of both project monitoring and supervision, and a beneficiary
assessment (involving both qualitative and quantitative methods) was completed in
September 2010 to supplement the M&E data gathering.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Supervision missions routinely monitored project fiduciary compliance. The project’s FM
arrangements had been rated Unsatisfactory or Marginally Unsatisfactory during the early
years of project implementation, and the Bank team and the Borrower agreed on an action
plan to improve their FM arrangements. By August 2007, the FM rating was upgraded to
Moderately Satisfactory, but deficiencies continued until July 2009 when the rating was
upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory, and later to Satisfactory. The ratings for procurement
were the same as those for FM. Throughout project implementation, the PCU procurement
staff benefitted from the ongoing support from the Bank’s procurement specialist based in
the field office as they enhanced their knowledge of Bank procedures, and increased the
PCU’s overall capacity to support beneficiaries on procurement.

The team fielded periodic reviews of the implementation of OP 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), including one safeguard review that specifically focused on the demining
component. With regard to the latter, however, the review found that while existing
regulations on demining works are well defined and implemented, the Government had not
yet passed legislation on handling waste from destroyed mines. The team could have
advanced this issue with the relevant authorities to agree on acceptable procedures for
residue waste management.



                                             9
Although OP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) was triggered, project implementation
ultimately did not involve land acquisition or restrict access. The team checked numerous
infrastructure and demining subprojects and confirmed that none of the subprojects visited
involved land acquisition and noted that there were no cases or complaints related to land
acquisition brought to the attention of the Bank.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
As noted in the PAD, to ensure that CSERP would have a sustained impact, the project
was structured to be entirely implemented through existing ministerial and local
governmental structures. It was envisioned that the PCU and its RCUs would become part
of the MSTTD’s Directorate for Regional Development, and staff to be hired would
eventually be incorporated into the civil service or county and municipal administration.

At the time of project closing, most staff from the PCU and the original project team had
been incorporated into either MSTTD or MRDFWM. This has facilitated a transfer of
knowledge from the project to these ministries on how to set up the institutional
framework for bottom-up implementation of local demand-driven investments in a post-
project, pre and post EU accession context.

To ensure sustainable O&M arrangements, all grant proposals were required to describe
how the proposed services, facilities, and infrastructure would be maintained after project
closing. The technical audit carried out in June 2009 confirmed that these arrangements
were being implemented as planned. Annex 4 presents a sample of completed social
inclusion subprojects that were initiated in 2009 and continue to provide community
services post project support. Moreover, all of the SMEs assisted by the project were still
operating and generating income at project closing.

Also at the time of project closing, there were a large number of subprojects in the pipeline
that could not be funded due to a lack of funds and time. For example, only every seventh
request for small community infrastructure sub-project could be financed. Given the
strong pipeline and demand, the Government of Croatia has been able to secure funding to
support completion of additional community investment subprojects.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project was and continues to be relevant to the country context as suggested by its
consistency with the CAS at the time of project approval and the FY09-FY12 Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS). According to UNCHR, moreover, returnees continue to need
assistance in business development and social integration. While medium-sized enterprises
currently may be in a stronger position to obtain financing than small enterprises and
agricultural cooperatives, grant support for business development had a strong and
catalytic effect across all SMEs, and successful applicants were able to use project grants
to leverage additional funding and increase average annual revenues. By project closing,




                                             10
the MRDFWM had expressed strong interest in a follow-up project, as did all counties and
municipalities that had participated in CSERP.

The goal of the FY09-FY12 CPS is to support: (a) the completion of Croatia’s EU
accession process, (b) the rapid convergence of its income level with that of current EU
member states in a fiscally, socially, and environmentally sustainable fashion, and (c)
establishment of a decent quality of life for Croatia’s citizens. Among other areas of
support, the Bank is continuing to assign priority to strengthening private sector-led growth
and accelerating convergence with the EU. Thus, CSERP’s objectives and emphasis on
preparing the country for EU accession remain appropriate for the current CPS. Similarly,
the project’s objectives, design, and implementation continue to be relevant to the needs of
the Government in meeting EU requirements for pre-accession and structural funds.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The project achieved its PDO to support the economic revitalization of disadvantaged and
war-affected areas as a way to increase social cohesion. CSERP facilitated the integration
of refugees and displaced persons, and improved the overall climate regarding refugees,
returnees, settlers, and the domiciled population, and improving access to social services
for vulnerable populations. Although the project objective is broad, which made
measuring results difficult, the achievement of the PDO is based on the following.

Most project targets were essentially reached or surpassed. As shown below, there
were 84,173 direct beneficiaries (98% of the target) residing in the ASSC, all of whom
were war-affected; 51,106 of this total were considered vulnerable (women and children,
disabled, elderly, and unemployed). The project generated 1,359 new jobs (36% more than
restructured target) and the SMEs and cooperatives under the Economic Revitalization
subcomponent generated €11 million in additional revenue (82% of the restructured
target). Additional details are presented in Annex 3.

  Outcome Indicator                         Target                       Actual
  Number of jobs created through              1,000                       1,359
  project activities and subprojects
  Additional revenue generated by
  SME and Cooperatives                   100,000,000 HRK             81,286,112 HRK
  Number       of     direct   project        86,000                      84,173
  beneficiaries, including inter-                                   Vulnerable: 51,106
  ethnic, vulnerable, war-affected                                 War-Affected: 84,173

Implementation of the three sub-components under the Community Investment
Component supported social and economic revitalization, and increased social
cohesion. Under the following three main sub-components, 405 sub-projects were
successfully completed and had a significant role in improving social cohesion throughout
the ASSC.

   (a) Social Inclusion. Under this subcomponent, 125 subprojects were completed
       which exceeded the target of 120. These subprojects enabled beneficiary groups to,
       inter alia: participate in community organizations and undertake decision making



                                              11
   on priority services for vulnerable and war affected citizens; pursue training in
   areas that would increase their employability; expand access to pre-school, after
   school educational activities, libraries, and other community-based services. In
   many cases, these subprojects also provided new jobs in the affected communities
   (see Social Inclusion table in annex 3). Among the 41,639 beneficiaries of this
   sub-component, 21,703 were children and youth, 24,873 were elderly and disabled,
   and 4,530 were unemployed.

(b) Community Infrastructure. A total of 69 subprojects were completed compared to
    the target of 60, and beneficiaries were able to improve access to a range of
    municipal services, such as improved roads, sewage and water supply systems. Not
    surprisingly the majority of applicants were municipal governments themselves,
    interested in expanding and upgrading local economic infrastructure as well as
    enhancing local conditions and creating a foundation for social and economic
    recovery. Twenty-two projects involved municipal and county cooperation in
    providing social services.

(c) Economic Revitalization. The grants provided under this sub-component (211
    subprojects were completed and 240 was the target) produced three main categories
    of benefits to the beneficiaries and surrounding communities. First, the grants
    helped many enterprises to jumpstart economic recovery, thus offering continued
    employment to their staff and creation of 661 new jobs which allowed families to
    remain in their ASSC communities and continue to pursue an improved quality of
    life. Among the completed subprojects, 151 were for existing cooperatives and
    SMEs, and 60 supported new cooperatives.

   The main sectors for the SME support were: agro-industries and food processing,
   construction related materials and services, metal products, wood products, and
   transport services. SME grants totaled €15.10 million and the value of grant was
   €100,000 per subproject on average. On average, grant financing accounted for
   about 17% (ranging from 10% to the maximum of 27%) of total project financing;
   the beneficiaries contributed about 25 % from own resources, and the balance of
   around 58% came largely from commercial bank loans.

   The vast majority of the new cooperatives were engaged in agriculture or farm
   related activities. Grants totaled € 2.60 million for a total of 60 subprojects for an
   average value of grant of about €43,300 per subproject. Grant financing accounted
   for about 50% (ranging from 20% to a maximum of 85%) of total project costs, the
   balance coming from the beneficiaries’ own resources or from commercial bank
   loans.

   On average, the additional sales revenue generated per SME/Coop was 385,242
   HRK during the project period; overall, the project generated additional revenue of
   about 81,286,112 HRK. In some cases, the subprojects provided incremental
   employment at a time when total employment in the area was declining due to
   layoffs by large industrial units. Second, the grants had indirect impacts by



                                        12
        increasing revenues and jobs for the grantees’ suppliers and customers through the
        linkage effects through purchases from suppliers and sales to consumers. These
        effects were particularly noticeable in the case of farming and agro-industries as
        well as construction-related and service industries. Third, the grants had an
        important role in leveraging additional investment. While this figure could not be
        confirmed, the PCU reported that ER grants helped to leverage an additional 1
        billion HRK (€130 million).

Beneficiaries of the Community Investment grants expressed satisfaction with the
project’s impact on their lives. The box below illustrates some of the reactions of
beneficiaries of the Community Investment component during the September 2010
beneficiary assessment when asked to describe how the project affected them and their
communities.
 Social Inclusion Subprojects
 "In this project, we employed a social worker, a psychiatrist, and a psychologist, all of which helped us to improve
 the quality of our services and our relationship with the local community." Female, 47

 “We provided facilities to people in rural areas to take care of the elderly which make up 25% of our population.?
 Male, 42

 Community Infrastructure Subprojects
 “The project was more than successful. Now, we have one of the most beautiful buildings in the area occupied
 almost every day with activities. There is always something happening here on weekends, and we plan to carry out
 lectures and presentations here because it is a really nice space now.? Male, 56“

 “The project’s contribution is that the youth now have a special place in which to work, meet, be inspired, exchange
 knowledge, develop new projects, and spend their free time in a constructive manner." Male, 62

 Economic Revitalization Subprojects
 “New people were hired and we kept the existing workplaces, especially noteworthy in a time of economic crisis.
 We also increased production by 20-30%. With the new funds received, we equipped this facility which increased
 production and made us more competitive on the market.? Male, 46

  “The project yielded excellent results. The company “Protein? is working very well; it’s expanding, employing
 local inhabitants, and having a positive influence on the entire community.? Male 45

Project-financed demining increased the amount of safe land that could be accessed, a
pre-condition for social and economic development and strengthening of social
cohesion. Under this component, 12.185,445 square kilometers of agricultural land (102
percent of the target) were demined and made available for cultivation. The international
demining specialist who supervised this component in September 2009 noted that all of the
demining operations met or exceeded the highest international technical standards and all
formal national requirements. According to CROMAC, the demining activities carried out
during the period 2008-2010 dramatically improved safety in some municipalities. For
example, the mine suspected area on the border between Hungary and Croatia was reduced
by more than 50% due to a combination of CSERP subprojects, donor funds, and the State
Budget. Because the project also financed needed equipment to allow CROMAC to fulfill
its monitoring, quality assurance, and public warning responsibilities, the number of
civilian casualties declined from 12 in year 2005 to 3 in 2010. The successfully completed
de-mining subprojects also allowed those living near the affected areas to benefit from




                                                          13
other project-financed        investments      in   community        infrastructure     and    economic
revitalization.

Beneficiaries of the Demining Component expressed full satisfaction with its role in
generating jobs and increasing security and incomes. The box below presents the
beneficiaries’ views during the BA.
 "The project had a marked positive influence on the inhabitants, especially in terms of agriculture. Now
 they have jobs and a source of income which also keep young people in villages. People help each other
Goodinterpersonal relations are bettered." Male,Institutional Development Component. Although
 and results were achieved under the 30
less than the expected number of staff was trained, some 5,000 national and local officials
 "I consider the project a success because we have reduced the amount of the land suspected of having
 mines and people have their land back and can earn their living." Male, 54


Good results were achieved under the Institutional Development Component.
Although less than the expected number of staff was trained, some 750 national and local
officials and civil society representatives were trained in such areas as procurement,
project design, and project management. The project also increased the capacity of local
self government for successful absorption of future structural and cohesion funds.
Regional Operational Programs were developed for four counties; the fifth one for Split-
Dalmatia County was funded and developed using its own resources. By requiring EU
application procedures, the project was instrumental in building capacity of beneficiaries
for applying for EU grants in the future, and civil society representatives were trained in
such areas as procurement, project design, and project management.

The beneficiary assessment (BA) concluded that the project was implemented
successfully. The full range of stakeholders participating in the BA indicated that the
project: (a) was adequately presented to the public; (b) had impacts encompassing a wide
spectrum of beneficiaries and spreading throughout entire local communities; and (c) led to
numerous initiatives aimed at improving living conditions in local communities,
improvements in ASSC standard of living, and visible and measurable improvements in
the material and psychological impacts on the quality of life of citizens in ASSC. Among
respondents in the quantitative survey, 93% were very satisfied with CSERP assistance and
technical support. Data collected from a sample of enterprises further confirm the
importance of the project to SME income and employment growth during the project
period (see Annex 4).

3.3 Efficiency
Economic and financial analyses, including ex-ante estimation of economic and financial
rates of return (ERR and FRR) and net present value (NPV), were not carried out at
appraisal in view of the nature of the project investments which were community-based
and demand-driven, and thus could not be identified up front. However, an analysis with
the limited data and evidence available at the writing of the ICR indicate that the project
had strong economic and financial benefits and subproject implementation was efficient.
With regard to the social inclusion subcomponents, quantitative measures of impacts were
not feasible given the social services nature of the subprojects. The main benefits were in
the form of an increase in physical and mental welfare, health and well-being, and security,



                                                    14
which are difficult to quantify. Investments under the small community infrastructure
were cost-efficient, and this was confirmed by an independent technical audit carried out in
June 2009 which found that civil works carried out conformed to both unit cost estimates
and applicable technical construction standards for similar investments in Croatia.

The Economic Revitalization subcomponent resulted in substantial benefits to the
beneficiaries and surrounding communities. However, in keeping with the Bank’s
experience in post-completion economic and financial assessments of similar multi-
beneficiary (enterprises, cooperatives, communities) projects involving mostly private
sector entities, ex-post estimates of ERR, FRR, NPV, or other quantitative measures of
efficiency are not practical or applicable. Nonetheless, as discussed in section 3.2 (c) and
Annex 3, the grants to SMEs and new cooperatives produced direct impacts. In the case of
SMEs, an average subproject investment of €100,000 (512,930 HRK) helped SMEs to
leverage resources that enabled them to increase average annual revenues in terms of
increased sales revenues (to €75,106 or 385,242 HRK) within the first year after expansion,
and expand revenues dynamically over time. A total of 661 additional jobs were created;
an average of 3 new jobs per subproject grant (and €33,000 or 169,267 HRK in grant
financing per sustainable new job created under the subcomponent). In a sample of 84
subprojects (see table in Annex 4), on average, the grants helped to generate 20 percent
increase in revenues during the project period. This subcomponent also had indirect
impacts on increasing revenues and jobs for their suppliers and customers through the
linkage effects of purchases and sales. The following is just one example of the impact of
the grants from the beneficiary perspective.
  Increase production of trout and fish-based delicatessen products. The “Gacka? fish farm is organized
  as a self-contained closed-system fish farm with its own spawning of domesticated California trout and
  local brook trout, and production of these species for ranching natural waterways and for consumption.
  Today, this is a state-of-the-art facility covering approximately 6.5 ha located at the source of the
  Sina?ka Pu?ina (tributary of the Gacka river), supplying fresh water to the fish farm, and using water that
  is among the purest in Europe. The investment encompassed the fish pond purchase and its
  reconstruction, construction of facilities, purchase of the necessary equipment, and obtaining an export
  registration number for the EU and USA for farming and processing facilities. The subproject resulted in
  increasing production capacity from 150 to 300 tons of trout per year with a 50% increase in
  employment. With a total project investment of 3,715,353.00 HRK (including a CSERP grant of
  970,000.00 HRK), the subproject resulted in enlargement of the ponds, employment of 12 new staff, and
  introduction of new operating systems.


In addition to the above, it should be noted that most of the SME and cooperative
subproject beneficiaries are in the private sector and have substantial personal stakes in the
subprojects through their equity contributions and collateral commitments to commercial
banks for loans obtained. While the Bank loan and Government funds disbursed under the
project financed grants only, the grants themselves were only a part of the overall
financing for each subproject, particularly for SMEs and new cooperatives (NCs). For
SMEs, grants financed about 17% of subproject costs; about 25% came from the owner’s
equity funds, and the balance of over 50% from commercial bank loans. For NCs, the
share of grants was an average of 50% of the overall subproject cost, and many used the
grant to leverage very significant commercial bank loans (see Annex 4 for details). The
ability of the SMEs/NCs to repay the commercial bank loans depends upon the success of



                                                     15
the subproject as a whole, and this created a strong incentive for the SMEs/NCs to ensure
the success of the subprojects, given the risk to their collateral. Further, grantees were
required to expend at least 50% of the cost of the overall project before they could receive
grant funds. Thus, the SMEs/NCs have strong incentives to achieve adequate financial
returns from the subprojects.

With regard to the Demining component, the actual and potential benefits of the project
activities are described earlier and in Annex 4. From the perspective of cost-efficiency, the
project-financed demining activities were undertaken in conjunction with the overall
demining program in Croatia for which their cost-efficiency (in terms of annual cost per
km2 of mined area cleared) has progressively improved over the period 2005 to 2010.

Finally, the project results were achieved with only 60% of the agreed Borrower co-
financing or €15 million out of the €25 million commitment. Some of the shortfall can be
explained in terms of fiscal constraints during the financial crisis (about €6 million), the
remaining €4 million constitutes the approximate amount that would have been disbursed
to the 39 SMEs that ultimately failed to secure complementary commercial bank financing
once lending requirements tightened (assuming an average grant of €100,000).

A total of €1.5 million of the €3.5 million estimated to be required for Institutional
Development during appraisal was reallocated to support SMEs and new cooperatives,
once the localities with support from the community coordinators and RCUs demonstrated
capacity to develop adequate proposals. These reallocated funds were ultimately included
in the €4 million not disbursed under the ER subcomponent, and explains why only 37% of
the appraisal estimate was disbursed on Institutional Development.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory is based on the project’s achieving
the PDO and its contribution to building local capacity to access EU funding that can help
realize the economic potential of the ASSC. While not all targets were reached, most were
met and/or exceeded, and significant knowledge was transferred to stakeholders at all
levels. The following are additional factors contributing to the MS rating.

  (a) The main stakeholders, particularly the beneficiaries of the Community Investment
      grants; local and regional authorities; ministries (MSTTD, MRDFWM, MOF); and
      UNCHR all view this project as having been successful because it improved social
      and economic conditions in the ACCS and the overall climate for refugees,
      returnees, settlers, and the domiciled population. These views were confirmed by:
      (i) the 2010 BA (93% of survey respondents were very satisfied with CSERP
      assistance), and (ii) the positive results of the 2010 survey carried out by the PCU
      to assess their own performance and to obtain feedback on the grant application
      procedures and effectiveness of the central PCU and RCUs.
  (b) The grants provided to the SMEs helped to jump start new small businesses, and to
      provide timelier financing to existing enterprises than would otherwise be available
      through commercial banks. The SMEs and cooperatives generated EUR 11 million



                                             16
        in additional income. In existing enterprises, the grants prevented loss of jobs;
        overall, the subcomponent created 661 new jobs.
  (c)   The Social Inclusion subprojects involved the largest possible number of
        inhabitants from socially endangered and vulnerable groups in the ASSC. Through
        the 125 subprojects, the project reached 41,639 beneficiaries; more than two thirds
        were directed specifically at children and youth, and the elderly. These subprojects
        also supported 4,530 unemployed workers and generated 628 jobs.
  (d)   The Community Infrastructure subcomponent financed new or improvements to
        community facilities and infrastructure; the 69 subprojects generated 70 new jobs.
  (e)   Implementation of the Demining Component established the preconditions for
        faster social and economic development and strengthening of social cohesion in
        ASSC. Coordinating the demining with improvements in community infrastructure
        also made the business environment more favorable for SMEs and proved essential
        for achieving broader benefits.
  (f)   CSERP implementation contributed to and supported the process of regional
        development by strengthening capacity for regional development planning at the
        local self-government level; increasing the quality and level of knowledge,
        motivation, and project cycle management skills; and establishing inter-regional
        cooperation and development of specific projects for CSERP financing that would
        result in higher levels of social inclusion and economic development in the ASSC.
  (g)   Through the Institutional Strengthening component, the project supported training
        for 750 staff at the national, regional, and local level and they now have the
        necessary capacity to generate new project ideas and prepare project proposals for
        pre-accession funding. The majority of PCU staff have been absorbed by the
        MSTTD and are currently carrying out these functions.
  (h)   The objectives of CSERP continue to be relevant. SME development remains one
        of the main areas for economic growth. In ASSC, war-affected groups continue to
        need support to overcome destroyed or underdeveloped infrastructure, lack of
        business support services, and constrained access to financing and available credit
        lines, particularly for small agricultural producers and small enterprises.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Some subcomponents had particularly positive impacts on gender. For example, the Small
Community Infrastructure sub-component made it possible to involve 18,758 women in
service provision. Under the Social Inclusion component, 421 women were employed
through the subprojects, while another 14,511 were trained for various programs. The
component also provided for social activities geared to about 24,000 elderly and disabled
persons. Overall, CSERP was instrumental in improving the livelihoods of rural
population in finding employment for 1,359 persons, of which 763 were women.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Project-supported technical assistance and training resulted in the following:

   (a) Approximately 750 officials and civil society representatives now have capacity for
       strategic regional planning, cost management, project management, business
       planning, procurement, and project documentation.


                                             17
   (b) With project staff trained at the central, regional, and local levels, and remaining in
       MRDFWM after project closure, the ministry has at its disposal 34 young skilled
       experts well acquainted with EU procedures and ready to take over implementation
       of EU pre-accession funds, presently, and after EU accession.
   (c) At the local level, there are strengthened horizontal and vertical links to be used
       when planning regional development, and strengthened working relationships and
       coordination between counties and municipalities.

Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The project had unintended outcomes that added value, including:

   (a) Application of project’s participatory approach to non-project purposes. Local
       stakeholders, who received project-related training, applied their new skills in
       community-based project planning and design to non-project related activities (for
       example, in the municipality of Bilje, cooperatives, local government, businesses,
       and citizens cooperated in developing a local strategy for tourism development).
   (b) Increased psychological satisfaction on the part of vulnerable groups. For
       example, in all home care assistance programs, the elderly expressed immense
       satisfaction with the services they received. Some participants reported an increase
       in creativity and satisfaction with life in general.
   (c) Increased cooperation between sectors. For example, the Association Hepatos’
       project, which informs and sensitizes local communities about viral hepatitis,
       followed the example of the project by involving collaboration of multidisciplinary
       bodies, associations, health organizations, and the media.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
The Borrower hired an independent social research firm to carry out a comprehensive
beneficiary assessment (BA) using both quantitative and qualitative instruments. The main
findings of the BA were that the project: (a) was implemented successfully, (b) was
adequately presented to the public, (c) had positive impacts encompassing a wide spectrum
of beneficiaries and spread to whole local communities, (d) led to numerous initiatives
aimed at improving living conditions in local communities, (e) led to improvements in
ASSC standard of living for all involved in the CSERP, and (f) led to visible and
measurable improvements in the material and psychological impacts on the quality of life
of citizens in ASSC. Among respondents in the quantitative survey, 93% were very
satisfied with CSERP assistance and technical support. See Annex 6 for more details.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
There is a moderate risk that over time the local authorities may not have the necessary
funds to pay staff and ensure the continued operation of new services and facilities
supported by the Community Investment component. For the SMEs and new cooperatives
(NCs), the sustainability risk is also assessed to be moderate. Given that most
beneficiaries are in the private sector and the owners have substantial personal stakes in the
subprojects through their equity contributions and bank loan collateral commitments,
which account for about 75% of the subject costs, it is likely that the beneficiaries will
have a strong incentive for successful operation of the subprojects (see section 3.3). For


                                             18
the SMEs, the main risks are exogenous (for example, deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment, commercial bank’s liquidity situation) and cannot be assessed up front. For
the NCs, the risk is higher because they must depend on continued technical and
institutional support from the local and national level cooperative agencies. The capacity
of these agencies to continue to provide these services in the future will depend on the
extent of support they will obtain from the Government, including under EU schemes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality of entry was Moderately Satisfactory. The
preparation team ensured that the design took into account the lessons learned from other
post-conflict projects in Croatia and international experience as well as best practice in
participatory approaches to project design and implementation. It also ensured that the
proposed beneficiaries had ample opportunity to participate in project design through a
social assessment and several multi-stakeholder consultations. Because the team
recognized that the demand-driven nature of the project requires stakeholders to articulate
their needs, they ensured that the project had adequate technical assistance for carrying out
this function, and that the final OMs detailed measures for incorporating public
participation and required subproject approval committees to include representatives from
government, the private sector, and civil society. By taking into account past experience,
the team also ensured that specific incentives were provided for inclusion of disadvantaged
groups into both economic and social subprojects. To help guarantee "buy in" from
beneficiaries, the Bank team also ensured that the OM specified requirements for
beneficiary contributions. The performance of the Bank team was less strong in
articulating the PDO and in designing project outcome indicators.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank carried out regular supervision missions that included specialists in social
inclusion, financial management, procurement, and safeguards. The team also included an
international consultant to supervise implementation of the Economic Revitalization
subcomponent, and fielded an international demining specialist to ensure that the quality of
the works met both national and international standards. The team monitored closely the
progress made throughout project implementation, worked closely with the Borrower in
solving problems as they arose, and added an international M&E specialist to help improve
the results framework. During the early years of implementation, when it was agreed to
update the project OMs, the team ensured that they were revised so as to meet the
requirements for EU pre-accession grant funds. Although the task team leader changed
three times during project implementation, continuity among the team members was
maintained. Moreover, there was a strong country office staff oversight on the project
activities, and regular communication with the ministerial implementing unit and other
partners. During the ICR mission, the national authorities and other organizations
involved in the project expressed full satisfaction with the team.



                                             19
Notwithstanding the above, the quality of supervision could not be rated fully satisfactory
due to two main factors. First, the changes in task team leaders contributed to project
delays during the period immediately after the mid-term review. Second, during the 2009
restructuring, the team could have better articulated the third outcome indicator (number of
direct project beneficiaries, including inter-ethnic, vulnerable, and war-affected). The team
also could have initiated this restructuring earlier in the project implementation period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory on the basis of the quality of
project design and overall diligence in working with the client throughout the project
implementation period to resolve technical, operational, fiduciary, and staffing issues as
well as to ensure sufficient time to allow implementation of subprojects. The Bank team
was well appreciated by the client and all stakeholders. Commitment to the success of the
project was maintained throughout project implementation as evidenced in the regular
supervision missions and project reporting. The Bank’s performance was less strong with
regard to the design and supervision of the M&E system.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Government performance refers to the Bank’s central government partners, the MSTTD,
the MRDFWM, and CROMAC during project design and implementation. At this level,
the performance of the Borrower is rated Moderately Satisfactory due to the delays in
hiring a full time PCU and failure to address the Bank’s concerns during the early years of
project implementation regarding the M&E system.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Although the initial implementing agency performance was moderately satisfactory, the
performance of the Project Director that assumed responsibility after mid-term produced a
dramatic shift in the performance of the PCU, and the results were quick and remarkable.
The excellent performance of the PCU during the period after the MTR was highlighted by
most of the stakeholders interviewed during the ICR mission and is reflected in a limited
quantitative survey carried out by the PCU to obtain input on its own performance during
project implementation. Among other findings, 92% of respondents said that they were
fully satisfied with the help provided by the CSERP team.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall Borrower performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory on the basis of the
productive collaboration between the Bank and Borrower during project design as well as
the performance of the management and staff of the PCU both before and after it was
transferred to the MRDFWM. Borrower performance did not receive a higher rating
because it takes into account the delays during the early project implementation experience,



                                             20
and the fact that the Borrower did not respond to the Bank’s advice in a timely manner in
setting up and implementing a fully functioning M&E system and MIS.

6. Lessons Learned
Like most demand driven community-based investments, the project required about two
years before substantial disbursements could be made. Because specific subprojects could
not be known or prepared prior to loan effectiveness, and there was inherent uncertainty as
to whether a selected beneficiary would meet all loan criteria and have the capacity to
proceed in a timely manner, the implementation of this project with multiple components
needed longer than four years for full implementation. Given the need to first raise large-
scale awareness about the project, ensure that all potential beneficiaries understood the
procedures that must be completed to prepare qualifying sub-projects, and then carry out a
transparent sub-project selection process, it was unrealistic to expect substantial
disbursements within the first two years of project implementation, or that the project
could be fully implemented in four years.

Combining the “top down? and “bottom up? approaches was effective for implementing
this demand driven social development investment. Under this scheme, national authorities
established the overarching strategic priorities for socioeconomic reconciliation which
would guide development in the project areas and the specific funding envelope for each
strategic priority. Regional and local stakeholders submitted proposals based on local
needs that fit within the overarching strategic pillars. In this way, national priorities were
aligned with the specific needs of the regions, local communities, and beneficiaries such as
NGOs, SMEs, and cooperatives, and subproject implementation could proceed on the basis
of shared ownership and cooperation. To facilitate the top-down/bottom integration to
sub-project preparation and implementation, the project had three RCUs and CCs located
in each of the 13 counties. This structure of horizontal and vertical links and
responsibilities strengthened direct interface and support to beneficiaries and hence overall
implementation.

Grant financing is particularly useful to small enterprises when there are transitory
constraints in the financial system. Small firms were facing especially severe liquidity
constraints due to difficulties or delays in obtaining commercial bank financing and
receiving timely payments from customers. The grants were particularly helpful in
relieving transitory liquidity constraints and helping to leverage private funding for
business expansion. Because the smaller enterprises had the most difficulty obtaining
commercial bank financing during the financial crisis of 2008-2009, similar World Bank
projects might consider assigning priority to cooperatives and small enterprises as was
done in CSERP during the Second Call for Grant proposals.

In a project where grant allocations will be made to applicants on a competitive basis, it is
important to ensure that the selection takes into account that the applicant has the
necessary permits and licenses. Under the First Call for Grant proposals, there were
instances when an entity did not have all the necessary requirements for proceeding with
project implementation. For example, there were delays in the Economic Revitalization
subprojects related to problems obtaining necessary licenses and permits for SMEs and



                                             21
new cooperatives. Under the Second Call for Grant proposals, therefore, applicants were
required to certify upfront that the requisite permits and licenses had been secured.

Community-based, demand-driven subprojects are sustainable. After the subprojects were
completed, field visits to numerous Social Inclusion, Community Infrastructure, and
Economic Revitalization subprojects confirmed that the staff hired for subproject
implementation remained on the respective payrolls, and the enterprises supported by the
project continue to generate income.

Monitoring and evaluation systems must be carefully designed to ensure that monitoring
efforts can start early in the project implementation period and produce data that can be
useful for assessing project outcomes and impacts. Although the project included adequate
provisions for M&E, not all outcome indicators developed at appraisal and during
implementation could be measured or monitored. Choosing appropriate indicators and
implementing systems that allow project outcomes to be assessed during its life is a
challenge that requires specialized expertise and full borrower commitment. For similar
projects in the future, having a pipeline of subprojects prior to effectiveness would allow
the Borrower and Bank to test the indicators early to ensure they were appropriate.

In defining indicators in post-conflict situations, using indicators that require beneficiaries
to identify their ethnicity often will not be appropriate. Due to the sensitivity of this issue
and the reluctance of individuals to identify their ethnic backgrounds, particularly in areas
experiencing a return of certain groups, Bank staff should not insist on using such
indicators or expect them to be accurately measured as part of project monitoring.

In a post-conflict situation, a demining component can be used strategically to unlock
local economic potential and promote social cohesion. Although including the demining
component increased the complexity of the project, it greatly contributed to the
achievement of the PDO.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower agrees with the assessment of the ICR and has no further comments or
suggestions. Annex 8 presents a summary of their ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers
There are no cofinanciers.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
See Annex 9 for the comments from UNHCR.




                                              22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in EURO1 Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
          Components                                   Estimate (EURO
                                     (EURO millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                           millions)
Community Investment                        36.50             30.35                     83%
Demining                                    17.00             15.54                     91%
Institutional Development                    3.50               1.28                    37%
Project Management                           3.00               3.26                   108%

             Total Baseline Cost             60.00
Physical Contingencies                                               0.00
                                              0.00                                      0.00
Price Contingencies                                                  0.00
                                              0.00                                      0.00
              Total Project Costs                                    0.00               0,00
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                   0.00               0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.17                   0.17
      Total Financing Required               60.17                 50.60               84.00



(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                           Type of       Estimate        Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing      (EURO          (EURO       Appraisal
                                                         millions)       millions)
 Borrower                                                  25.00            15.00          60%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                           35.00            34.89         99.7%
and Development




1
  Appraisal estimates were done in EURO and the loan was denominated in EURO. Thus, the figures above
are in EURO for consistency.




                                                 23
Annex 2. Project Components

The project as originally designed had four main components: (a) Community Investment;
(b) Demining; (c) Institutional Development; and (d) Project Management:

Component 1 - Community Investment (total €36.50m/ IBRD €23.0m). Referred to in
the PAD as “the heart of the CSERP,? this component was to fund works, goods, and
services for demand-driven subprojects in Croatia’s ASSCs. Three general types of
subprojects were envisaged: social inclusion, economic revitalization, and small
community infrastructure.

   (a) Social Inclusion Subprojects. These subprojects were intended to improve access
       by war-affected, disadvantaged, or vulnerable persons and other stakeholders in the
       ASSCs to community-based services, initiatives, and activities.              Selected
       subprojects would be encouraged to: (a) increase the involvement of beneficiaries
       in the design and implementation of such programs through consultation and
       citizens fora; (b) increase the involvement of civil society in service delivery
       programs; (c) improve partnerships between local governments, civil society, and
       communities; and (d) strengthen the capacity of local government to promote
       community-based services according to a system of priorities and a better and more
       efficient allocation of resources. Grants would be provided to counties,
       municipalities, organized communities, groups, local organizations, or institutions
       such as kindergartens, schools, youth organizations, centers for the elderly, cultural
       centers, and libraries. Subprojects and activities to be implemented were to
       include: (i) youth centers and non-formal education programs through activities
       that promote reconciliation, cultural revitalization, and social and economic
       initiatives at the community level; (ii) psycho-social support to vulnerable groups,
       especially for families of ex-combatants, displaced people, women and children
       suffering from domestic violence, and women's self-support groups in rural areas;
       (iii) legal counseling for returnees and other vulnerable groups; (iv) multimedia,
       communication, and cultural centers; (v) parents-school association programs in
       ethnically divided communities, including training for teachers on issues of social
       cohesion and reconciliation; (vi) programs to support the disabled; and (vii)
       capacity building and institutional development for local government and civil
       society organizations and their personnel responsible for delivering social
       integration services. Social inclusion subprojects would cost between €15,000 and
       €100,000, with a minimum beneficiary contribution of 15% (10% under special
       circumstances).

   (b) Economic Revitalization Subprojects. These subprojects would support the
       development of farm and other income generating activities in local communities.
       They would contribute to increased opportunities for small businesses and
       cooperatives, and were expected to enhance social cohesion by creating a more
       secure base for community revitalization. Three types of economic revitalization
       activities were envisaged: (i) building the productive capacity of existing co-




                                            24
operatives and of SMEs, (ii) supporting the start-up of new co-operatives, and (iii)
capacity-building for co-operative development and SME support services.

(i)    Building the Productive Capacity of Existing Cooperatives and SMEs.
       These would support existing cooperatives and SMEs by facilitating access to
       existing sources of funding by overcoming the constraints that prevented
       widespread use of such funds and by building up their capacity to prepare and
       implement bankable projects. Established SMEs and cooperatives would be
       able to apply for grant funding under a matching scheme. Financing would
       be provided through a combination of grants of up to 27% of the subproject
       cost with a maximum of €135,000. Recipients would be expected to provide
       10% co-financing, in cash or in kind, from their own resources. For the
       remaining financing needs for the subproject, it was envisaged that most
       beneficiaries would obtain a loan from one of the credit-lines available for the
       ASSCs provided by commercial banks with Government support.
       Subprojects with a total investment value of up to €150,000 would be
       screened and selected by regional approval committees; larger subprojects
       would be approved by a national-level committee. Recipients who do not
       obtain loans would have to demonstrate other sources of financing.

       Eligible subprojects would include expansion of productive activities in all
       economic sectors: agro-processing and agro-industry, new and innovative
       production technologies, business clusters and networks, and information
       technology projects. The selection criteria would favor subprojects that
       contribute to: job creation, increase in industrial, processing or agro-
       industrial output, improvement of the marketing environment, introduction of
       new or innovative technologies, and increased networking. Half of the grant
       would be provided up front at the beginning of the subproject, and would be
       used for machinery, equipment, and/or production inputs. Thus, the
       disbursement would normally be made directly to the supplier rather than to
       the grant recipient. The remaining grant funds would be used for capacity
       building and to support increasing the employment of specific target groups.

(ii)   Supporting the Start-Up of New Cooperatives. This support would be based
       on the established best practices in cooperative development in Croatia and
       internationally. It was to include provision of grant-funded start-up capital
       for newly established agriculture and non-agriculture cooperatives, coupled
       with technical assistance to encourage success. The project would also
       promote the introduction of secondary cooperatives and marketing chains to
       enable farming communities to achieve larger economies of scale.

       According to the PAD, cooperatives in the project area that have been
       registered for less than 24 months would be allowed to apply for grants.
       Expenditures eligible for start-up capital grants would include: construction,
       reconstruction, or adaptation of premises, new machinery and equipment, and
       raw materials as well as other production inputs. Eligible subprojects would



                                       25
        include: new productive activities in agricultural, livestock, and agricultural
        fields (and niche markets such as organic food, rural tourism and others);
        partnerships and market linkages between multiple cooperatives, agro-
        processing; and the rehabilitation and repair or equipping of small and
        medium scale facilities which were functioning prior to the war. The grants’
        lower ceiling would be €42,500; the higher ceiling would be €120,000, equal
        to a maximum CSERP financing of 85% of the total subproject cost (80% for
        projects over €100,000). Provision of such grants would require preparation
        of a suitable business plan and a beneficiary contribution in cash or in kind
        between 15- 20% of the total cost.

            Capacity Building for Cooperative Development and SME Support
            Services. Technical assistance and capacity building for SMEs were to be
            demand-responsive, flexibly organized, and provide financing for: a
            business development program, increase in the performance and client
            orientation of existing business advisory services, and two technical
            assessments. The business development program would focus on building
            skills for subproject preparation and implementation, including capacity
            for developing feasible business plans and investment feasibility studies,
            and to provide SMEs with expert advice on business performance, such as
            commercial skills and production quality standards. Examples include:
            business and investment plan development, project preparation (e.g.,
            needed for applying to a bank loan), market research, quality management
            systems, and enterprise reorganization.

            Capacity-building for co-operatives would provide standardized training
            and business development programs applicable to the needs of most
            cooperatives as well as services adapted to individual co-operatives. The
            purpose of these non-financial services would be to help cooperatives
            develop in terms of organization, management capabilities, and business
            capacities to enable them to borrow from commercial banks or existing
            credit lines. Cooperatives to be selected would be those with the greatest
            potential to make the best use of program support and where the resources
            and efforts would be multiplied, especially through the use of regional
            service providers, i.e., regional cooperative unions. Criteria for selecting
            cooperatives and groups would include: current rate of member
            participation and commitment as reflected by the number of members
            participating in group meetings, the amount of capital contributions, and
            the prospect of the cooperative or group becoming a financially and
            operationally viable unit. In contrast to the other types of subprojects,
            these activities would not receive grants. Rather, the capacity-building
            activities would be outsourced to firms, or in the case of cooperatives, to
            the Croatian Federation of Cooperatives.

(c) Small Community Infrastructure Subprojects. The objective of these subprojects
    would be to improve the living conditions of communities by providing increased



                                        26
       access to services and public utilities through rehabilitation of small scale social
       and economic infrastructure. They would contribute to the overall objective of
       social cohesion and economic revitalization by involving communities in
       identifying local priorities and implementing the rehabilitation of small community
       and economic infrastructure. In addition, they would contribute to facilitating
       cooperation between local governments, civil society, end beneficiaries, and the
       private sector. Recipients of grants for small community infrastructure would
       include decentralized governments and civic and business associations. Eligible
       subprojects would include social infrastructure, socio-economic infrastructure
       (provided that it responds to a collective need), and sanitation and environmental
       infrastructure. Possible infrastructure for rehabilitation under such subprojects
       would include: primary schools, health and cultural facilities, market places, feeder
       roads, small bridges, water supply, irrigation and drainage systems, reforestation,
       rubble clearing, and solid and liquid waste treatment. Such subprojects would be
       identified in a collaborative effort between municipal authorities and target
       beneficiaries with inputs from line ministries when applicable. The assistance for
       small community infrastructure projects would range between €50,000 and
       €200,000, with a minimum beneficiary contribution of 15% (10% in poorer
       communities).

         The Community Investment subprojects were to be generated through outreach in
         the ASSCs to make the population aware of the project, encourage quality, and
         foster processes of local development planning. Subprojects were to be proposed
         and implemented by local and regional self-governments (municipalities, towns,
         and counties), co-operatives, small and medium enterprises (SMEs), public and
         private entities (such as schools and health centers) non-governmental
         organizations, and community-based organizations in the ASSCs. They would
         be selected on the basis of criteria focusing on the adequacy of subproject
         identification and needs, institutional and technical requirements, sustainability,
         quality of services, and consistency with the Regional Operational Plans (ROPs),
         where present, or with county and municipal priorities. Selection would be made
         by subproject approval committees; once selected, technical assistance would be
         made available to beneficiaries as needed to help ensure the success of
         subprojects. Subprojects were generally to be funded through grants. Recipients
         would be expected to provide a beneficiary contribution (in cash or in kind) of at
         least 10% (depending on the nature of the subproject). Criteria, guidelines, and
         procedures for subprojects were to be spelled out in the operational manual.

Component 2 – Demining (total €17.0m/ IBRD €8.50m). The Demining component
would fund goods and services for demining. It would fund the removal of mines on a
demand-driven basis and where the presence of mines would prevent the implementation
of Community Investment subprojects. The Component would consist of two types of
activities: (a) provision of equipment to CROMAC to help reinforce their capacity, and (b)
coordination of specific demining activities. Three different contexts for demining were
envisaged:




                                            27
   (a) Demining linked to other subprojects. This would occur when a sub-project under
       the Community Investment Component required demining, such as a cooperative
       that needed to have mines cleared from its fields.
   (b) Demining as specific local government subprojects proposed by local government
       units or community-based organizations.
   (c) Demining linked to National Mine Action Plan (NMAP). This refers to demining
       activities/projects identified as critical by CROMAC and linked to the NMAP.

Once it was determined that the subprojects required demining, CROMAC would
subcontract the demining activities out to private demining enterprises, supervise their
work, verify that the area was free of mines, and issue official certification to that effect.
CSERP would pay the demining enterprises, and CROMAC would not charge an
administrative fee for managing this component. CROMAC also would carry out two
other project-related activities at no charge to the project. First, once informed of the
precise geographical areas of intervention of the project, CROMAC would give them top
priority in the process of surveying, marking, and reducing (i.e., verifying that no mines
are present) the areas of mine contamination. Second, CROMAC would give those areas
priority in mine awareness and mine information programs. The Demining component
was designed to incorporate information sharing and flows to facilitate planning between
CROMAC, the PCU, and communities. The processes reflect international experience and
best practices so as to eliminate bottlenecks in subproject implementation and to ensure
that the demining investments are cost-effective.

Component 3 – Institutional Development (total €3.5m/ IBRD €2.5m). This
component would fund consultant services, equipment, and goods for capacity building for
central, regional, and local authorities. The objective of the component was to support
regional development approaches by central and local administrations for/within the
ASSCs, establishing participatory and technically sound practices in territorial planning,
decision-making, and implementation in line with EU principles. The component would
provide: (a) capacity building at the central level; (b) financial support for the
development of five county Regional Operational Programs (ROPs); and (c) support for
local institutional development by providing training and technical assistance for
municipalities and organizations that are initiating subproject preparation.

         Central Level. At the central level, this component would provide capacity
         building for the technical staff of the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and
         Development (including the CSERP Central Coordination Unit and Regional
         Coordination Units) and other relevant ministries (for example, Agriculture and
         Economy) or institutes (for example, the Fund for Regional Development)
         directly involved in the ASSCs. At this level, institutional capacity would be
         enhanced for functions related to regional development policy implementation.
         The PCU would prepare and administer annual capacity building plans. The
         capacity building would include: hiring short term technical assistance in
         specific areas, training in regional training centers, study trips, and participation
         in seminars.




                                             28
           Regional Operational Programs. This sub-component would support EU
           regional planning at the county level by financing five Regional Operational
           Program (ROPs) in line with EU methodologies in the following counties:
           Dubrovnik-Neretva, Virovitica-Podravina, Osijek-Baranja, Split-Dalmacija, and
           Bjelovar-Bilogora. The ROPs were to be completed by June 2006 and
           complement the 8 EU-funded ROPs. ROPs would be prepared according to the
           methodology established by the EU Delegation in Croatia. At the county level,
           PMUs would have responsibility for implementing the ROPs.

       Local Level. At the local level, this component would enhance both horizontal and
       vertical linkages for regional development planning and would support greater
       connectivity among counties and municipalities. To this end, it would fund
       technical assistance and training for representatives of civil society and local
       government officials in regional development practices, including project cycle
       management and EU procedures. Three types of capacity building were envisaged:

           Capacity Building for Civil Society. The purpose would be to build the
            capacity of CBOs and NGOs to participate in and benefit from CSERP
            activities. The PCU would carry out detailed assessments of all concerned
            counties to identify civil society capacity building needs. In addition, any
            community group of organization may identify specific needs. On the basis of
            the identified needs, the PCU would then contract NGOs or firms to carry out
            training programs.

           Reinforcement of County PMUs. This would support the PMU’s ability to
            implement projects and raise donor funds. The PMUs would be strengthened
            through the appointment of CSERP liaison persons in the PMUs who would
            work with the PCU to identify training needs. These needs would be addressed
            either by training modules delivered by the PCU or by contracting out training
            to firms or NGOs. Participation in study tours and workshops would also be
            possible.

           Reinforcement of Local/Municipal Governments. The objective was to
            strengthen municipal capacity to support territorial cohesion and efficiency of
            administration. To this end, the PCU would conduct local/municipal capacity
            assessments which would inform the work of training teams to be established
            by firms or NGOs contracted under the project.

Component 4 – Program Management (total €3.0 m/ IBRD €1.0m). This component
would fund financial management, procurement, beneficiary outreach, technical support,
and monitoring and evaluation. Specifically, it would fund incremental operating costs
(including some salaries), goods, technical assistance, and training.




                                            29
Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Community Investment

Social Inclusion Sub-component (SI). Implementation of this sub-component was
satisfactory and the end of project target was exceeded. Notably, 125 SI sub-projects were
completed under the two Calls for Proposals compared to the target of 120, equivalent to 102%
of the target. The total number of beneficiaries served under this sub-component is 41, 639,
which compares favorably with the end of project target of 45,000. Among the sub-projects:

      37 involved activities geared towards 21,703 children and youth
      41 involved activities geared towards 24,873 elderly and disabled persons
      13 involved activities geared towards 4,530 unemployed persons
      34 involved activities aimed at simplifying access to social services in ASSC, i.e.
       for the benefit of the entire local community
      22 involved activities involved municipal and county cooperation in providing
       social services.

Box 1 provides illustrations of the types of projects financed through the sub-component
and the positive impacts. Table 1 provides additional data on the impacts of a larger
sample of subprojects.

Small Community Infrastructure Sub-Component.                     This sub-component was
satisfactorily implemented; 69 small community infrastructure sub-projects (the target was
60) were successfully completed, and 100 percent of beneficiaries reported satisfaction
with the activities. Its objective was to improve living conditions for communities by
ensuring better access to services and utilities through reconstruction of social and business
infrastructure. Through this sub-component, the following were renovated:

      14 primary schools,
      1 music school,
      9 kindergartens,
      1 sewage system,
      13 access roads,
      8 community centers,
      4 water supply systems,
      1 market,
      9 primary healthcare centers, and
      9 other facilities.

Economic Revitalization Sub-Component (ER). The implementation of this
subcomponent was satisfactory; 250 sub-projects were approved, and 211 of these were
successfully completed, compared to the project target of 240 (88% of the target). Job
creation under this sub-component was impressive, leading to the creation of 661 new jobs
(110% of end target). Total additional revenues generated through the ER sub-projects
were €11 million (HRK 81 million) through the support to SMEs and cooperatives. While
the overall end of project revenue target was not met due to the financial crisis, €11 million
is about 83% of the target, a very substantial achievement under the circumstances.


                                             30
                              Box 1: Sample Social Inclusion Subprojects


Organizing help in the home for elderly and disabled persons, Šibenik-Knin county, Kistanje
municipality. According to the 2001 census, there were 3,038 permanent residents in the Kistanje
municipality, and the elderly represented more than 70% of the population. Unfortunately, a large
number of this population lived in unfavorable economic conditions, are of poor health, and are
markedly isolated within the community, malnourished, and inadequately housed due to their low
income. Especially vulnerable are older women and widows who live alone and without regular
income, and are therefore unable to buy basic food and medicines. The project was aimed at providing
in-home assistance for the elderly (for example, house cleaning, help with personal hygiene). The total
value of the subproject was 645,190.00 kn (around €85.000), while the CSERP grant amounted to
510,000.00 kn. The project employed 9 staff and reached 127 persons.

Computerization and staff training at the rehabilitation center “Fra Ante Sekelez,? Split-Dalmatia
county, Vrilika municipality. The center provides care for persons with slight, moderate, and severe
mental disabilities and persons with multiple impairments. Prior to the project, the center had very little
IT equipment, which slowed the work flow as reflected in poor performance indicators. Due to the lack
of IT equipment, the rehabilitation unit staff was unable to monitor tuition and other activities involving
inmates in an organized manner. Also, most staff members were not accustomed to working with
computers because they were not available at their work places. Prior to the grant, staff had access to
only one computer that had been in use for 12 years. The project provided full IT support to the center
and financed procurement and provision of IT equipment, training on interpersonal skills and
knowledge, and state-of-the-art methods and skills in medical care. Every employee of the center was
involved in the training. During the two years of project implementation, IT equipment was purchased
and installed in the center. Rehabilitation of management software for public institutions was also
purchased and installed. The project involved 113 employees and 180 users. The computer equipment
financed by the subproject has considerably improved, facilitated, and speeded up their work.

Day care and assistance in the home for the elderly and the disabled in rural areas, Dubrovnik-
Neretva county, Dubrova?ko primorje municipality. According to the 2001 census, 25.7% of
inhabitants in the Dubrova?ko primorje municipality are over the age of 65; the share of the same age
group at the county level is 15.9%. Due to sparse population, distance between villages (4-5 km) and
large surface area, it has been extremely difficult to provide health and social welfare services to this
area. This subproject was carried out by the Dubrova?ko primorje municipality in cooperation with the
“Blage ruke? association. Subproject activities included purchases of: equipment needed in the day
care unit for the elderly and the disabled; IT equipment; a vehicle for field work; blood pressure, sugar
and fat measuring devices; and material used in the measuring process. The subproject encompassed
125 elderly and disabled individuals, coming from the wider area of the Dubrova?ko primorje
municipality. The instruments purchased made it possible to continue with activities aimed at helping
the elderly and the disabled, most of whom live in single-person households.

Preservation and promotion of the national heritage, cultural and artistic society “Hrastovi?ka gora,?
Sisak-Moslavina county, town of Petrinja. The main objective of the subproject was to increase social
inclusion to improve quality of life. Another objective was to involve children in the process of
preserving cultural heritage by purchasing folk costumes and musical instruments for the children's
dance group, a tamburitza children's band, and a group of seniors (singers and dancers). The society has
30 permanent adult members and 40 children under 15 years of age, and its activities include dance and
tamburitza sections and adult and children's groups. The society is led by two professionals, who are
also inhabitants of Hrastovica. These activities will encourage socializing, strengthen the feeling of
belonging to one's home area, and transfer the skills acquired to peers. The subproject will be continued
by the Sisak-Moslavina county and the town of Petrinja.

                                                    31
                          Table 1. Social Inclusion Component – Beneficiaries and Funding Sources



Name of Project/          Brief          Year     Beneficiary     Number          Number        Number of      Number of    Source of
   Location            Description      Started     Group       Beneficiaries   Beneficiaries   Employees      employees–   Funding
                                                                 (baseline)       (end of        (baseline -     (end of
                                                                                  project)          when        project)
                                                                                                   project
                                                                                                  initially
                                                                                                completed/
                                                                                                operational
Association of        Center for         2009      disabled           60             78               5            8        WB
persons with          support to                                                                                            Loan/State
disability            disabled                                                                                              Budget/
Slatina/Slatina       persons                                                                                               Other
                                                                                                                            donors
Nursery School        Hallo, world! –    2009      children           40             36              1             4        WB
Suhopolje             English                                                                                               Loan/State
                      playroom                                                                                              Budget/
                                                                                                                            Other
                                                                                                                            donors
Sveti Rok-            Mobile team        2009       youth             900           1000             0             0        WB
Institute of Public   for prevention                                                                                        Loan/State
health Virovitica -   of drug abuse                                                                                         Budget/
Podravina County      among school-                                                                                         Other
                      children                                                                                              donors

Tompojevci            Children           2009      children           400           526              3             6        WB
Municipality          playrooms in                                                                                          Loan/State
                      Tompojevci,                                                                                           Budget/
                      Nijemci,                                                                                              Other
                      Tovarnik and                                                                                          donors
                      Lovas




                                                                 32
Vukovar-Srijem      Introduction of   2009      all            100   150    1   3   WB
County              WEB-GIS                                                         Loan/State
                    System in the                                                   Budget/
                    Vukovar-                                                        Other
                    Srijem County                                                   donors

Nijemci             Wireless          2009      all            500   675    3   5   WB
Municipality        network                                                         Loan/State
                    TINTL                                                           Budget/
                                                                                    Other
                                                                                    donors
Home for Drug       Foundation of     2009     youth           25    22     4   6   WB
Addicts             the future                                                      Loan/State
"Zajednica                                                                          Budget/
Susret"                                                                             Other
                                                                                    donors
Dragalić            Revitalization    2009      all        1500      1600   6   8   WB
Municipality        of Dragalić                                                     Loan/State
                    Municipality                                                    Budget/
                    and                                                             Other
                    improvement                                                     donors
                    of life quality
                    for all the
                    inhabitants
Cluster "Posavina   Greenhouse of     2009   unemployed        60     38    3   4   WB
- povrće"           knowledge in                                                    Loan/State
                    Velika                                                          Budget/
                    Kopanica                                                        Other
                                                                                    donors




                                                          33
                    Box 2: Sample Small Community Infrastructure Subprojects

Building a livestock market, Lika-Senj county, Perušić municipality. The subproject was submitted by the
Perušić municipality with its partners, the Lovinac municipality and the Lika-Senj county department of the
Croatian Agricultural Extension Institute. The targeted group of beneficiaries was war-affected unemployed
persons who are agricultural producers. The subproject was used to set up the livestock market, to build a
business facility and to compile a database of agricultural producers.

Upgrading and paving with asphalt the street, Šibenik-Knin county, town of Drniš. The project upgraded
and paved the streets of the town of Drniš, thus ensuring better connectivity and improved access to services
and public goods in the town and contributing to a more favorable living environment. A total of 7 streets
were covered with asphalt – approximately 1 km of road. The subproject implementation has resulted in direct
benefits for 280 members of targeted groups and in indirect benefits for all the inhabitants of the town of
Drniš (3,332 inhabitants), as well as for all the inhabitants living in the area surrounding Drniš (14,647
inhabitants).

Reconstruction of the Me?en?ani district primary healthcare unit, Sisak-Moslavina county. The Sisak
healthcare center subproject for the reconstruction of the district primary healthcare unit located in the village
of Me?en?ani, in the municipality of Donji Kukuruzari, provided access to primary healthcare for the entire
population (over 2000 persons) of the wider municipality area, who live in the villages of Donja Velešnja,
Gornja Velešnja, Donji and Gornji Kukuruzari, Donji and Gornji Bjelovac, Bjelova?ki Kostreši, Umetići,
Knezovljani, Prevršac, Me?en?ani, Borojevići, Lov?a and Komogivina.

Reconstruction of the drinking water processing facility, Bjelovar-Bilogora county, town of Daruvar. This
subproject improved drinking water quality to encourage people to remain living in the war-affected area as
inhabitants. The area covered by the subproject has 22,500 inhabitants. The project provided for the dosage of
the coagulant solution introduced by a pump into the flocculator to be automated, with the dosage intensity
dependent on water condition. Unless community utility infrastructure is adequately maintained, no
development can be expected in the area; thus, this project is considered to be very valuable.

Reconstruction of the corridor and staircase in institution for professional rehabilitation, Bjelovar-
Bilogora county. The subproject ensured adequate working conditions in the institution for professional
rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. This workshop is one of four such workshops in the country, and
the only one in the ASSC. The subproject objective was to ensure inclusion of persons with disabilities into
the local community and facilitate their access and movement within the institution, especially for persons in
wheelchairs. The organization “Suvenir Nova? is the only institution in a wider area employing persons with
disabilities and offering them rehabilitation through work. The subproject was also designed to complement
the efforts of this institution and Bjelovar-Bilogora County to raise awareness in the society and in the
community that persons with disabilities are not a burden for society, and that such individuals should be
approached with understanding, not pity.

Conversion of the old cinema hall, Brod-Posavina county, the town of Otok. The town of Otok did not have
adequate premises to organize cultural and other social events. The inhabitants pointed out the problem
themselves, when, organized in various associations, they regularly submitted requests to the town council to
be provided with adequate premises for their activites. The town council was also aware of the problem,
although it was unable to make adequate premises available due to shortage of funds and other priorities.
There are more than 40 associations, covering every area of social activity, registered in the town and the most
numerous is the town association of pensioners with over 1,000 members. The total gross surface area of the
new facility is 612.30 m2.



                                                    34
                          Box 3: Sample Economic Revitalization Sub-Component


Increase production of trout and fish-based delicatessen productsc. The “Gacka? fish farm is part of the
company Leko d.o.o. Zagreb, branch Oto?ac. It is organized as a self-contained closed-system fish farm with
its own spawning of domesticated California trout and local brook trout, and production of these species for the
purpose of ranching natural waterways and for consumption. Today, this is a state-of-the-art facility with a
surface area of approximately 6.5 ha located at the source of the karst river Sina?ka Pu?ina (tributary of the
Gacka river), supplying fresh water to the fish farm, and the water is ecologically, based on its physical and
chemical parameters, among the purest waters in Europe. The investment encompassed the fish pond purchase
and its reconstruction, construction of facilities, purchase of the necessary equipment, and obtaining export
registration number for the EU and USA for farming and processing facilities. The subproject “Increasing
Production of Trout and Fish Delicatessen? resulted in increasing production capacity from 150 to 300 tons of
trout a year with a 50% increase in employment. The total project investment was 3,715,353.00 kn, and the
CSERP grant was 970,000.00 kn. The subproject resulted in enlargement of the ponds, employment of 12 new
staff, and introduction of HACCP and SSOP systems.

Increase energy efficiency of the export-oriented wood product manufacturing cycle. Wood product
manufacturing center Glina d.o.o. used the project to revitalize the wood processing industry in the Glina
region and set up an export-oriented and competitive wood product manufacturing process. Increases in
production-cycle energy efficiency resulted in savings on energy expenses and benefited the manufacturing
process by increasing volumes of production and the company total revenue and profit. One of the key
objectives was to offer full time jobs to professionally skilled workers. Of the total project investment of
2,431,819.18 kn, CSERP contributed 648,819.18 kn, which was used to build a transformer station
TS10(20)/0,4kV, purchase electrical installation material and equipment, procure equipment to adapt the boiler
plant for the use of biomass, and finance installation of equipment and works to adapt the boiler plant. The
following project objectives were met: savings were made on energy expenses of at least 30 %, manufacturing
volumes were increased by at least 30 %, and revenues and profits rose by at least 40 %. Instead of the 15
planned, 20 professionally skilled persons were employed by the subproject end; another 80 will be employed
by the end of this project.

Construction and refurbishment of production and warehousing facility. The grant was used by the
company to purchase a machine, CNC Plazma TYP ZEVS 3,15 AHC, and to build a manufacturing and
warehousing facility with surface area of 1,000 m2. The core activity of the company is production of
ventilation systems with 70% of their revenues coming from exports. TEHNO FILTER d.o.o. employs young
professionals and will be socially sensitive and responsible in their future operations and development. The
company will use its current cooperation relationships (already in place with the company TOS Kneževo) to
entice networking and professional cooperation among business entities and local self-government units in their
industry, thus contributing to social cohesion, which is an important element of further economic and social
development of the community. Tehno filter d.o.o. was awarded the yearly “Zlatna kuna? prize as the most
successful small company in 2008.

Manufacturing footwear with the PU sole injection technology. The subproject was used to purchase
footwear production line using PU sole injection technology. The new production line will enable the
manufacturer Borovo to introduce a new method of PU sole injection technology, a service that was earlier
contracted from external suppliers. The new technology will enable the manufacturer to make shoe soles with a
special anti-shock amortizing effect in the heel side. There are 15 workers on the new production line in each
shift as well as assistant workers and technology specialists, and a total of 120 new jobs were created due to the
new investment.



                                                       35
Demining Component

All demining activities were satisfactorily completed by June 30, 2010. During two calls
for proposals, CROMAC received 866 requests and 420 were approved and implemented.
The total area demined under the project is 12,185,445 m2 (102% of the target). This
facilitated improved economic activity across the range of beneficiaries including:
individual citizens; family farms; cooperatives; SMEs; associations; public institutions;
local governments.

The activities in this component were intended to provide the community with an
opportunity to realize anticipated potential through investment subprojects without any risk
from mine accidents. The financial means allocated in the framework of CSERP were
intended for providing support to farmers and reconstruction of the existing infrastructure.
This required demining of mine suspected areas.

During project implementation, it was especially important to define mine suspected areas
in ASSC in order to ensure safety and better working conditions for all interested parties:
war-affected population, family businesses, local administration units, cooperative
businesses, public institutions, organizations within the community, small and medium
enterprises. As envisaged, the implementation of the component enabled the realization of
preconditions for faster social and economic development and strengthening of social
cohesion in ASSC.

Institutional Development Component

Implementation of the component is moderately satisfactory. Substantial amounts of
funding from this component, deemed no longer necessary, were reallocated to the
Econimic Revitalization Sub-Component. The last reallocation of €738,000 was made on
July 13, 2010. Notwithstanding these reallocations, the results achieved under this
component were significant, particuarly in the early part of project implementation when
most of the institutional development activities were viewed as essential. About 5,000
representatives of central, regional, and local level officials as well as the civil society
sector benefitted from the project’s capacity building and training activities.

In addition to the above, staff in the PMU and sub-project managers highlighted their new
knowledge and skills in project management, internet and computer (e.g., project managers
in kindergartens Veliki Grđevac i Suhopolje reported that their computer skills were very
low prior to the project), public procurement rules, and communicating with citizens. The
PMU also noted that several of the PCU staff have found placement in other more senior
level positions in other ministries/agencies.




                                            36
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

A brief assessment of project costs and benefits is provided in the following sections. In
keeping with the general experience in the Bank with post-completion assessments for
similar multi-beneficiary projects, ex-post estimates of ERR, FRR, and NPV have not been
made for the project. The possibilities for carrying out alternative quantitative assessments,
using other indicators of cost-benefit effectiveness, are limited by data constraints. The
assessments below are therefore largely qualitative. However, where possible, data
available from the M&E system are supplemented by data obtained on a sample basis
during field visits to some of the project’s beneficiaries.

Community Investment Component

Social Inclusion and Small Community Infrastructure Subcomponents

The economic impacts of the Social Inclusion and Small Community Infrastructure
subprojects are not easily quantifiable, but a qualitative indication is provided by the
outputs realized from the subprojects (listed in Annex 3). Thus, the social inclusion
subprojects improved access to community-based services and activities. The small
community infrastructure subprojects helped to improve the living conditions of
communities, including those that were un-served or under-served, by expanding access to
services and public utilities through rehabilitation of small-scale social and economic
infrastructure, including primary schools, health and cultural facilities, market places,
feeder roads, small bridges, water supply, irrigation and drainage, and waste collection and
disposal. A technical audit of these subprojects was carried out in June 2009 by an
independent consultant engaged by the PCU. In regard to cost-effectiveness, the
consultant’s report confirmed that: (a) subproject outputs were suitable in relation to the
project objectives; (b) designs were generally appropriate with only some minor defects in
some cases; (c) the construction work conformed to the designs and specifications; (d) the
proposed O&M arrangements were acceptable; and (e) cost estimation guidelines were
followed and the bid prices came in close to the cost estimates.

Economic Revitalization Subcomponent

Project Design Features. Economic revitalization subprojects were intended to support
the development of farm and other income generation activities in local communities. The
project was expected to contribute to increased opportunities for small businesses and
cooperatives. These outcomes were expected to enhance social cohesion by creating a
more secure base for community revitalization. Three types of economic revitalization
activities were envisaged:

      Building the productive capacity of existing cooperatives and of small and medium
       enterprises (SMEs)
      Supporting the start-up of new cooperatives (NCs)
      Capacity-building for cooperative development and SME support services

The selection criteria were to favor subprojects that contributed to the following:


                                             37
      Job creation
      Increase in industrial, processing, or agro-industrial output
      Improvement of the marketing environment
      Introduction of new or innovative technologies
      Increased networking

For eligible existing cooperatives and SMEs, grants from the Bank loan proceeds were to
be made up to a maximum of 27% of total project cost with a maximum amount of
€135,000 per subproject, with the beneficiary providing an equity contribution of at least
10%, the balance coming from other sources, including commercial bank loans. For new
cooperatives, the grants could be made up to 80 - 85% of project cost with a maximum
ceiling of €120,000.

Implementation Results. Under the ER component, a total of 250 contracts were signed for
subprojects of which 39 were either cancelled or withdrawn; 211 subprojects were
completed (against the end-of-project target of 240). Among the completed subprojects,
151 were for existing cooperatives and SMEs, and 60 supported new cooperatives. The
main sectors for the SME subprojects were: agro-industries and food processing,
construction related materials and services, metal products, wood products, and transport
services. The vast majority of the new cooperatives were engaged in agriculture or farm
related activities. With regard to subproject financing:

For existing cooperatives and SMEs

      Grants totaled €15.10 million for a total of 151 subprojects for an average value of
       grant of €100,000 per subproject;

      Grant financing accounted on average for about 17% (ranging from 10% to the
       maximum of 27%) of total project financing; the beneficiaries contributed about
       25 % from own resources, and the balance of around 58% came largely from
       commercial bank loans;

For new cooperatives (NCs)

      Grants totaled € 2.60 million for a total of 60 subprojects for an average value of
       grant of about €43,300 per subproject;
      Grant financing accounted for about 50% (ranging from 20% to a maximum of
       85%) of total project costs, the balance coming from the beneficiaries’ own
       resources or from commercial bank loans.

Economic Costs and Benefits. The subprojects were undertaken in the selected ASSC at a
time when unemployment rates were higher and average incomes lower than the national
averages. In this environment, in aggregate, the subprojects contributed to improving the
employment and income situation in the participating ASSC not only through their direct
incremental impacts on employment and incomes but, importantly, through their
significant backward and forward linkage effects through purchases from suppliers and
sales to customers. Linkage effects were particularly noticeable in the case of agro-
industries, farming, construction-related, and service industries. In some cases, the

                                             38
subprojects provided incremental employment at a time when total employment in the
concerned area was declining due to layoffs by large industrial units. A partial list of SME
subprojects is given in the table attached to this Annex. Based on this sample, as shown in
the table below, the annual revenues generated by the grants show an average increase of
20 percent during the project period. However, data limitations preclude a more detailed
disaggregated analysis at the levels of subprojects, industrial sectors, or participating
regions. However, at the aggregate level, based on the available data from the M&E
system, the 211 subprojects’ direct incremental economic contributions were the
following:

      Additional employment of 661 jobs or an average of 3 jobs per subproject; this
       exceeded the revised target of 500 jobs at project completion that had been set at
       project restructuring in June 2009; and
      Additional revenue of about €11 million (or 77% of the end-of-project target value).

These incremental impacts could possibly have been higher but were subject to a number
of constraining factors:

      Initial delays in the implementation of the ER component as a result of which,
       while procurement of goods and services was completed by the project completion
       date, not all the subprojects achieved the levels of intended operations or
       production; and
      The adverse changes in the macro-economic environment due to the global
       financial crisis starting early 2009 and ongoing through 2010 which (i) affected
       operations through reduced demand for products or suppliers’ difficulties in timely
       deliveries, and (ii) resulted in decreased availability of commercial bank financing.

Demining Component

Funding provided for demining under the CSERP was about EUR 15.54 million which
accounted for about 6% of the total funding for demining in Croatia in the period 2005 to
2010. A total of about 12.2 km2 were cleared under the project. Beneficiaries included a
mix of entities: private and family businesses, cooperatives, SMEs, associations, public
institutions, and local authorities. A majority (about 83%) of the demining interventions
were for demining of agricultural land in line with the requests of the end users.
Equipment purchased under the project enabled an improvement in the quality and
intensity of on-site monitoring and enhanced safety and control for the inspection. The
implementation of the demining component contributed to the increasing trend in demining
performance in the period 2006 to 2009 as reflected in the annual area demined (from 25
km2 to nearly 40 km2) and annual number of mines destroyed (2,500 to 8,500).
Concurrently, the number of civilian casualties per year declined from 12 in 2005 to 3 in
2010. With regard to cost-effectiveness, an indicator of the progressive cost efficiency
over the period 2005 to 2010 is the declining trend in terms of cost per km2 of mined area.
Prior to adjustment for annual price inflation, this declined from about HRK 8.4 per m2 in
2005 to about HRK 7.8 per m2 in 2010. The efficiency gains would be higher if adjusted
for annual price inflation.




                                            39
                          Incremental Impact of Small and Medium Enterprises (Sample)
  Name of                        Grant         Number of employees                 Annual revenues       Incremental   % Increase
                                amount                                                                     increase    in Annual
                                                                                                                        Revenue



 enterprise                     (HRK                                                         (HRK 000)
                                 000)
                                          Baseline   End of         Incremental   Baseline    End of     Incremental
                                                     project                                  project                    


Metalni Ijev   Metal industry      800        210        235                25      80,000     89,000         9,000         11.25%

Leko           Trout farming       972         40         52                12      45,000     53,800         8,800         19.56%

Tim Topusko    Metal industry      772         60         67                 7      65,000     71,000         6,000          9.23%

Borovo Kozna   Footwear            800        200        304               104      75,000    110,000        35,000         46.67%
Obujca         manufacture

Chromos        Paints &            972         60         90                30      55,000     72,000        17,000         30.91%
Svjetlost      varnishes
Eko Velebit    Environ.            972         10         31                21       1,800      3,600         1,800         100.00%
               protection
Krka Knin      Metal industry      972        169        213                44       5,500      8,800         3,300         60.00%

Drvni Centar   Wood               648.8        45         60                15      27,000     32,000         5,000         18.52%
Glina          industry

Gamauf         Wood                894         48         69                21       8,200     10,800         2,600         31.71%
               industry




                                                               40
Filakov         Food industry     972     3   14    11    2,000    5,000   3,000   150.00%

Tehno Filter    Environ.         818.9   23   34    11    2,300    3,500   1,200   52.17%
                protection
Baretid         Food industry     972     4   12     8   13,000   17,000   4,000   30.77%

Arator          Agriculture       972    57   72    15   21,300   26,500   5,200   24.41%

Vinarija        Agriculture       972     5    9     4    1,200    2,100    900    75.00%
Grabovac
Mini Klaonica   Food industry    152.5    1    3     2     450      850     400    88.89%
Petrovac

Stolarija       Furniture        146.2    3    5     2    1,100    1,400    300    27.27%
Lapcac
Dalmaturist     Tourism          209.5    3    5     2    1,100    1,500    400    36.36%
Centar
Minigradnja     Construction      972    62   62     0   30,629   33,000   2,371    7.74%

Faza            Electrical         966    6   13    7     1,600    2,400    800    50.00%
Mesnice Grcic   Meat industry    373.6    3    4    1     1,200    1,450    250    20.83%

Medita          Metal industry    972    11   12    1    17,000   19,000   2,000   11.76%

Ivan I          Tourism           972     4    5     1      800    1,500    700    87.50%
Puljic          Food industry     540     8    9     1    1,700    2,100    400    23.53%

Vital           Wood             201.6    8   10     2    2,500    2,800    300    12.00%
                industry
IM Commerce     Wood             511.3    9    9     0    6,500    6,900    400     6.15%
                industry
Tomaic          Food industry    954.2   11   13     2    5,100    6,200   1,100   21.57%
Commerce




                                               41
Jago Komerc     Transport         972     23    23    0    11,800   14,200   2,400   20.34%

Drnis           Transport         810     43    43    0    35,200   39,500   4,300   12.22%
Commerce
Karl Dietz      Orthopedic        972     10    10     0   12,000   14,500   2,500   20.83%

Elmo            Electrical         972    17    26    9     4,500    6,800   2,300   51.11%
Katavic         Furniture          972    11    11    0     3,200    4,300   1,100   34.38%
Plemic          Construction     971.7    11    11    0    15,300   16,500   1,200    7.84%

Spelic          Construction      955     40    42     2   18,200   21,400   3,200   17.58%

Flagor          Vulcanization     405      9    12    3     1,900    2,600    700    36.84%

PZ Mas          Agriculture       220      3     5    2     2,300    3,100    800    34.78%

Slavijatrans    Transportation   493.4   119   119    0    33,800   35,500   1,700   5.03%

P. Obrt         Agriculture       63.5     1     1    0      260      430     170    65.38%
Vanjek
Protein         Agriculture      267.8    44    46    2    36,900   41,300   4,400   11.92%

Kufner          Food industry    415.5     1     3    2      700     1,350    650    92.86%

Eling           Construction      972     11    11     0    1,700    2,200    500    29.41%

Cezareja        Agriculture      510.3     8     9     1   40,500   43,300   2,800   6.91%

Toka Pan        Tourism          908.4     6     8     2    1,800    3,200   1,400   77.78%
Promet
O. Vinarija     Agriculture      684.7    12    24    12   35,000   44,500   9,500   27.14%
Josic
Elektromontaz   Electrical        143      3     3    0      950     1,200    250    26.32%




                                                 42
KIsilj         Agriculture      399.7   9    9     0    6,200    7,400   1,200   19.35%

PZ Ornice      Agriculture       837     6    6    0    2,400    3,100    700    29.17%

PZ Stocarska   Agriculture       972     1    2    1    2,600    3,700   1,100   42.31%

Bor Plastika   Environ.          972    20   20    0    6,700    7,800   1,100   16.42%
               protection
Bebrinka       Agriculture       201    69   76    7   15,500   18,900   3,400   21.94%

PZ Napredak    Agriculture       837     7   10    3    2,600    3,700   1,100   42.31%

Lucidus        Construction     475.5   20   20    0    4,100    5,300   1,200   29.27%

PZ Nase Selo   Agriculture       972    50   52    2   36,700   41,500   4,800   13.08%

Ergo           Metal industry   377.9   33   34    1   13,900   15,800   1,900   13.67%

ers            Agriculture      856.3   10   12    2    1,200    1,900    700    58.33%

Elba           Construction      108     7    8    1    3,700    4,700   1,000   27.03%

Trim Projekt   Metal industry    945    15   16    1    3,100    4,200   1,100   35.48%

MB D.o.o.      Agriculture      338.5    1    1    0     650     1,100    450    69.23%

PZ Jankovci    Agriculture       972    65   65    0   61,400   64,500   3,100   5.05%

Zlato          Agriculture       185     2    3    1    1,200    1,600    400    33.33%

MS Promet      Transport        909.4    3    8    5    2,200    3,400   1,200   54.55%

GIS Sinac      Water bottling   237.4   5    5     0     800     1,100    300    37.50%




                                              43
Nileks         Agriculture       972    14   20    6   10,500   14,600   4,100   39.05%

Zagrebprokro   Viulcanization    972    12   14    2   16,000   19,600   3,600   22.50%

Flintstones    Ornamental        270     3    3    0     380      570     190    50.00%
               stone
Exclusive      Food industry    742.5   75   75    0   27,800   32,800   5,000   17.99%
Tours
Radnik         Environ.         405.6    6    7    1    2,000    2,800    800    40.00%
               protection
Konavle        Metal industry    900     6    6    0    3,900    4,800    900    23.08%
Metal
MZZ            Agriculture       972     1    1    0     350     1,200    850    242.86%
Branitelja
Tusak          Food industry     972    33   33    0    8,000   10,500   2,500   31.25%

Probis         Metal industry    972     9    9    0    2,500    3,600   1,100   44.00%

PZ Sava        Agriculture      226.7    3    6    3    2,200    3,100    900    40.91%
Jasenovac
Krajcer        Transport        452.4    5    5    0    1,600    2,200     600   37.50%
Autopromet     Transport        825.5   40   40    0   12,000   14,500   2,500   20.83%

Kordun         Food industry     259    85   87    2   40,700   43,300   2,600    6.39%

Biscan         Wood              972     5    5    0    3,200    4,100    900    28.13%
               industry
Sulog          Food industry    961.2    3    3    0    2,500    4,600   2,100   84.00%

PZ Lovas       Agriculture       875     5    6    1   23,500   26,400   2,900   12.34%

Agrobiv        Agriculture      966.8   53   54    1   19,600   22,900   3,300   16.84%




                                              44
Instalacije      Metal industry       970          18          18           0          2,500        3,300          800        32.00%

Furnir Otok     Construction          972           2           3          1            600         1,600         1,000       166.67%

Citrus          AgrIculture           729           8           9           1          1,800        2,500          700        38.89%

Elatio          Construction          972           7           7          0           3,100        4,700         1,600       51.61%

Eko Gradnja      Construction        953.8        170         171           1         31,500       35,600         4,100       13.02%

Enigma          Food industry        844.2          6           6          0            990         1,500          510        51.52%

Elekta           Metal industry      680.4         19          31         12           8,500       12,500         4,000       47.06%

Total                             60,623         2,346       2,785        439   1,118,659      1,343,050        224,391       20.06%
Source: Project Coordination Unit                                                                                          
Note: There was a total of 211 subprojects
in this subcomponent; the above is a
sample of 84.




                                                                 45
Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                          Responsibility/
             Names                      Title                   Unit
                                                                            Specialty
Lending
 Gloria La Cava           Sr. Social Scientist                MNSSO    Co-TTL
 Mark C. Woodward         Sustainable Development Leader      EASPS    Co-TTL
 Antonia G. Viyachka      Procurement Specialist              ECSO2    Procurement
 Paula F. Lytle           Sr. Social Development Specialist   AFTCS    Social Development
 Pierre-Olivier Colleye   Sr. Microfinance Specialist         ECSSD    Finance
 Vera Dugandzic           Operations Officer                  ECSS4    Operations Officer
Jacques Bure              Consultant                          ECSSD    Demining
Irina Kichigina           Senior Counsel                      LEGEC    Lawyer
Daria Goldstein           Counsel                             LEGEC    Lawyer
Mohammed Nawaz            Councel                             LEGEC    Lawyer
Andrina Ambrose           Senior Finance Officer              LOAG1    Finance
Elmas Arisoy              Senior Procurement Specialist       ECAPS    Procurement
Antonia G. Viyachka       Procurement Analyst                 ECSPS    Procurement
                                                              Banca
Laura Foschi              Microfinance Expert                          Finance
                                                              Etica
                                                                       Environmental
Rita Klees                Senior Environmental Specialist     ECSSD
                                                                       Safeguards
Karin Shepardson          Senior Operations Officer           ECSSD    Environment
Radhika Srinivasan        Senior Social Scientist             ECSSD    Social Safeguards
Sylvie Tillier            Agricultural Economist              FAO      Agriculture
Natalia Cherevatova       Senior Program Assistant            ECCUA
Supervision/ICR

Gloria La Cava            Sr. Social Scientist                MNSSO    Co-TTL
Mark C. Woodward          Sustainable Development Leader      EASPS    Co-TTL
Vera Dugandzic            Operations Officer                  ECSS4    TTL
Antonia G. Viyachka       Procurement Specialist              ECSO2    Procurement
Keith W. McLean           Senior Social Economist             ECSS4    Social Dev. Economist
Michael Gascoyne          Sr. Resource Management Officer     CFRPA
Paula F. Lytle            Sr. Social Development Specialist   AFTCS  Social Dev.& TTL
Lamija Marijanovic        Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3  Fin. Management
Mirela Mart               Consultant                          ECSOQ  Fin. Management
Fabio Drago               Consultant                          ECSSD  EU Issues
                                                                     Monitoring and
Elvis Fraser              Consultant                           ECSSD
                                                                     Evaluation
                                                                     ER Component/
Kishore Nadkarni          Consultant                           EASCS
                                                                     Economic Analysis
David Rowe                Demining Expert/Consultant
Irene Bomani              Senior Program Assistant            ECSSD
Ljiljana Boranic          Team Assistant                      ECCHR
Valencia M. Copeland      Program Assistant                   ECSSD
Beaulah C. Noble          Program Assistant                   ECSS4
Coral Bird                Program Assistant                   ECSSD

                                            46
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                       3                        78.55
  FY03                                      23                       150.60
  FY04                                      37                       141.23
  FY05                                      36                       200.75
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00

                          Total:            99                       571.13
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                       3                         7.88
  FY06                                      29                        87.58
  FY07                                      34                       117.46
  FY08                                      29                       146.76
  FY09                                      14                         0.00

                          Total:        109                          359.68




                                       47
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results

An independent social research firm carried out a beneficiary assessment (BA) in early
2010 to help determine the extent to which the project was meeting its objectives, how
project beneficiaries perceived the project’s impact and sustainability, and lessons learned.
The BA encompassed a quantitative survey with 281 respondents; in-depth interviews with
project managers, representatives of local authorities, and beneficiaries; and focus group
discussions with representatives of enterprise employees and beneficiaries of the Social
Inclusion sub-projects. The BA covered the experience of 25 projects: 9 from Dalmatia
and surrounding areas, 7 from Central Croatia, and 9 from the Slavonia region. The
subprojects were selected on a random basis and included social inclusion, small
community infrastructure, economic revitalization, and demining investments.

The overall findings and conclusions of the BA were that the project was implemented
successfully, was adequately presented to the public, had impacts encompassing a wide
spectrum of beneficiaries and spreading to whole local communities, led to numerous
initiatives aimed at improving living conditions in local communities,            led to
improvements in ASSC standard of living, and led to visible and measurable
improvements in the material and psychological impacts on the quality of life of citizens
in ASSC. According to the BA, some specific results of the projects are:
   (a) Most employees and final beneficiaries were involved in the projects' planning and
       implementation (for example, in Kindergarten of Veliki Grđevac municipality, the
       project manager consulted staff and children about the selection and procurement
       of equipment and teaching materials)
   (b) Projects strengthened companies and institutions in many ways:
     (i)   new workers were employed in all subprojects within the economic component)
     (ii)  the number of goods and services increased (for example, the Primary School in
           the town of Benkovac introduced a number of new extra-curricular activities for
           children)
     (iii) the quality of goods and services increased (for example, the quality of shoes
           produced with a new technology in the shoe factory Borovo increased)
     (iv) new quality standards were implemented (for example, Spiroflex Company Ltd.
           introduced new quality standards in the production of metal compensators)
     (v) satisfaction of the workers was high in all subprojects
     (vi) work efficiency increased.

   (c) Projects added value through:

     (i)    increased cooperation among people in the local community (for example, in
            the municipality Bilje, cooperatives, local government, businesses, citizens
            intensively cooperate and are making coordinated efforts to realize their
            strategy for tourism development)
     (ii)   improved infrastructure in the area
     (iii) satisfaction resulting from the projects (for example, in all programs of
           assistance and home care, the elderly expressed immense satisfaction with the

                                             48
             services they received, especially because they have got the feeling that
             someone cares about them and that they are still important to someone)

    (d) Cooperation among sectoral actors increased (for example, in the Association
        Hepatos’ project of informing and sensitizing local communities about viral
        hepatitis, there has been multidisciplinary collaboration of various bodies,
        associations, and organizations, including media and health sectors)

    (e) Everyone considered the quality of new products and services to be extremely high
        (for example, in the therapeutic community Susret, new services for addicts have
        been introduced, with recruitment of new professional staff: occupational therapist,
        social worker, psychiatrist, and psychologist).

    (f) People involved in the project do not perceive any obstacles in obtaining CSERP
        programs and funds, and there were no unexpected negative consequences.

    (g) Cooperation between employees and project managers was evaluated very
        positively, as well as cooperation between project managers and local authorities,
        the efficiency of county and regional coordination units, technical assistance from
        the CSERP team, and the Ministry.

    (h) Staff in the PMU and sub-project managers highlighted their new knowledge and
        skills gained in project management, the Bank’s procurement rules, and
        communicating with citizens, and some local authorities representatives learned
        first-hand the importance of communicating with citizens.
The following are some key findings and sample responses from project stakeholders.

Project Managers. All project managers reported on the success of the subprojects and
on having achieved their goals. Projects were mostly intended for all of the inhabitants of
the places where they were implemented, with an emphasis on special groups: returnees,
residents of rural areas, the unemployed, women, children and youth, the disabled, addicts
and especially people with viral hepatitis. The subprojects employed the expected number
of participants and volunteers as well as part-time workers. Managers reported new quality
standards and workers' satisfaction with work conditions. Sample responses are:

“We reached our goals, we employed people who previously had difficulty in finding employment, women
over 40 as gerontology nurses and our aid worker was a veteran" F,46

"The project was very successful because it ensured the availability of social and health services for the
elderly in and around the town of Obrovac. Our target groups were people over 65 with a lower socio-
economic status. We wanted to show them that someone cares about them." F, 63

"I consider the project a success because it helped inform the public about viral hepatitis and teach people
about its prevention." F, 37

"Within this project, we have employed a social worker, a psychiatrist, and a psychologist, all of which
helped us to improve the quality of our services and our relationship with the local community." F, 47




                                                    49
Representatives of local authorities regard the project as a success and note particularly
the satisfaction of special groups in the community.

"We have given facilities to people in rural areas to take care of the elderly which make up 25% of our
population" M, 42

"As a result of this project, the beneficiaries who are in touch with the civilian life are very different than
before, much more prepared for this life which I believe would be impossible without help from the experts."
M, 38

"The project had a very good influence on the day care centre - new employees and a greater level of
satisfaction in parents." M, 50


Employees of institutions reported a high degree of satisfaction with the project especially
because it gave them employment. Others felt an improvement in working conditions
(equipment), and specific groups, such as the geronto-housekeepers, felt great satisfaction
in helping the elderly and the disabled throughout all regions. There also was a very
positive opinion on interdisciplinary cooperation among various associations. All
employees who filled out the additional questionnaires noted that the projects had a great
influence on their institutions.

“The project was very successful and significant for the whole community, cross-sectoral cooperation has
really increased, and mainly we improved cooperation with the Department of Public Health.? Male, 58
"We are happy because our situation is improved and someone in the family is working and we finally have
money." Female, 46

"We, the teachers got better teaching materials which enable us to do our jobs better." Female, 30

"I have more money, and I am happier and more content. I decided to have a baby because I couldn't afford it
before." Female, 40

Final beneficiaries emphasized positive changes in their quality of life. This category
encompasses parents of the children attending the project-supported day care centres, the
elderly, addicts in therapeutic communities, and people with viral hepatitis. The elderly
agree that the project has improved their quality of life - for them having someone to take
care of them and to talk to was the most important factor. Parents noted that their children
were happy and learning through games in day care centres. Users related to the viral
hepatitis project speak of a more informed public and feeling the burden of the illness's
stigma to a lesser extent. Users of communities are happy with the services they received;
around 90% of the people who filled out the questionnaires stated that their quality of life
is increased along with the quality of services offered by institutions.

"It had a great influence because we can attend foreign language classes here, we don't have to travel to
Zadar and the children are in a familiar environment." Male, 32

"The woman who came every time I called her helped me a lot although she doesn't know me or my sons. I
am alone in this house with the ghosts of the dead." Female, 80

"These stories motivated me to get treatment. The stigma is not as strong anymore." Male, 45




                                                     50
Small Community Infrastructure

All project Managers report on the success of the projects and on achieved goals. Most
have specific projects for taking care of their environment. They consider the project had a
great influence on the quality of the services they provide and on their satisfaction with
work. Some managers report employing new personnel and added efficiency. The projects
affected all inhabitants of the regions. Estimates of actual numbers vary. The institutions
were useful to everyone for whom they were intended.

"We have achieved our goals. When we reconstructed the roof, all residents came out to see it and all were
thrilled." Male, 54

"The project was a success, the home was built and the inhabitants of Voćarica gained a meeting place."
Male, 35

"The project contributed that the youth have a special place in which to work, meet and be inspired, exchange
knowledge, develop new projects and spend their free time in a constructive manner." Male, 62



Representatives of local authorities also considered the projects to be a success. New
facilities enabled all inhabitants, children, and youth to assemble and learn together.
Residents of project communities concluded that they are satisfied.

“We're all happy, the school was in bad condition but now everything is better." Male, 55

"This project was more than successful because we have gained a valuable meeting place for all members of
our society." M, 56

"Number of employees increased which I think is important for every community." M, 55

"We got an adequate and hygienic space for the day care center which takes care of all of their needs." M, 39

Employees of the institutions from the project consider the project a success. Renewed
facilities enabled better self-actualization through work. The quality of services and of life
is increased among those who were employed because of the project. Employees of the
institutions from the project perceive greater satisfaction of their users. Over 90% stated
that the project had a great influence on their institution; 83% thinks the same about the
project's influence on them personally, while 94% believe that the quality of their services
is greatly increased. Around 80% believe that their institution was fortified (which was the
main objective of this component).

"Children are happier along with the employees, and the school is safer and more beautiful." Female, 56

"Well, my child can learn folk dancing here for free and I don't have to drive him anywhere. The project had
a great impact on me." Male, 54

"The sanitary facilities were reconstructed, it was a dump before, it's beautiful now, the quality of life is
better, it's satisfying and pleasant." Female, 50

"Besides the facilities, our children can learn dancing, singing and drawing which also improved our service
to the inhabitants." Male, 55

"We are trainees and we were given the opportunity for gainful employment." Female, 30

                                                     51
Final beneficiaries of this component were parents of children attending day care centre,
users of healthcare, elderly and the disabled. The project made them feel better about their
children safety. From interviews in can be concluded that the youth were given facilities
for healthy socialising and creativity. This is also true for the disabled. Around 80% (from
32) state that the project had a great effect on their quality of life.

"My personal benefit is to see my child attend school happily and with joy." Female, 43
"The mold was a big problem along with the fear of the roof collapsing while the children are in school. We
feel much safer now." Male, 46

"After it was empty for 10 years and without any social activity, now there's a lot going on. We have folk
dancing and sports, and the youth have various happenings, activities, and meetings." Male, 70

"We renewed the stairway, enabled access to the disabled, bought new machines and educated people most
of whom we have hired." Male, 29



Economic Revitalization

Managers of the economic projects report on the great success of the projects, profit
increase, higher service quality, new workplaces, good cooperation with local and regional
authorities, new quality standards and greater efficiency and contentment. Estimates of the
number of people affected vary from a few dozen to a hundred thousand people (all
inhabitants of the region).

"I have given work to youth in Hrvace but others are planning this as well and I can advise them." M, 50
"Quite a few new people were hired and we kept the existing workplaces which is noteworthy especially in a
time of economic crisis; we also increased production by 20-30%, and on the basis of new funds we're
receiving, we equipped this facility which increased production and made us more competitive on the
market." M, 46

"The project was a success because we increased production, got more equipment, opened more workplaces
and improved organisation." F, 29

"We employed a great number of people from the area of special state care which has certainly improved
their family and social life." F, 29

Representatives of local authorities also say the project was a success. They note that the
local community recognised the benefit of this project, especially the unemployed and the
veterans) who have gained employment thanks to it.

"Employed people feel safer, their standard of living is improved and they can organise their lives within the
framework of the municipality." M, 26

"Most of his employees are veterans whose jobs help them more with PTSS than being retired." M, 26

"Project yielded excellent results. The company "Protein" is working very well, it's expanding and employing
local people which has a positive influence on the entire community." M, 45




                                                     52
Employees of the companies in CSERP state the project was a success. Some of them
gained employment because of it, they feel safer, companies' business is better and the
quality of life is increased. They feel safer and are happy because they didn't have to leave
their towns. Over 90% (from 56) feel that the quality of their services is greatly improved
and that the project's influence on their company was great. Between 60 and 80% of the
employees note a production increase, new workplaces, greater satisfaction and efficiency.
80.3% of the participants feel that the project affected them personally.

"There's more money, the pay is secured and regular." M, 36
"There’s greater security and you feel much better if you have a job, especially if you have a family." M, 30

"Our working conditions are excellent which contributes to the health of the employees." F, 35

"I have more money and I'm happy I don't have to work out of town" M, 32

Demining

The manager of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which is in charge of the demining
component, stated the project had multiple benefits. A great number of people were able to
farm their land again. It influenced their and their families' lives for the better. There are
possibilities for village and hunting tourism. In some places the surrounding areas reaped
some of the benefits because the channels which go through larger areas were demined.

"We estimate that around 1500 people benefitted from this project and 6000 if we take into consideration the
broader community." M, 40

"There's an increase in security in local self management. We had demining requests from hunting
associations. There are opportunities for hunting and village tourism. In the town of Skradin, roads were
demined which enabled more traffic and safe passage for tourists and goods." M, 40

"The project was a definite success, 12 km2 were supposed to be demined and this goal was met." M, 40

Representatives of local authorities feel that this experience has increased the social
cohesion of the inhabitants.

"Implementation was a success, we reached our goal. It's not just about the roads but also about places where
people live and can safely come back to." M, 42

"The project had a marked positive influence on the inhabitants, especially in terms of agriculture. Now they
have jobs and a source of income which also keep young people in villages. People help each other and
interpersonal relations are bettered." M, 30

"I consider the project a success because we have reduced the amount of the land suspect of mines and
people have their land back and can earn their living." M, 54

Final beneficiaries (owners of demined land) are pleased because they can use their land
again.
"Everything was well, land by the road was demined so we could renew the road which leads to the farming
zone." beneficiary, Skradin

"It meant a lot to us when the land was demined because we could grow crops." M, 58

                                                     53
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A stakeholder workshop was not carried out.




                                          54
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

CSERP was a multi-sectoral project that focused on issues of sustainable development and
reconstruction of war-affected and areas in the Republic of Croatia (RoC) falling below the
average level of development in the country, referred to as the Areas of Special State
Concern (ASSC). The Government of Croatia (GoC) and the World Bank signed on May
2, 2005 a Loan Agreement No 7283-HR, with a loan amount equal to €35 million. These
funds have been used to partly finance the project whose implementation was the
responsibility of the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, and Water Management
(MRDFWM). The project was implemented in the 13 counties that constituted the ASSC
(Vukovar-Srijem, Osijek-Baranja, Brod-Posavina, Požega-Slavonija, Virovitica-Podravina,
Bjelovar-Bilogora, Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovac, Lika-Senj, Zadar, Šibenik-Knin, Split-
Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva), providing support to the development of communities
and business entities.

From the date when the loan agreement was signed until the beginning of 2008, the project
was implemented by the Ministry of Seas, Transport, Tourism, and Development
(MSTTD), and in 2008, the MRDFWM assumed responsibility for project implementation.
Prior to the transfer, the project had disbursed only 12% of the loan. During the first three
months of implementation under MRDFWM management, disbursement rose to 37% of
the total expected disbursement. On this basis of this good performance, the PCU
requested and was granted an extension of the implementation period until June 30, 2010.
This was done in two tranches of six months each, provided the project could meet the
following conditions by June 15, 2009: (a) completion of the technical audit of the
component supporting small community infrastructure and evidence of advancement, and
(b) further achievements in project implementation. The project met both requirements
earlier than planned, and the closing date was extended to June 30, 2010.

The level of interest shown by bidders in tendering procedures was so great that the funds
available were enough to finance only half of the economic revitalization subproject
proposals assessed as excellent and only every second project in the area of small
community infrastructure, while progress in funds withdrawal and satisfaction with
performance in the field exceeded expectations. As the global economic crisis reached its
peak in Croatia towards the end of 2009 and beginning of 2010, and due to the slowdown
in funds withdrawal by the beneficiaries as well as stricter lending and performance
guarantee conditions required by banks, MRDFWM requested another six-month
extension of the project (until the end of 2010). The Bank accepted the reasons given and
approved the new December 31, 2010 project closing date.

Objective. The main objective of CSERP was to increase social cohesion and get
economic recovery under way in ASSC by:

      Financing activities aimed at increasing social inclusion of marginalized groups in
       each of these areas (proposal were put forward and activities implemented by
       associations, public institutions and local and regional self-government units);
      Financing business projects put forward by business entities located in these areas
       (cooperatives, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs), in order to revitalize and
       consolidate business activity and employment;
      Financing projects of small community infrastructure in order to improve quality of
       life and coexistence in the areas of project implementation;
      Strengthening institutional capacity at central, regional and local government level
       in order to encourage a proactive approach in the development of these areas;


                                             55
      Demining areas of vital importance for project implementation within various
       CSERP subcomponents, which is also relevant for the purpose of increasing
       personal safety and coexistence in ASSC.

Project Organization. CSERP was the first project to be implemented in this sector by
combining the “bottom up? and “top down? approaches (that is, establishing horizontal and
vertical links in terms of responsibility and implementation by means of a system of
regional coordination units and county coordinators) which has proved to be an advantage
during subproject implementation. The project has three regional offices and 13 county
coordinators in each of the counties in ASSC:

      Region 1 – Coastal Croatia, with the office in Zadar and with project
       implementation monitoring responsibilites for the counties of Lika-Senj, Zadar,
       Split-Dalmatia, Šibenik-Knin and Dubrovnik-Neretva.
      Region 2 – Central Croatia, with the office in Petrinja and with project
       implementation monitoring responsibilities for the counties of Sisak-Moslavina,
       Bjelovar-Bilogora and Karlovac, and
      Region 3 - Panonian Croatia, with the office in Osijek and with project
       implementation monitoring responsibilities for the counties of Osijek-Baranja,
       Vukovar-Srijem, Virovitica-Podravina, Požega-Slavonija and Brod-Posavina.

Management Structure.            The project’s operating manuals defines the project’s
management structure. The operating manual also defines implementing guidelines and
procedures to be followed when implementing the project through the processes of
identification, preparation, selection, procurement, subproject implementation management
and monitoring, technical assistance, training, and other related activities. The operating
manual was the tool used by the CSERP staff, Project Coordination Unit (PCU), Regional
Coordination Units (RCU), County Coordination Units (CCU), local communities,
implementing agencies, local self-government units, and other relevant agencies.
Accompanying documents, files, and forms needed in the process of implementation and
management are an integral part of operating manuals. A manual defines guidelines for
the management of allocated funds, technical management, activity monitoring and
evaluation, and procurement and service contracting.

The top down approach was the responsibility of the implementing ministry together with
the inter-ministerial steering committee, the National committee for subprojects’ selection,
and the PCU in Zagreb (central level), while the bottom up approach was in the hands of
regional project implementation units, regional committees for selection of projects for
financing and county coordinators, in cooperation with grant beneficiaries. The project
was implemented by a team of 34 university graduates: economists, agronomists, IT
engineers, ecologists, journalists, civil and mechanical engineers, who have been trained
and are fully prepared to apply the guidelines of the European Commission and to
implement projects using EU funds.

Subproject Selection Criteria and Decision-Making. The decision-making system set
up to select subprojects for financing was a transparent one and was separated from
implementation. Project proposals received needed first to undergo administrative check,
then, independent assessors evaluated and assessed sub-projects that passed administrative
check, and then underwent selection procedure by the regional committees and national
level committee in case of sub-projects with value above €300.000 (i.e. requiring a CSERP
contribution between €81.001 and € 135.000). An additional level of transparency in the
system was ensured by monitors (UN agency staff of UNHCR and UNDP) who had an
observer status during selection procedure at the regional level.


                                            56
The project team was completely excluded from the project selection system and was
expected to act initially as a technical support unit only. However, it took over the role of
the main actor in the process of implementation only after the process of project selection
for financing had been completed. For the purpose of ranking, priority setting, and project
selection, CSERP developed a system of points whereby proposals were analyzed for their
relevance in terms of their impact on recovery and community inclusion. Every relevant
procedure is described in operating manuals for project implementation. The manuals also
defined the responsibilities, decision-making actors, implementing units, together with
activities to be carried out and guidelines on the flow of communication within the project.

Project Components

Component 1: Community Investment

This component was the backbone of the project, consisting of three subcomponents:
social inclusion, small community infrastructure, and economic revitalization. Its
objectives were to:

        assist central and local administrative bodies in defining an all-encompassing and
         homogenous approach to the development of their county and the area of special
         state concern (ASSC),
        create an open connection between the above-mentioned approach, regional
         operating programs (ROP) and future regional development strategies,
        establish participatory and technically sound practices in regional and local
         physical planning, decision-making and implementation.

Social Inclusion Subcomponent

The social inclusion subcomponent was designed to support integration and better
inclusion of socially vulnerable groups into social activities, better partnership between
local governments (roughly one third of subprojects relies on cooperation between
municipalities and/or counties), increased civil society involvement (NGOs), and increased
beneficiary involvement in generating and implementing projects, all for the purpose of
increasing social cohesion. Given the importance of social component of the project and
the need to involve the largest possible number of inhabitants from socially endangered
and vulnerable groups in project activities, this subcomponent financed:

        127 subprojects, 2 cancelled subprojects due to non-observation of guidelines
        41,639 inhabitants in ASSC, direct project beneficiaries
        37 subprojects involving activities geared towards 21,703 children and youth
        41 subprojects involving activities geared towards 24,873 elderly and disabled
         persons
        13 subprojects involving activities geared towards 4,530 unemployed persons
        34 subprojects involving activities aimed at simplifying access to social services
         in ASSC, i.e. for the benefit of the entire local community
        22 subprojects involving activities based on municipality and county cooperation
         in providing social services
        421 woman employed through SI subprojects; 14,511 women trained for various
         programs

Small Community Infrastructure Subcomponent

The objective of this subcomponent was to improve living conditions for communities by

                                             57
ensuring better access to services and utilities through reconstruction of social and business
infrastructure. A total of 70 subprojects were financed through the subcomponent small
community infrastructure; 69 of these subprojects were successfully completed, and 1
subproject was cancelled due to non-observation of guidelines. The following were
renovated:

        14 primary schools,
        1 music school,
        9 kindergartens,
        1 sewage system,
        13 access roads,
        8 community centers,
        4 water supply systems,
        1 market and
        9 primary healthcare centers and
        9 other facilities.

A particularly successful aspect of the subcomponent was the recognition of small projects.
Larger ones normally were assigned higher level of importance in the process of evaluation
so that in many smaller local self-government units, there was still the need to support
smaller projects because they are not seen as priorities by other sources of financing (e.g.,
EIB) and thus it much harder to realize them. It is also important to mention that this
subcomponent made it possible for 36 women to find employment, while 18,758 women
were involved in service provision during project implementation.

Economic Revitalization Subcomponent

The objective of this subcomponent was to create new jobs, increase manufacturing,
processing or agricultural production; improve marketing environment; and introduce new
or innovative technologies. The primary objective was to channel finance towards
economic activity in subprojects that would generate permanent employment for persons
living in ASSC. The secondary objective was to support subprojects that, in addition to
meeting the primary goal, would also encourage, develop, or create products (services)
related to renewable sources of energy (solar, geothermal, wind), and use of secondary raw
materials (recycling) from natural materials (pellets and the like).

CSERP supported the following types of activities within the economic revitalization
component: (a) building new production capacity for existing cooperatives, small and
medium enterprises and crafts; and (b) supporting establishment of new cooperatives.
Project beneficiaries in the economic revitalization component are existing SMEs, crafts,
and cooperatives as well as newly established cooperatives. For this subcomponent, the
CSERP established cooperation and partnership with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (CBRD), commercial banks, and HAMAG. The project carried out two
rounds of public bidding for existing small and medium-sized companies, crafts and
existing cooperatives, and one for newly established cooperatives:

        Of 250 subprojects accepted for financing, 211 were completed successfully with
         grants going to business people to be used for various projects.
        Total investment in the business sector in ASSC spurred by grants, exceeded 1
         million HRK, i.e. over EURO131 million.


                                             58
        643 new jobs in all business sectors were created, of which 306 jobs went to
         women.
        Synergy effects of increased turnover and investment as a consequence of
         incentives provided by the project enabled numerous business entities to outgrow
         their local market and turn from small into medium-sized companies, from local
         players to exporting companies or important market players, as the subprojects
         enabled them to obtain standards of excellence ISO 9001 and 14001 and they
         became regionally competitive and developed the potential to compete in the EU
         market.
        Most co-financed subprojects were related to agricultural production.
        Most new jobs were created by financing projects in processing industry.
        Encouragement of establishment of clusters, important for the future of regional
         competitiveness, as they provide a framework for strategic activity, aimed at
         realizing shared visions, missions and objectives of all the cluster members, in
         our case, agricultural produce processing entities.
        Teaching small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to prepare a business plan and
         budget to ensure that the guidelines are followed, employees are motivated,
         activities are coordinated, achievements assessed and business performance
         actively managed.
        Budgeting enabled to introduce the concept of controlling in business operations,
         as it is one of the most important instruments in ensuring transparency of
         operations. Monitoring actual performance against plans and analyzing deviations
         showed on many occasions both to us and the business entity which direction the
         entity has taken and whether it is the direction it wants to take.

Component 2: Demining

The activities in this component were intended to provide the community with an
opportunity to realize anticipated potential through investment subprojects without any risk
from mine accidents. What we expected has finally been realized; implementation of the
subcomponent enabled the realization of preconditions for faster social and economic
development and strengthening of social cohesion in the ASSC. As a precondition for the
economic recovery and revival of economic subjects in new entrepreneurial zones, this
type of operation will have one of the main roles in the future.

The Croatian Mine Action Center (CROMAC) was responsible for implementing this
subcomponent, including procurement of demining operations and supervision of the
contractors' activities. All demining operations were demand-driven and were specified at
the local or regional level, in line with priorities. CROMAC concludes the contracts on the
execution of demining operations with private demining companies and performs
monitoring over their activities, verifies if the area has been cleared from mines, and issues
official certificates. .

The main achievement of this component was the improved access to production capacities,
infrastructure, and housing as well as improved citizen safety. Due to the extremely good
co-operation with CROMAC, the component achieved much success and enabled the
development of economic subjects in entrepreneurial zones (e.g. Entrepreneurial zone
Logorište near Karlovac, Entrepreneurial zone Ićevo near Skradin) and fulfilled its purpose
in terms of development stimulation. Through this component, 12.185.445 m2 (12,2 km2)
have been demined according to the following types of users:


                                             59
        Actual entity - 4.425.985 m2
        Family business - 10.412 m2
        Cooperative business - 200.000 m2
        Small and medium enterprises - 111.944 m2
        Associations - 150.774 m2
        Public institutions - 205.970 m2
        Local administration - 5.652.429 m2
        Others - 1.427931 m2

Component 4: Project Management

This component played its role perfectly by providing support to other components
through: financial management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation. The
component was also used to finance certain ancillary operating costs, goods, technical
assistance, and training for the PCU and its regional offices. With regard to management,
it is important to recognize the efforts made by the PCU with its own resources to better
demonstrate the successful implementation of the entire project and specific subprojects in
order to gain better insight into its own work and identify strong and weak points in the
process of project implementation by using the following: self-assessment; information
bulleting; and participation in workshops, professional gatherings and fairs, where
successes in project implementation were presented.

Financial Management

Financial management of the project in 2010 was fully successful, according to the experts
at the previous implementing body (MSTTI) and the section for budgeting, finances, and
accounting at the MRDFWM. All actions related to the financial part of the
implementation were routinely carried out, and all of the relevant data was received along
with all of the relevant documentation.

Financing Structure. For financing CSERP, a total of €60 million was made available,
out of which €35 million from the loan and €25 million would come from the state budget.
The total value of the project was €59.936 million. The total amount of €34,738,505.73
was disbursed from the Loan and €14,616,557.41 was disbursed from the State Budget.

Safety Mechanisms. As the safety and insurance instrument for the donor at the time of
payment of each grant, every grant recipient was obliged to bring bank guarantees or other
means of insuring the grant. This was recorded in the financial monitoring of contracts. In
case the grant recipient spent funds in breach of contract terms, the financial instruments
were activated. Only two such cases took place, the Municipality of Donji lapac and
Women's association of Vukovar.

Financial Reporting and Monitoring. Reporting pertaining to payments was made in
accordance with the financial manual with the aim of assessing the execution and
achievements of the project based on the analysis and information provided. During
project implementation, the PCU kept the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance
informed through quarterly and monthly reports, executed through FMS modules
connected to the UGOSIT program for contract management, where all financial situations
are recorded and monitored. The last quarterly report was made for Oct 1-Dec 31, 2010.

                                            60
The PCU continues to have an obligation to produce and deliver to the World Bank the
report on all payments made during project closure.

Auditing. During the project implementation period, financial management was
controlled by the state authorities and international auditors. International auditing was
carried out on the basis of a contract by the firm “Audit“ d.o.o. No audits included any
remarks on the financial actions and implementation of the project; they were all positive.

Procurement

The legal basis for implementing CSERP is the Law on Loan Contract 7283-HR.
Preparation and implementation of procurement for the Project for each contract financed
from loan funds is conducted according to “Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits,? and “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers.? The Bank's standard forms of tender documentation were used, as well
as the bid evaluation reports and contract outline. During implementation, the project used
the following materials: Manual (updated in accordance with the May 2004 revised
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines) for Conducting Very Small-Value Procurement
Under World Bank/IDA Small Grants, Loans and Credits, September 2005; four Working
Manuals made for each Project component separately; as well as the Financial Manual of
the Project. Both the Working Manuals and the Financial Manual were revised during
project implementation, with the World Bank’s approval and according to the needs of
project implementation activities in different stages. They have been updated during 2006
and accepted by the World Bank in November 2006.

The procurement plan was constantly updated during project implementation so as to add
new activities to individual Project components in accordance with the changing situations
and needs. During the entire project period, the execution of the Procurement plan for
goods, works, and services were monitored by activities and by individual Project
components. Also during project implementation, grant awards for individual social
inclusion, small community infrastructure, and economic revitalization subprojects were
monitored and checked throughout each step of the procurement procedure (goods, works,
and services) before contract signing, the signing of the contract, contract implementation,
financial reporting and final subproject closure.

Procurement activities were monitored by the central unit staff in Zagreb, with assistance
from the staff in regional offices in Zadar, Petrinja, and Osijek, and with support of the
county coordinators. The staff members conducting the subproject procurements were
given daily consulting, technical, and other support in order to implement the procurement
procedure, contracting, and procurement contract implementation on subprojects as
efficiently as possible. For each procurement procedure, a committee was appointed, the
appropriate procurement and selection method was applied, the contract was signed and
implemented, the report was signed, and the payment was conducted as foreseen in the
contract. For all subproject contracts paid fully or partly from grants, the procurement was
conducted according to the World Bank’s Guidelines; for the other contracts paid from the
grant beneficiary funds, the procurement was implemented according to Croatian Law on
Public Procurement.



                                            61
Within the economic revitalization component, grant beneficiaries prepared and
conducted needed activities, which represented the first stage of subproject implementation.
Performing these activities was a prerequisite for financial realization of the grant. The
Project staff reviewed all of these activities and concluded that the conditions for grant
payment to beneficiaries were fulfilled and the payment was subsequently made.
Subprojects were further monitored until all of the grant funds had been spent. Subprojects
which successfully used their own required funds, as well as the grants, were closed. They
justified the investment and proved their ability of successful and independent continuation
of the subproject in the same or increased scale of investment in the future period.

During the Project implementation, there were no substantially inefficient suppliers or
consultants, and no disagreements that could have led to suppliers’ complaints, contact
cancellations, legal arbitrage, or other legal consequences. All potential smaller problems,
if they arose during the implementation, were successfully dealt with, with approval by the
World Bank and to the satisfaction of all parties involved. Some individual subprojects
were not in position to invest the minimum required amount of their own funds, which was
a prerequisite for receiving the grant. Such grant awarding contracts were cancelled,
without causing any financial or legal consequences for any of the parties involved.

Monitoring and Evaluation

Since the very early stages of the project the M&E section encountered various obstacles
and has struggled with the need to overcome and adapt to various occurrences as they
happened. These include lack of established baseline values, an inadequate MIS system,
and personnel issues. In the latter stages of the project implementation, most of the
challenges were met while the lack of an adequate information system persisted, along
with the lack of baseline figures. Despite the challenges presented, the M&E system was
adapted to the realities in the field as well as at the PCU and has been producing results. In
terms of lessons learned, any future CSERP (should there be one) should consider the
above mentioned issues and revise the procedures and data collection plan to ensure a
steady and reliable data flow towards the PCU.

Self-Assessment

Self-assessment is one of the methods used to measure the performance (i.e., strengths and
weaknesses) of a team. We decided to apply it, recognizing the team’s capacity to assess
itself and using the capacity currently available through EU assistance projects, together
with the questionnaire and the standardized SWOT analysis form.

Soon after MRDFWM took over management of CSERP, it was decided to use the same
organizational structure to implement future projects financed from the EU structural and
cohesion funds. Thus, the PCU started working with a group of experts in establishing a
future regional competitiveness implementing body. Mr. Kevin Prigmore, Finance and
Implementation Expert, reviewed the management and procedures of CSERP’s financing
and implementing system for the purpose of checking their alignment with the EU
structural and cohesion funds requirements as well as their procedures and regulations to
detect weaknesses in the project management. Overall, his findings confirmed that CSERP
was well managed and had adequate staff and a satisfactory project management structure.
The processes used were similar to those used by structural and cohesion funds in terms of
                                             62
the establishment of regional offices, public tendering procedures, independent audits,
supervision missions, financial management, and an independent decision-making system,
all of which ensures full transparency of the system.

In order to improve the organization and future activities in this or other similar projects,
we applied a questionnaire-based survey as a means to collect and analyze information.
The findings showed us where we are and what we need to do in implementing the then
ongoing project and possible future ones. The self-assessment was also used as a basis for
the definition of references to apply to the survey if carried out later with the project
beneficiaries. The findings were presented to the representatives of the World Bank during
their regular supervision mission in the summer of 2009 as an illustration of operational
independence achieved by the PCU.

A pilot questionnaire was distributed to CSERP grant beneficiaries in the Bjelovar-
Bilogora county because other counties were not included in the process at this stage. The
key objective of the pilot questionnaire definition, distribution and subsequent analysis was
to find out about new development initiatives and to identify problems or limitations in the
process of CSERP implementation. The analysis has provided us with feedback on how to
improve the project implementation and how to present the project and what it brings to
local communities in order to consider the impact it has made on them and everybody else
living in the area. Feedback obtained through this analysis of CSERP by its beneficiaries,
provided us with responses that are crucial in the process of selecting methods and modes
of co-financing and defining priorities in future development programs. The analysis also
enabled us to see not only weaknesses and errors but also advantages of the project. The
following are some of the main findings based on responses received in the survey:

      Over 70% of beneficiaries/bidders in the CSERP project think that tendering
       procedures were clear and acceptable and that deadlines for bid submission were
       reasonable.
      Almost 50% of beneficiaries say that local self-government should provide more
       help during project preparation and implementation stages
      Most potential bidders use the services of external consultants for project
       preparation, and in many cases, the results are not satisfactory due to the
       consultants’ lack of knowledge of the project and inadequate cooperation with the
       project initiators.

Knowing the situation in the field in general and in the county selected for the pilot survey
in particular, we are of the opinion that local self-government in most cases cannot provide
the help demanded because the institutional framework required is not in place and there
are no teams trained and capable of providing adequate support; thus, capacity
strengthening at local level remains a priority. This claim is further supported by the fact
that most projects are still prepared by local consultants on behalf of beneficiaries, and the
same consultants are often not adequately trained, they are not focused enough on helping
the bidder, they do not cooperate enough with bidders on the activities envisaged and do
not take into consideration the benefits to be derived for the local community and therefore
also for themselves as consultants. Finally, their success is not measured in terms of the
number of good projects but in terms of the number of projects prepared, and is actally


                                             63
measured only in terms of personal gain to be derived from consultancy services rendered
in project preparation.

With regard to the cost-effect ratio: (a) 69% of respondents consider that funds invested are
matched by effects in the field; (b) no respondent considers effects obtained to be
inadequate; and (c) all local self-governments claim that funds invested have produced
maximum effect. With regard to overall satisfaction with the CSERP team, 92% of
respondents said they were fully satisfied with the help provided by the CSERP team
during their project implementation.

Finally, it can be claimed that CSERP encouraged the local and regional community to
work together on development programs and preparation of future projects. CSERP made
all the key stakeholders at the local community level work together.

Information Bulletin

Information bulletin “CSERP Info? was produced independently by the Project
coordination unit at its own initiative. It brings news on project implementation by county
and is distributed via email to all beneficiaries.

Beneficiary Assessment

During a regular CSERP supervision mission by the World Bank, it was agreed that an
independent analysis of beneficiary project satisfaction will be carried out before closing,
in order to provide relevant information on the current project and on what can be
corrected if the project continued. The Bank promised to help the Project coordination unit
in aligning job descriptions of each consultant who would be engaged to carry out analysis
in the field with the given guidelines. The impact assessment at the beneficiary's was
carried out by independent consultancy Olimp.

CSERP Staff

Although the change in CSERP ownership in the summer of 2008 and the change of the
project director were important factors accounting for the acceleration and success of the
project’s implementation, as recognized at all levels, the key role played by CSERP staff
cannot be ignored. Soon after the new director was appointed, the CSERP staff started
working as a team capable of overcoming together all hurdles and challenges standing in
the way to complete this demanding multi-sectoral project. Some of the staff members left
after a period of time, but the core personnel stayed to the very end. Most staff members
who participated in the project gained specific skills and knowledge, and were either
promoted or obtained higher positions, which shows that they had gained institutional
capacity required for middle and local management level. Their contribution to the project
completion should be recognized and we want to use this opportunity to thank them all.

Link: CSERP – Regional Development Strategy

“Regional development strategy of the Republic of Croatia proposes a new relationship
and cooperation mode between partners at central as well as regional and local levels,
asking them to resolve together issues and problems that are key for the social and
                                             64
economic cohesion and competitiveness of Croatian regions and to define, on the basis of
a jointly adopted development policy framework, developmental priorities by county and
by region, while taking into account their specific needs.? (quote from Regional
Development Strategy).

CSERP was aligned with a number of priorities and objectives specified in the Regional
development strategy, and especially with Priority 1.2: Support for areas that are
continuously lagging behind, in order to contribute to their sustainable development and
increase national competitiveness; and Instrument: Program for areas with developmental
difficulties. Moreover, CSERP complemented perfectly all the standard projects financed
through relevant ministries, associations, and UN agencies, and it also often financed those
projects that were not considered interesting by national investors. Most frequently, these
were projects falling to a large extent or completely under the responsibility of the local
self-government bodies, such as local road and pavement reconstruction, construction of
kindergartens, and the like. The project became very good at selecting target groups (i.e.
potential applicants) whose projects could make an impact on many project beneficiaries
already in the implementation phase. The area of implementation was perfectly aligned
with the needs, level of development, sustainability, and possibilities present in an ASSC,
which required the highest level of intervention accross all sectors in order to achieve
gradual harmonized development in such areas.

CSERP performance cannot only be measured and seen in terms of successful placement
and withdrawal of grant funds, in terms of funds made available to end beneficiaries. Its
success also can be viewed in terms of its achievements in encouraging local communities
to tackle problems and find solutions, and to engage in activities that will ensure
sustainable development of the local community and encourage inhabitants to remain
living in these ares.

CSERP and Raising Awareness of Sustainable Development

Implementation of CSERP contributed to and supported the process of regional
development by strengthening capacity at the local self-government level, increasing
quality and level of knowledge, motivation, and project cycle management skills,
establishing inter-regional cooperation and development of specific projects, that should
result in higher level of social inclusion and economic development of municipalities and
towns located within ASSC. Development strategies in every county were used to define
infrastructure as a priority because it could create quality preconditions for people to
remain in those areas. It is well known that social awareness in not adequately developed
in our society, and the funds earmarked for the component, just as the funds available for
socially vulnerable groups at local and regional government level, are not sufficient to
meet the needs. The loan granted by the World Bank and the two rounds of its
implementation have made a major contribution to raising awareness of the people
regarding the need to help the most vulnerable groups in their community, even if
assistance projects are small, because these groups are in need of help and, without such
funds, any assistance to them would simply not be possible or feasible.




                                            65
LINK CSERP – EU

“The central level is expected to define a clear direction of development and the funds
provided for the purpose while lower levels are expected to focus on acquiring new skills
and contributing to strategic development planning. This is why it is necessary to use the
early years of the strategy implementation to build capacity at all levels in order to enable
clear definition of needs, agreement on priorities of development and development of ideas
and submission of project proposals that will justify investment of public funds into a
particular field. Such capacity building is of key importance in the future use of EU
structural funds.?(from Regional Development Strategy).

CSERP made a direct contribution to priorities related to the integration of the RoC into
the EU:

      With regard to meeting political criteria, it speeded up the process of return of
       refugees and displaced persons by improving social and economic conditions and
       the overall climate regarding refugees, returnees, settlers and local population. It
       has enabled the economic and social integration of returnees through regional
       development projects in these areas;
      With regard to meeting social policy criteria, CSERP developed the capabilities of
       social partners and promoted solidarity among inhabitants to create prerequisites
       for a cohesive society;
      With regard to regional policy and coordination of structural instruments, CSERP
       supported efficient coordination among ministries, associations, business people,
       and local and regional management structures, in order to develop an all-
       encompassing and coherent strategy of regional development and to build
       partnerships between relevant parties at national, regional and local levels;
      With regard to its implementation following guidelines and rules similar to those
       for other projects financed from the EU funds, CSERP was a precursor for EU
       procedures;
      CSERP maintained, upgraded and strengthened Croatian institutional arrangements
       related to regional policy management in line with the EU requirements. The
       institutional development component and the CSERP implementing arrangements
       deal with objectives defined in pre-accession assistance requirements and are aimed
       at increasing absorption capacity from pre-accession and structural funds.
      CSERP was recognized as the body that implements basic procedures in line with
       the EU guidelines in order to achieve alignment with the EU and the use of pre-
       accession and post-accession EU funds.

Project Continuation

The MRDFWM and the local community views the project as being an important factor
that can help harmonize and eliminate differences in regional development. A request was
submitted to the relevant ministry to continue the project, having in mind the fact that the
World Bank officials indicated on a number of occasions the fit between the project and
the World Bank strategy and understanding of how the proejct can help undeveloped
regions catch up to the others. At the time of this writing, however, there was no final
decision on the project continuation. The following are considered the main benefits of the

                                             66
project and factors that would support a follow-up project:

   (a) CSERP encouraged local and regional management levels to work jointly on future
       project development, and this is the objective specified by many other associations
       being currently set up (for example, local action groups, agencies).
   (b) CSERP used subproject implementation to encourage cooperation and agreement
       among all potential and actual participants with the objective to help develop local
       communities; this created an efficient network of stakeholders.
   (c) For most grant beneficiaries, CSERP was their first encounter with tendering
       documents and project budgets, and the first project to recognize the importance of
       field work, the contribution of county coordinators and regional coordination
       offices, and organization and guidelines that fit the circumstances. All of these will
       soon be expected from the RoC when projects are implemented with EU funds. The
       approach proved to be an advantage in subproject implementation and in preparing
       beneficiaries for accessing EU funds.

   (d) CSERP transferred knowledge and skills that can help sustain local communities.
       Today, the RCOs are being approached by other institutions, local self-government
       bodies, and business people who now recognize the importance of their role in
       project preparation and ultimately their successful implementation.

   (e) CSERP achieved more than was defined by basic objectives; it encouraged
       communities to start activities not previously carried out – even communities that
       were not included in CSERP project started to think differently about their
       sustainability, which has resulted in a new understanding of the concept of
       community participation in sustaining a particular area.
   (f) Project participation has enabled grant beneficiaries to become involved in or even
       initiating local community development.
   (g) CSERP project qualities have been recognized locally, regionally, and
       internationally. The scope of project activities has enabled a wide range of
       stakeholders to participate.
   (h) CSERP is included among the measures in negotiations on Chapter 23 in the EU
       accession process, and has been recognized as an example of good practice in the
       Millennium declaration.
   (i) CSERP was viewed as a good model of project implementation by many domestic
       and foreign organizations that have adopted its approach as their own model.
   (j) CSERP was a perfect complement to standard financing programs with relevant
       ministries and it often financed projects that national investors were not interested
       in, mostly projects fully or partially under the responsibility of local self-
       government units (for example, road reconstruction, kindergarten construction or
       enlargement, community centers).



                                            67
   (k) The project paid special attention to balanced social development in supporting the
       demographic revival of the region. The project attempted to alleviate regional
       problems such as high and chronic unemployment, low and slowly growing GDP,
       very limited level of manufacturing activity, and poor infrastructure and
       depopulation through its community investment component.
   (l) CSERP has enabled development and expansion of business zones through
       demining.
   (m) CSERP has contributed to gender equality; CSERP was instrumental in finding
       employment for 1,359 people, of which 763 were women, and among the 84,173
       beneficiaries, 33,269 were women.
   (n) Synergistic effects are visible in increased turnover and investment, and due to
       incentives provided by the project, numerous business entities have outgrown their
       local presence and have been transformed from small to medium-sized companies
       that are local players into export-oriented companies and relevant regional market
       players. All of them used subprojects to obtain and introduce ISO 9001 and 14001
       standards, to become regionally competitive and to prepare for the EU market
       competition.
   (o) The CSERP model has taught small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to prepare a
       business plan and budget, and guidelines for motivating their employees while
       coordinating activities, assessing performance, engaging in active business result
       management. By introducing budgeting, CSERP has taught SME entrepreneurs
       about budget control as a key instrument in ensuring operational transparency.

Based on all of the above, we conclude that the project has been an important factor in
achieving balanced development of Croatia, in providing outstanding assistance in the
process of eliminating gaps in development of war-affected areas, where the project was
implemented, and in the future, balanced development of all areas and especially those that
lag behind the average level of development of the Republic of Croatia. We have received
more than 150 letters of support from local communities (municipalities, towns, counties
and entrepreneurs) asking for the project to be continued. Such high level of interest for
and recognition of relevance of the project and of this type of development projects in
general by the local community in ASSC demonstrates that there is still a lot of need for
this type of assistance in ASSC in order to support a balanced development of all the local
communities, and especially those where level of development is below 50% of the
average level of development in the rest of the country.




                                            68
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Lada Blagaic of UNHCR sent the following comments on the draft ICR:

Thank you for sharing the draft reports on Croatia Social and Economic Recovery Project
(CSERP) and giving us opportunity to review and comment. UNHCR staff that worked
closely with you during the development and implementation of the project carefully
reviewed both documents and can only fully endorse what has been reported on. Those are
carefully designed and factual reports which fully reflect impacts of this comprehensive
and most important project implemented so far in the areas of return.

UNHCR highly appreciate a role of monitor that was officially given within the project.
It gave us an opportunity to monitor a decision making process at the level of the Regional
Approval Committees ensuring that needs of persons of UNHCR concern are addressed.
UNHCR focused on the social inclusion and small community infrastructure components.

Our joint efforts have resulted in the inclusion of returnees, particularly women and
vulnerable persons and communities, in a more systematic programme framework, which
in our opinion, is the most suitable model of achieving sustainable return.

Our contacts with the targeted communities prove that the impacts of this comprehensive
programme are well-focused and sustainable. We have also received queries from the
return communities that have not been included in the project on whether possibilities for
extension. This is an additional proof of quality and efficiency of the CSERP in addressing
the sustainability of refugee return and community development in the Areas of Special
State Concern.

Croatian Ministry of Finance responded by saying that they did not have any comments on
the draft ICR.




                                            69
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

Chersi, Diego. Technical Audit of Small Community Infrastructure Projects for Croatia
Social and Economic Recovery Project, June 2009.

Croatia Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Management. Croatia
Social and Economic Recovery Project: Organization, Activities, Performance 2005-2010.
February 2011.

Croatia Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Management. Croatia
Social and Economic Recovery Project, Operational Manual Volume 1 (Community
Investments), August 2008.

IMC Consulting. Social and Economic Recovery Project Grant No. TF050513, Integrated
Assessment, July 2004.

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and International Finance
Corporation. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Croatia, November 24, 2004.

Kelly, Sarah. Social and Economic Recovery Project Grant No. TF050513: Social
Assessment, April 2004 (draft).

Olimp (Mandac, Ana, Anic, Zeljka Gomuzak, Jadresin, Ana, Huic, Aleksandra). Analyses
and Estimate of the Implementation of the Subproject with the Croatia Social and
Economic Recovery, Prepared for Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, and Water
Management, June 2010.

World Bank. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Croatia, November 24, 2004.

World Bank. Croatia Social and Economic Recovery Project Implementation Status and
Results Reports, April 25, 2005 to January 19, 2011.

World Bank. Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines. OPCS. August
2006 (Last updated 11/10/2010).

World Bank. Project Appraisal Document. Croatia Social and Economic Recovery
Project. Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit, Europe and Central
Asia Region. February 28, 2005.




                                           70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 33698R

                    AUSTRIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                 HUNGARY
                                                                                                                                                                                                               SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC




                                                                                                                                                                             Danub
                                                                                         MEDIMURSKA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RECOVERY PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                              e
                                                                                 Varazdin




                                                                                                                                                                               R.
                                                                                  VARAZDINSKA Koprivnica
                                       Sava                                                        KOPRIVNICKO-
ITALY                                         Riv
                                                  e               KRAPINSKO-                                                                                                                                                                     AREAS OF SPECIAL
                                                      r           ZAGORSKA                          KRIZEVACKA
                     Ljubljana                                                                                                                                                                                                                   STATE CONCERN (ASSC):

                          SLOVENIA                                                                        Bjelovar                                                                                                                               ASSC I: HEAVILY WAR-AFFECTED AREAS
                                                                              GRAD
                                                                             ZAGREB    ZAGREBACKA                                        Drava River
                                                                 ZAGREB                                                    VIROVITICKO-                                                                                                          ASSC II: OTHER WAR-AFFECTED AREAS
                                                          ZAGREBACKA               V. Gorica                BJELOVARSKO-    PODRAVSKA
                                                                                                             BILOGORSKA                                                                                                                          ASSC III: OTHER UNDERDEVELOPED AREAS
                                                                                                                                                      OSJECKO-BARANJSKA
                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                                              Osijek
                                                                            R.
                                                Karlovac         Kup                                                                                                                                                                             MAJOR TOWNS
                                                                                               Sisak                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITALS
                                                                                                                       POZESKO-SLAVONSKA                                  Vukovar
                                                                                 SISACKO-MOSLAVACKA                                                                                                                                              RIVERS
                                                                                                 Novska                     Nova                                     Vinkovci
                       Rijeka                                                                                               Gradiska  N.                                                                                                         SELECTED MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
         ISTARSKA                                                                                                                   Kapela           Slav Brod          VUKOVARSKO-
                          PRIMORSKO-                                                                                    BRODSKO-
                                                                                                                                 POSAVSKA                                SRIJEMSKA                                                               DISTRICT OR COUNTY BOUNDARIES
                                                KARLOVACKA
                          GORANSKA                                                                                                  Sa                                                SERBIA
                                                                                                                                       va                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                            R.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0                                   50                             100                           150

        Pula                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                 LICKO-SENJSKA                                                                                                                                                         acceptance of such boundaries.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10°                                        20°                                         30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SWEDEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LATVIA
                                                                                                                                   BOSNIA AND                                                                                                                                                                             FEDERATION

                                                       ZADARSKA                                                                                                                                                DENMARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Baltic
                                                  Zadar COUNTY                                                                 HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                                            LITHUANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              FED.
                                                                           SIBENSKO-                                                                             Sarajevo
                                                                            KNINSKA                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BELARUS
                                                                            COUNTY
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NETH.

                                                                             Sibenik                                                                                                                                                                              POLAND


                                                                                                                                                                                               BELG.            GERMANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    50°

                    Adriatic       Sea                                                            Split                                                                                                LUX.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CZECH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                UKRAINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             R E P.
                                                                                                                                                                                               FRANCE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SLOVAK REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                LIECHTENSTEIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MOLDOVA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AUSTRIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                 SWITZERLAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HUNGARY

                                                                           SPLITSKO-DALMATINSKA                                                                                                                                      SLOVENIA
                                                                                                                           Ploce                                                                                                                 CROATIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROMANIA




                                                                                                                                                                             MONTENEGRO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        BOSNIA AND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 d
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HERZEGOVINA         SERBIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MARINO                                                                                                 Black




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sea




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c
                                                                                                                     DUBROVACKO-                                                                                                              Se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BULGARIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I TA LY                                          KOSOVO
                                                                                                                     NERETVANSKA                 Dubrovnik                                                                                              MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  FYR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MACEDONIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tyrrhenian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALBANIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                40°               Sea                                                                                                               40°



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GREECE               Aegean
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TURKEY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea


                                                                                                                                                                                                         10°                                                            20°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JUNE 2011
