                                                                                                              95973
Results Profile: Croatia                                                                                October 15, 2010




 CROATIA

 Helping Croatia Prepare for Successful European
 Union (EU) Integration




Overview
Over the last 15 years, Croatia achieved impressive economic and social progress. Prior to the
onset of the global crisis, the Croatian economy grew at a healthy 4-5 percent annually,
incomes doubled, and economic and social opportunities dramatically improved. Croatia’s per
capita income reached about 63 percent of the European Union (EU) average, and EU
membership is well within reach.

  Full Brief—6 Pages
Helping Croatia Prepare for Successful European Union (EU) Integration—PDF, Sept 2010


Challenge                                                MULTIMEDIA
Croatia’s overarching priority is to enter the EU
with a competitive and growing economy and the
institutional capacity to meet the demands of EU
membership. To achieve this, several challenges
need to be overcome, including completing
Croatia’s transition to a market economy with a
focus on private sector growth, fostering greater
competitiveness, and achieving convergence
with EU income levels, in a way that improves
the quality of life for all Croatians, and that is
fiscally, socially and environmentally-sustainable.
                                                         MORE
Approach                                                   Video: Shingle - Preserving the Old Skills
                                                           Video: Croatia, Putting People First
These priorities are shared across the political         Video: New Jobs
spectrum and society, and have formed the
basis of International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) assistance to Croatia. The priorities
set forth are proving to be more challenging in the current          More        Results
global setting and given the impact of the global crisis on
Croatia.

IBRD has been focusing its assistance on helping Croatia
prepare for successful EU integration by, raising the
                                                                        1,270
competitiveness of the economy through long-term                        new jobs created in
                                                                        underdeveloped and war-
investments in major trading routes such as the Ports of                affected areas
Rijeka and Ploce, promoting research and development
(R&D), supporting exports and jobs during the crisis, and
assisting the authorities in mitigating the impact of the crisis
through timely budget support. IBRD is assisting the
authorities to improve the quality of life of the population
through revitalization of war-affected areas, improvements in
                                                                   83%
                                                                   reduction in backlog of property
the quality and delivery of social services to the most            registraton since 2004
vulnerable, and contributing to the enhancement of the
quality of education and provision of emergency medical
services. IBRD is also assisting Croatia in the protection of
the environment and promotion of energy efficient solutions.
All of these efforts aim to help Croatia enter the EU as
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
prepared as possible.
                                                                    Country Website

IBRD has been extensively engaged in providing financial            Country Brief
support, technical assistance, policy advice and analytical         Data and Statistics
services to Croatia since the country joined IBRD in 1993.
                                                                    Government of the Republic of
To date, the Bank has supported 45 operations amounting to
                                                                    Croatia
around US$3 billion, and approved 52 grants with a total
value of US$70 million. Currently, 15 projects are under
implementation with a total commitment value of around
US$1.2 billion.

Results

IBRD contributed to Croatia’s efforts in maintaining macroeconomic stability, further
strengthening the financial sector, and protecting the most vulnerable groups of society,
through timely budget support through the Fiscal, Social and Financial Development Policy
Loan in January 2010.

The Agriculture Acquis Cohesion Project has helped Croatia meet the EU accession
requirement in the agriculture and rural development areas; build the capacity of civil servants
to manage EU pre-accession and accession funds for rural development programs and
improve Croatia's food safety system.

About 1,270 new jobs have been created in underdeveloped and war-affected areas across the
country, rebuilding lives and livelihoods through activities under the Social and Economic
Recovery Project. Since 2005, this project helped clear some 12 square kilometers of mine-
contaminated land allowing people to use their land safely without fearing for their lives or
property.

Since 2007, the Education Sector Development Project has been helping eliminate three-shift
schools, improving the quality of education, through the construction or renovation of schools
throughout Croatia – with 24 completed, 14 ongoing and another 7 schools slated for
construction until the end of 2010. From mid-2004 until the end of 2009, the Energy Efficiency
Project helped introduce energy efficient lighting, heating and thermal insulation in more than
50 schools across the country.

Partners

Throughout its engagement in Croatia, IBRD has developed and maintained excellent
partnerships with key international institutions active in the country. Key partners include the
European Commission, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, United
Nations agencies and several bilateral donors. IBRD also maintains regular dialogue with other
stakeholders, including members of parliamentary committees, academics, bankers,
entrepreneurs, leaders of the trade unions, and non-government organizations.

Voices
     “I never had a clue about kitchen work. Since my Danijela
   (one of the educators) taught me how to cook, I enjoy this job, I
   love it very much and it makes me happy.”
         — Dijana Dobran, Mother of a beneficiary of the Center for
                                                          Inclusion


Moving Forward

The Croatian authorities, so far, have been managing the impact of the global crisis relatively
well. Nonetheless, the crisis is having a significant impact on the economy and society. The
challenge now is to implement further structural reforms needed for continued convergence
with the EU member countries, with a special focus on reforms of the judiciary, public
administration and fighting corruption, while striving for better living standards for its citizens.
Despite Croatia’s relatively high-income level, access to EU funds and the forthcoming EU
membership, there is a clear demand for IBRD’s assistance in the years to come.
