                                                                                                           97781
Croatia: Post Conflict Reconstruction                                                                April 14, 2011




 Economic and social revitalization and reintegration of Croatia’s war
 affected and disadvantaged areas


Overview
The Croatia Social and Economic Recovery Project (CSERP) is a multi-sectoral project that
supported the socioeconomic development of Croatia’s war-affected areas, or ‘areas of special
state concern’. The project improved the livelihoods of the rural populations – domiciled
populations, returnees, displaced persons, minorities, and settlers – in 13 counties by providing
matching grants to support small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), generating new
employment and additional revenues, reducing landmine contaminated areas, and shrinking
regional disparities between the lagging areas. Over 84,000 people benefitted from the project
activities.


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
In early 2000, five years after the end of
hostilities, war-affected areas still suffered from
limited attention to their economic recovery and
social integration programs in the areas to which
refugees were returning. The bleak economic
situation, unemployment, damaged or destroyed
infrastructure, and landmine contamination in the
post-conflict areas were the main impediments
to sustainable well-being of the war-affected
groups. In addition, in 2005 when the CSERP
started its implementation, there was insufficient
administrative capacity at local levels for
planning and implementation of their Regional
Operational Programs (ROPs), which every county needed to
prepare by the end of 2005. ROPs are standard planning
                                                                    More Results
instruments for identifying the development vision and public
investment priorities at the county level, and are prepared in

                                                                   427
line with principles of EU structural funds.

Approach                                                           sub-projects were successfully
                                                                   completed in 2005 – 2010
The CSERP was designed to address Croatia’s post-conflict
agenda and emphasized a bottom-up and demand-driven


                                                                   84,000
approach. Through provision of grant funds, it supported the
development of SMEs, cooperatives, and craft activities, as
well as employment initiatives. It also provided grants to
municipalities, communities, NGOs, and local organizations         people directly benefitted from
                                                                   the completed sub-projects
such as kindergartens, schools, youth organizations, centers
for the elderly, libraries, social welfare institutions, and
cultural centers in order to increase social inclusion through
improved access to community based services by war-                 LEARN MORE
affected and disadvantaged people. The project supported
                                                                     Social and Economic Recovery
the rehabilitation of small-scale social and economic                Project (2005 – 2010)
infrastructure in the areas of return, and demining activities in
12 of the 13 counties. It financed capacity-building and             World Bank in Croatia
training of national, regional, and local authorities, as well as    CROMAC - Croatian mine action
local stakeholders in support of regional development                centre
approaches, in line with EU principles.

Results
The CSERP closed on December 31, 2010, with the
development objective to support the economic and social revitalization of disadvantaged and
war-affected areas as a way to increase social inclusion fully met. The project’s results in the
13 counties that fall under the category of ‘areas of special state concern’ are manifold. In
particular:

       A total of 427 sub-projects were successfully completed: 125 for social inclusion; 67 for
       small community infrastructure; and 211 in support of SMEs, crafts, and cooperatives;

       Over 84,000 beneficiaries residing in the areas of special state concern directly
       benefitted from the completed sub-projects;

       Thanks to the grants, 1,341 new jobs were created and €11 million in additional revenue
       were generated by the SMEs, crafts activities, and cooperatives.

       In all, 763 women were directly employed and 33,269 women were beneficiaries.

       12.2 km2 of agricultural land was demined and is now ready for cultivation and harvest,
       and people can safely use their land without fearing for their lives;

       5,000 officials and civil society representatives were trained through a series of
       workshops in strategic regional planning, cost management, project management,
       business plans, and procurement;

       ROPs were developed for four counties. In addition, project operational manuals were
       revised to meet the requirement needed for the EU pre-accession grant funds.

Of note, the demand for financing of sub-projects substantially exceeded available funds. For
example, it was possible for only every 7th request for small community infrastructure sub-
projects to be financed.

Map
Click to see project locations mapped:
Bank Contribution
The total project costs are EUR60 million – EUR35 million was funded by the Bank and EUR25
million by the Government of Croatia. Specifically, the Bank’s grant funds to community-based
activities – social inclusion, economic revitalization, and small community infrastructure sub-
projects – amount to EUR25.4 million, demining activities to EUR8.5 million, and EUR1.1
million to capacity building, training, and project management activities.

Partners
The Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry, and Water Management demonstrated strong
ownership throughout project implementation, and a multi-sectoral partnership was established
at the central level with other line ministries, including agriculture, rural development, economy,
environment, infrastructure, economy, and family. At the regional level, the Ministry worked
closely with county institutions, regional development agencies, municipalities, communities,
the private sector, and NGOs. Excellent coordination was established with the EC Delegation
to Croatia as the EC also supported development of county ROPs other than those financed
from the CSERP. In addition, given the field presence of both UNHCR and UNDP and their
knowledge of the beneficiaries, the representatives of both agencies served as observers in
the regional approval committees for the selection of the grantees. UNDP replicated the
CSERP design and obtained the Dutch Government funding of US$3.5 million to complement
CSERP activities in the three counties.

Moving Forward
Though the project was closed end December 2010, the Government of Croatia has secured
funding for CY2011 to support completion of some ongoing community investment sub-projects.

Beneficiaries
The Ministry has received “thank you” letters and requests for continued support from seven
counties, 130 municipalities, and 70 grantees. A beneficiary assessment was completed in
September 2010. “ This project was more than successful, now we have one of the most
beautiful buildings in the surrounding area. It is occupied almost every day: with various
associations’ activities, fire department meetings, women's clubs…, there is always something
happening here on weekends. We, as local authority, plan to carry out lectures and
presentations here because it is really nice space now." — Local official, 56, on rehabilitation
of a community center.
