                                                                                                           99838
Loading the player ...




Restoring Livelihoods in Croatia
Vanja Frajtic, Communications Associate in the Croatia Office,
offers this story.
                                                                  Photo Gallery
Fifteen years after the end of hostilities in Croatia, some
people still live in areas where roads, buildings and the water
supply are destroyed and the land is littered with mines. Jobs
are scarce.

But 84,000 people in parts of the country affected by war or
underdevelopment have had help catching up with more
developed areas in the last five years.

Life in the remote Noskovci village drastically improved for 70   Related Links
elderly and physically impaired people after a project
supported by the World Bank hired assistants to take them to      Croatia—Post Conflict Reconstruction
the doctor, and help shop, cook and clean. It broke their         The World Bank in Croatia
isolation and created jobs.
                                                                  Geomapping
The Social and Economic Recovery Project created 1,341            Ministry of Regional Development,
new jobs, almost half of which were filled by women. EUR11        Forestry and Water Management
million was generated by small businesses, crafts and             Croatia Social and Economic Recovery
cooperatives.                                                     Project

Ceminac, heavily damaged in the war, got its first ever
kindergarten and nursery, where 65 children from different backgrounds play and learn together.

                         "I am very happy with the new kindergarten and my daughter Iva is also very
                         happy. Now I don't have to worry about what to do with her and can go to
                         work," says Jadranka Strok, mother of a 4 year old Iva.

                         Over 400 small projects were funded; kindergarten and school construction,
                         water supply, community centers, treatment centers for drug abusers, olive
                         grinding machines, and landmine clearing equipment.

Jadranka Strok           A large chunk of agricultural land was demined so it could be cultivated and so
                         people could walk on the land without fearing for their lives.

                         The Tomaic family got a grant to buy equipment to bring the cheese they make
                         to European Union standards. With it, they hope to hire more employees and
                         buy more milk from nearby families and export to Europe and the US.

                         The program was popular, and grant requests from communities flooded in. In
                         applying for the grants and managing them, thousands of officials and civil
                         society representatives learned about strategic planning, cost and project
                         management, business plans and procurement. That laid the foundation for
Vladimir Tomaic          regions to better prepare for European Union membership and apply for EU
                         funds.

"I have worked on this project from the very beginning—first as a team member and later as the project
task manager. This gave me an unique opportunity to see the life-changing impact the Project made on
the people living in war-affected and underdeveloped areas of Croatia. Despite the differing nature of
the funded sub-projects and their localities, the satisfaction and gratitude of the beneficiaries is the same
everywhere. In short, their well-being and quality of life have been changed for the better," says Vera
Dugandzic, World Bank task manager for the Croatia Social and Economic Recovery project.

Social and economic cohesion has also improved along with trust among different groups. Which is a
result of community driven, bottom-up and people-centered development in Croatia.
