Report No. PIC659
Project Name         Ecuador-Irrigation Subsector Technical Assistance
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Agriculture
Project ID                ECPA7105
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Agriculture
Quito, Ecuador
Tel: 593-2-523043
Fax: 593-2-565367
Date PID Prepared         March 17, 1994
Tentative Board Date      May 17, 1994
Project Objectives.
1. The main objectives of the project are: (a) to rationalize
policies, planning, expenditures and institutions in the irrigation
subsector; (b) to promote the sustainable participation of the private
sector as a means of improving the utilization and efficiency of
public irrigation systems; (c) to develop the necessary technical,
regulatory and administrative framework to ensure the effectiveness of
future public investments in irrigation infrastructure; (d) to develop
and validate cost recovery mechanisms and arrangements to transfer
responsibilities for operation and maintenance to beneficiary
organizations, providing intensive training and technical assistance
to strengthen these groups; and (e) to prepare a national irrigation
investment plan, including feasibility studies for selected irrigation
schemes.
Project Description
The project would include the following components:
1.   Institutional Reorganization and Strengthening.    This component
would enable Government to develop the operational and administrative
structure required to reduce its role to normative and regulatory
functions, while simultaneously reorganizing and strengthening all
relevant institutions to perform their new role and functions. The
component would include the following activities: (a) the organization
of a streamlined national entity, responsible for subsectoral
policies, planning, regulation, and coordination of water resource
utilization; (b) support to the decentralization process by
strengthening the operational and environmental capacity of regional
institutions; and (c) the development of the regulatory framework
required for the operation of the new decentralized institutional
structure, involving studies on water resource management, water
rights and concessions, water charges and cost recovery mechanisms for
operation, maintenance and investments.
2.   Private Sector Development Program. The component would assist
Government to develop the most suitable and sustainable mechanisms for
the transfer of operation and maintenance of public irrigation schemes



to the users and for regional agencies to promote user-financed
rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure. This would include: (a)
a pilot project component, involving support to selected
representative projects requiring investments in rehabilitation or
completion that would be transferred to beneficiary-managed
organizations in order to validate cost recovery and transfer
mechanisms and monitor the practical impact of improved subsectoral
policies and regulations; (b) strengthening, through training and
targeted technical assistance, of newly-created or existing water
users' organizations to ensure a sustainable transition to private
management, administration, and utilization of public irrigation
infrastructure; and (c) a comprehensive outreach training and
communication program within the geographical area of each regional
agency, aimed at disseminating the experience obtained in the pilot
projects to the irrigated farming community.
3.   Public Sector Irrigation Investment Plan.   The preparation of a
medium-term program for completion or rehabilitation of existing
projects under the new administrative and regulatory framework would
include (a) a detailed national inventory of existing public projects,
restricted to those schemes that either were not completed or are
currently in need of rehabilitation, to which a comprehensive set of
criteria for screening and selection would be applied; and (b) the
preparation of feasibility studies of irrigation schemes representing
the basis for a future investment project.
Project Implementation.
The project would be implemented over a period of five years by
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAG) through its Technical
Subsecretariat. MAG would establish a Project Executing Unit, which
would support the Subsecretariat in project management, inter-
institutional coordination, administration, and monitoring and
evaluation.
Project Cost and Financing
The total project costs have been estimated at US$27.0 million
equivalent, of which the Bank would finance US$20.0 million
equivalent.
Environmental Aspects
The project has been classified as a Category B project.
Consequently, the strategy for the preparation of the Public
Investment Plan incorporates several environment-related elements,
including: (a) the application of environmental criteria to screen all
projects included in the inventory of irrigation schemes requiring
investments for completion and/or rehabilitation; and (b) the
completion of individual environmental impact assessments (EIA) as
part of the feasibility studies to be prepared for each project. In
addition, a significant proportion of the technical assistance and
training to be provided is aimed at strengthening the environmental
capacity of public agencies. The project would also promote a shift in
the current approach to regional planning, by financing studies to
-2 -



define guidelines for watershed planning and management.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Washington, D.C. 20433
Phone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:    (202) 522-1500
Note:  This is information on an evolving project.     Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



