DOM=t of
The World Bank
FOR OFMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6229-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIYVALENT TO US$20.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
APRIL 19, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6229 EC
Type: PR
This document bas a resticted distibuton and may be _d by reipiens ost  the ofonmatce of
tbeir offici duties. Its contnts may not otherwise be dicdoed widout Wodd Bank autodrization.



,CURRECY  QnAEI
Currency Unit - Sucre (S/.)
E3XCHANGE RtAIM
('as of August 31, 1993)
US$1.00 = S/.1,948
January 1 to December 31
WEGT tS AND  oBAS oute
The metdc syst:n has been used tbroughout the zeport.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
CAS              Country Assistance Stra
CEDEGE           Commission for the Development of the Oua    River Basin
(Comisi6n de Estudios par el Desarrollo de la Cuec del Rio Guayas)
CIES             (Central Irrigation Execudve Secetaia)
CNRH             National Commission for Water Resoumes
(Comisi6n Nacional de Recursos HEdricos)
CONADE           National Development Commision
(Comisi6n Nacional de Desarrollo)
CONAMA           National Commission for the Environment
(Comisi6n Nacional de Medio Ambiente)
CPO              Provincial Council of El Oro
(Consejo Provincial de El Oro)
CREA             Center for the Economic T     on  of Azuay, Cdar and Morona
(Centro para la Reconvsin Econmica del Azuay, Cadar y Morona)
C2M              Corporation for the Rehabilitation of Manabi
(Corporaci6n para la Rehabilitaci6n de Manabi)
ETA              Environmental Impllat Att
(Evaluacidn de Impacto Ambienhl)
ICB              International Competitive Biddirg
1DB              Inter-American Development Bank
IDEA             Institut for Agriculral Strtegies
(Institub de Estrategias Agopeuarias)
INAMHI           National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology
(Institub Nacional de Metereologia e Hidologi)
INEFAN           Ecuadorian Institute for Forestry and Natuwal Reservne
(Institub Ecuatoriano Forestal y de Areas Naturales)
INERHI           Ecuadorian Institute of Water Resouves
(Institute Ecuatoriano de Rexuwos Hidrulicos)
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
LIB              Limited International Bidding
MAO              Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(Ministerio de Agriculture y Ganaderfa)
NGO              Non-Governmental Oranization
O&M              Operation and Mainlenance
PAT              Technical Assistance Project
(Proyecto de Asistencia TVcnica)
POA              Annual Workplan
(Plan Opeativo Anual)
PREDESUR         Regional Program  for the Devopment of Southem Ecuador
(Progtama de Desarrollo Regional del Sur de Ecuador)
SENDA            National Secretariat for Administraive Development
(Secretara de Estado de Normninicidn y Desarrollo Adminis   ivo)
SOB              Statement of Expenditures
TA               Technical Assistance
TOR              Terms of Reference
UEP              Project Executing Unit
(Unidad Ejecutora del Ptoyecto)
Tbi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpiets only in the perforallee of their official
duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TADLQNIDA3
GAT-ION SUBSFdm  TECHNICAL ASSISIANCE: EM=
T,<) CONTM
Ea No.
BcgUround ad Ka  Irrigation Issues  ...... ...............................  1
Institutional Framework ...............................   2
Constraints to Irrigation Development             ......................  2
Goverment Iigation Development Sttegy ..................eop n                    3
Rationale for Bank Involvement ..........................   3
Lessons Learned fom Previous Operations ............                             4
Ite Project .............................................  S
Strategy and Rationale  ........................                                 5
Project Objectives and Description ......................                        5 
Public Institutional Strengthening and Reform   ......          ...........  6
Private Sector Development ............................   7
Public Sector Irrigation Investment Plan ..........           ...........  7
Project Management and Implementation  ...........                .........  8
Reporting, Supervision and Evaluation ..........             ............  9
Costs and Financing .............................. 10
Procurement ............................                                        10
Disbursement, Accounts and Audits  ......            ................  11
Environmental Aspects  ............................. 12
Poverty Alleviation  .     .............................. 12
Project Perfbrmance and Sustainability  .....          ................ 13
Benefits and Risks .......... .................... 13
Agreed Actions         .............................  14
Recommendation ............................                              .    . 16
Tiis Report vs prepawd on the bais of an appmisl mission that vWised Ecuador in Decembr 1993. The mission
va comppdsed of Michael Carnli Icsk Manager, LA4AP) and Dvid kola ELGLA). It is also based on
contributions made during the prepartion proce  by Steven Schonbeer, Anna Roumani, Plorencia Casbo-Leal,
Andrde Abmmovich and Gum"n Gawcfa-Rivero (LA4AP), Edgudo FlOtD (PAOICP), Moris Whtalhr (Consultant),
and Pblo Anguita, Alvao d; Pobtul and Michael Raazynsli (Consultas, PAO/CP). Peter Wttenberg (LA4AP)
assistd in the preparation of the procurement and disbuenent sections. Ms. Corina Bermudez was responsible for
the production of this report. Peer revieaa wem Alain Ibbelem (LATPS) and Hyke Lae endecker (EClAG), while
Geore Ledoc Richard Huber (LATEN) and Pernando Manibog (LA4DR) rviewad enomentl aspects of the
project Mark Wilson is Managing Division Chief (LA4AP), Stefan Albew is Project Advisor, and Ping-Cheug Loh
is the Department Director (LA4).



- iv -
lhble of Contents (Continued)
Schedule A: Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan
Schedule B: Procurement Methods and Disbursements
Schedule C: Tlme Mhble of Key Processing Events
Schedule D: Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 1: Institutional Reorganizon
Annex 2: Detailed Cost Thbles
AnnDx 3: lTrms of Referece
Annex 4: Implementation Schedule
Annex 5: Perforance Indicators
Annexc 6: Supervision Plan
Annex 7: List of Documents in Project Files



-v V
ItRIGATION SUBSECIOR TEHNCAL ASSISANCEi ELQDC
LOAN AND ELRO. SUMR
Borrower                     The Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiarie:                MAG, CONADE, INERHM     , CEDEGE, CRM, CREA, and
PREDESUR
LoaLAmnmA   :                US$20.0 million equivalent. Retroactive financing up to a
maximum equivalent of US$1.0 million is proposed.
emns:                        Repayable in 20 years, including 5 yas of grace, at fte
Banies standard variable interest  e.
inancinf Plan:                                                          US$ milion
Govemment                                     5.5
IBRD                                          AQ
Ibtal                                        25.5
Economic Rate of Retumn:     Not applicable
Bum  Categoy:                Progam of lTrgeted Interventions
EMdMnmental R&M:             B



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSIRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
IRRIGATIO SUBSECrR TELUL ASSEMACE POJEC
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$20.0 million on standard IBRD
terms with a maturity of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, to help finance an
Irrigation Subsector Technical Assistance Project.
Baround and KeW  rrigation Issues
2.    Over the last tw  decades, Ecuador's development strategy has relied on oil revenues
and significant Government intervention in the economy. In the 1980s, however, declining
petroleum revenues and reduced external financing strained this strategy. After sporadic and
largely unsustained attempts at stabilization and adjustment, Ecuador is now embarking on a
more fundamental structural reform process. Tne current administration took office in
August 1992 in the midst of difficult economic conditions, with an electorai mandate to shift
to a development strategy based on a streamlined and more efficient public sector, and
greater reliance on private market forces as the engine of growth. The new Administration
implemented immediately a strong stabilization package, and announced the liroad outlines of
a medium-term reform program.
3.    Some important measures have already been taken: Congress has approved a Budget
Lw, that will greatly increase fiscal control, and a comprehensive Modernization of the
State Law, that would provide the legal basis for privatization, public sector reform and
decentralization. Additionaly, the Government has also accelerated trade and financial
market liberalization and streamlined foreign investment regulations. The major chaUl ,es
will be to reduce and reform an overdimensioned and ineffective public sector, create the
environment for increased investment and productivity, ease Ecuador's high external debt
burden and address pervasive poverty. The progress achieved to date and the agenda for the
on-going reforms are fully documented in the Country Strategy Paper.,
4.    Ecuador's agriculture is by far the dominant sector in the country and it continues to
have significant growth potential. In 1992, agriculture accounted for about 18 percent of
GDP, 25 percent of foreign exchange earnings, and 35 percent of formal and the bulk of
informal employment. Government plans major reforms and development of the agricultural
sector which will significantly impact both growth and poverty alleviation. Past agricultural
sector growth has resulted predominantly from expansion of the area planted, while
productivity improvements have been very low, or even negative (e.g. bananas). In some
areas, the conversic. of land to agriculture has also creatad potential ecological concerns.
1.   See ECUADOR: County Strat  Pape, LAC Deartment IV - Country OpemionB, June 17, 1993.



- 2 -
5.   In terms of the agricultural resource base, Ecuador is divided into two distinct areas:
the highlands and the coast. The highlands (the Sierra) are characterized by small-scale,
traditional farms primarily dedicated to fobd crops (potatoes, vegetables, temperate fruits,
and wheat) and livestock (cattle and sheep) production. In contrast, the coastal plains (the
Costa) are comprised largely of medium and large-scale commercial farms where the main
agricultural products are bananas, cacao, sugarcane, rice and shrimp.
6.    Ecuador is endowed with abundant water resources, with 84 river basins, the majority
flowing into the Pacific Ocean, which discharge 300-500 billion cubic meters per annum.
Irrigated agriculture is the largest user of water, accounting for over 80% of the country's
total annual consumption. Actual annual irrigatd land ranges between 420,000 and 530,000
hectares, of which approximately 120,000 hectares are irrigated by public infrastructure.
Government funding for irrigation projects has lacked a consistent development strategy and
an adequate normative framework to define priorities for investments at the national level.
Resource use efficiency is low, both in terms of infrastructure desigr., construction,
management, and operation and maintenance (O&M), as well as in water resource
management itself. Protracted construction schedules are common, currently resulting in
over 30 unfinished irrigation schemes. Water distribution is inefficient in most public
irrigation systems, which combined with the absence of complementary infrastructure, basic
support and extension result in the very low impact that irrigation has had on agricultumal
productivity. Furthermore, most of the existing public irrigation projects have been heavily
subsidized and inadequate funding has constrained completion and maintenance of schemes.
7.    _m1httioiaLhmwrk. In addition to the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) and the
Planning Secretariat of the National Development Commission (CONADE), five key public
institutions are involved in irrigation in Ecuador. The Ecuadorian Institute for Water
Resources (INERHI) has a nation-wide mandate, and the largely unfulfilled responsibility of
enforcing the 1972 Water Law. The other four institutions are semi-autonomous regional
agencies: (a) Commission for the Development of the Guiyas River Basin (CEDEGE); 0b)
Center for the Economic Transformation of Azuay, Cafiar y Morona (CREA); (c)
Corporation for the Rehabilitation of Manabf (CRM); and (d) Regional Program for the
Development of Southern Ecuador (PREDESUR). In addition, some irrigation projects are
operated by provincial or municipal institutions, of which the Provincial Council of El Oro
(CPO) is the most important in terms of irrigated area. The present institutional arrangement
is entangled in an enornous dispersion of functions and responsibilities, a lack of a coherent
strategy, and considerable overlapping and competition for the allocation of funds for
irrigation. As a result, major problems exist with respect to general institutional morle,
service quality, equipment obsolescence, and poorly trained personnel.
8.    Constraints to Irrigation Development. Despite its disproportionate share of the
public agricultual sector budget (over 60% in 1992), public sector irrigation in Ecuador is
not functioning well. The basic problem with the Government's involvement in the sector
has been the lack of a clear subsectoral strategy. The process to identify, design and
determine the technical and economic feasibility of irrigation projects is deficient.
Therefore, many of the existing projeca have been selected on the basis of political
considerations and constructed with inadequate or incomplete designs. No priority has been
given to the completion of irrigation systems under construction or to the rehabilitation of



- 3 -
existing ones; rather, available funds are generally allocated to new projects. INERHI does
not focus its efforts on this task despite the technical knowledge it allegedly possesses.
Mcreover, beneficiaries have never been fully incorporated in the approval, construction or
operation of irrigation systems and they pay very little in the way of water tariffs.
9.    In summary, the poor performance of the irrigation subsector to date can thus be
attributed to: (a) historically inadequate subsectoral policies, strategic planning and selection
of projects; (b) excessive public sector intervention, thus restricting private sector
participation; (c) deficient construction, operation and maintenance of projects; and (d)
insufficient public services supporting irrigated agriculture.
10.   Government Irrigation Development Strategy. The irrigation subsector offers
opportunities for substantial growth and development, provided significant improvements are
made to increase water use efficiency, substantial modifications are introduced to the current
institutional structure, the process for rationaWizing investment priorities is improved, and
reliance on private sector participation is expanded.
11.   To address these prerequisites, the Government has recently begun to outline an
ambitious strategy involving the redefinition of the role of the state in irrigation and the
separation of normative and operational functions. At the national level, a much smaller
policy-oriented agency would replace INERXI and wuld limit its tasks to the evaluation,
planning, and regulation of water resources. Consequently, responsibilities for project
design, execution, operation and administration wcauld be decentralized and transferred to
strengthened regional agencies. Additionally, the reduction of government intervention in the
irrigation subsector would gradually lead to the transfer of O&M activities from the regional
agencies to water users' associations and the increased participation of the private sector in
irrigation development. The overall strategy is fully consistent with the decentraliztion
efforts being promoted by the National Secretariat for Administrative Development
(SENDA).
12.   Consistent with the modernization priorities of the present administration, MAG has
decided to formulate and implement a comprehensive institutional reform of the public
irrigation subsector and to develop the framework for the preparation of a medium-term
Irrigation Investment Prgram. Given the capacity-building requirements of the initiative,
MAG has requested the Bank's support to implement a precursor technical assistance project.
13.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed pzoject seeks to make the planning
and management of irrigation water resources more efficient and responsive to user needs,
thereby reducing Government budget expenditures for publicly-provided services, and
establishing conditions under which future Bank lending to the subsector will have greater
impact, and be more cost-effective and sustainable.
14. The project is fully consistent with the Bank's current Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Ecuador as discussed in the Board's meeting of June 1, 1993; in terms of helping
to redefine the role of the state and to improve conditions for private sector development.
Specifically, it supports the Government's efforts to: (i) implement public sector reforms and
rationalize institutional responsibilities; (ii) improve the regulatury framework and required



-4 -
irrigation infrastructure for private sector-led growth, including the transfer of specific
publicly-held facilities to private ownership and/or management; and (iii) lay the groundwork
for rational investment in, and management of, critical infrastructure aimed at primarily
benefitting lower income groups. In addition, the project is in line with the
recommendations made by a joint World Bank/IDB mission and a subsequent FAO/CP study
conducted in 1990. The latter concluded that future financing of irrigation projects should
depend on the completion of a comprehensive institutional rationalization.
15.   The project incorporates key elements of the Bank's revised water Resource
Management Policy Paper2 which was recently revised to take account of accumulated Bank
experience. This is reflected in support for: (a) the adaptation of national and regional
institutions and the development of an appropriate administrative and regulatory framework;
(b) the decentralization of water resource management to regional institutidns; (c) the transfer
to private ownership of selected public irrigation facilities; and (d) the active participation of
water users in the planning, design, and management of irrigation projects, thereby
improving service provision, users' sense of ownership, and incentives for cost recovery,
which are central tenets of the project. A modernized institutional framework is expected to
improve procedures for the evaluation of new and existing projects including appropriate
information systems, and to institute water tariffs reflecting the real costs of irrigation water.
16.   LeSSons Learned from Previous Opemtions. Although lbchnical Assistance (TA)
projects are the mechanism most frequently used by the Bank to promote capacity-building
and institutional development, the overall impact of the Bank's TA lending has not been
wholly satisfactory. Based on past experience, the project clearly defines responsibijities and
functions of the executing agencies. It also provides adequate support for project
administration including monitoring and evaluation. lb promote sustainability, special
attention was given during project design to promote users participation on administration of
irrigation schemes, limiting the long-term uirden on government's recurrent budget.
Overall, the project has been designed to provide adequate support to the initiation and/or
implementation of critical policy changes in the irrigation subsector.
17.   The demand-driven nature of the project and the strong leadership demonstrated by
MAG officials, combined with the extensive consultation process that took place during the
preparation stage of the project, provide reasonable assurance of adequate involvement and
commitment of Government and recipient agencies. Furthermore, components, activities,
and outputs consistent with the objectives of the project were clearly defined during project
preparation. Finally, the potential difficulties resulting from the multi-agency approach being
applied under the project, which are essential to promote the desired changes throughout the
subsector, would be minimized by intensive supervision and the establishment of a project
management unit comprised of qualified consultants with proven expertise in project
execution and monitoring.
2.    Water Resource Manasement Policy Paper, World Bank, September 1993.



18.    $mgyJ and Ratiole. The central thrust of the project l to assist Government in
undertaking the process of modernization of the irrigation subsector, the major user of water
resources in the country. The required institutional rform would be addressed sequentally,
first by strea um   the normative and regulatory role of the public sector in the
development of the irrigation subsector. This would be accompanied by actions to initiate a
process of decentralization and privatization, in which existing regional institutions would be
strengthened to effectively assume the lead role in assitng user organizations to take over
the management of existing public irrigation systems. Once these subsectoral reforms are
underway, the project would promote the incorporation of other subsectors (urban water
supply, hydro-electricity) in order to establish a sustainable and integrated approach to watr
resource policies and management in the country.
19.   From a legal standpoint, the current  iter Law does not restrict the implementation
of the proposed restructuring of institutions involved in irrigation. If required, the reform
process would thus be carried out initially through administrative mechanisms, to be later
formalized within the revised new  Wr  Law. Such legislation would also complement the
broader policy reforms currently being adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture.
20.  A second key element of the project would be the development of a comprehensive
set of technical, economic and environmental criteria to be applied in the prioridzation and
selection of future public investments in iigaion. These criteria would form the basis for
the analysis of all existing irrigation works to determine those that objectively merit
iwestments for completion and/or rehabilitation. As a result, an impotant oitput of the
chnical assistance to be provided under the proposed project would be the full pipaton
Of a medium-term Investment Plan, to be implemented witiin the legal and opeatonal
framework developed during the project.
21.     Weet OebJetives and Dn  dptlon. The main objecdves of the proposed technical
assistance project are:
(a)   to improve policy design and implementation, rationalize public expenditures,
and modernize institutions in the irrigtion subsector;
0b)   to promote the sustainable participation of the private sector as a means of
improvmng the utiliation and efficiency of public irrigaton systems; and
(c)   to develop the necesary technical, regulatory and administrafive f wameork to
ensure the effectiveness of future public investments in irrigation
infrastructure, which would form the basis for a follow-up investmnt loan.
22. The proposed project would have a total cost of US$25.5 million (detailed cost
esmates are provided in Schedule A and Annex 2) and woud be implemented ova five
yeaW   The loan, amoundng t US$20.0 million, would finance the necessary lonterm
tchnical advisors (US$6.5 million), short-term consulancies (US$1.7 million), technical
and policy studies (US$1.5 million), fasibility sdies (US$3.0 million), tWaining



-6 -
(US$1.1 million), equipment (US$ US$1.5 million), civil works (US$3.1 million), and
incremental recurrent costs (US$1.6 million) required to implement the components desribed
below.
23.   P ub     itutional Strenghening and Reform (US$10.1 million Ibtal Cost). This
component would enable Government to develop the policy and administrative framework
required to reduce its role to normative and regulatory functions, while simultaneously
reorganizing and strengthening all relevant institutions to perform their new role and
functions. The component would include the following activities:
(a)   The organization of a streamlined national entity, responsible for subsectomal
policies, planning, regulation, and coordination of water resource utilization
(Annex 2). Initially based on the existing INERHI, later to be replaced by a
proposed National Council for Water Resources (CNRH), the board of this
agency would include the Ministry of Agricultuire, the Ministry of Finance, the
Planning Secretariat of CONADE and representatives of relevant
environmental and water-related agencies. During negaligQons it was agreed
that INERHI's Board of Directors would be restructured by no later t 1an 30
doy after efhenem  (pam. 48(a)). CNRH's functions would be supported
by a project-assisted Cential Irrigation Executive Secreaiat (CIES)
responsible for policy formulation, public resource allocation, definition of
technical guidelines, and monitoring of Govemment programs and projects.
At neotiations, agreement was also reached on the appointment of the head
of the CES, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, byQ
later than 60 dAs after effectiveness (pam. 48(a)). This would be
complemented by providing specialized technical assistance to MAG and the
Planning Secretariat within CONADE.
(b)   Support to the decentrlization process by strengthening the operational and
environmental assessment capacity of existing regional institutions (CEDEGE,
CRM, CREA, PREDESUR, and agency to be designated by the government in
the province of EL Oro) and INERHIs regional offices in the areas not
covered by the existing regional agencies. As a condition of disbumment
against the Institutional Strengthening component, the government would
submit signed Transferral Agreements, acceptable to the Bank, between
INERH and each regional agency formalizing the transfer of all projects
currently under INERHI's administraton (pam. 50).
(c)   The preparation of the regulatory and administrative framework required for
the operation of the new decentralized institutional structure, involving a series
of studies to define procedures and mechanisms to implement new subsector
strategies and policies related to: (i) water resource management; (ii) water
rights and concessions; (iii) water charges and cost recovery mechanisms for
operation, maintenance and investments; and (iv) participation of the private
sector in the identification, construction, and O&M of irrigation systems.



24.       Wfi  tor Devel       (US$9.6 milon lbtal Cost). The component would
assist Government in developing the most suitable and sustainable mechanisms for the
regional agencies to promote user-financed rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure, and
implement the transfer of public iipgation schemes to the users. It would include:
(a)   A Pilot Project Program, involving a limited number of selected projects
(tentatively, seven representative projects were agreed on during negotiations).
This would require investments in rehabilitation or completion of irrigation
schemes. The pilot projects would be transferred to beneficiary-managed
organizations in order to validate cost recovery and tansfer mechanisms and
monitor the pracical impact of improved subsectoral policies and regulations.
Agreement was obtained during negotions on the process and schedule,
acceptable to the Bank, to be applied for the selection of pilot projects
(pan. 48(b)). As a condition for diabuement against the Pilot Project
Progam, the Board of Directors of each regional institution would approve a
resolution formnaizing the selection of the irrigton systems to be included in
the Pilo: Project Program (pam. 51).
(b)   Thining and targeted technical assistance to strengthen newly-created or
existing mwter users' oranizations witin the Pilot Projects Program in order
to ensure a sustainable tansition to private management, administration, and
utilizaion of public irrigation infrastructure.
(c) Implementation of a comprehensive outreach training and communication
progrm within the geographical area of each regional agency, aimed at
disseminating the eWperience obtained in the pilot projects to the irrigated
farming community, particularly to those farmers involved in all other public
irrigation schemes.
(d)   Comprehensive review of the current status of privately-developed rigation,
in order to determine the need for specific policies to stimulate increased
productivity of private irrigated agriculture.
25.   PabL  Sector  Bkdgatono lestment Ian (US$3.7 mlon Ibtal Cost). Studies for
the preparation of a medium-term program for ccmpletion or rehabilitation of existing
projects under the new administrative and regulatory fmmework, would ivlve the follng
activities:
(a)   Detiled national inventory of existng public projects, restricted to those
schemes that either were not completed or are currently in need of
rehabilitation.
(b)   Development and application of comprehensive criteia for screening and
selection of future public irrigation projects
(c)   Preparation of feasibility studies of irrio n schemes representing the basis
for a medium-term investment program. The implementation of this follow-p



-8-
project would incorporate policies, legal framework, and operational
procedures developed during the technical assistance project.
26.   During  gotiations, agreement was reached on the schedule for the preparation of
the Public Investment Plan, which would be developed and submitted to the Bank for
approval by no later than December 31, 1994 (para. 48(c)). It was also agreed that the
preliminary list of projects requiring feasibility studies would be developed in consultation
with the Bank (para. 48(c)). A Cooperative Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, specifying
the terms and conditions under which feasibility studies of selected projects would be
conducted, would be signed between MAG and the Planning Secretariat of CONADE as a
condition of disbunement against the Public Investment Plan component (para. 52).
27.   Poect Mangemnt and Impm atio (US$2.1 million Tbtal Cost). The
overall executing institution would be MAG, which would provide funds, goods and services
to the central and regional institutions participating in the project, utilizing procedures agreed
upon during appraisal. Detailed terms and procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
transfer of project resources would be specified in Subsidiary Agreements between MAG and
each regional institution. Agreement was reached (during negotiatioQ) on the format and
content of these Subsidiary Agreements, including the necessary clauses to: (i) ensure
adequate allocation of counterpart funds to the project by each agency and (ii) annual budgets
are discussed with UEP and the Bank (para. 48(d)). Submission of the signed individual
Subsidiary Agreements (para. 230)), to the Bank, between MAG and each regional
institution participating in the project would be a condition of disbursement against the
Institutional Strengthening component for the respective regional institution (pam. 50).
28.   lb assist with the execution of the project, MAG has agreed to recruit a core team of
qualified consultants and support staff with proven experience in project execution and
monitoring, to fonn the Project Executing Unit (UEP). The UEP to be created by
Ministerial Decree for the duration of the project would report directly to the Minister of
Agr:culture in his capacity as President of the Board of Directors of INERH (and later of
the proposed CNRH) (para. 23(a)). The UEP would have the primary function of providing
managerial and administrative support to the project, including procurement processing,
hiring of consultants, contracting of studies, accounting, and monitoring and inter-
institutional coordination of implemnentation activities, based on the Implementation Schedule
outlined in Annex 4. The UEP would also be the contact point between the Bank and the
Government on project matters, providing follow-up on agreements and conditionalities,
consolidating annual workplans of the individual participating agencies, as well as actively
assisting in project supervision. In order to assist MAO in finalizing aU necessary
arrangements prior to initiatng project implementaion, a highly qualified short-term
consultant was recruited for six months. The draft text of the Ministerial Decree, terms of
reference, and staff recruitment timetable for the establishment of the UEP was agreed upon
during negotiations (pam. 48(e)). As a condition of the loan effectiveness the oranizational
structure and staffing requirements for the establishment of UEP would be approved by
SENDA (pama 49(a)).
29.   Tb avoid delaying the institutional reform process until the improved legal framework
is deeoped and later approved by Congress, the Government has established that the



-9 -
proposed new institutional arrangements could be initially implemented utilizing
administrative mechanisms under the existing %ater Law. For the tansition perod, pror to
negotiations INERHI's Board of Directors issued a resolution approving the reorganization of
INERHI into the following agencies:
(a)   A streamlined central agency, using INERHrs current legal mandate, that
would perform the normative role and functions to be eventuaUy transferred to
the proposed CNRH under the new Water Law or the Modernization Law.
This agency would be primarily staffed by a reduced number of selected
professional and administrative personnel currently employed by INERHI, and
would be headed by an Executive Director, reporting to the National Irrigation
Coordinator, a senior official appointed by thbc Minister of Agriculture. Prior
to negotiations, the lbchnical Subsecretary of MAG was formally designated
as the National Irrigation Coordinator.
(b)   Regional agencies, udliing part of INERH's staff and the existing offices
located in Ibarra and Ambato (or Riobamba), that would be responsible for
decentralized functions in the areas of the country presently not covered by the
existing regional institutions (i.e. the northern and central part of the Sierra).
Initally, these agencies would be administratively lkd to INERHI, but
would become autonomous once the proposed CNRH is established
(para. 23(a)). As a condition of loan effectiveness, the new organiional
structure and staffing requirements for the reorganiion of INERI would be
initiated with the formal approval from SENDA (pam. 49(b)).
30. In order to implement the decentralization objectives of the project, responsibility ibr
public irrgation projects located throughout the country that are currently centralized under
INERHI would be transferred to the respective existing regional agencies. Prior to
negotiations, INERHI's Board approved a resolution authorizing the transfer of all irrigation
projects.
31.  Reoring, SuisM andaluntl. All participating agencies wuld be
required to submit full progress reports to the UEP every six months, in a standard format
satisfictory to the Bank, no later than October 30 and April 30 of each year. In turn, the
UEP would consolidate these progress reports and submit them to the Bank by MU 31 and
November 10 of each year. stdrng in MUy 1995 (pam. 48(f)). The report for the second
semester of the year would include a consolidated proposed annual workplan (POA), which
would be approved by the Bank prior to its implementation. [b xpedite communications
and reportng, the possibility of establishing electronic linkage between MAG/UEP and the
Bank will be explored.
32.  Given the prcect's highly decentralized nature, intensive supenrision will be required.
Partal supervsion, mainly conducted by LA4AP staff in the Bank's resident office in Quito
and locally-recruited consultants, would take place on a quarterly basis, while full
supervision missions would monitor project progress every six months (tentatively scheduled
for May and November of each year). In addition, it is expected that FAO/CP would
participate in the preparation of the Public Investment Program, thus assistng the Bank in the



- 10 -
supervision of a major component of the project. During negotiations agreement was
reached about the organization of the project launch workshop, including the preparation of
the Project Implementation Manual to be finalized no later than 90 days after loan
effectiveness (para. 48(g)). Internal annual evaluations by no later than November 30 of
eac year, as well as a mid-term project evaluation by no later than November 30, 1996,
would be carried out with the purpose of providing a detailed analysis of implementation
progress, status of performance indicators (Annex 5) and recommendations for any required
adjustments. The Supervision Plan for the project is outlined in Annex 6.
33.   Costs and Financing. The estimated total project cost is US$25.5 million, including
US$2.5 million for contingencies. The project would be financed by a Bank loan of
US$20.0 million (78% of total project cost), net of taxes and duties, and a Government
contribution of US$5.5 million. All incremental operating costs are included. The Loan
would finance 100% of the cost of about 1,500 months of specialized consultancies, of which
380 would be required to have international experience. With the exception of the
incremental staff to be transferred from INERHI to the regional irrigation agencies, the
salaries of permanent state employees performing project related activities have not been
included as part of the project cost.
34.  The Bank loan would cover 100% of the Project's foreign exchange costs by
financing the cost of foreign consultant services and the foreign exchange cost of works,
equipment and training. It would also finance about 65% of the project's costs in local
currency, including fees of national experts, works, equipment, services, training and
incremental operating costs. The Government's share would cover the remainder of local
currency expenditures to support project coordination, office overhead and incremental local
staff, works and equipment. Detailed cost estimates and financing plan are provided in
Schedule A. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that adequate counterpart
funding would be made available to the project, by (i) allocating funds in the annual budget,
accorinding to the proposals to be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 of each year
following the requirements specified in the project's Annual Workplans; and (ii) opening and
maintaining an account, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes
of depositing the required counterpart funds for project implementation (para. 48(h)). N
later than 45 days after effectiveness, the account would be opened and an initial deposit of
US$200,000 would be made. One year before project completion, arrangements wovad be
made to ensure future funding of recurrent costs to support core aetAivities.
35. Procurement. During neggiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that the procurement of works, goods and services would be carried out in accordance with
Bank Procurement Guidelines (May 1992) (para. 48(i)). Similarly, the use of LCB standard
documents acceptable to the Bank was also agreed upon. Consultants to be financed under
the Loan would be selected and hired by the Government in accordance with the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers..." (August 1981). The legal
documents for this project would contain a set of provisions dealing with points of
differences, either in substance or in interpretation, between Bank guidelines--for
procurement and for the use of consultants-and Ecuadorian legislation. Assurances were
also obtained during negotiations, that in case of conflict between local legislation and the
Bank's procurement policy, the latter would prevail if the aforementioned prwvisions are



- 11-
included in the Loan Agreement (pam. 480)). lb assist in procurement implementation,
MAG would appoint procurement consultants under the UEP (para. 28).
36.  In order to ensure adequate quality, the feasibility studies required for the preparation
of the Public Investment Plan, estimated to cost about US$3.0 million, would be grouped
into packages of not less than US$0.6 million to attract reputable consulting frms with
relevant experience. Procurement of goods would represent about US$1.5 million
equivalent, and wuld include purchases of vehicles, computer softwae and harduare, offlce
equipment and other equipment. Vehicles and computers would be procured through LIB,
using Bank Standard Bidding Documents, among suppliers with appropriate servicing and
repair facilities in Ecuador. Tb the extent feasible, procurement under LIB would be done in
packages costing more than US$150,000. Furniture and other equipment up to an aggregate
amount of about US$60,000 equivalent, two vehicles urgently needed for the initial activities
of the UEP, and goods which cannot be packaged in contracts larger than US$50,000 wwld
be purchased through local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, requiring the
comparison of price quotations from at least tee eligible suppliers. The total walue of
goods to be procured under shopping procedures would not enceed an aggregate amount of
US$150,000. Civil works to be procured and financed under the project would represent
about US$4.2 million, and would include exclusively the rehabilitation and/or completion of
nfrastructure within the seven projects selected for the Pilot Project Prgram. Due to the
relative simplicity and estimated cost of such works (US$250,000-US$750,000 per project),
contracts would be procured hough LCB procedures. A summary of procurement
arrangements is provided in Schedule B.
37.  Except for activities to be defined during the early stages of project implementation,
draft terms of reference for key consulting services and studies (Annex 3), reviewed at
appraisal, were agreed upon during negotiations. Unless implementation requirements justify
the recruitment of individual consultants, the Bank would emphasize the use of consulting
firms to provide technical assistance and conduct specific studies.
38. All procurement documentation and decisions under LD3, with the exception noted in
para. 36 for the start-up of the UEP and other related goods, and for works contracts
expected to cost US$500,000 or more, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. The
prior review of consultant contracts would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
However, consultant contracts estimated to cost below US$100,000 for firms and US$20,000
for individuals, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million and US$400,000, respectively
would include only the review of the terms of reference. The proposed review procedures
would result in a prior review by the Bank of about 75 percent of the total value of contas
under the project.
39. Disbursement. Accounls and Audits. The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed
over a five and one half year penod (six months more than implementation) with a closing
date of June 30, 2000, against: (i) 100% of ependitres for intemational and local
consultancies, studies, and training; (ii) 75% of works; (iii) 100% of foreign exchange
expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-ictory cost) and 80% of  penditu   in loea
currency for goods; and (iv) 75% of incremental opeating costs (vehicle O&M and domestic
travel expenses during implementation) on a declining base (100% up to an aggregat amount



- 12 -
of US$1.0 million; 66% up to an aggregate amount of US$1.45 million; and 33% up to an
aggregate amount of US$1.6 million). Disbursement of loan proceeds would be made under
five categories: (i) consulting contracts, including studies (US$12.2 million); (ii) works
contracts (US$3.1 million); (iii) goods , including equipment and vehicles (US$1.5 million);
(iv) incremental operating costs (US$1.6 million); (v) training (US$1.1 million); and (vi)
unallocated (US$0.5 million). A Special Account would be established in the Central Bank
of Ecuador with an authorized allocation of up to US$1.0 million. Eligible expenditures
from the date of appraisal may be retroactively financed up to a maximum equivalent of
US$1.0 million, but would not include expenditures incurred more than 12 months prior to
signing of the loan agreement. Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) for all expenses except those covered by contracts requiring prior review
by the Bank. The allocation of loan proceeds is summarized in Schedule B.
40.   During negotiations agreement was reached that the UEP and the regional agencies
(paras. 7 and 23(b)) vould maintain detailed accounts, utilizing an Accounting Plan
satisfactory to the Bank, and process payments for all project expenditures (para. 48(k)).
Prior to neeotiation, MAG submitted the proposed general outline of the Accounting Plan
for the project. Project Accounts, the Special Account, and procurement, including
Statement of Expenditures (SOE), would be audited annually. For this, independent auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be appointed for at least three years. Audit Reports would be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the end of Government's fiscal year.
41.   Environmental AspcU. Environmental considerations represent an important
element of the project. A significant proportion of the technical assistance and training to be
provided is aimed at strengthening the environmental capacity of public agencies, both at the
central (planning) and regional (implementation) levels. This would include about 120
months of environment-related consultancies, as well as approximately US$100,000 on
environmental taining of local staff. Furthermore, the project would promote a shift in the
current approach to regional planning, by financing studies to define guidelines for asbed
planning and management. In addition, the strategy for the pilot project component and the
preparation of the Public Investment Plan incorporates several environment-related elements,
including (i) the application of environmental criteria to screen all projects included in the
inventory of irrigation schemes requiring investment for completion and/or rehabilitation;
(ii) individual environmental impact assessments (EiA) as part of the feasibility studies to be
prepared for each project selected as a pilot scheme and for the future investment program;
and (iii) the incorporation of a public environmental agency acceptable to the Bank, to the
Board of Directors of the proposed CNRH (pam. 23(a)).
42.   IoIr Alleviati . The project would have a strong focus on rural poverty, given
that a considerable proportion of vater users within public irrigation projects are
smallholders living in poverty. Through targeted interventions (technical assistance, timing
programs, and pilot projects), a substantial amount of project resources would be aimed at
developing a more efficient, sustainable and economicaly viable alternative for the
management and operation of irrigation infrastructure, thus providing poor farmers and their
fbmilies the opportunity to improve their income levels and living conditions.



- 13 -
43.   Project Fbrformance and Sustlnablilty. The overall performance of the project
will be closely monitored, primarily based on a comprehensive set of clearly defined
performance indicators prepared for each of the individual components of the project
(Annex 5).
44.   To some extent, the impact and sustainability of project activities would depend on
how effectively the institutional reforms are carried out and integrated into the formulation of
sectoral policies. However, given that one of the primary objectives of the project is to
decrease Government's role and intervention in irrigation, the success of the project is
largely dependant o.i the interest and participation of the private sector in project activities.
The expected reduced role of the public sector should also avoid possible negative impacts of
consultant withdrawal after project completion. Furthermore, a considerable proportion of
project expenditures would be directly (pilot projects and strengthening of user oranizations)
or indirectly (improved policy formulation and targeted assistance to regional institutions)
aimed at implementing a sustainable transfer of irrigation schemes to private management.
In addition, project initiatives are expected to be consolidated and expanded through the
implementation of the proposed Public Irrigation Investment Plan, to be prepared as part of
the project.
45.   The interim institutional arrangements to be implemented under the project should
ensure sustainability of the policy reorms even if the approval of the improved legal
framework is delayed. The decentralization of the decision-making process in the irrigation
subsector, combined with the restructunng and strengthening of regional agencies and the
increased role of water users associations in irrigation development, would be carried out
beyond the life of the project.
46.    .ne  and  i. The propose project wuld promote changes in policy,
planning and management at the national and regional levels, which would set the framework
for fiuther subsectoral lending by the Bank. These critical adjustments, combined with
increased private sector participation, would achieve: (a) greater ovall efficiency in the
utiliztion of wmter resources; (b) significant rationaliztion of public institutions (an
estimated reduction of over 2,000 employees is envisaged), and investments in irrigation; and
(c) considerable reduction of the public budget for irrigation, through an important decrease
in staff costs (estimated at US$8.6 million/year) and O&M expenditures (about US$1.0
million annually), and increased cost recovey from future investnents. Furthermore,
additional benefits would be generated by the gradual privatizaon of public irrigation
schemes through their transfer to water users' associations, involving a systematic sharing of
responsibilities with the private sector in irrigation system management. A total of about 450
oganizations and 60,000 farmers would be direcly assisted by the project through the pilot
projects and the training and outreach program. Improved irrgation management will
provide the basis for the sustainable expansion of Ecuador's irrigtion system, benefitting a
larger proportion of the predominantly poor population of rural areas.
47.   The major risks include: (a) the magnitude of the proposed institutional reform; (b)
the limited administrative and technical capacity of participating agencies; (c) the possible
reluctance of farmers to support the privatization process; and (d) the potential shift in key
subsectoral priorities resulting from the mandatory change of Government every four yearL



- 14-
In addition to the work done during project preparation to address these issues, these risks
would be mitigated by:
(a)   the implementation of a considerable capacity-building progr., combined
with close monitoring and supervision of the proposed reforms;
(b)   the establishment of a highly-qualified Project Executing Unit, with a clearly
defined mandate to facilitate project execution;
(c)   the current pressure from farmer organizations to reduce Government
intervention in O&M of public irrigation infrastructure, combined with the
establishment of a comprehensive program of pilot projects and training to
strengthen users' organizations and demonstrate the benefits of a privately
operated irrigation systems; and
(d)   the leadership shown by MAG's current administration in executing the
Government's modenization program, and the formal commitment to
implement the required reforms rapidly in order to avoid delays in initiatng
the Public Investment Plan.
48.   Amed Actions. During nuo.tlalhu, agreement/assurances were obtained from
Government on the following:
(a)   restructuring of INE 's Board would be formalized by no later than 30 dy
afer effeceite, and the head of the CES would be appointed, with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, by no later than 60 doys
after effectiveness (para. 23(a));
b)   the process and schedule, acceptable to the Bank, for selection of pilot projects
(pam. 24(a));
(c) a detailed schedule for preparation of the Public Investment Plan, including the
preliminary list of existing projects requiring feasibility studies for completion
and/or rehabilitation, which would be submitted to the Bank for approvl b
no later than December 31, 1994 (pam. 26);
(d)   the format and content of the Subsidiary Agreements, including the necessary
clauses to ensure adequate allocation of countepart funds to the project by
each agency, to be signed between MAO and all participating institutions
(paras. 27 and 50);
(e) draft text of the Ministerial Decree, TORs, and staff recuitment timetable for
the establishment of the UEP (paras. 28 and 49 (a));
(f)   all participating agencies would be required to submit full progress reports to
the UEP, in a standard format satisfictory to the Bank, na later than Oc
30 and April 30 of each year, and submitted to the Bank once consolidated by



- 15 -
the UEP by Ma 31 and November 30 of each year. starting in May 1995
(para. 31);
(g)   the preparation of the project launch workshop and contents of the Project
Implementation Manual, to be finalized not later than 90 days after
effectiveness, as well as the timing for the internal annual evaluations Iim
later than November 30 of each year, and a mid-term project evaluation kJUQ
later than November 30, 1996 (para. 32);
(h)   mechanisms for adequate and timely counterpart funding to be made available
during project implementation, including the establishment of a project account
not later than 45 days after effectiveness and the submission of budget
proposals by June 30 of each year (para. 34);
(i)   the utilization of Bank Procurement Guidelines (May, 1992), and standard
bidding documents, acceptable to the Bank, for procurement under the project
(pam. 35);
(j)   Bankes procurement policy would prevail over local legislation in cases of
conflict, for which purpose appropriate provisions were included in the Loan
Agreement (pam. 35); and
(k)   the general requirements for project auditing satisfactory to the Bank
(pam. 40).
49.   As a condition for Loan Effectivne, the Borrower would obtain formal approval
from SENDA regarding:
(a)   the organizational structure and staffing requirements for the establishment of
the UEP (para. 28); and
(b) the reorganization of INERHI (pam. 29(b)).
50.   As a condition of dlsbummnt against the Institutional Strengthening component of
each regional institution, the Borrower would submit sigried Thns&frral Agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, between INERHI and each regional agency formaliing the transfer
of all projects currently under INERHI (pama. 23(b)); and the respective Subsidiary
Agreements, satisfacory to the Bank, between MAG and each regional institution
participating in the prqject (pam. 27).
51.   As condition of fdisbuemnt against the Pilot Project Progrm of the Private Sector
Development Component, the Borrower wuld formalize, through a resolution from the
Board of Directors from each regional Agency, the selection of the irrigation systems,
acceptable to the Bank, to be included in the P:lot Project Program (pam. 24(a)).
52.   As a condition of disbursement against the preparation of the Public Investment Plan,
the Borrower would sign a Cooperative Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the



- 16 -
Planning Secretariat of CONADE, on the specific terms and conditions under which
feasibility studies of selected projects would be conducted (para. 26).
53.   Recommendatin. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Vashington, D.C.
April 19, 1994



- 17 -                               Scheule A
-OR
PROJEC COSTSUh
Prtojectoon                                 LllWm1
-U USS million
A.   Public Iuutltutional Stent    & Rdonn
Mistry of Agricult                          0.1          0.2            0.3
Planning Seretaia                           0.1          0.2            0.3
Cential Irigation Executive Seariat         0.7          0.9             1.6
CEDEGE                                      0.4          0.4            0.8
CREA                                        0.7          0.3             1.0
CRM                                         0.6          0.3            0.9
Agencies in the pvince of El Oro            0.7          0.3             1.0
iNERHI None                                 0.5          0.3            0.8
INERH CenO                                  0.5          0.3            0.8
PREDESUR                                    0.4          0.3            0.7
Tocical and Policy StAdios                  0.6          0.6             1.2
Component Sub-Tbtal                         5.3          3.8             M
B.   Public Irrigatieuon Invsent Plan             1.7          1.7             S
C    Private Sector Deveopmet
Pilot Projecs                               4.4          2.1             6.S
User Group Tiainng and Outreach             1.0           1.2            2.2
Component Sub4Rbtal                         5.4          3.3            LZ
D    Plriject Eecution Unit (UE)                  13          0.6            Li
Tbtal Baseine Cost                               13.7          9.4          lZ
Physical Contingencies                      0.9           O.S            1.4
Price Contiencies                           0.6          0.4             1.0
Total Project Cost                               15.3          10.2
PROJE UiNANCTING PLN.
Law      Foie
US$ milion
Govement                                    s.s                         s.s
Bank                                        9.8          10.2          20.0
Ibtal                                      153           10.2 



- 18-                                    Schedule B
ECUADOR
IRRIGATION SUBSECIOR TECHNICAIM ASSISANCE JSOJECT
-PROCLJREnMI METHODS AND PISBURSEMENIS
A. PR OM 
(US$ million)
ProcueIm ent_Methods                        U
Prjtject Element             LCB          Other       NMIE . W    __
1. Thchnical Assistance k'
*  Consultants                                 8.8(8.2)                    8.8(8.2)
. Studies                                      4.8(4.5)                    4.8(4.5)
2. Works                            4.2(3.1)                                  4.2 (3.1)
3. Goods
. Office lTchnology                            0.7 (0.6) 9'                0.7 (0.6)
|   Furniture and Other Equipment              0.1 (0.1) Y                 0.1 (0.1)
. Vehicles                                     1.0(0.8)'          _        1.0(0.8)
4. Trainin                          _              1.1 (1.1)                  1.1 (1.1)
5. Inrmenta Operational Costs l                   2.1(1.6)                    2.1(1.6)
6. Other Recurrent Costs                                         2.7 (-)      2.7 (-)
Total                         4.2(3.1)     18.6 (16.9)     2.7 (-)W    25.5(20.0)
Sotes:
WI Figures rounded; those in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by ffie Bank.
hi Includes pruement of technical assistance sevices according to Bank Guidelines for ontratn
consultants.
g/ Procurement by LIB aimited Intrational Bidding).
4/ Intemational or local shopping procedures.
_/ Tnn will be conttacted fllowing procedures for consultants; matea inputs wiU be prcared
by shoppig procedures, acceptable to the Banl.
f/ Incmel opeOtional costs, including vehicle O&M, trael, per-diems, etc. Not subject to
procurment.
gI Not-Bank Financed.
h/ Counte"art funding include salaries of INERBrs currt staff to be twansfrred to the regional
irrigation agencies under the project.



- 19 -                              Schedule B
ECUADOR
IRIGTIN UBSECTO-R    9C  ASSLSTC PROJEC
PROCLMEM ISODS AND DISBURSDWMEI
B  DISISEMENIS
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
CATEGORY             A| nount            % of Expenditures to be financed
(US$ nmlllon)
1. Consulting services and studies      12.2     100%
2. Wrks under pilot projects             3.1     75%
3. Goods                                 1.5      100% of ibreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-ieory cost); and
80% of local expenditures.
4. Incremental operating costs           1.6      100% until withdrawal has reached an
(vehicle O&M and travel)                       aggregate amount equivalent to US$1.0
million; 66% until the aggregate reaches
US$1.45 million; and 33% for the
remainder.
5. riaing,                               1.1      100%
6. Unallocated                           0.5
btall                            20.0
E stimated ][BRD Disbursenent
(US$ million)
IBRD F         ltar   FY94       FY9S      FY96  JFY97           FY98       FY99
I Annual                  2.0      4.0        7.2        4.0       2.4        0.4
Cumative                  2.0      6.0       13.2    j 17.2    T      _19.6  20.0



-20-                                  Schedule C
EC VA=
MWAN STMA                         EICLAm&    EMEL
- _                   K
(a)  Tw5e takn to prepare                     10 months
(b)  Pepaed by                               Govement of Ecuador, local consultants and
FAO/CP assistance
(c)   First Bank miion                       January 1993
(d)  Appraisal mission deparure              December 1, 1993
(e)   Negotiations                           January 1994
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness           October 1994



- 21 -                                   Schedule D
IRSGA'ION SUBSECTlOI TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE PROlECr
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDIA Credits (as of Marsh 31. 194)
.       1        .j                                      US$ Million
Loan or    Fiscal                                           Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower           Pwpose                                         _ _
_  _____j_Bankj~~~~~AjUndwb~Undsbsed
39 loans and six credits fully disbursed                   873.2       37.5          0.0
2713      1986   INCEL    Pawer Sector                    8.5        .            1.7
I_________   Improvement
2752      1987    Ecuador   Agriculture Credit 1I        48.0                     2.7
2774      1987    EMAP-C;  Guayaquil Water Supply II     31.0        .            7.1
2898      1988    Ecuador   Housing                      60.0                     7.1
3052      1989   IETEL       Telecommunications           1.4                     0.9
3162      1990    Ecuador   4th Small Scale Enterprise   50.0        .           21.9
3276      1991    Ecuador   Lover Guayas Flood           59.0                    52.0
I ______ _ 1Control
3285      1991    Ecuador   Municipal Development       104.0                    86.4
3390      1992    Ecuador   Rurel Development            84.0                    52.9
3425      1992    Ecuador  1st Social Development        89.0                    76.5
3510      1993    Ecuador   Soc Dev Il/Health            70.0                    66.0
3609      1993    CNF        Private Sector Dev          75.0                    62.3
3655W1     1994    Ecuador   T.A. Mining                  14.0        -           14.0
3707t'    1994    Ecuador   Social Investment Fund        30.0                    30.0
TOlAL                         |                          1,708.7       37.5
of wEhich has been repaid     |554.1                                   9.1
TTAL NOW OUTSTANDING    |                                1,154.6       28.4
AMOI)NT SOLD                  |                              3.21
of which has been repaid       _                             3.21
TOrAL NOW HELD BY BANK   |                                 151.4
ML  D IDA        z               __        __         _            _     __         _
TGrAL UNDISBURSED485
I/     Not yet effective.
2/     Not yet pgned.



ECUADO-R
RRGATION SUBSECOR TECEICAL ASSANCERO
STATUS OF BANK GROU OPERATONS
B   Statement of IFC  nwestments (as of March 31. 1994)
(US$ Millions)
Odgina Gross Commitments                                       Undisbumed
Held       Held by       (includiz
Fihsl Year                                                                  IFC        l         Parcipants     Total    by wc       Paicipckas     Patticipan)
Commitled                  Obligor                   Type of Buiness       Lam        Equity
1966r/2           la Internaciond S.A. sT lexiles                               2.45        0.28           1.24      3.96       -             -                -
19S0              Adamas Andina S.A. V              Specilty Papers             3.00        1.25                     4.25       -             -                -
1981              Minh Towhi S.A. f                 Minig                       1.00        0.25                     1.25       -             -                -
1976              Sociedad Agrfcols e Industial San  Sugar                      5.00        .                        5.00       -             -                -
Carlo. S.A. Y I
197U/801S2183184   La Cemenb Nacional Y             Cemen                      12.00        1.06           _        13.06       -             -                -
1969m/75m/81   Ecuatrian de De*atmo                  Dwelopmet Fnncizg          4.00        0.59           _         4.S9       1.87          -                -
1982/SS           Compasa Financier (CO }EC) 
1988              FacEuinsa V                       Small & Med.Scabe Ent.      -           0.09           _         0.09       -             _                _
1987              Miners.Kb S.A. Y                  Miniqg                      9.00        4.40           _        13.40       -                              _
1993              Triptm                            Caude Petroleum            10.00        -              -        10.00      10.00    _
1994              Rybap                              A B                       10.00        -              5.00     15.00      10.00                           _
Total Go" Commitmes if                                       56.4S        7.91          6.24      70.60
Less: Cas_laio, Tennination
Repamen & Sales                                              34.S8        7.61          6.24      48.73
Total Commitmntd Now Held Y                                  21.56        0.31           -        21.87     21.87           0.00            0.00
Pendim Commitment:
Endesa-Doba                        res Products               4.00        1.00           -         5.00
Totdal Commitnt* Held and
Pendhe coma _mem                                             25.56        1.31          0.00      26.87
Total Undisbud Commitmens                                     -           -              -         0.00       .
Nose:                                                                                                                                                                       O
LI  -nsstmsa which bae been ly camceled, trminaed, writt  off, sold, redeemed or repaid.
kl   Ows Commimets cons  of apved and signed pwjects.
gi  Held C     u     cons  of disbured and undisbuaed inmestments.



-23-                                                    AnnexI
IRWrIATION SUBSRAZ                               LA ASSifANCE PIOEC
RSMU?IONAB REORGANIIZAfO-N
1. CENTRAL AND REGIONAL ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY                PLANNING            NINISTRY OF             NINISTRY               MINISTRY
OF ENERGY               (CONADE)            AGRICULTURE           OF FINANCE             OF URBAN DEV.
NATIONAL COUNCIL
FOR WATER RESW  RCES                 [ADVISOY COITTEE
UEP
EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT
EXECUTI E DIRECTOR
rLEGAL DEPARTNENT                                      r              PLNIGDPRMNT
rAUDITING                      l|ANNSRTO
FINANCIAL DEPARTNENT                                                  WATER CONCESSIONS
f   REGIONAL    |                  r        PROJIECT         l         l      OPERATION AND
g  DEVELOPMENT     l                  l      EXECUTION         lMAINTENANCE
AGRICULTURE



-24-                                 AnnexI
ECUADOR
IMCGATION SUBSECTR TY CL ASSISTACE PROJ
J!TlTIrQNAL REORGANIZATION
2. CENTRAL ORGANIZATION (TRANSMTION)
ImIIEH                  A DVISiDIY|
COTITTEE|
I  UEP   FA
DI
|   IIILII6       <H
REGIILEL
IIOSIZISTffiTIW  __  Fll  1      r~JPERISIO
umica~~ I
IIORTIERI      CENTAL
.         l                 ~~~~~~    ~    ~~SIERRA  SIERRA
TECHNIICAL           HATERI
DEPT.              ADNI.
1UNN     E 1IERN       1OIC



- 25 -                                   Annex I
ECUADOR
IRJGATMO SUBSECIrOR TECGfCA ASSLSTACE PROJEC
INSfrIT QONAL REORGANfZATINQ
3. CENTRAL ORGANIZATION (FINAL)
NATIONAL Corn.ILi
FOR MATER RESCEC_S               COITTEE
iEa IUTIVE
SECRETARIAT
| O~AITIIIG                                                  lEGA
| DEPT. |                                         tMDNINISTRATION
DE PT.
PlNNN         ENIERN              POI



- 26 -                                     Annex I
ECUADOR
BUtIGATION SUBSE(7IOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
SllTITQMNAL B REORGANIZATION
4. PROJECr EXECUTION UNIT
NINISRY Of ASRICtULUE
ADNIUISTRTIVE                                FINANIAL
DEPARET                                    DEPARTMENT
LEGAL                          REILIC                           PILOT
AND                         INESTlENT                         PROJECTS
INSTITUTIOalL                      PLN                              AND
NftTTERS                                                        TRAINING



-27 -                                        Annex 2
ECUADO-R
IRRIGA1IO SUBSECTOR MEHNCAL ASSISACE PRtOJECT
P1oect Cost S_Umry" by Wroject Component
(USS '000)             Foreign     Base
Exchange   Costs
A. Public Institutional Streqgthening and Rdwrm
1. MAO                                         157.8      127.0     284.8       45         1
2. Planning Secretriat                         107.7      151.5     259.2       58         1
3. Centml Irrigation Excoutiw Secretariat      433.7      763.7    1,197.4      64         5
4. Regiona Agen  Strengtheuing and Refrm
a. CEDEGE                                   438.3      345.9      784.2      44         3
b. CREA                                      756.5     278.5    1,035        27         4
c. CRM                                      671.1      248.9      920        27         4
d. El Oro                                   735.1      278.9    1,014        27         4
e. INERHI Nort                              471.1      278.9      750        37         3
f. INERHI Cento                             471.1      278.9      750        37         3
g. PREDESUR                                 431.1      278.9      710        39         3
Suba Regional Agency Strengthening and    3,974.3    1,98.9    5,963.2       33        26
Reform
S. Leoi und Fblcy Stdies                       625.0      625      1,250        S0_   _   5
Subtotal Public Instiduional Streogthening and  5,298S    3,656.1  8,954.60     41        38
Reborm
B. Public Irrgation Investaent Plan              1,690.0   1,690.0   3,380.0       50        15
C Private Sector Developmedn
1. Pilot Project                             4,391.1    2,121.1    6,512.2      33        28
2. User Group Itining and Outwach             1,062.0   1,134.8   2,201.8       52         9
Subtotal Plivate Sector Devdopment            5453.l   3,260.9   8,714.0        37        38
ft Project Execution Unit                        1,312.1     645.7    1,957.8     33         8
'btal BASELINE COSTS                           13,753.7   9,252.7  23,006.4       40        100
Phytica Contingcaces                           866.5      582.9    1,449.4      40         6
Price Contingencies                            632.6      425.6    1,058.2      40         5
Total PROJECr COSiS                                                   5 .0         40       111
1/ Values may vary due to rounding.



- 28 -                                            Annex 2
IRRAION SUB-SECTR IFAHNIAL ASSISTANCE P-ROJECT
Prqject Cost Summary by Expenditure Account
Foie;p        TOWb
LA                        TOW  Ee_e   Boose Cosk
I. Invasmm Cosk
A. Tbcbnlak  Assistane
1. Loerm  T.A.
|   Local Mvisom                       3,198           -         3,198        -            13
F*wiga Advis0r                          237.7       3,158.3      3,396       93            14
Subtota Long-Term T.A.                 3,426.7      3,1583       6,585.0      48           27
2. Short-Tabm T.A.
Local Consulwncies                       500.0                     500        -             2
FPreign Conulnucies                       84.8      1,127.2      1,212.0      93            5
Subtotda Short-tem T-A                  584.8       1,127,2      1,712.0      66            7
Subtotad Teebbdnal Assistance             4,011.6      4,285A       8,297.0      52           34
1. Slaff aTining                           447.6         447.6        895.2     50            4
2. Usr Grup Tranirg                          26.S         26.S         S3.0      S0            -
Subtotal Tirabil                            474.1        474.1        948.2      S0            4
C. lurbnic, Fblicy and Feasibility Studis    2,422.S      2,422.S      4,84S.0      So           20
IX Civil wbrb                               2,800.0        700.         3,50O      20           14
B. Wcles                                         -          892.5        89^       100            4
F. Equipuit
Office Technokgy                                        62S           62S       100            3
Frmihu,                                      62.S                      62.S      .
Odher Equipsent                              29.4         12.6         42.0      30
Subtotal Equipsuecmt                         91.9        637.6        729.5      87            3
ToWal Jaestieot Cosis                        9,800.7      9,412.1     19,212.2      49           79
11. Recurnat Cost
A. Ofce Oyedabed
SeciuarilSupport                           216                       216                      9
OCficc RenWal                                48                                                -
OM" oelbohnolcgy O&M 5410                                             S10                      2
Supplis                                     220                       220                      I
Subtotal Oflce Overhad                      994                                                4
B.  lclesO&M                                   91                        961                      4
C. Tael                                        630                       630                      3
D. h_runDl Lwl Staff
7bohnical                                   980                       980                      4
AdmiaisUtive                                221                       221                      I
Miscellaneous Serices                       1OS                       105 
Subtotal Jngnaa*bl Loa Staff              1,306                     1,306
lblal ROerut Cosks                           3,891.0                   3,891                      2
IIT BASELNE COSIS                              13,691.1      9,412.1     23,103.2     41           100
Phyial Cowencies                               852.5        540.6      1,393.1      38            6
Pce CotinIes                                   629.8        388.4      1,018.2      38            4
TAWI PROJECT CO )S                        I    I     641   ga            M"4      40                110



- 29 -                                       Annae  2
ECUADOR
IRRIGAON SlUBSEClTO TEkIICAL ASSISTANCE PRQM
Prflect Cost by Component by Year
(US$'000)
i994     1995     1996    1997       1998      TOW
A. Public nsdtaitInal Streugtheng and
Rdorm_
1. MAO                                     32.0     64.6    116.4      65.0     45.2     323.2
2. Planning Sconiat                        28.3     56.6    102.0      57.0     39.1     283.0
3. CeMl Iriaon   ecutiv Secaiat           135.3    270.6    487.1    270.6    189.4   1,353.0
4. Reional A4gency Stwetha*Wg and
a. CEDEGE                               88.0    175.8    316.4    17S.8    122.8       878.8
b. CREA                                117.2    235.0    421.8    215.0    182.6   1,171.6
c. CRM                                 104.0    208.0    328.0    170.0    230.3   1,040.3
d. El Oro                              114.0    228.2    411.0    208.0    179.8   1,141.3
e. DNERHI None                          85.0    169.7    305.4    160.0    128.3       848.4
f. INERHI CenMtD                        85.0    169.7    305.4    160.0    128.3       848.4
g. PREDESUR                             72.0    159.0    287.3    170.0    109.7       798.0
SuboWl Rqoal Agen  Seghenin            66S.2  1,345.4  2,375.3  1,258.8  1,081.8   6,726.5
Rdbrm
S. Tbchniod and Pblicy StudiesY           432.0    693.0    261.0      14        -      1,386.5
Subtotl Pubi InsL Strengtheing and      1,252.8  2,430.2  3,341.8  1,651.4  1,355.5  10,086.3
Rd"m
5. Pubbic Irrnation Investmedt Plan         446.0  1,848.0  1,454.0       -         -      3,748.0
C  Prvate Sector Devdopment
1. Pit Projeos                            720.0  1,589.0  2,745.0  1,440.0    728.0   7,222.0
2. User Group Tining and Oubxacb         240.0    490.0    875.0    537.0    300.0   2,442.0
Subtoa Private Sector Development         960.0  2,079.0  3,620.0  1,977.0  1,028.0   9,664.0
D. Ptoet Ebxcuton Unit                       260.0    450.0    760.0    420.0    126.0   2,016.0
"l PROJUCr COStS                           I=,I M     WM,  UL 4
J/  esidbily sudies (US$3.0 milion) am ncoluded as pan of the Pubic Irigaion Invetent PFlan, and Pilo Pojctsb.



- 30 -                                          Anne  2
ECUADOR
G4RIGAI  SUBECOR TiCAL ASSISANCE FROA
Project Cost Smm                 by Expenditue Account by Year
(US$000)
ITol hiduding Contigencie
1        1995       199       1997       199       TOW
1. lvedment Cos
A. Ibnical Asdstance
1. Long-tIr T.A.
Local Advison                  260       703      1lS51.0      618       415      3,547.0
ForeIp Advisor                 176       592.2    1,356.0      958.7    683.1    3,766.0
Subtot LoMnTeeJrm T.A.         436     1,295.2    2,907.0    1,S76.7   1,096.1    7,313
2. Shwrt-sra T.A.
Local Consasuhcie               62.4     128        224.6      154        55        624
Foreign Consuancis             137.3    274.6       494.3      315        51.8    1,273
Subtotl Short-term TA.         199.7    404.6       718.9      469       106.8    1,897
Subtota lbcdbn$c  Asdsane         635.7   1,697.85   3,625.9   2,045.7  1,204.9    9,1210
B. 1lning
1. Staff aming                     25       195.7      347.8      184.3    187.2       940
2. User Group Tuning               14        23         29.0       18       98          98
Subtotal Traiing                   39       218.7      376.8      202.3    201.2    1,038
C. Studies                           806     1,642       1,150.1     800.4    415.9    4,814.9
D. Civil Wors                        187.3   1,387.6    2,287.9                  -      3,862
E. %hiaol                            442       447          -                             889
F. Equdpmnt
Ofm"c lbcbnolqgy                  263       230.5      200                             693.5
FurnItre                           69         -          -                              69
Odior Equipntw                     17        21.6       30.4                            69
Subtotal Dupmunepnt               349       232.1      230.4                  .        831.5
alwa Invesbtent Costs              2,459     5,645.2    7,671.1   3,048.4   1,822      20,645.4
H. Recurrnt cow
A. OffCe O"vrhead
SecetarialSupport                  38        53         48         51        56        246
Offic RnalW                         6.4      23         28         29        31        117.4
OfflCT Tchnolqgy &M                84       110        126        135       151        606
Supplis                            28        41         52         67        70        258
SubtoalW Ofce Overhead            15C.4    227         254        282      308       1,227.4
El Vbicles O&M                        91.1    298         287        210      271       1,157.1
C  flaed                              64.3    173         160        164       140        701.3
D. inclmeal Loca Staff
Tochakal                          109       204        218        228      230         989
Admlnhlstauive                     38        70         73         77        81        339
Mlceilan.ousSorvxcss               41        48        124        III       130.8      454.8
Subtotal Incremntal Loal Saff     188       322        415        416      441.8    1,782.8
lbTawReuentCasts                     499.8   1,020.0    1,116.0   1,072      1,160.5    4,868.6
Tasl ROir COr                         mas   ,.,  MM   4204 L                                   "
j/ Cost osmalis hnude pipical and pricot



-31-                                Ann  3
ECUADOR
MRGTION SUBSECTOR 1sICAALL ASISTANCE }!ROJW
CONSULTING SERVICE AND SlITES
PRELDIMNARY TERS OF REFERNCE
I.    lanelmn Technical Assistance
Pbsition:                Project Director
Lation:                  Quito, Ecuador
Duration of assignment:   48 months
Qualifications:          An advanced degree in engineering, management, economics or
a related field. At least 15 years of international expeience in
project management, monitoring and evaluation, and agricultuwal
development. Fluency in spoken and written Spanish and
English required.
Duties and
responsibilities:        The Project Director will work under the direction of the
Minister of Agriculture as President of the proposed National
Council of Water Resources (CNRH), and in close cooperation
with the Executive Secretary of CNRH. His/her specific duties
will include:
1.    Coordinate and manage the Project Executing Unit (UEP) in
charge of the execution of the assistance in the decision-maing
of the NCWR in policies for selection of investment alternatives
in irrigation projects, norms and procedures, transfer of
irrigation systems to their users, and to decentralize the
execution of projects regionally.
2.    Assist and coordinate the technical assistants to the Regional
Irrigation Agencies, especially with the monitoring and
evaluation of subprojects.
3.    Supervising the administrative and institutional strengthening
reform in the subsector.



-32-                                 Anm 3
4.    Assisting and supervising the definitions and studies of
methodologies and work program for the PAT.
5.    Assisting and supervising the definitions and studies of norms
and procedures, regulations and management systems for the
project execution.
6.    laining project implementation personnel.
7.    Preparing lbrms of References for studies and short term
consultancies; overseeing implementation of studies and
consultancies.
8.    Assisting and supervising the definitions of study related to
Priorization Criteria for Irrigations Investment Projects.
9.    Assisting and supervising the definitions of a special study
related to set Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment.
10.   Assisting and supervising the definitions of study related to
norms for lechnical Standards for design and construction
works.
11.   Assisting and supervising the definitions of study related to
Manuals for Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation systems.
12.   Assisting and supervising the definitions of study related to the
formulation of a National rrigation Investment Plan.
13.   Assist and coordinate the technical assistants to the Regional
Irrigation Agencies, especially with the monitoring and
evaluation of pilots projects and the strengthening capabilities af
water users' organization.
14.   Assist and coordinate the technical assistants to the Regional
krigation Agencies, especially with the water managements
resources and database inventory.
15.   Executing other activities as requested by the President of the
proposed CNRH.



- j3 -                             Anneac 3
IOL   Ianz      Tchnial Agiatanc
Position:               Prect lTchnical Advisor
Locaion:                Quito, Ecuador
Duration of assignment:   24 months
Qualifications:         An advanced degree in engineering, management, economics or
a related field. At least 10 years of experience in project
management, monitoring and evaluation, and agricultumal
development. Fluency in spoken and written Spanish and
English required.
Duties and
responsibilities:       The Project Director will work under the direction of the
Executive Secretary as Project Technical Advisor. His/her
specific duties will include:
1.   Coordinate and give advise to the Executive Secretary of the
Executive Secretriat of the Technical Assistance Project (PAT)
in charge of the execution of the assistance in the decision-
maldng of the NCWR in policies for selection of investment
altenatives in irrigation projects, norms and procedures for
development of them, transfer of irrigation systems to their
users, and to decentralize the execution of projects regionally,
and advise and follow up forms and procedures concerning
planning, evaluation of projects and policy-makdng and water
management.
2.    Coordinate the technical assistants to the Regional Irrigation
Agencies, especially with the monitoring and evaluation of
subprojects. Developing with the Project Director, a plan for
monitoring and evaluation with the Regional planning and
appraisal Specialists and taining Development Agents.
3.    Advise and monitoring the legal and institutional strengthening
reform in the subsector and in special with the Secretariat.
4.    Advising and follow up of studies of methodologies and work
program for the PAT, including administrative and accounting
procedures.
5.    Advising and follow up of studies on norms and procedures,
regulations and management systems for the project execution.



-34-                                Ana 3
6.    Follow up of training project implementation personnel.
7.    Preparing Terms of References for studies and short term
consultancies; overseeing implementation of studies and
consultancies.
8.    Advise and follow up the definitions of study related to
Priorization Criteria for Irrigations Investment Projects.
9.    Advise and follow up the definitions of a special study related to
set Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment.
10.   Advise and follow up the definitions of study related to norms
for bechnical Standards for design and construction works.
11.   Advise and follow up the definitions of study related to Manuals
for Operation and Maintenance of Irrigation systems.
12.   Advise and follow up the definitions of study related to the
formulation of a National Irigation Investment Plan.
13.   Advise and coordinate the technical assistants to the Regional
Irrigation Agencies, especally with the monitoring and
evauation of pilots projects and the strengthening capabilities of
water users' oanition.
14.   Advise and coordinate the technical assistants to the Regional
rriigaton Agencis, especially with the water managements
resources and datase inventory.
15.   Exeuting other activities as requested by the Executive
Secretary of NCWR.



-35-                                Annex 3
mL   Feasft  Studie
1.    Scope of Civil Engineering Works
1.1   Background Review
1.1.1 Sedimentation Study
Bibliography on the subject will be reiewed as wel as the available studies or
statistics on solid washout of the tributaries sving the project wok, in order to
estimate the importance that the silt deposits could have on the usefdul life of the
works, and the need to design sand traps or other works in the feede channel.
Unless considered essential by Proponent, land rech in connection with this
subject is not contemplated.
1.1.2 Geology
Geological reports on the area will be collected and reviewed, in order to
harmonize or adapt the designs to the area.
1.1.3 Geotechnical Information
Available information on land surveys will be coLected and reviewed, with
emphasis on borings, test pits, materials assays, seismic profiles, etc., material fills,
etc., in order to have the necessary infration fbr the design of the works.
1.1.4 Works Built
Through site visits, and specially through the review of prject plans and the
Was built' plan, which will be surveyed by the Consultant, and of fte reports in
INERHI's files, a diagnosis of said works will be made, with a view to establish the
basis for the design of the new workL
1.1.5 Existing Infrastructure
Interferences of the project with existing infras   will be established.



-36-                               Anna 3
1.1.6 Agro-Economic Information
Previous studies will be collected and reviewed, including the existing
agricultural situation.
1.2   Studies to be Conducted
1.2.1 Hydrology
Consultant will carry out a hydrological study enabling to determine the
monthly mean flows, producing statistics covering at least 30 consecutive years The
estimate of the seasonal flow variation for different spillage probabilities will be
included. In addition, the work's designed freshet will be revewed using the most
recent information, and freshets of brooks will also be studied in order to design the
intakes.
In the methodology the Consultant will point out the manner in which
corrections, fillings and the extension to historical series will be made in order to
have homogeneous and reliable statistics.
The study should make available a 30-year series of monthly mean lows. In
his methodology the Consultant must point out the procedure he will use to that
effect, not discarding the use of rainfall-runoff simulation models. Consultant will
deliver the seasonal variation curve for different spillage probabilities.
The study will also include in his report the original and modified statistics,
together with a description of the model he might use, clearly indicating the
assumptions involved in its designing and in measuring the parmeters of said model.
Furthermore, the hydrological study will include an analysis o freshets, and
must deliver the hydrograms associated to freshets with 25, 50, 100, 200, 500 and
1000 years return periods. lime separation for the hydrograms will be two hours.
Consultant must use the freshet hydrograms to design the needed diversion works and
to design the spillway talang into account the return periods adequate to said works.
Notwithstanding the preceding, all other hydrological aspects assodated with
the design of the distribution civil works must be satisfied.
1.2.2 lbpography
In the technical proposal the Consultant will indicate the special technical
specfications applicable to the topographic works.
1.2.3 Operational Simulation Model
The Consultant will develop an operational simulation model of the resevi,
taking into account different regulatory capacities and different alternafives for the



-37 -                              ADD 3
reservoir feeding works. In each case the irrigation security asscated with each
delivery alternative must be determined for the area benefitting from such reservoir.
Complete documentation on such a model will be delivered, including the flow
diagrms, data used and computation programs in diskettes, IBM-PC formats, BASIC,
FORIRAN or PASCAL languages.
1.2.4 Engineering Study
1.2.4.1     Conduction Works
A detailed topographic work must be carried out, in order to determine the
best altenative for flow conduction from their natural channels. A drwing with the
suggested solution must be included, showing the location in horizontal projection and
sectional view, and detail of the interbasin transfer canal exavations and works
1.2.4.2     Proposal and Preliminary Design of Work
The Consultant must present conceptual solutions, making possible a better
utilization of the works. All works to be modified, should be designed at preiminary
lvel.
All works to be designed must include computation of volumes, budget,
drawings, technical specifications and execution programs for each work and the
overall project, all at pre-feasibility level.
1.2.4.3     Improvement of Secondary and Other Channels
1.2.4.3.1    Diagnosis of Present Situation
The Consultant must prepare a complete diagnosis on the present situation of
the entire channel development, including the following aspects:
Intake status, concrete structures and deliveries.
Water rights.
Organization of water users.
A descriptive report will be delivered, with drawings at adequate scales and
with all necessary background, in order to establish the engineering solutions to be
implemented.
1.2.4.3.2    Preliminary Designs
Consultant must carry out preliminary designs, with computation of volumes
and budget for aU works which, according to his own diagnosis, are necessary to
assure optimum functioning.



- 38 -                             Annex 3
1.2.4.4     Analysis of Soil Erosion Problems
Consultant must quantify the areas with erosion problems in the presence of an
eventual gravitational irrigation and at the same time recommend the type of irrigation
system to be applied to avoid the problem.
1.2.5 Identification of the Irrtgable Area
Based on existing cartography, aerial photography, mosaics, orthophotos and
the soil study carried out, the Consultant must identify the area capable of being
irrigated with the resources coming from the reservoir under study.
1.2.6 Surveys
For all works indicated under 1.2.4 above, as well as for the fill areas, the
Consultant must carry out the surveys and laboratory assays which will enable to
define in an appropriate way the materials to be used, as well as the material to be
excavated, to build the works. In his offer Consultant will indicate the type and
minimum number of surveys and assays to be performed.
Furthermore, the necessary soil sampling and analyses must be carried out, so
as to enable complementing the existing information and determine the main
characteristics of the area soils. The number of samples and analyses should be
compatible with the available information in the area, should be performed by
laboratories approved by the Client, and would include the following:
-     lbxture next to the distribution of particles by size, expressed in
percentage (%).
-     Hydric constants of soils: field capacity and permanent wilting point.
-     Apparent density.
-     Organic matter content (%).
-     Water pH.
-     Electrical conductivity.
-     Interchange cations (Ca, Mg, K and Na).
-     Soluble anions and cations.
1.2.7 Improvement of access and side roads
The Consultant must survey all existing roads, in order to design the required
works to achieve their correct functioning.



-39-                               Annrtc 3
2.    Study of the rigation Area
2.1   General Methodology and Background
2.1.1 Description of Methodology
The methodology, procedures and criteria to be employed in developing the
study must be described as well as the relatonship between its different pordons.
This description must clearly state the selection criteria of the model farms. Financial
analysis of the smaller farms will receive special attention.
2.1.2 Collection of Available Background
A critical analysis and an eWaluation of available background will be made,
specally of that to be used in the study.
2.1.3 General Description of the Area
In general terms, the Consultant must:
Specify the geographic location, including situation, extension and
boundaries.
-     Define its physical and ecological charaterisdcs.
-     Describe the political and administrative stucure.
-     Describe the characteristics of its population.
-     Define the services infrastructure by economic activity.
2.2   Diagnosis of the Present Situation
In this chapter the Consultant must define and comment on the main
characteristics the area under study presents, pointing out the eqecd limitaions for
its development. The Consultant must also describe the present limitations of the
area, justifying the development of the proposed irigation prqect. Wgith this purpose
in mind, the following aspects should be analyzed:
2.2.1 Evaluation of Existing Basic Resources
(a) Climate and Agro-climate
Based on previous studies, it should be detrmined the possibility of
developing crops for each sector of the agzoimatic wne belonging to the area of the
study. Among other items the following will be considered:



- 40 -                             Annea 3
Climatic Parameters: Rainfall, minimum and maximum temperatures,
evaporation, relative humidity, cloudiness, sun-hours, solar radiation,
atmospheric pressure, prevailing wind etc.
Agro-climatic Pammeters: degree days, cold hours, frosts, period of
vegetative recess, potential evapotranspiration, frost free period, etc.
In its technical proposal the Consultant must indicate the methodology of
analysis that will used for each parameter.
(b) Soils
The Consultant must review previous soil studies where the taxonomic and
cartographic units of the area under study are defined. In the report corresponding to
this Chapter the main limitations of the soils, in a summarized form, must be
specified, in accordance with the classifications and the analyses as per the
Consultant's own conclusions.
(c) Agroclimatic Management Groups
Units of potential agricultural use must be defined, taking into account the
background infomation on climate and soils for the entire project area.
(d) Water Resources
In addition to what is stated in the preceding section 2.2, the Consultant must
reiew the background information rearding water quality for agricultural use
2.2.2 Present Agrkult   Situation
A productive and economic characton must be made of the present
agricultural situation and the recent deelopment of the whole area under study, in
terms of the model inms to be defined. At least the following aspects must be Wn
into account in this chaactwerition:
2.2.2.1     Present Gross and Net Area of:
Irrigated land (permanent and temporary)
Amble dry land
Non arable dry land
Unproductive land due to drainage problems
Unproductive land
Forestry use



- 41 -                             Annex 3
2.2.2.2     Structure of the Agricultural Property:
According to classification by size
According to classification between smallholder and commercial sectors
According to characteristics and types of farm units
2.2.2.3     Productive Characterization:
For each identified crop and livestock item, main characteristics and
production systems under which they are being developed will be analyzed.
2.2.2.4     Economic Characterization of Production:
The Consultant must determine the cost and income composition for each crop,
item, model irm, sector and total area of the project, with a view to determine net
incomes. A description of demands for manpower for each crop and item throughout
the year must be included.
2.2.2.5     Markets and Mrketing and Support Institutions
The Consultant will present a brief analysis of present marketing channels of
aicultural products, their financial and economic prices, separating them by
markets. Information related to credit systems and other support services, such as
input supply, extension, manpower availability, etc. will be added.
3.    Agricultunl Development
A development program must be prepared embracing the whole project area,
structured on the farm model previously defined. A projection of the epected development
for each crop should be made available, per farm model and for the overall project.
The Consultant must define the assumptions under which the general objectives of the
agricultural program will be achieved, mentioning the mechanisms to be used to achieve such
objectives which must conform to the general rules of the agricultur policy in force.
At least the following aspects must be taken into consideration by the proposed
development programs:
3.1   Proposed Production Structure
According to the main production factors defined for the project area, the most
suitable production alternatives will be chosen, considering their relative profitabilities
and advantages, climatic conditions, soils, benefit-ost ratio and marketing, present
and projected land tenure system and renewable natural resources conservation



- 42 -                              Annex 3
criteria. The yields or crop patterns to be  adopted must be clearly justified
should they differ from the present situation.
3.2   Determination of Required Investments
Necessary investments to achieve the proposed development program must be
determined and analyzed, both in physical and monetary terms. Expropriation costs
and others indirectly involved in the project must be included. A realistic bank
financing must be considered.
4.    Irrigation Development
4.1 Adapting Farms to Irrigation
The most adequate irrigation systems or methods should be recommended,
considering the possibility of establishing highly efficient systems, clearly justifying
their design parameters and indicating the system effliciencies at farm, distribution,
etc. levels.
Necessary studies should be carried out for the preliminary work design and
define the costs of irrigation start-up or improvement for each of the identified farm
model.
4.2  Irrigation Water Needs
The water needs at farm, sector and entire project area levels must be
determined in terms of the proposed development programs.
4.3   Hydric Balance
Total irrigation area will be detemined from an operational simulation model
of the reservoir, considering the available resources as 'input', and the water delivery
for irrigation and estimated evaporations and losses as 'output.' Deliveries will be
determined based on irrigation rates, or water demands, estimated according to the
development plan. The simulation model will be prepared on a monthly basis, unless
the Consultant shows that an annual model or any other time unit is equally valid.
5.    Operation and   -intenance Costs of the Irigaton System
Personnel, equipment and machinery requirements will be determined, and annual
operation and maintenance costs of the system will be calculated, by water availability and by
area unit. This will be done by farm model, for each sector and for the entire area.
Thaining and technical assistance costs for the initial opeation of the project must be
included, and the financing systems defined.



- 43-                             Annex 3
6.   Implementation Programs
The Consultant must present alternative programs for project implementation in
stages. Based on the implementation programs, expressly defining the main activities to be
carried out during the project execution period, goals and committed resources must be
defined.
7.   Economic Evaluation
Economic evaluation will be perfomed in order to determine the repment capacity
of the beneficiaries and, therefore, their installments and repament period to Government.
Project evaluation will be performed both in economic and social terms, and in both
cases the updated net benefit, internal rate of return, the benefit-cost ratio and the capital
recovery time will be calculated. Tb these effects, FAO recommended updating rates and
norms for agricultural investment projects will be used. Finally, Consultant must analyz the
influence that a possible farim subdivision might have on the project rate of retun.
Based on the determination of the works proposed by the Consultant, unit cost of
operations at the reservoir site will be determined, and budget and construction progam will
be prepared.
Considering all this and the benefits expected from the project, the corresponding
economic evaluation will be made, calculating project's present net wlue (VAN) and the
internal zate of return (IR) for a 30-year period.
7.1   Evaluation of the Development Situation
The stated development situation must be evaluated, in  der to clearly identify costs
and benefits attributed to the water allocation generated by the project. In each analyzed
case, the calculation of the net incremental man-day tate of return must be included.
7.2   Levels o Employment
Leves of employment must be defined, distinguishing between employment generat
dunng the constructon period from fhat conresponding to the normal operadon of the
project.
7.3   Profitabity Evaluation Criteria
At least the criteria of the present net walue (VAN) and the internal rate of return
MR) must be used to measure project profitability. Indirect benefits credited to the project
must also be subject to qualitative and quantitative analysis.



-44-                               Annex 3
7.4   Sensitivity Analysis
A sensitivity analysis, both at farm and overall level, must be carried out, with
respect to costs, incomes, rate of discount used, implementation period and rate of
incorporation. With respect to these parameters and others which the Consultant may
suggest, it must also be analyzed how much they could vary before the project becomes
unprofitable.
8.    Legal Aspects
In the preliminary design of the works, the Consultant must take into consideration
the legal and administrative background supporting its feasibility with respect to water nrghts,
use of private land and interference with existing works, whether private or public.
9.    Environmental Aspects
EvWaluation of the direct or indirect impact the project may cause to the environment,
must be made.
The study will basically focus on identifying the environment factors the project will
modify, and determine and quantify the positive and negative effects it would create.
Furthermore, measures must be proposed to prevent and/or reduce the negative effects that
may be caused both during construction and operation of the works.
Evaluation of expected specific environmental impacts will include as a minimum the
following:
(a)   Description of existing basic environment conditions.
(b)   Description of possible environment impacts the project may produce, modifying site,
technology design, etc.
(c)   Comparison, from the environment point of view, of other design options.
(d)   Proposal of measures to mitigate the identifted negative effects, with its costs and
follow-up measures.
The information must be structured and delivered in the manner of an Environmental
Profile and following the norms on the attached check list. The Consultant must also check
with affected local groups and NGOs regarding ideas with respect to the project,
environmental aspects, cost incidence and benefits, institutional relations, etc. The report
must include a summary of consultations and concerns, supported by an annex contaning the
minutes of each meeting with a detail of questions, answers and comments made by the
participants



-45 -                              Anna 3
10.   Cost Recovery
In accordance with the existing policy, the Government would recover directly a
portion of investments made in irrigation works. lb this effect, a separate collection from
the project beneficiaries will be determined, depending on their socio-economic category and
the net benefit generated by the irrigation project. Therefore, it will be necessary for the
Consultant to establish a farm model for each representative category in the project area, for
which a financial evaluation at farm level will be made.
11.  FSnal Feasibility Report and Preliminay Design
The Consultant must prepare a brief and precise report, incorporating in Annexes, in
an orderly manner, every calculation detail, numerical information and cost analyses.
Every table and figure must be assigned a number. Bibliography used, identified with
a number, will be listed at the end. Every time the speciflc bibliography is mentioned in the
text, the corresponding number should appear in parenthesis.



-46-                                Anna 3
IV.   Peliminry Guidelies for the Imlementation of Pilot Projects
Develop a general work plan for they. Prepare awork plan for the year in the
context of the life-of-project design.
-Include the study outlined in 18.2, and focus on organizing and strengthening water
users' organizations;
-Emphasize training of farmers to manage their association, operate their system,
improve on-farm water management, and improve productivity through better farm
management and cultural practices; and
-Revise the general work plan and add detail, based on the results of the benchmark
study (see 18.2).
2.    Ca   out a benchmk stuy of the pilot project area. Define and complete a
benchmark study of the pilot project area in order to: design more detailed
interventions to train farmers; develop a more detailed and refined work plan; and to
measure progress toward objectives.
-Focus study on technical irrigation, agricultural, economic, and social aspects of the
area;
-Include for each farm, the irrigted and dry land areas, water use patterns and
technologies, cropping patterns, cultural practies, and a detailed farm budget with
income and expenses;
-Evaluate the irrigation system including needed rehabilitation, operation and
management practices, and efficiency; and
-Review and analyze socio-economic aspect of the irrigation system including water
user oanitions, income levels, conlicts and other social aspects that might bear on
success of the pilot project.
3.    Help to o     Ie and develo a water users association. Assist firmers to orgwnize
and strengthen a water users' organization, or if one exists, help to forify and
strengthen it.
-Provide specialized and on-the-job training (see 18.4) and help prepare legal
documents as needed;
-Become acquanted with and establish a friendly rlationship with the official and
naural leaders among the farmers;



-47 -                                Annex 3
-Meet with water users regularly on a group and individual basis both for training
sessions and for social and events; and
-Help the association to elect officials from the water users' association to represent
water users from the pilot project in various venues and to serve as a board of
directors for managing their collective interests and needs.
4.    Train water users to operate and manage their system. Give various kinds of formal
and informal training to water users.
-Provide training in democratic and oTganizational processes to facilitate organization
and strengthening of the water users' association;
-Give special training to the Board of Directors to effectively manage the association.
Tlach them to plan and direct various operation and maintenance activities (e.g.,
organizing work parties or mnngas), collect water tariffs, contract for specialized
services and interact with various other entities, including the PMU, as ofcial
representatives of the association;
-Give all farmers intensive, special taining in: organization and administration of
water userse associations; on-farm water management; primary and secondary systems
operation; water measurement and cost recovery; and irrigated crop production. Such
training sessions will be given during a morning or afternoon, with one or two subject
areas being treated;
-Once these courses have been given to all farmers in the pilot project, provide day-
to-day advisement and follow-up training one-on-ne or and with small groups of
farmers, on a more spontaneous basis;
-Repeat the special, intensive training sessions, as needed, throughout the life of the
TAP in order to enhance understanding and strengthen bonds among members of the
water users' association;
-Hold field days to illustrate principles taught in prior formal and infbrmal training
sessions and to demonstrate their applications; and
-Give, at field days, specific "hands-on" training, build esprit de corps, discover
problems and resolve conflicts.
S.    Assess and secify the need for systm rehabilitation or completion.
-Working closely with the water users' association and individual farmers: identify
problems with the system's infrastructre; propose solutions; and prepare a general
plan for financing the proposed improvements;



-48 -                               Anu 3
-Based in this exercise, advise farmers on the funding available for such investments
under the pilot project and educate them about new government policy for repayment
of costs;
-Develop detailed design plans in conjunction with the engineering department of the
regional agency; and
-Prepare, in consultation with the water users' association, contractual commitments
for the repayment of debt under terms negotiated with the association.
6.    Monitor construction of project rehabilitation or completion.
-Provide oversight of the construction process and facilitate consultation with water
users about progress and any needed modifications in design;
-Help organize farmers to provide in-kind inputs that may have been agreed to in the
financial plan;
-Train farmers to use the rejuvenated system, including the use of water measuring
devices installed as part of rehabilitation;
-Hold an additional special training program to teach farmers the collective and
individual benefits from measuring water use. Stress the need to eliminate subsidies
to inefficient system management and individual on-farm water use; and
-Help the association to collect water tariffs on measured water use.
7.    Repeat the special intnsiyescourses.
-Repeat the special intensive courses mentioned in 18.4 above in light of the
experience from measuring water use and the experience gained by the farmers;
-Help the water users' association to fully internalize the costs of operation and
management of their system; and
-Provide additional training, both formal and informal on a needs basis throughout the
life of the project.



-49-                                Annex 3
V.   Preliminary Terms of Reference for the Development of Viable Production
Systems In Iigad Areas
A.   OBJECrIVES:
1.    Determine, per region and public irrigation project, the net benefit of the main crops,
based on presently used and improved technologies. In addition, establish tlle
importance of the irrigation component (under present and proposed tariffs) in total
production costs.
2.    Determine the most suitable alternatives to increase individual crops and/or a
combination of crops, as well as improving productivity and existing irrigation
technologies to maximize the economic rate of return for different sizes of farming
units in irrigation projects.
B.   SPECIFIC ACIIVrITES:
1.   Identify the present and potential main crops in public irrigation projects. In the case
of potential main crops the possibility should be analyzed to include products of
domestic consumption, export products to substitute imports, and products for
industi use.
2.   Identify the possible sources (foreign and domestic) of technological information on
irrigated crops, which could be made available through coopertion agreements.
3.    Determine empirically and based on primary and secondary information, the value
production costs per hectare, excluding the present irrigation value, for the main
irrigated crops, according to the different potential and existing technologies.
4.    Determine the gross and net income for the main irigated crops under different
technologies and price scenarios, based on a sensibility analysis.
5.    Estimate the incidence of irgation tariffs on the most profitable crops under different
present and potential technologies.
6.    Analyze the economic impact of establishing a aiff that recovers opemtion,
maintenance and investment costs. Discuss and recommend triffs and technologies.
7.    Define the best crop altenatives as wel as rotation systems in the different project
areas. Altematives must include recommendations on the most convemient
technologies based on the present state of technological knowledge.
8.    Define as specifically as possible the research priorities for pilot projects and calcuate
the cost of the proposed research progamsm



-50-                                An= 3
9.    Determine specific research activities where the assistance of foreign and domestc
institutions could be obtained, and identify relevant local and international
organizations.
10.   Define, the methodology and efforts required to cafry out an efficient technical
assistance program, based on the selection of crops, production systems and tpe of
beneficiaries. Calculate the cost of technical assistance progmms.
11.   Define the need for technical personnel for research and technical assistance
programs, and their availability in the country. The time required and the cost of
international personnel should be calculated in detail.
12.   Calculate the ex-ante cost-benefit ratio for the research and tchnical astance
programs.
C.  PERSONNL REQUIREMES
1      ternational Level
1.1   Agricultural Economist Cream Leader)
A professional graduated in economy, preerable with an M.Sc. or Ph.D. degree, with
experience in administration, design and evaluation of iration projects. At least five yea
of experience in Latin America. Fluent in Spanish.
1.2   Specialist in Irrigated Agriculture
A professional graduated in agronomy or economy, specializing in iigated agicule, with
an M.Sc. degree, at least five years of eperience in research, prefeable in irrigated
agriculture in developing countries, experience in Latin America and oical agclue
desirable. Fluent in Spanish.
2     Local Personnel
2.1   Specialist in rrigated Agriculture
A proonal with an M.Sc. degree, with at least three years of professional epeience in
the area of research and technical assistance in irigated agriculture.
2.2   Production Speciali
A professional with an M.Sc. deree, with at Least tee years of experience in producdion
proams. Experience in irrigated production desirable.



-5S1 -Amex
2.3  Tlchnical Assistants
Two/he technical assistants per pilot project. A total of 16 technical assistants are
anticipated.
2.4   Information Analyst
A profassional graduated in statistics, with at least three years of professional experence.
Knowldge and experience in computation essential.
D.  TM  LIMIT AND COST ESTIMATE:
Three and a half months estimated for the execution of the project and an estimated cost of
S240,000.



-52 -                              Annex 3
VI.  Preliminairy Trms of Reerence for Studtes on Pofleles. Markets and Prices fogr
.etad Cro
A.   OBJECllVE:
1.   Analyze the potential market and marketing problems, international and/or domestic
price structure for products presently grown or having a good development
potentiality. Market and price studies should be designed to support the production
selection to be defined in the 'Study on Agricultural Production Systems'.
B.   SPECIFIC ACWlVITIES:
1.   In coordination with the "study on production systems", determine the products which
should be considered in the irrigation projects.
2.    Classify the products in tradable and non-tradable goods.
3.    Analyze the incidence of specific policies that affect or may affect prices of the
selected products at farm level. This should include price controls, export and import
taes, and taiffs and bans on import or export of products or inputs needed for
production.
4.    Define the relevant markets for each product, taking into account the possibility of
domestic consumption, increase of exports or import substitution. This product
classification does not imply a preference, and should be used as a guidance to
prepare specific studies.
5.    Analyze domestic and export markets potental for each one of the selected products.
In the case of products for industrial use such as cotton and sugar cane, the study
should include a market analysis for by-products and processed products.
6.    Analyze for each of the selected products, the marketing problems which should be
considered during project implementation phase. The market analysis should be
focused with greater intensity on the export products where quality, transportation and
packing requirements must be given particular consideration.
7.    For each one of the selected products, analyze price trends and seasonal variations in
relevant domestic and export markets.
8.    Based on market and price studies, recommend the products which should be
promoted in the irrigation projects; also analyze market and price risks, filures and
limitations for their future expansion.



-53-                                 Annex 3
C.  PERSONNEL REQUIREM IS:
1.    Interational Level
1.1   Economist Specialist in Marketing (Consultant Level)
A professional with a degree in economics or agricultural economics, PhD or M.Sc. degree
pre&rred; with at least five years of experience in agricultumal marketing tariffs and price
analysis. Specific work in Latin America desirable. Fluent Spanish.
2.    Local personnel:
2.1   Economist Specialist in Marketing Cream Leader)
A professonal with an M.Sc. degree in economics or agricultural economics; five years of
experience in merchandising, tariffs, marketing and price analysis of agricultural products.
2.2   Price and Market Analyst
A prokssional with an M.Sc. degree in economics or agricultural economics; three years of
eperience in price and market analysis of agricultural products in tropical areas.
2.3   Technical Assistants
One technical assistant per pilot project
2.4   Information Analyst
A professional with a degree in statistics, with at least three years of professional experience.
Computer knowledge and experience essential.
D     TIME LIMi AND COST ESTIMATE:
Three and a half months is estimated for project execution with a cost estimate of
US$90,000.



- 54 -                             Anne 3
VII.  Preliminary lrns of Reference for Study on Water Tlriffs and Cost Recovery
in Public Irrigation Projects
A.   OBJECTIVE:
1.    Define a methodology based on a cost-benefit analysis to estimate the tariffs water
users should pay in each of the public irrigation systems in operation. This
methodology must be analyzed in two irrigation systems (the pilot project and another
irrigation system) for each regional institution.
B.   SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES:
1.    Develop the theoretical and mathematical frame of the methodology to be used in
calculating the tariffs. Specify procedures and parameters to be considered in the
analysis of costs incurred in the project, and determine the benefits generated and the
repayment capacity of farmers.
2.    Select in each regional institution, two irrigation systems to calculate the tariffs.
Whenever possible, systems should be selected presenting different conditions (social,
economic and technical), so that the methodology may be tested under different
situations.
3.    Apply the methodology to the selected projects and obtain the corresponding tariffs.
4.    Prepare a manual with the methodology and make it available to the regional
institutions and the proposed CNRH.
5.    Share and transfer the conclusions and possible recommendations of this study to the
corresponding personnel of the proposed CNRH and the regional institutions, so that
following the approved methodology they may be able to calculate the tariffs for each
one of the other projects under their responsibility.
C     PERSONNEL REQUIREMQN':
1.   International Level
1.1  International lbchnical Consultant
A professional with a Master or PhD degree in agricultural economics. Must be specialized
in the area of economic evaluation and irrigation.
The international consultant must work with the party responsible for the study in order to
define the methodology to be applied in calculating the tariffs (3 weeks), and to consolidate



-55-                               Annex 3
with the rest of the team the cost-benefit analysis of the sytems conserd in the study
(3 weeks).
2.    Local Personnel
2.1   Agricultural Economist Cream Leader)
A profesional with a Mlaster or PhD degree in agnicultural economics. Must be specialized
or have experience in the area of economic eWaluation and irrigation.
2.2 Agricultural Economists
A professional with a Master degree in agricultural economics. Must be specialized or have
xperience in the area of economic evaluation and irrigation.
2.3   Agricultal Engineers
A professional with a degree in Agricultual Engineer, specalized or with experience in
irrgate crops
2.4   Resachers
TWO profsionals with degees in economics or agronomy, with experience in the area of
irrigation, with knowledge in computers prefered.
The group of economists together with the intrnational technical consultant will prepare the
methodology for the calculation of tariffs. Once the methodology has been established, the
personnel would be divided in two groups, so that each group will be rewonsible to collect
an consolidate the basic information required from three institutions. Initialy a working
group would be assigned to the regional INERM and CREA; and another for CEDEGE,
CRM and PRBDESUR.
1A TIME LIMIT AND COST ESTIMATE:
Four months esfimated for project execution and a cost estimate of US$75,000.



-56-                               AnneK 3
Vi   Prelminary Tlerms of Reence for the Inventory of Undrund and Surfaee
A.   OBJECTIVES:
1.   Present a reliable, quantitative and qualitative inventory of surfIce and undeground
hydric resources in Ecuador.
2.    Based on the homogenization and updating of existing information, carry out a
general compilation of all studies in order to have an overview of water resources in
the country.
3.    Evaluate the hydro-meteorological parameters to enable the identification of the water
resource availability in the country's hydrographic watersheds.
B.   SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES:
1.   Prepare methodologies including calculation rules to obtain data in areas without
suffacient information.
2.    Describe the characteristics of the watershed, including the general data on
topography, hydrography, vegetation and soils.
3.    Collect all basic climatic information on temperature, humidity, winds and
evaporation. In addition, pluviometric information, its updating, arrangement and
rliability analysis should be included.
4.    Complete missing inbrmation and expand the series to an homogeneous period.
Drawing of pluviograms, isohyetal lines and intensity-duration-frequency curves.
5.    Elaborate a climatic regionalization.
6.    Collect all the hydrological information, its updating, arrangement and analysis for
data consistency.
7.    Complete information based on extrapolation of data from existing stations to
irrigation areas, and fill in the missing data by correlation in order to complete
monthly flow series.
8.    Gage a rain-flow model.
9.    Prepare hydrograms and duration curves.
10.   Present a balance at regional level (hydrological infrination).



- 57 -                              Annex 3
11. Estimate probable floods with different periods of occurrence, as well as the volume
of sediments camed by the river.
12.   Express opinions on the quality of the existing hydrometeorological net and present
alternatives of gauging campaigns and installation of hydrometric and pluviometric
stations.
13.   Carry out an inventory of wells, capacity, water quality, water tables and
permeability.
14.   Based on the infbrmation about legal concessions and grants from INERHI, carry out
an inventory of current uses of water for: (a) drinldng water supply, (b) irrigation, (c)
hydroelectricity and (d) other uses.
C   PERSONNEL REQUItEMEIS:
1.    IaternatIonal Level
1.1   Technical Coordinator
A professional with a M.Sc. or PhD degree in Hydraulic Engineering; at least five years of
experience in meteorological and hydrologic aspects and preservation of water resources and
the environment. Experience in Latin America desirable. Fluent Spanish.
2. Local PeNrsonnel
2.1   National Study Coordinator
A professional with a M.Sc. or PhD degree in Hydraulic Engineering; at least five years of
experience in meteorological and hydrologic aspects and preservation of mater and
environmental resources.
2.2   Geologist
A professional specialist in geology, with at least two years of experience in soils and soil
analysis; knowledge of computers preferred.
2.3   Hydrologist
A professional specalized in hydrology, minimum two years of experience in flows, gauging
and water quality analysis; knowledge of computers preferred.



- 58 -                              Annex 3
2.4   Research Assistant
Wo professionals specialized in hydrology, minimum two years of experience in hydrologic
and meteorologic aspects.
2.5   Draftsman
A technician specialist in technical drawing, minimum two years of experience as draftsman
in works connected with hydric and watershed resources.
2.6   Computer Itchnologist
lTchnician with a minimum two years of experience in management of systems for
prcsing meteorological and hydrological data.
2.7   Bilingual Secretary
Administrative assistant with a minimum one year of experience and knowledge in
computers. Fluent English.
D.   TIME LlMll AND COST ESTMATE:
Fifteen months estimated for project execution and a cost estimate of US$305,000.



-59-                               Annex 3
Ie. Preliminaly lhms of Reference fgr the Management of Hydro2hi
Watersheds
A. BACKGROUND:
Hydrographic watersheds constitute a natural geographic division from the hydric point of
view, and they embrace the teritory limited by the dividing line of the waters it drains up to
the river reaching the ocean.
The general objectives of a program for the complete management of a hydrographic
watershed, are basically the following: (a) protect and preserve natural resources--water,
soils, flora and fauna--present in the watershed's area of influence, as well as optimizing the
use of such resources under a scheme of equilibrium with the environment; (0) minimize the
rsks associated with events of extreme hydrometereologic nature and (c) to have available
the socioeconomic and technical information to improve and adjust the activities for natural
resources management.
B.   OBJECIMVES:
1.    The main objective of this study is to carry out the diagnosis of the current situation
of the country's hydrographic watersheds. Based on such a diagnosis the outline of
the program for the integral management of watersheds will be defined, and
watersheds which should be included in the aforesaid program will be identified
according to the degree of urgency in being incorporated.
2.    Outline, at feasibility level, the program for watershed management for two critical
hydrographic watersheds, to be defined possibly one in the northern inter-andean
zone, and another in the central inter-andean zone.
C     SPECIFIC ACTVITIES:
1.    Prefeasibility
a.    Background collection
Collection of primary and secondary information to carry out the characterization of
each watershed at national level, covering the following aspects: (a) natural
biophysic; (b) socioeconomic and environmental; and (c) existing infrastructure.
Identification and analysis of relevant programs and projects related to watershed
management that public and private institutions are carrying out or may carry out in
the short and medium tern.



- 60 -                             Annex 3
Collection and delivery of background information will be arranged methodically and
will consider the following aspects:
-     Cartography, including aerial photography and satellite information.
-     Climatic background: temperature, rainfall, evaporation, relative humidity, etc.
-     Geology, geomorphology and hydrogeology.
-     Water quality and contamination.
-     Water use.
-     Development infrastructure.
-     Erosion.
-     Forestry inventories.
-     Vegetation.
-     Phytosanitary aspects
-     Flora and fauna.
-     Socioeconomic background.
-     Legal aspects.
b.    Dhignosis
Qualitative and quantitative identification and analysis of the principal problems and
natural phenomena affecting each of the watersheds at national level, describing the
originating causes and their more relevant interrelationship. The more conflictive
areas will be demarcated from the point of view of system imbalance, and projections
will be made of the watersheds' present situation for well-defined horizons.
The main elements to be considered by the consultant in this phase are:
Cartog=4y
Basic cartography and thematic cartography, depending on the watershed area and the
level of detail used.
Aerial photography and satellite pictures: the most updated material available for the
area under study will be used.
Climate
Climatic definition of the watershed and its principal characteristics. As a minimum
the following variables will be considered: (a) temperature, (b) evaporation, (c)
rainfall and (d) relative humidity.
In addition, the corresponding hydric balances and thematic charts of Isohyets and
Isotherms will be presented.
Geology and Geomorphology



-61-                               Annac 3
Description and geological delimitation of the watershed and the main
geomorphological processes in the area.
Identification of formations presenting extraordinary and unique characteristics, with a
high scientific and/or educational walue, areas of touristic and/or recreational interest,
as well as thermal outcrops or other interesting phenomena.
Soils and Utilization Capacity
Description of soils and utilization capacity. This report will be prepared based on
existing information.
Preparation of a thematic chart, showing the types of soils, limiting factors and the
utilization capacity of soils in the watershed.
Land TInure and Present Use of Soils
Land tenure will be analyzed and limitations in applying the programs and projects
proposed in this study wiU be identified.
Characterization of vegetation existing in the area. This infbrmation will be submitted
by means of a detailed cartography. Arrangement of existing vegetation types and
species, and their present condition of development will be specified.
Socioeconomic Analys
An analysis will be made of:
-     Demographic aspects and population dynamics.
-     Educational levels and work force qualification.
-     Socioeconomic indicators and poverty levels.
-     Global socioeconomic indicators of the watershed.
L1g Asc
Analysis of the legal provisions affecting the watershed, in relation to the purpose of
this study.
Environmental Aspects
Environmental problems of the watershed will be identified: water contmination,
erosion, generation of solid and liquid waste, etc.
Diagnosis of the present situation and the specific activities enabling the solution of
problems identified in the watersheds, should be aimed at the following aspects: (a)



-62 -                               Ann  3
management and control of forestry and soil resources, (b) management and
preservation of hydric resources, and (c) flood control and river bed management.
2.    Feasibillty
a.    Watershed Development and Management Plan
According to the diagnosis of the present situation, a Development and Management
Plan will be proposed for two selected watersheds. This Plan should include the main
activities to be developed, in order to obtain the optimum utilization of existing
resources and solve the problems identifed with aspects of Watershed Management.
The Wtershed Development and Management Plan will include actions in the
following areas:
Eorestv and SoiMagent
Program for the recovery and sustained utilization of natural vegetation.
Progrm  for the recovery of eroded areas, aimed at stabilizing sectors subject
to severe erosion processes.
Identification and proposal of projects contributing to strengthen the
implementation and management of the forestry legislation in force.
Propose strategies and general lines of action to develop the hydric resources,
inciuding studies to be carried out for the supply of future demands and
genel development of the watershed hydrc resources. The planning horizon
should be for a minimum of 25 years.
Propose a program aimed at implementing an information system covering
legal, administrative and physical infrastructure aspects in the use of the
watershed hydric resources.
Propose a preliminary monitoring plan for quality and quantity control of
existing hydric resources.
Flood Control and River Bed Management
-     Propose technical solutions, at preliminary design level, of the required river
defenses to protect critical sectors
-     Define in general terms the studies and research required to regulate the river
bed use, as well as the cost associated with the development of such activite
-     Identify actions needed in order to have a systematized cadastre of the high
risk zones within the watershed..
-     Identify plans to regulate floods, with a preliminary estimate of the resrvoir
capacity and costs.



-63 -                              AnDex 3
b.    Structure of Programs and Projects
At this stage, programs and projects at design level, identified in the VUtershed
Development and Management Plant, will be developed to allow an inteted balance
of the watershed system. All background to define and execute the recommended
technical solutions will be supplied, including its economic valuation. The
quantitative and qualitative needs of hum. resources for each one of the activities
and programs will be defined, as well as the respective work schedules.
Furthermore, an investment timetable according to the priority classification of the
activities defined in each progrm will be included.
C     PERSONNEL REQUIREIENIS
1.    Iternatlonal Level
a.    Project Tbchnical Coordinator
A professional with a PhD or M.Sc. degree in Management and Planning of Hydric
Resources; with at least 10 years of experience in watershed and hydric resources
management. Experience in Latin America desirable. Fluent Spanish.
b.    Specialist in Soil Conservation and Recovery
A professional with a PhD or M.Sc. degree in the area of natural resources; with at least 10
years of experience in soil conservation and recovery. Experience in Lain America
desirable. Fluent Spanish.
c.    Specialist in Natural Resources Economics
A professional with a PhD or M.Sc. degree in the area of natural resources; with at least 10
years of experience in natural resources economics. Experience in Latin America desirable.
Fluent Spanish.
d.    Specialist in Environmental Impacts
A professional with a PhD or M.Sc. degree in the area of natural resources; with at least 10
years of experience in environmental aspects. Experience in Latin America desirable.
Fluent Spanish
2.    Local Personnel
Seven specialists are required in the following areas:
a.    Hydrology
b.    River Defenses
c.    Geology and Geotecnique



-64-                                Ann 3
d.    Hydraulic Works
e.    Forestry Resources Cartography and Evaluation
f.    Forestry-Agricultural Extension
The seven local specialists must be professionals with a PhD or M.Sc. degree in the required
area; with at least 5 years of experience in the area where they will work in this study.
a TIME LIMIT AND COST ESTIMATE:
A period of 12 months is estimated for project execution and a cost estimate of US$675,000.



65 -                               Annex 3
X.      U a   rms of Refeac  for the 11osls and  ensus of Private
A.   OBJECtVES:
1.    Carry out a diaposis of privat irrigaon at national level and based on it prepare the
guideines for a promotion program for tis setor. The study must define the specific
variables of a possible credit progm  (amortzaton peiod, intest, etc.).
B.              ACTIVITIES:
1.    Carry out a private irrgation census at the national level.
2.   Investiga and colect secondary information on private irrigtion.
3.    Asses the situation of private irriftion in quantitative and qualitaive terms, and
analyze its economic pfance.
4.    Prepare the guidelines for a plan or program aimed at the development of private
irrgation in the country.
C   IPERSONNEL REQUDUIREMEI:
1.    Local Nrsonnel
1.1   Hydraulic Engineer (National Priject Coordinator)
A prossional with a degree in Hydwlic Engineering, with at least five years of epeience
in hydrologic aspects and management of irrigation projects. Knowledge of economic
evaluation and nahual resources   ement prefred.
1.2   Hydruic Engineers
TIk  profssionals with a degree in Hydruic Engining, with at least five years of
aeeience in hydrologic aspects and irrigation projects management.
One of the engineers iould work full time (8 months) and the other part time (four months).
1.3 Agricultural Economist/Credit Specialist
A professional with a degree in Agricultural Economica Experience in economic evaluation
of irigated agriculture and agricultural credit required.



-66-                                 Annex 3
1.4  Ichnical Assisats
71w technical assistants per regional istitution
1.5   Infornation Analyst
A profssional with a deg    in statistic.% with at least thWe years of professional expenence.
Knowledge and experience in computers desrable.
IL  TIME LMT AND COsr ESTEMAT
Eight months esimated for study extion and a cost estimate of US$150,000.



- 67-                               Annex 3
XI. Reporting Statements and Reports
Three reports will be submitted for each one of the required studies:
-     The first one will be a progress report to be submitted in the middle of the period
estimated to prepare the study.
-     The second one will be a diift report on the completed research. This document, with
its corresponding annexes, would contain the prlminary study with diskettes and all
the information collected, as well as surys, conclusions and recommendations,
among other things. This will be submitted 21 days before the time limit agreed to
finalize the study, with the purpose that it may be weviewd prior to its approval, with
15 days left for the document to be corrected acording to the suggestions and
recommendations made by MAG, the proposed CNRH and/or the regional
institutions.
-     The third report, will be a final repoft conaining the sug ons made and will be
submitted 15 days after the return of the peliminary report with the respective
suggestions, thus fulfilling the time limits establhed for the preparation of the study
All submitted reports will include costng, incorporating me schedus duly detiled by ta
and investment disbursements.



ECAPDOR
UWION SUIIE R 1BHWL ASlBACT
IPEMETTION PLA
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                   IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~X .ZI al
(Quass)                           _Ssi)          _      _AGENCY/
II        II          N                INSTTUTIONAL
istlb           2uI1Yar  I 3rd 1m     4&     j  r1Sth yew      RESPONSBILiTY
CODE                DESCRIMTON                            Q3          I |        I |        I |    111111
A.     PROJCT EXECUTING UNIT (UEP)                                                             ._,._._..__
A.1.    Pp_ TORDs for 1wg-tsn co_aub            X  _|                                                             DEA, MA 
A.2.    Co|ta loX = m cou=lft                   X                                                                 Mr
A.3.    Coiimc inciem.a_ gaff                  X                                                                  MAO
A. 4    uhas eqpmesaml vehielan                      X                                                            MAO
A.S    Piepem 1994 work plan *D UEP                  X                                                            UEP, MAG
A.6.    Ril994wokplan *rUEP                          X                                                            UEP, MAG, WE,
A7.    Piepa PIoct ImploenbManua               _ Xal  X                                                           t IE
A. S   Ogn= pied gait-up   p        _                x                                                            UEP, MAO
A.9.    Pmpemaal wk plan for UEP                                X          X          X           X      | | |__ UEP, MAO
A.10.   Piwide ebuicals upport to CNRH     .               X         X     |     X  I  X         X    x I       1
A.11I ooeinb t   prame                                                x    x    x    x a     p
A.12.   Mange pummew and di&Aneoo XmmX               x -        x    x |         x -        x      - -            UEP -
A.13.   Fied mptAsion and tXiaX mXppot to                                             X                                                    4 X   X   X     UEP,CES
oan                                                                                                                         _ . f p   D    1     U
A.14.   Rvlwamals,plam pzctu_ _n                              X          X  I 1x                              H tIE?



ECtDR
IUUGALTION SUBETR TICHNtI!OICALSSTAC
D#fPJflEM ATION PLAN
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                            IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
IMPLEMOn
(QuarS)                                 e    )                                AGENCY/
INSTITUTIONAL
1st Year           2ad Yar 3nl Yw  41h    Sa                              5th RESPONSIEILETY
CODE                   DEISCRIFION                     Q1       Q2     Q3     Q4  I    n    I       n      I I1   LL    n
A.15.    Pipau em-annaproject zpoi withinputfrom                                 X      X     X      X IX  X    X      X            UEP
A.16.    CoAtmc am-oa pmjec audits                            -     -         JR X  I     X  I             Hx  I     11x            UEI  Comw ozfa
A.17.   0pize mid-tm zew and wrbhop                                                                                                UEP|X Outd Con|ibn|B
IL      INDTrUTNONAL DEVELO'MENT
31.      MA  AND PLANNDiG SECRELAI
3.1.a.   Prupsz TORs foriW-tern conmbul                       X                                                                     KUEP
3.l.b.   Cosbactn1oir -tetcomeosnt|                              | X       X     X      X     X  |                                  MAO,P"anni Seeauat,
____________                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UEP
B.l.c.    Caatmct iniczmez*I Staff                                  X      X     X      X     X      X     X     X      X  I      I MA, niaSecSetarc    t
3.1.d.   Purells, *quipment and vehicle.                            x      X                                                        MAO, P1anuiag Secretariat,
____________ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUEP
3 BI.e.   OraniNesaff aWiiz an kentify patticipan                                X            X            X            X           MAO, Phnniz Secideriat,
_    _  _   __.  |   hahdioaofT.A.:    Cu_ _ _ _ _ __Lve  l     l l   |         X  |     |      |     l      ll    |      |  P I  ni    g    e c     |   4UEP
3.1.f.    Buluati of cT.A.: Co.KdmaWt and tzainiz                                       XX                                          MAO, Plannizg Secetariat,
I                          I                                            I                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UEP



ECUADOR
IRRI4TION ,SUIISECR TRaFfIC4L ASCE JECT
DALAENTAON MAN
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                      IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
.  MPLEMENTIG
(Quas )                           (Sanest)                           MENCYI
1st             2nd Year 3rd Yew        4th Year  |       Year   RESPONSIBILITY
CODE                 DESCRIT1ION                 Q1] I                              IQ2    I _  I IOnL
3.2.    CENTRAL IRIUGATION EXBCUTVE SECREDARA (CIES)
B.2.a.   P.pa TORsa fr loX  . n comuln1                X                                                              UEP,CNRH                  2
B.2.b   docat loqbrom oozlhnb                               X    X    X    X    X    X    X                          UEP, CNRH, CIES
R.2.   ContXat inXrsmX staff                                 X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X                CNRH, CIES
W.2A.   Puthas eqinad oWh ckls                               X    X                                                   UEPI CIES
3.2.e.   Ptepaz TM for 5,orthotm co_mics         -           X    X  |         X    -     X  |        X         -    CES UEP
B.2.f.   Contat d-ot-wrn coaaulcs                            X           X          x           x  1     1x IS UEP
B.2.S.   OraM stff _tzIn  and ldeify ptticipana                    X    X    X    X    X    X    X    X               d ES, UEP
R.2Jh.   EwBuadio of T.A.: Comaubnb and miniz                               I X      |               x I              CS xUE
B.2.i.   Pmpaztion of nmal work as                                                        X p  x     X  H    I        CIES
IS2.;.   Rviw of aal work pan                                      K          X           X          X                C_  d  CES,UEP
W3.    RBINAL AGECES R-
1L3-P.  P Mtforo r                  lots-Wm  m         -    -    -    -    -    -    -               -R,UEP                                     R
CO3.  08WIM I IM                                         x  Ix  Nx  Ix  Ix  Ix  IxIxI x                    I          1u v
- lt                                            -    - I         -    - I    U-                    -        I K
;334.    Cot         ( hqt.  coa                           ( X    K    X    X X           K1  X            K X___|X1 X| 1 RA,E
,                                                             _        X    Li             I          L    _     _    _    _    _    _



1] PEMETATION PI
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                     IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
(QOMas)                           <_sew )                            AGENCY/
I                            ~~~~~~~INSFITUTIONAL
1st Towr        2011 lir    3rd _   | 4dk Sr    Sf Yew           RES;PONSIBILIY
CODE                 DESCRIPON                   Q1  Q2   Q3   Q4                   I __1 1_    I    _     I    _
9.3.d. Pncue oquipmt and vdi                                 X    X                                            __| UEP, RA
I                                  l _    l 'f_                                            _     _____
ILB3.e.   Puel TR$for ot-onm        c oomw              _              I_                                             RA   UEP<
BL3.f.   Cont_e____ s ______ ___                                                    X           X                 _  RA, UEP
B3.g.   Ognmsff UWMa  difyptucaf                                        x           x           x          x          RAXE,Cnbf
B3.h.  B___o__f__T.A_: C__ain_ _g                                                X          X           X           H RA, UEP
B3.1.   Ph*am of annl wsk plans                                    X          X          X_          XKl
B.3.j.   Review ofam l work                                        X    L    X            X         X                 tAUEP
3.4.    LEGAL AND POLICY SrUDES
3.4.a.   Pap TORs for legaltud-o                       X                                                       _      CmS, UE
3.4.b.   Contmat and prpep.. lega audio.                     X    X    XI__  UEP, ConsulantB
B.4.c.   Paap of |w wa la                        -                                                         - k w         , Natioal Coa
B.4.d.   Inplmn of       h water law reguations                               X    X    X    X    X    X         X   CNRH,,MAr,RA               >
B.4.e.   Prepas TrRa w policy Itds                     X                                                              CI% HUEP
.4..   Caizact and prpa policy sbdio                         X    X    X                                       _      Um}  CoXndw               4  
3.44    Pepr Tons Lw stersudo manx                                                                                    CUM uEP



ECUAOR
DIRIUGsUON SIBE'OR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCOEC
DEMPIEWTAlION PLAN
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                            IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
(Quar)                               (s )                                    AGENCY/
B   g         ,                   O~      ~~~~~~~NSFTJTO
lot Year          2nd Year     3nl Year     4th Yer      5th Year       RESPONSIBILITY
CODE                   DESCRIPTION                    Q1    Q2 ]Q3 |Q4              I                                             _ I r  I       _ I |
B... Contmat and prspam oder studies            a                                                                             UP  o
3.4.i.   Dh5o15o         p     -            in Wm                                                                                  C   R l xax   1  R  nn
-B*4gecie                     _I_ __  __                                                                                       ___X_X___ l____
a=&or Qw"&du of        nsallt m iomv aln                                                                                  &=eftScc   a6 UEP      
C.      YUC IRRIGATION INVES`MENT PLAN
C.l.   IINVESrTM    PRWCEDURBS AND GUIDELINES
C.I.a.   Pssepa TORs for invesm    pmoodusd and              X                                                                     C     E
gudelincs                                                                                                                 C     11 1E1
C.l.b.   Conact and prepai inestment pnceduis and            X     X                                                               UEP, CS, Consum
Cl.c.   Diwsuion andincoapotn of procedums and                            X                                                        CNRH. Pannie Secaiat,
guidelines in investment scmning processes                                                                                MAM, RA
C.2.     P        INVE NSTUDIES
C.2.a.   Piepae TORs for pct hasiitsudies           R                                                                 - d  L       UEP, ICES
C.2.b.   C4vtwat and piepa. pject hailbilty stuWies                X      X     X     X                                           UEP, CNRH, Conndbns
-                                                      -     -     -            -     -  N I 1 -   I   n-    -i    -        -r
C.2.c    P wseas nmet plan                                                      X                                                 CIES, UPR, CNH,
I ..I                                                    I TIs  r            It   a      Iie  x       I 
C24d. 1 TORs brpv d           e &sg Mdm                                     X                                                 UEP |              Cm



ECUDOR
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMFUMINTATION PLAN
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                        IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
ILEMENTING
(Quailm)       f                      mS demeAENCY
iir                                                INSTITUTIONAL
_st hat      2f d                Year     4th Year    S _           RESPONSIBILITY
CODE|                 DESCRIFI`ION                 Ql    Q2   Q3   Q4    I 11    I                  I           I    II
Cs  =RutO-  glI-II --                                                                                                    ICES_
D6      PRIVATE SEC1OR DEVEL*PhflM
LI.    PILGr FRoJCIS
nXl.a.   Piepm list of canxd  pilo projec           X                                                                       CflmII|U, MAO
Ill.b    S deeto of pio pmect (am per _esi=C = agency)    X                                                                 RA
D.l.c.   Paepm TORs fDr NGO/conuhig firma to mnap         x               I                                                     RA
- ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~       _           _        _        _         .           .           . 
Dl.d.   Contact NGOIconu_a                                      X         L           1    11                 IRA
Dl.e..   Puasbas equpment and vewhiic                           X                                                           UE______RA_
D.I.f.   Benchmark studies of piot pmjecs                             X                                                     Consitous, RA
D.l.g.   Taning of  lona stff wotiz on pilot proeob                   X     X    X                                          Coasul t C   RA
Dl.h.   Pfep  TORn for obt-erm  cownhancicas                    X           x                 x     X         I             RA, Consu1taUEP U3
D.Ii.   Contc short-Wm conauta                                  X           x           X           x                       RA I  UEP
DI.j.   Tainig of ue geups in O&M and inigtion                              X    X      X    X      x    x      x           Coaulnt x RA
manageenit                                                                                                            ___ II 
-    -I
Dsl.k.   Roailbion firgaioninfu=t= =t                                        X   X                                          Coaana 1.4 U r n



OUAnN  SUBSRIIIC10UUM
IMUIATizTION PLAN
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                                       IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
|~~    ~~~ _. ... ...                                    ...
(Qrnts)                           (smuim)                              AGENCYI
INS.UTIONAL
i st irw2d Vow1  3rd _                       41h _w   5111 YO          RESiPONSELrY
CODE |               DESCRIFFION                  Q1|Q2  |Q  |4                 i t       _I       I     I    I          _
TI                     -    -          _            -   -              __
D.14.  EBalation of TA.: C4.s,wzu and tihS              -                       -                       X_               RA. CornIbX X UX |, UEP
Di...  Piupamlon of anwal wukt plan                    Ix                                      II       X                COuinAinis, RA             -
- ~~~                                                                                  -           -     -  _         --        
D.1.      vw oatmlwokprk u plo-     X                                           X           X           X                RAH UEP
112k~_ .ortG?omlgm                                    X                                        - 1-I      [      __           _     _.
DL2.    USER GOUP TRAINING AND OUTRECH IN NON-LOAr SYSrEM
DX2.a.   Pmp.. Tb for NGO(cotsf Sr  (                   X f   (  x                                                       UE,  RA
cosOcesa with T1bR for pilot pnject)                                                                            _      _I n
IX2.b.   Cbo-tNGO /c_mW fim                    ||     |     X               I     I     I           I           |     | UEP, RA
(in cooju.won with ooniacth Sth pikot pmjeow)_ _ _ _ _ _
D2A.   Pa*r o quipmntI and Iinch                              X                                                          UEP,RA
112d.   Pupa. TORO f                                    Xpclimd  ns..  X           I              I                      RA, Coimaba, UEP
D.2.*.   Contat e Xia  d eai.                           X                                                                RA, UEP
D.2.f.   2TWW    giofsmi doff   ifs wihbur gan sp             X    X      X                                              Couunkaim  , RA
D.2g.   lwr Iof    swap.                           -                X     X    X      X    X      K    X      X    -    CARoMN6RA
DL2.h.   P_ S        Ia bTMp                    l k     cow I| X                            X           X                RA, CouIwao
D.2.i.   C       fat bup oonK*acles                                                   X           X           X          RA, UEP
D-            --- I B        I                         -      -             C I           U IP
D23.   Ruh,tloofT.A.I                                 t     l                   X  11    IX  U       IX  nA Coba. Use., UN



IIRRIUGTION ,SUB,WORS TEC11CL AROJENCT
D4PIMNUION PLAN
PROJECT ACTIVITIES                              IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
l                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~dLEI>NG
(Quarie)                     (s    )                       AGE
INSrITUTIONAL
1st Yer       2nd Year   3rd Year    4h i,  5*h yewOSBl
CODE              DESCRIMON               Ql QZ    @ |        I      I | E      |LI  |_n_I
:--                                                                                     _                                1  I
E.24.  R.viow of annul work pa                 -X                                                    RA, UEP d
DOf. Peepemteio V/Ofammal wo pns=  '__L     L1                             x L L WR2          ' UEP



IRRGATION SUBSECWR TICHMCAL ASSISIANCE PROJECT
PROJET tIURBNCE DIDICATORS
inslltuds              DESCRIIEMON                 EXPECTRD OUTPUT                OPhyal Obeecived                STARTDNG &
AcnTIry                     RapaudWily              OF PROBLEM                      AND  DeACT            (   lermente hideom        _    ENDING DATES
A.       PROJECT EXECUTING UNIT (UE)
A.I.      PrAject Manageme              UEP (al), MAG,    * Lack of capacity within       * PrDject illplemen11tion      (i   UEP ognized ad            (1)  lanuay to June
proposed CNRH        the curxent instittis to       manalt                            staffed                        1994
* RPcuit UEP                                       coordite and supervise      * MonBiti  Of projec            (i)  Prect implemntion    (i)  March to June
* Prepare project                                  pzoect activities.            implenmenltto                      mnrnal prepared               1994
implementation manual                                                        *      tProuret on schedule and    (di) TORs fDr conDuta      (ii) July 1994 tD hoe
describig 16th ewecution of                                                    in accordne with WB                and suxdies                   1998
the prject                                                                                                  (Iv) Semi-anal project         (iv) July 1994 to June     <
* Mane and supevis                                                             * Technia backoppg                   pDgress rpo                   1998
projec atvities                                                                prvided tD nation  and       (v)  Anual TA evaluation       (v)  July 1994 to Juae
reiol agencies                    reports, work plan and         1998
auditB
(vi)  Quality and tmelin     (vi) Jldy 1994 to June
of procurent acdvites         1998
B. PUULC NTUTONL STRGT NG AND REFORM
5.1.      MAM                           MA, UEP             * Lack of tecnil capacity     * Progm  of tecbical            ()  Handbook on technical     1)  October 1994 to
(rriaion and         to deelop resech and           assisance to iripted              asstan  for igd               Match 1995
* Impwm technicals   of    User Group              aeion progms in               ag lr                              agricuhure
MA  saff in rritd          Thinim               irrigaed agriulr             * Imptved tehnial saff in      (u)  Pmposed reech and        (ii)  January to March
agt1ur tough               Specist),                      cirted agiculu                                          extnsion progrm in            1995
technl assistanc  N        con _nta                                          * Imipmad yields in izgt             iriad agricul
staff irainag                                                                   tuft  stmm                   (in)  Skib tanch to lcad     (do  October 1994 t
stff                         March 1995
(iv) Amualuxtopeoa           (IV)  1993to 1998
(v)  Equipmn_t ialld         (v)  Ocobera to
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _D                                          c_ December1994



- 78 -                    Annx S
I                 J   I-'i  'I i'] 1X:X]t1  M
111 Ie     i I      it          s$ R* 
b jjiifl [III
-b 0  



IRRIGATION SUBSEI R ThCRMCAL ASSIST' 'CE RQIE
nIROT tPERMAN-CE INDICA'TORtS
_             |lutna  DESCREPMON           1        ECTID  OUTPUT           I     PFhia Obecs                 SIrARTING &
AL  ITY                     Respuzslbi             OF PROBLEM           J         AND 1MPACT             __Ptsrnance   tatm                ENDI     DANG TD ETS
BN4.     Raimul Amcy SithMemshng and Rehm
B.4.a.    CEDECE                       CEDBGE, UEP         * Too much of a technical     * Improved regional irgon      (i)  Number of irigafion     (i)  liy 1994 to June
(Lga                Sapproch to rgtion                                               schmes tranfed to             1998
* Techical asiae and         Instiuiona           deeopment                   * Trained saff in irrigtion         user
staff taining in the ares - Specialist),      * Lack of unif6n policy on      plaing, envonmetbl           (a)  Trasfer of irzation     (Hi)  July 1994 to July
or regioa irigtion        con_ult               irrigation developme                  , engin       and         projects and schemes          1995
planning irrigation                             Lack of agricure poliy        O&M methods and echniques         and resoutces fiom
engin   g and O&M                               under hiation               *   pv roed computing capacity      INERHI                                             ' v
methods & tecnques                            * Low impact of irrtin                                       (ii) Skills tansfr to local   (iii) Jlly 1994 to June
* Prviion of equipment                            capacity                                                       sBaff                          1996
an" vehicles                                  * LAw rae of irigtion                                        (iv) Training courses and    (iv) January 1995 to
benefits vs. invesmen                                          semirs                        June 1998
* Lack of environwnail                                      (v)  Eqtuiment and vehicls    (v)  December 1994
_impact assessmnt                                              installed
B.4.b.    CRM                          CRM, UEP            * Low priority on irigation   * hiWrwved regonal irrigation  (i)  Number of irrigation    ff)  July 1994 to June
(Lev                 iss                             n                               schemes tranfered to          1998
* Tecnical assisance and     Instiutional       * Lack of uni6nn policy on    * Trained staff in irnigation       users
staff trinivg in the aa   Specialist),          irrigation development        plnning, enione              (Ii)  Tns&r of irution       (ii)  July 1994 to July
or rg        irrigation   consunh             * Lsck of agriculto polic       assessmet e ineeg and             projects and schemes          1995
plann, irron                                    unider inigation              O&M methods and techniques        and resources from
egineeritn and O&M                            * Low impact of irigtion      * mW ved computin capacity          INERHI
methods & techniques                            capacity                                                   (i) Skills transiet to locl  (di) Jily 1994 to JAu
* Pvisio of equipment                           * Low rate of irrigaon                                             taff                         1996
and vehicles                                    benefits vs. iamet                                         (v) Tainig coues and        (fv) January 1995 to
* Lck ofe _vironmial                                             seminars                      Jime 1998
hiomt es t                                                (v)  Equipment and vehicles   (v)  December 1994
1            11i                                                                  insele                 I                           I



IRRIGATION SUBSECIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT  E)RMANCE INDIC41OlRS
Ins Itafiong           DESCRIFrION                   EXPECTED OUTPUT                  Pbysical Ob.;ectivesl           SrARTING &
ACTIVITY                     Respon_lty              OF PROBLEM                       AND IMPACT                  Perforance Iodkatons            ENDING DATES
B.4.c.     CREA                          CREA, UEP           e Lack of irrigation            * hpwed rgonal rition          (O)   Numbet of irriation      (O)   July 1994 to June
(L"/                       g n                       management                          schenes transferred to         1998
* Technical assistance and    Istitutiona         o Lack of unif6nn policy on    o Trained saff in irrigation          users
staff trining in the areas  Specialist),          irription development          planning, environment          (ii)  Transfer of irrigation   (ii)  July 1994 to July
or regional irriga          conDSUltWS          * Lack of agricultue policy      asssment, engineerig and            projects and schemes           1995
planni , irrigation                               under irription                O&M methods and techniques          and resources from
engineeritg aNd O&M                             e Lack of irrigaton planning   e Improved computi  capacity          INERHI
methods & technique                             e Lack of O&M                                                   (ii) Skills transf6r to local  (ii) July 1994 to June
* Provision of equipmn                              ngemoent                                                           stff                            1996
and vehdices                                    * Lack of environvme                                            (iv) Trainirg coumes and       (IV) Jary 1995 to
impact        t                                                    seminarts                     lurA 1998
(v)  Equipment and vehicles    (v)  December 1994
installed                _
B.4.d.     El Oro                        El Oo, UP           * Lack of irrigation            * Improved regional irigation   (i)   Number of irrigation     (t)  July 1994 to June
(La/                  mnagment                        management                         schemes tanserred to           1998
* Technical assistance and    Inatitluons         * Lack of uniforn policy on     * Trained staff in irriation         users
staff training in the aes  Specialit),            irrigtion developmeat          plannitg, ewionmna             (it)  Transfer of irrigation   (ii)  July 1994 to July
or regional i  :rigatio    consul0nts           * Lack of agricultuw  podicy     assessment, eginceering and         projects and schemes           1995
plnning, irigation                                under irrigation                O&M mehods and techniques          and resourixs from
engierg and O&M                                 * Lack of irrigaidon planning  * hnaprved computing capacity         INERHI
metbods & tchnique                              * Lack of O&M                                                   (iii) Skills transfer to loca  (iii) July 1994 to June
* Ptvisou of equipment                              maa _erat                                                          staff                           1996
and veics                                       * Lack of eaviroameoW                                           (tv) Tainivg coues and         (iv)  anuary 1995 to
WVa"t awt                                                          s                             June 1998
(v)  Equmen and vhickls    (v)  December 1994



- 81 -                    Annex S
1i I II     I E  a 1,           a 111     l                LES 
:XS~~~ Si'l 8
itt 
_p                       .jIIjfl



IRRIGATION SUDSECTOR TEIHNIC&L ASSISTANCE PROJECT
OROJEMCT  AERMA    INDICoaIORS
|03*11 81  DESCRIMON                 EXIECTED OUTPUT                    hy|a obect   l                STARTING
ACTIVM                       ReW=sW*                 OF PROBLEM                       AND IMCT                    Per*ennce ltaos                 ENDING DAITES;
3.4.g.     PREDESUR                      PREDESUR,            * Lack of irigatm              * Impved reginal iriation       Oi   Number of irrigtion       (i)  July 1994 to June
UEP (Lega/            m g       It                   manqgement                          schemes tuerasned to           1998
* Technical assistance and    l[stonal            * Lack of uniform policy on     * Trained stff on irigation          usen
saff training in the areas  Specialist),          irrigation development         plannirg, environmental        (ii)  Transfer of irrigation   Cii)  July 1994 to July
of regional irigation       consulns            * Lack of agriculbu  policy       assessmet, engineering and         projects and schemes           1995
planni*, irrigation                               under irrigation               O&M methods and techniques          and resources from
eneerin and O&M                                 * Lack of irrigtion planning   * Improved computing capacity         INERHI
methods and techriques                          * Low capacity of O&M          * Adoption to the proposed       (iii) SkiUs transfer to local  (ii) July 1994 to June      0o
* Pnwvision of equipmeat                             manageient                     irrigation o inintionAl             staff                          1996X
amt vehicles                                    * Lack of enviromea               structu                       fiv) Training coures and       (iv) Januarv 1995 to
impact assessment                                                  seniinats                     June 1998
(v)  Equipment and vehicles    (v)  December 1994
inralled
BS.      Lgal and Pboiy Stdies_
B.5.a.     Legal reforns studies and     UEP (Lga/V           o Current Water Law does          Proposed law reforms         Cr)  Set of the required legal   (i)  July 1994 to March
Propos                        Institutional          not cover the actua needs      allowing deconcentution and         reforms identified and         1995
Expett),            o ConcerAition of irrigation     regionalization of irrigation       drafted
consuisas,            mandate on current             schemes                        Cii)  Passage of new wster     (ii)  May 1995
CES, proposed         INERHI                                                             laws
CNRH, MAG,
RA, National
Congress



ECI^O
IRRIGATION SUBSECIDR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
InstituonalI          DESCRIPTION                  EXPECTED OUTPUT                  Phycal ObjetivW                 ARTING &
ACTIVITY                    Responesibility         OF PROBLEM                      AND 1IMPACT           j     '    nrfonrance Indicators    EN, I NG DATES      |
B.S.b.    Genetal Studies:              UEP (all). CES,     * Scarcity of economically    * To increase agriculural       Studies completed, discussed
proposed CNRH,        viable production systems     ptoductivity under irrigation  and incorporated in water
* Studies to support         consulnts, RA,        under irrigation              and madmine its economic      policy at the national and
imprwed water resouices    Secretary of        * Absence of market, prices     reurns                        regional levels:
mnatgement and irrigated   Planning, MAO         and related studies to      * To imprtuw  the selection of
agricultw-.                                      guide and support             ^top ptoduction in irrigated  (f)  Developmient of Viable    (1)  July to December
agriculural production        areas. Crop production             Production Systems            1994
under irigatin                decisions wotld be based on        under Irigaton Prects                                o
* Curtent tariffs are highly    market and prices analysis.   (ii)  Policy, Market and      (ii)  bnuary to
subsidimd. This causes      * To reduce tle level of             Ptice Study for Crops         September 1995
misallocation and waste of    subsidies given in the curmnt      Produced in Irrigation
water resourcs,               water tariffs. To mtiona;ia        Projects
* The last ground ad            water resources use and      (iii) Water Tiariffs and Cost  (ii)  July 1994 to June
surface water  ventory        management                        Recery in Public               1995
was partally updated in     * To hae a complet and                rigation Projects
1980.                         reliable, at a nationsl lvel,  (Iv) Ground and Sur&ice     (Iv) July 1994 to
* Thete is no plan or           ground and surtce water            Water Inventory               December 1995
ptrgram. at a national        inveetory                    (v)  Watersheds and Natutal    (v)  July 1994 to
lIcel, for waenheds and     * To develop a suitable             Resowc Mangent                 December 199S
no tuad tesources             progmrm fr waterdhed and     (vi)  Assessment of Priva     (vi) July 1994 to June
ma n.                         nat    souCs                        rigain  Performance          1995
* The biggest hre of die        m g n in balance with
total irigaed aea is on       the envronment, at a natonl
Pr        sysems (7%).        lvelM
However, there is no        * To have reliabl infoanation
reliable iformation about     about prie ira ation, to
its pebmanc  and              idenify its Hnbatios  and to
lim_tations,                  propose viable activiNies to
_pemae p_                           _      _ _          _ _    _ _ __ion__
CeframotO



-84 -               Annex 
:tidril -1 _______Pi 1
-as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|    ! l 1  diii  'Jjijjj i l3 [L1ii3i 
AlL~~~~~~[ 
M   z   tl    ! 
I~~~~~~~~. '. JIIII.._  <,.



IRRG^1ION SUBSEC>R    L                ASSrANCE l!ROEICT
PROJ]ECT UORUMANCE IDICATORS
1 Institutional   I    DESCRIPTION                    PECTE OUTPUT                  Physical Object/              STARTING &
ACIVIrY                     Respil                  OF PROBLEM           I          AND IMl*ACT                Pe*rfance hInicat        j    ENDING DATES
C.2.       Pieinvestment Studies        UEP (Inigation      e The eXisting feasibility    * The feasibility studies would  * 20 Feasibility
Project               studies are of a low quality  allow evaluation accoiding to    Studies completed
0 Utilize guidelines and     Edaluation            and, in geneWA,               established norns and        (O)   First year       g        ) O  Wuly to Dec. 1994
procedures developed       Specialist), CES,     incomplete                    guidelines of projects       (i)  Second year      12       (ii)  Jan. to Dec. 1995
above to scren proposed    proposed CNRH,    * Design studies have not         pwposed for finding under
investments and prepare    consultants,          been prepaled for the         the rigation Invesmen Plan
feaibility studies for     Secetary of           rehabilitation of many
follow-on irrigation       Planning, MAM3,       irrigation sysems and                                                                                               on
inVestm t project          RA                    those completd require
thorough review.
D.       PRIVATE SECIOR DEVELOPMENT
ILI.     Piot Pr4ects
D.L .a     Benchmark Studies of Pilot   UEP (Irrigation    Current data base is limited to    Seven benchmark studies (one for   (i)  Seven studies completed   (i)  September 1994 to
Projects                     and User Group     non-acistei.. Design of       each pilot project) as the bases                                    February 1995
Training          specific interventions and     for developirg and refining     (ii)  Study rets integrated    (ii)  February to April
* Benchmark data on          Specialist), RA.    monitring of progress in     annual work plans and developivg     into annual work plans         1995
economi_ social and        conshuviste       tiair of irrigation ytems      evaluation and monring          (iii) Monitoriqg and           (iii) Febmuaty to April
technicad aspects will be                     to water use.t requires a     prgams for the pilot projects         evauation plans               1995
gathered and analyzed and                    hrelable, curreat data base and                                      completed which use
studies completd at the                       analysis of social, economic                                        benchmark data as a
bqgnnirg of each pilot                        and technical pametets,.                                            basis for measurn
p-___                                                                                                             pogeS__
Pt



IRRIGATION SUBSECIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT FERFORMANCE INDICATORS
bns     |louaal        DEKCRIPTION           |       XEC         OUTP                P1ysia Objece                 SARTING &
ACTIV                       Respo      lt           OF PROBLEM                       AND IMWACT                  l 3icmante | is                ENDING DATES
D.l .b.    Organize Water Uss'          UEP (Irigation      Water use.' associations are  Wter usei' aociations             (a)  Legal statutes filed for  ()  Januay to July
Associadons                  and User Grmp       uually organizd only          formally and legaPly organized in     local associations in the      1995
Training          informally, if at al, and then  each pilot project with both loal     system
e Water Userss associations    Specialist), RA,    only at the local led with  associations an an eleced        (i)    gal tatue filed for     (ii)  April to September
will be fonnally orgnized    consultants, uers   litle coordination or joint  assambly (Junta d Reganes)           the supra Juna de              1995
in each pilot projc.t                         planni  amonw vrious           from the local associations for the   Rtgateas
These wil include local                       communities or ata of the      system as a whole. This will     (dii)  A Boasd of Directors    (iii) Sepner to
associatios and, in some                       qsyste                        facilitate: (a) tmaining of farmers   elected for the Junta de       Navember 1995
cases, a costuent                                                            in sysm  operation and                Regantes and meetings
asembly (Juna de                                                               ae        (b) defintion of          held
Repntes) comprised of                                                         abili       needs; and (c)
representatives frm each                                                     enhanced cost recorery. It wil
local association,                                                           form th basis for en tuly
tunn systems managment to
the Junta do Regantes.
|D. .c.    Train Whtr Uses to Operate    UEP (rrigation     Te regional irrigation        O&M of the irigation Dsytm in t   I)   ntelition of the          i   Aptil 1995 to JunC
and M       rigation         and User Grup       agencies operate and manage   each pilot prt4ect by the formally     payment of O&M costs          1997
Systems                      Trainng            public irrigation projects with    organized Jua de Resgas, at        by the Junta de Regaes    (i)  November 1995 to
Specialist), RA,    little or no input from      least for the secondary system,   (i)  Formal trnsfer of the          December 1997
* Water uses, throug their    consuns, uses    frmers. On-farm and sstem       and for the entire system whee        O&M of the irration         )  April 1995 to
associations, will be                         efficieancy of water use is low,    feasible. This wil enhance       system to the luna de          Decmber 1997
trained in operation  and                     which coutnbuts to low fam     efficiency of water use Qoth at       RePtes                    (Iv) April 1995 to June
manage_mt of irrigation                       productivity and inome,       the system level and on frms)     (Ii) Reduced involvment of          1998
systems, ofarm water                          Cost recovery by th regional    and inrease farm productivity        regional agencies in     (v)  April 1995 to Jume
angaement and irrigated                       agencies for both operations   and net incomes. h will faciliae      managingthe irrigation         1998
crop production in pilot                      and maintnace costs and for   internalianion of costs by watr        sysem
prject irrigatio sym                          capital coOs also is low.      uses and more efficient          (Iv) Iprovement in water
Farmers can be expecied to    nagemet of each irrigation             use efficiency                                      I
mote efficiently opeat the    sytem in the pilot prjects.      (v)  lIncrased farm
system if they are adequaly                                          productivity and net
trained and p-pard.                                                 incomes



NUWGxT1N SUBSECTOR llCNWL ASSEIrANC                        
PRJC   OE       RMNC   IONDCORS
1             1       DDElSCREP'ON                 EXPECTED OUTPUT           fs Oal            ectiws/     1       rARTNG &
ACTIVITY                    ResposWity_             OF PROBLEM                     AND IMMACT                  Pevfmnaiwe Indst_s             ENDMIG DATES
D.l .d.    RehabilitComplk              Regioa                 sxt   on the pilot        Irdigation infatruc    will be   Q)  Completon of a plan for   O)  Match to
hifiestrecur on Filot        Agenc.             projects need to be           ompltecd on the pilot proect,         infastuctr                    Noember 199S
Proec                        conwul_ant          ehabUiited and, in som       inclufd the itaation of               improvems on dhe
user, UEP          cases, completd, in order to   _wuraeauug devices as                pilot projects
* Idgation systems in tho    (Iigation and      pri  aequat ad timy           needed. ITis wil alow for mor    (i)  Applicationappaa for   Cu)  september to
pilt pwcts wil be          User Group         war supplie    hee iao         mly ad g8ear amout of               finanbg for                    December 199S
ebilaIhtd nd               Trainig           inve_sme   amc elatiwy         water wlch,W in trn, wi  lead to     infiastructure
infi%structure completd as    Specais)        modes and are expectd to      incrasd preduct    imlple               _     _mpenis by the d
inm   are wig to                              esuwlt in sbtantial benefiS.  coppirg and, in som  caes, an         waer usera' associaton
undeta   h intestmens                         As a  sul, there ar lily to   illnC   in irnigaed ara. It wil    (i  Intallation of ste-     Oi) Janm  to
in rais  iaroweawss                           be sgrowq ientivs 1br         also  cilhate mo  precise and         masuri  deices and            Deember 1996
&rmsr to mab th nXesy    hir chares fDr O&M  oo, by               reb3ocomp
investments.                  permitbg aocurm                      of infinstructute on th
ofwate use. This, in tun, wil         po precs
enhance inwtenaliio of O&M       (tv)  oarml mpymep t of      &iv) Febmary 1997 to
coe  o th watr us'                    inesten cow                  Jnm 199u
_                           _                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~amocceo.      underway



IRRIGATION SUBSEC1OR TECNICAL ASFANCE iROJECT
PIROJECT OERRIBNC INDICATORS
___tissaal             DESCRIPTION                  EXPECTED OUTPUT                   rhRTOltiws                    | SllING &
ACTIVITY                     Respsfty                OF IPROBLEM                      AND IM1MT               j     ehslxm ane elicators    |    EtIDING DATES
D2.       User Gnup lnhag and 0._ewh
D.2.a.    lItensie Training of           RA, co _nsu,    All public iigtion syem            Two sets of spec'iad personnel    ()   Fve sujet matter         (1   Jamiary to July
Regional Pcrwnne              UEP (Irrigaton      suffer fiom the sae gener      will be trained in each regional       specialis taned fr             1995
and User Group     problems: inefficient use of   irrigation a  : (a) five subject        cach regional irigation
A cadre of subject mater    Tainig             water reures, imited co        matte  pecialiss and (b) chae           agecy (30 in total in a
speciisft and chang         Specialist), CES    recevry, iscomple  or         age  for each public irrigation         sinle, national
agents will be trained in                      damaged sysms, and low         ssem  ITh intesie tani4                 progam in the
each region to use lesso                       productivity and incomes       progrm is a cost-effectiv way           f9owinig ares:                                       Go
learned from the pilot                         among wAter user. ITes         of devlopig the cadre of subject     a. Syms Managemnt
projects to help to                            problems wil be addressed in    mter specialists an chaec           b. Economics
implement polfc refouMs                        the pl proje  thlough               s needed to help teach          c. [AgslmAdmiviatraie
brdly thtoughout the t                         susta        in&sions of capbl,  farme  in dler ssems. This         d. On-farm Water Use
of the public irrigation                       technical asistance and        cade of specialized traine  will      c. rigd  Crops
subsebr.                                       focused training. Other public   introduce requi   policy rein   (Cn)  One (or more) chaWe      (i)   April to December
iigation ystems need to       in all the public iription              agent elected and              1995
implement simil    msfsystems: orpniznon and                          taind for each non-
which also will trquire       tainig of water users; O&M of           pilot public irgation
additional resources and      the system by the users'                  tem by the subject
focused efforts.  he Inens    asociaton eventual trnfer of            mater specialist in tie
National Training Coponent    the system to the water users;          abov aea
is innded to quickly devlop    enhanced cost recoevry; aad       (mi)  All su bjet matter      (iii)  June to dy 1995
a critical mass of human      in_estme   by watr uses in              specilists and change
capil to address tiese        completio and rehabilitation of         agents trined toedther
deficiencies.                 their sysems                            in extension
mIhodo,e



IUUGATION-SLUDCXR TMM                    SUSI ANCT
PJIC PWRKulNCE IDICATORS
1             I    DElSCRION                       EXPECTED OUTPUT                 dPhal Owesl                    SrARlNG &
ACTIVrrY                jRespomlbuflty_j            OF ROMOF PROBLEM                AND                        NrPAmT tehlicat         L  ENDING DATEX
D2.b.    User Oueach Pgram fr           RA, constas,  Policy refims noed to be           VAter use  in the nnplot        (      Ater us'               0) Jauary to Deoember
Non-Pilot Sysem    ar         uses,              implnd in an the non-         prjes   equWiped wih the skills        associatio  ognied         1996
user in the non-pilot sys     (Inigaion and      pio     at  systems,          and knowledge to succedy               in non-pilot project
will be orpnimd into          User Group         dmwiwB on lesons learned      talb arer ope-Ation amd          (i)   Vater us' pay O&M       (O)   Janury 1996 to
asciations and taied in       Traini             fiwm dte pinot projects   .  m Vet of their system                   cos                           Ap  1997
irrigation ysem opeton and    Speciaist)         Fners in  -pilt ssms          inrnali cost and incra           (di)  Tmns&r of the           (ii)  January 1996 to
man_ament thwugh an                              also have litte experience or  productivity and um incomes,          opeftion of th sysm           June 1998
eension/outreach ptogra,                         knowledge of sytem            jum as on the pilot projects.         to the watr uers'
inchldiw spechizaed short                        opetion and ma _nme,                                                 association
coures, inbrml tiaig, and                        on-fim water manemen          Le         learned on the pilot  (iv)  Rehabiia   plan fbr   (Qv)  April 1996 to
demonstMtion and ourach                          and modern, irrigted crop     proect applied renexally and           each non-piot sytm            April 1997
programs at the pilot proec.                     ptoduction. They am no        umi6Ty throughout the pubhc            with water
likdy to lean mnch from te    irrigaion subsctr of                  commited to Wy
pilot projecs unles thee is a    infiatuctu.                        capitl cosbt
purposeful effort to tach them                                (v)  Imp _wemen in water       (v)  Janry 1996 t
and iciliate policy  flms                                           use efliciency                July 1998
on the no-pilot pwjecb.                                        (vi)  Inclres in km           (vi)  Jamnary 1996 to
prducivity and income        July 1998



- 91 -                              Annex 6
IRRIGATION SUBSECIOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1. Significant resources will be required to supervise this project. Implementation of the
main project activities (institutional strengthening of three national and seven regional
agencies, legal and policy studies and reforms, investment screening and preparation, and
capacity building for operation and maintenance privatization to user-groups), require large
inputs of technical assistance which will in turn require on-going evaluation to ensure
consistency with project objectives. In addition to a well-staffed project execution unit
(UEP), the project will require the commitment of significant resources for supervision.
2. IBRD s           Dision mut: Bank staff or consultant input into the supervision of the project
will range between 30 to 20 staff weeks per year on a declining basis (due primarily to
reduced procurement activity in the latter years of the project.) This required input will take
the following form:
(a)  Portfolio Management Oprations: The review of procurement documents, progress
reports, correspondence and the internal reporting related to these activities are
expected to initially require 10 staff weeks per year, declining later in the project as
procurement activities diminish.
(b)  Field SuRipsion: It is planned to undertake field supervision on a semi-annual basis:
in November to discuss technical assistance performance reviews and review annual
work plans (POA); and once a year in May/June for field visits and other routine
supervision tasks.
3. IBRD Field Supervision Requirements: See following table.
,b



- 92 -                                                Annex 6
ECUADOR
IRR1GATION SUBSECTIOR TECHNCAL ASSCE PROJECT
FIELD SUPERVISION PLAN
Appnsidmate Dates               Afivity            ExpeeWd Skdl Requiament          staf Inp 
7/94                     Project Launch           Task Mangr                            10
Mbrkshop                 Procurement Specialist
Institutional Specialist
Irigaption Bwineer
User Group Tinitig and
Outreach Specialist
1V94                    Review POA                Task Managr                           10
Discus TA evaluation     Imntitutional Specialist
Discuss progtess in      Irngation E;qineer
deeentmalization         Irigation User Group Thini
Discuss progress of      and Outreach Specialist
studies
7/95                     Review procutement       Task Manager                          10
issues                   Irrigation lgineer
Field visits             Intitutional Specialist
Tachnical aspects of     Irngation User Oroup Trhini
compones                 and Outreach Specialit
12/95                   Review POA                Task Managwr                          5
Discus TA waluation      Ittional Specialist
Discuss progess in       Irigation Eaineer
decenterztion
Discuss proges of
studies
7/96                     Midtern Review           Task Mantger                          12
Review procurement       Procurement Specialst
isues                    Irrigation Ewineer
Field visits               titutional Specialist
lbchnical aspets of       rrigation User Group Tzni
_______________   componerm                        and Outreach Specialist
12/96                   Roview POA                Task Mangr                            S
Discuss TA evaluation    Isitutional Specialist
Discuss progres in       Irigation User Goup Tndatttg
privatization of O&M     and Outeac Specialist
7/97                     Review procument         Task Managr                           10
ieues                    IrrigSaion Engineer
ioeld visits             Instional Specialist
Technical aspect of      Irrigation User Group Training
cotnponentb              ad Outreach Specialst
12/97                   Review POA                Task Manar                            5
Discus TA evaluation     Institutional Spcialist
Discuss progres in         itn Usr Group Trining
privtatization of O&M    and Outech Specialist
6/98                     PCR Prepartion           Ta  Manaer                            t0
Reusrch Asistnt
Isbuti    Speciaist                       .



- 93 -                                  Annex 6
ECUADOR
I  GATION SUBSECI  EC AL ASSISTANCE PROHEC
FIELD SUPERVISION PLAN
(Continued)
The supervision requirement by IBRD fiscal year are:
1994      1995       1996        97       1991
SW in field          20         15        17         1S        10
Document Review      10         10         7         5          1
TOTAL SW             30        25         24         20         11



- 95-                         Annex 7
ECUADOR
IRRGATION SUBSECIO TECHICAL ASSISTANC13 PRtOJECT
LIST OF DCMl IN ]ROJEC FlLES
Worldng Paper 1. "Irrigation and Agricultural Development*
Worldng Paper 2. "Institutional Reform and Strengthening"
Working Paper 3. "Pilot Project Progmm"
Working Paper 4. "lTaining and Outreach Program"
Worldng Paper 5. "Public Irrigation Inwestment"



