Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22692
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37300; SCL-3730A; SCPD-3730S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
12/26/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 9, 2000)
Currency Unit = US$
FISCAL YEAR
January 1     December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEOR                      -        Ecuadorian Association of WUAs
(Asociaci6n Ecuatoriana de Organizaciones de Regantes)
CAS                       -       Country Assistance Strategy
CEDEGE                    -       Commission for the Development of the Guayas River Basin
(Comisi6n de Estudios para el Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Rio Guayas)
CNRH                      -       National Commission for Water Resources
(Comisi6n Nacional de Recursos Hidricos)
CREA                      -       Center for Economic Transformation of Azuay, Cafiar and Morona
(Centro para la Reconversi6n Econ6mica del Azuay, Caitary Morona)
CRM                       -       Corporation for the Rehabilitation of Manabi
(Corporaci6n para la Rehabilitaci6n de Manabi)
EIA                       -       Enviromnent Impact Assessment
GOE                       -       Government of Ecuador
IBRD                      -       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB                       -       Inter-American Development Bank.
IMT                       -       Irrigation Management Transfer
INERHI                    -       Ecuadorian Institute of Water Resources
(Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidrtiulicos)
INIAP                     -       National Institute for Crop and Livestock Research
(Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Agropecuarias )
IDB                       -       Inter-American Development Bank
IS                        -       Irrigation Systems
LA                        -       Loan Agreement
MAG                       -       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MEF                       -       Ministry of Economy and Finance
NGO                       -       Non-Governmental Organization
NPV                       -       Net Present Value
NWRS                      -       National Water Resource Strategy
O&M                       -       Operation and maintenance
OCC                       -       Opportunity Cost of Capital
ODEPLAN                   -       Planning Office of the GOE
PREDESUR                  -       Regional Program for the Development of Southern Ecuador
(Programa de Desarrollo Regional del Sur del Ecuador)
RDCs                      -       Regional Development Corporations
RRP                       -       Report and Recommendation of the President
TAP                       -       Irrigation Subsector Technical Assistance Project
UEP                       -       Project Executing Agency (Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto)
WL                        -       Water Law
WA                        -       CNRH's Water Agencies
WRS                       -       Water Resource Strategy
WUAs                      -       Water User Associations
Vice President:      David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:         Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager/Director:        John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Norman B. Piccioni



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                 I1
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Infonnation                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              34
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR                                                            35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P007105                                        Project Name: Irrigation Technical Assitance
Team Leader: Norman Bentley Piccioni                       TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Irrigation Technical Assitance                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-37300;
SCL-3730A;
SCPD-3730S
Country/Department: ECUADOR                                               Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/09/1989                              Effective:  12/16/1994        12/16/1994
Appraisal:  10/11/1993                                MTR: 12/10/1998             10/05/1998
Approval:  05/10/1994                               Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ECUADOR/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (MAG)
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                          S. Shahid Husain
Country Manager:     Isabel M. Guerrero                          Ping-Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:      John Redwood                               Mark D. Wilson
Team Leader at ICR:  Norman Bentley Piccioni                    Michael G. Carroll
ICR Primary Author:   A team composed of Norman
Piccioni; Samuel Taffesse & Juan
Morelli with contributions from
McDonald P. Benjamin and
Jonathan Parker.
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Developmnent Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 According to the Report and Recommendation of the President (RRP),' the objectives of the Irrigation
Subsector Technical Assistance Project (TAP) were to: " (a) improve policy design and implementation,
rationalize public expenditures, and modemize institutions in the irrigation subsector; (b) promote the
sustainable participation of tlKe private sector as a means of improving the utilization and efficiency of
public irrigation systems; ard (c) develop the necessary technical regulatory and administrative framework
to ensure the effectivenes's of future public investments in irrigation infrastructure, which would form the
basis for a follow-up investment loan."
3.1.2 Since irrigation was the main user of water resources in the country, the project primarily aimed at
improving the irrigation subsector: This would have implied to assist the Government of Ecuador (GOE)
in undertaking the process of modernization of the irrigation subsector, which accounted for about 80%/o of
the country's total annual consumption. In 1996 the subsector accounted for over 60% of the public
agricultural sector budget. An estimnated 90,000ha was being irrigated by the public sector projects and
some 600,000 ha by the private sector. The potential irrigable area under existing small public sector
irrigation schemes was estimated to be 160,000.
3.1.3 Several factors contributed to the poor performance of the subsector: (i) inadequate subsectoral
policies, strategic planning and investment priorities; (ii) excessive public sector intervention thus
restricting private sector participation; (iii) deficient construction, operation and maintenance of projects;
and (iv) inadequate public services supporting irrigated agriculture. Another serious weakness of the sector
was the absence of effective technology transfer. Though poor small scale farmers benefited from public
irrigation infrastructure, most of them grew low value crops with poor yields, so they could not afford to
finance the maintenance and operation of these systems. The irrigation system was highly subsidized,' due
4
to low tariffs, and records of flows entering the irrigation system or water delivered to users was not
available in majority of the systems.
3.1.4  The irrigation subsector was a budgetary burden to the Government: Public sector support for
irrigation began in 1944 under the Caja Nacional de Riego, which was given the task of studying,
constructing and administering public irrigation systems in Ecuador. In 1976, the Ecuadorian Institute for
Water Resources (INERHI) assumed these responsibilities, exercising its authority through organizations
at the provincial and regional levels. As time went on INERHI was increasingly viewed as an inefficient
organization with no focus on water sector priorities, in general, and irrigation subsector in particular,
requiring institutional re-organization. Further, there were four additional semi-autonomous regional
agencies and some provincial and municipal institutions involved in operation of irrigation projects.
3.1.5 Seizing the opportunity: In 1993, the Government initiated a process of modernizing the irrigation
subsector. This TA project was seen as a vehicle to support this process. Its strategy was to address
institutional reform sequentially by first streamlining the normative and regulatory role in the'development
of the irrigation subsector. This was to be accompanied by a process of decentralization and then
privatization,' in which existing and new regional organizations would strengthened to effectively assume
the lead role in assisting user organizations to take over the management of existing public irrigation
systems. Once these reforms were under way, the project would promote the incorporation of other
subsectors in order to establish a sustainable and integrated approach to water resource management in the
country. Though there were obvious risks, they were considered manageable, as the existing legal
framework did not restrict the restructuring of institutions, and administrative mechanisms. Therefore,
- 2 -



Congressional approval of a new WL was not required by the project.
3.1.6   Small public irrigation water users were important beneficiaries of the project: The key
organizations at the community level of the project were Water Users Associations (WUAs) which were
groups of small farmers in the private sector. WUAs were responsible for the control and coordination of
community inputs in the administration, Operation and Maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation systems (IS).
The WUA's existed in some of the public IS, and in areas where users were not organized, it was planned
to formally organize these associations. Those that existed before the Project, were forned by INERHI and
the Regional Development Corporations (RDCs) to facilitate tariff collection and contribute to maintenance
mainly through voluntary community work ("mingas").
3.1.7 The Project was consistent with the CAS: The objectives of the project were clear, realistic and
relevant since they were in line with the three main objectives of the 1993 CAS that aimed to: (a) improve
basic services targeted to the poor; (b) promote reform of the public sector; and (c) strengthen the basis for
private sector-led growth.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 No revisions to the original objectives were made. However, during the June 1995 supervision
mission, the Bank and the GOE agreed to introduce some modifications to some elements of the three main
components of the project (see Para. 3.4 below) necessitated, inter alia, by the vacuum created with the
dissolution of INERHI. The water users pushed for transfer of the IS to them, so that they could undertake
the O&M of the systems. Such a strong demand for the transfer of the system by the users was not
anticipated during project preparation.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 Public institutional strengthening and reform: (US$10.1 million). This component aimed at
enabling the GOE to develop the policy and administrative framework required to reduce its role to
normative and regulatory functions, while simultaneously reorganizing and strengthening all relevant
institutions to perform their new roles. This component was planned to finance the cost of consultants,
legal and policy studies and equipment purchase for the re-organized institutions, including MAG. The
first step was the replacement of INERHI by a new National Commission for Water Resources, (Comisi6n
Nacional de Recursos Hidricos - CNRH), whose functions were to be supported by an Executive
Secretariat.. The latter was envisaged to be responsible for policy formulation, public resource allocation,
definition of technical guidelines, and monitoring of GOE's program and projects. Further, to support the
decentralization effort, this component was expected to strengthen the operational and environmental
assessment capacity of four existing RDCs. Additionally, it was planned to create two or three new RDCs,
from the regional offices of INERHI, to assist in the transference of public irrigation systems in the
northern and central part of the Sierra and in El Oro Province. As a precondition of disbursement, all
projects that were under INERHI were to be transferred to the RDCs. As part of the preparation of the
regulatory and administrative framework required for the operation of the new decentralized structure, a
series of studies were planned to define procedures and mechanisms.
3.3.2 Private Sector Development: (US$9.6 million). This component was supposed to support the
Government in developing the most suitable and sustainable mechanisms for the regional agencies to
promote user-financed rehabilitation of the IS, and implement the transfer of the public irrigation schemes
to WUAs. Activities planned to be financed under this component included: a pilot program to transfer
seven representative irrigation systems with some rehabilitation works; and a training and outreach
communication program for these WUAs to disseminate the experience gained particularly to farmners in
other public IS.
-3 -



3.3.3  Public Sector Irrigation Investment Plan: (US$3.7 million). This component planned to finance
studies for the preparation of a medium-tern program for completion or rehabilitation of existing projects
under the new administrative and regulatory framework. Activities included: (i) detailed national inventory
of existing public projects, restricted to those schemes that either were not completed or were currently in
need of rehabilitation; (ii) development and application of comprehensive criteria for screening and
selection of future public irrigation projects; and (iii) preparation of feasibility studies of irrigation schemes
as the basis for a medium-term investment program. It was anticipated that this program could be financed
by a follow-up project, which would incorporate policies, legal framework, and operational procedures
developed during the implementation of this component.
3.3.4  Project Management and Implementation: (US$2.1 million). A Project Executing Unit (UEP),
reporting directly to the Minister of Agriculture as head of CNRH, was responsible for: providing
managerial and administrative support to the project, including procurement processing, contracting
consultants and studies; accounting and monitoring; and inter-institutional coordination of implementation
activities. The Loan funds were to be passed from MAG to RDCs with Subsidiary Agreements which were
expected to rule the provision of funding that included clauses to: (i) ensure adequate allocation of
counterpart funds to the project by each agency; and (ii) discuss, between UEP and the Bank, annual
budgets.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 In June 1995, the GOE and the Bank agreed to modify the main components of the project with the
aim of streamlining implementation to the evolving reality and improving project effectiveness and impact.
Accordingly, the following modifications were agreed upon to be financed by the Project: (i)Public
institutional strengthening and reform component: while continuing with institutional strengthening, the
inventory of water resources and census on the status of private IS were to be incorporated into a new
National Water Resources Strategy (NWRS) Study. The studies to prepare a new regulatory framework
would be transferred to the responsibility of the Agricultural Sector Program Loan, financed by the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB); (ii) Private sector component: it was agreed to accelerate the
transfer of selected public irrigation schemes, so the target was increased to 19 to be followed by a training
and outreach program; and (iii) Public sector irrigation investment plan component: would now finance;
(a) participatory planning and feasibility studies' of the 19 IS planned to be transferred to WVUAs; and (b)
final design and implementation procedures for selected investments associated with (a) above. In August
1995, UEP produced the revised definition of the Project's components, associated budgetary adjustments
and new activities, which was formally accepted by the GOE and the Bank. No amendments to the Project
Agreement were necessary.
3.4.2 The transfer of studies on regulatory framework to IDB, was well justified: IDB's project, which
was developed after this TA project was approved, covered broader agricultural policy issues and was
considered a more effective vehicle for such reform.  Initial results of the Public Sector Irrigation
Investment Plan determined that relatively small incremental investments for existing irrigation systems
could dramatically improve their returns and the incomes of users. Accordingly this component was
reoriented to support the Private Sector Development Component. The disappearance of INERHI created a
dynamic, which encouraged WUAs to take over their systems, so demand for transfers dramatically
increased. The decision to increase transfers from 7 to 19 and ultimately 35, greatly increased the poverty
focus of the project, while reducing demands on the public budget. Since the change was only on the focus
of the components and did not involve major restructuring, it was not reported to Executive Directors. (See
Aide Memoire dated June 1995, Para. 4.)
-4 -



3.4.3 Table 1. Comparison of Cost at Appraisal and Actual Ex enditures (in million US$)
Appraisal Actual/Latest Actual/      Rating
Component                                  Estimate  Estimate     Appraisal %
Public Institutional Strengthening & Reformn  10.07  11.63         115          S
Public Irrigation Investment Plan          3.75      2.60          69            S
Private Sector Development                 9.66      8.40          87           HS
Project Execution Unit (UEP)               2.02      2.06          102           S
Total Project Costs                        25.5      24.69         97           S
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.3    The project quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory by the ICR team.
3.5.1 The project's objectives were consistent with the GOE's priorities and the 1993 CAS. Project
design followed best practice as recommended in the Bank's Water Resource Management Policy Paper.
The design was consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies. The Project did not finance new irrigation
projects or dams and thus was not expected to result in adverse environmental effects. Rather the
rehabilitation works (such as rehabilitating malfunctioning systems and cleaning and/or lining irrigation
canals), were expected to help reduce adverse impacts. The transference of the IS, since it entailed full
O&M funding by WlUAs, was expected to encourage users to improve watershed and resources
management. Further, the provision of training to the WUAs was expected to increase their efficiency in
water use and the adaptation of sustainable agricultural production practices.
3.5.2 The project identified risks: The four major risks identified were: (a) the considerable magnitude of
the proposed institutional reforms; (b) the limited administrative and technical capacity of the agencies
involved, (c) the possible reluctance of farmers to support the privatization process; and (d) the potential
shift in key subsectoral priorities resulting from the change of Governmnent every four years.
3.5.3 But mitigating measures were insufficient in some respects: Though the institutional reforms were
carried out as agreed, their effectiveness proved disappointing in several respects, as mitigating measures
were insufficient. Public officials involved in the newly created and decentralized institutions, but inherited
from the old INERHI, were not the most capable promoters for transferring the IS. The best ones took
retirement incentives as they were in better shape to work as independent consultants. The new institutional
framework lacked incentives, particularly salary incentive, to maintain the most capable professionals who
used to work for INERHI. The Project and its activities were perceived by most of the staff of CNRH and
RDCs' as an instrument of making them redundant. On the other hand farrners interest in and support for
the privatization process far exceeded expectations, ultimately insuring the project's success. Though GOE
support for subsectoral priorities continued, the difficulty in developing a political consensus to complete
the regulatory reforms was underestimated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 In spite of the extremely adverse political and economic environment in which the Project was
implemented, almost all of its the relevant objectives were achieved. The old centralized institutions were
dismantled and responsibilities for operation and investment were passed to the majority of WUAs. In the
process government's role was limited to setting policy and regulating the subsector through CNRH and the
- 5 -



RDCs.   While public expenditures were reduced (the reduction in fiscal contributions, mostly for
subsidizing small public IS, is estimated at more than 90%) and operational efficiencies increased as
expected, the capabilities of these institutions will require additional strengthening in the future. All these
reforms were implemented within the existing old Water Law. Development of the regulatory and
administrative framework to insure the effectiveness of future public investments was completed and
presented to Congress in the form of a draft new Water Law. The passage of this Law is problematic, as
the political situation in the country remains fragmented and consensus very hard to achieve. By assuming
responsibility for investment and operation of their systems, WUAs have dramatically improved
productivity and incomes of their membership. The transfer program has gone at a faster speed than
similar ones in other countries and deserves to be studied for further policy improvements and identification
of lessons and best practices.
4.1.2 Beneficiaries gain from the project exceeded expectations: Benefits included higher agricultural
production and productivity, social capital development, higher incomes even under extreme rural poverty
conditions, which contributed in government budgetary savings, enhanced environmental awareness and
sustainable production methods. Before the Project, a decreasing trend in agricultural production in the IS
was observed due to lack of GOE funds for adequate O&M, deficient agricultural TA and the associated
technological transfer, and a deterioration in the infrastructure. The downward trend in agricultural
production was reversed and as a result the total value of production in the transferred IS grew by an
estimated 50% in only three years (1998-2001) as a result of: (i) improvement in water use efficiency,
allowing for an increase in the irrigated area in most IS, (ii) the introduction of greenhouse cultivation
(farming) method with diversification to higher value crops; and (iii) improvement in production and
irrigation practices. The improvement in the efficiency of the transferred IS was the result of the
maintenance and/or installation of new structures and the adoption of innovative on-farm irrigation
technologies. The type of investments needed are decided by the WUAs under rigorous economic and
technical criteria, procured competitively and implemented efficiently with significant users' participation.
The ICR mission (Annex 3) estimated that O&M costs are today about 25 to 30% lower under the WUAs
management than the previous levels under INERHI and RDCs administration. The reduced demand for
central government budgets is setting a solid base for the modernization process.
4.1.3 With the transference of almost 50% of all public IS, funding and management have been
successfully decentralized, shifting the subsector's future from uncertain fiscal grants to a new system
self-financed by user tariff." All operating expenditures are now recovered through user charges in the
transferred IS, which reduced fiscal contributions by more than 90% compared with 1995/97 levels.
Transferred IS are in the process of attaining an optimal level of self sufficiency as a consequence of
increased water fees, reduced delinquency rates and increased O&M activities. In doing so, these IS have
already been able to increase their O&M activities from almost nothing to an estimated average of 60-70%
of the optimal level.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Public institutional strengthening and reform: Marginally Satisfactory. Although the institutional
reforms were carried out successfully, the strengthening aspect had a mixed result. INERHI, which had
about 1,600 employees and 52 regional and local offices, was dissolved in October 1994.  Its
responsibilities were divided among the newly created CNRH (today with 140 employees), nine RDCs
(including five new RDCs incorporating about 260 ex-INERHI workers) and the WUAs.  CNRH  was
created as an autonomous entity with a mandate to formulate and determine policies for mainland
(continental) Ecuador water sector, national irrigation plans, flood control and drainage, regulation and
establishment of standards for the administration of IS (including irrigation transfer standards and cost
- 6 -



recovery policies through tariffs), river basin management standards, conflict resolution among the
different water users (urban, industrial, irrigation, etc.), auditing investment funds assigned to RDCs and
setting standards and control of water quality. The project financed training for CNRH technical staff,
equipment, and studies (NWSP, Water Law, irrigation transfer procedures and manuals, Operating and
Strengthening Plans for WUA, etc.) but most of the CNRH employees, being ex-INERHI, had neither the
willingness nor the adequate skills to undertake the new role assigned to CNRH. The dissolution of
INERHI required US$2 million of counterpart funds for compensation of a large number of INERHI staff
made redundant as a result of institutional re-structuring. (See also institutional development impact
section, Para. 4.5).
4.2.2 Regional Development Corporations have assumed most of their responsibilities. During the
re-organization of water institutions, the RDCs were given three general areas of responsibility, previously
held by INERHI. These were: environmental conservation; water quality monitoring and improvement; and
development and management of the IS until the new institutional set-up was implemented. The RDCs
with the support of Intemational Consulting Firms (ICF) had to: (i) monitor, promote and strengthen
WUAs; (ii) conduct the transference of the IS; (iii) resolve water disputes; (iv) identify project
opportunities consistent with CNRH standards; (v) establish procedures for optimal use of water resources;
and (vi) recover capital and O&M costs from public schemes. TA, equipment and training was provided,
but the responsibility to transfer IS had to be assumed by the ICF during the first two years because most
of the RDCs officials saw the process as a danger to the security of thei. jobs in addition to their limited
capacity. Forty staff of RDCs participated in study tours on topics of irrigation system transfer, O&M and
water tariffs in USA, Mexico, Dominican Republic and Peru. At project closing most of the RDCs had
fully assumed the responsibility for transferring IS, albeit with the TA from ICF, and some are poised to
continue with the transfer of the remaining IS. The nine RDCs and the 11 CNRH regional offices (Water
Agencies -- WA) have benefited from this Project and are equipped to implement the new water and
irrigation policies.
4.2.3 Satisfactory result was achieved in conducting important studies. In order to help the GOE develop
a regulatory and administrative framework, US$1.4 million was allocated for a series of studies to define
procedures and mechanisms, to implement new subsector strategies and policies. About US$1.7 million
(123% of the appraisal estimate) was spent with satisfactory results. Studies related to: (i) policies,
markets and costs for irrigated crops; (ii) irrigated production systems; (iii) water tariff and cost recovery
procedures; and (iv) NWRS Study was conducted and widely distributed to all stakeholders in the water
sector under the auspices of this component. CNRH also completed studies for establishing new basic
tariffs and water fees for water concessions for industry and other uses. The draft proposal for water
concessions, which at present is waiting the approval by the Presidency, would give CNRH an estimated
US$1.0 million of additional income per year that could be used to attract well-trained professionals
through higher salary or other incentive mechanisms. Additionally, the Project supported CNRH by
financing the preparation and revision of several versions of the new draft WL, including developing the
criteria for screening and selecting future public irrigation projects. The WL was not passed, because it
became one of the central issues in the political conflicts between the indigenous movement and the GOE
and between the Sierra and the Coastal regions
4.2.4 Private Sector Development: Highly Satisfactory. The implementation of this component surpassed
its original target by five times. Given the adverse political situation in the country during the Project
implementation, the Project emphasized the development of the private sector through the transfer of IS to
WUA. According to the revised project implementation plan of 1995, CNRH and the 9 RDCs were given
the responsibilities to assist in: (i) transferring of the selected public sector IS to WUAs; (ii) rehabilitating
the schemes; (iii) validating cost recovery and transfer mechanisms. This component provided WUAs with
- 7 -



the necessary incentives to undertake the management of the transferred systems, and enabled WUAs to
undertake sustained O&M and increase their production.
4.2.5 A commendable achievement was made in the transfer of public IS. With the assistance of three
ICF, 35 IS were successfully transferred (500% the original target) and about 15 new ones are in the
pre-transfer stage. The project financed the rehabilitation and completion of some infrastructure works for
these IS. providing incentives to farmers to form legal WUAs and share investments for improvement
works. The development of the 35 IS, allowed for the active participation of users in decision making.
Additionally, in October 2000, the WUAs of the 35-transferred public IS created a national organization,
the Ecuadorian Organization of WUAs (Asociaci6n Ecuatoriana de Organizaciones de Regantes -AEOR)
(see Para. 6.4).
4.2.6 In terms of coverage: (i) ninety thousand ha (accounting for almost 55% of public irrigation systems)
has been brought under WJUAs responsibility (580% and 220% of the original & revised targets,
respectively); (ii) the number of beneficiaries has also exceeded expectations (by 256% and 175%); (iii)
about 50% increase in agricultural production has been achieved; and (iv) additional 13,360 ha serving
5,390 users are ready for completing the transfer process. (See Annex 3). The impact from the transferred
systems was immediate. Prior to the transfer, huge fiscal resources were transferred with virtually no
impact on improving the infrastructure or the livelihood of the farmers.
42 2. 7 Public Sector Irrigation Investment Plan: Due to its reformulation (see para. 3.4.1), only US$2.6
million, amounting to 69 percent of the original budget was spent. Feasibility studies, assessment of the IS
and participative planning for the rehabilitation of the 35 transferred IS, and a preliminary study for
designing and implementing the transfer of remaining public IS was prepared. Dropping the public sector
ifTigation investment plan was appropriate under the circumstances, as GOE concluded that following a
demand driven approach in the analysis of projects presented by WiUAs would yield a better result than the
old patemalistic approach of identifying irrigation investments. To begin this process a rapid participatory
assessment of the subsector was completed. This could be updated every three-to-four years in preference
to a detailed master plan whose blueprint usually become outdated before implementation starts. This was
an intelligent decision taken both by the Government and the Bank that resulted in saving resources.
4.2.8 Project Implementation Unit. Overall the project implementation unit (UEP) perfornance has been
successful. During early 1997 the appointment of staff in the UEP became politicized and performance
declined rapidly, so in June of that year the Project's supervision ratings for achievement of Development
Objectives and Implementation Progress were down-graded to Unsatisfactory. During this period the
project also was rated as Unsatisfactory in all of the Specific Aspects of implementation progress, while
counterpart funds and monitoring and evaluation were rated as Highly Unsatisfactory. Due to a change in
government, MAG was able to significantly improve the management of the project and the M&E system
was re-introduced. Accordingly, after Unsatisfactory ratings of the project during several months, by
October 1997, the Bank upgraded the project rating to Satisfactory, except M&E and counterpart funds.
4.2.9 The UJEP has always remained directly under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture, in person of
the Minister, as has been envisaged in the RRP. However, a close working relationship with the CNRH,
envisaged in the Project document, did not materialize due to political rivalries between the two groups.
T he Unit consolidated, periodically, the reports received from all participating institutions and has
produced annual reports on the progress of the project and its impact. As part of its regular activities, UEP
adequately controlled and supervised the activities and work programs of ICF in capacity building and
assisted WUAs and RDCs. The Unit's rapid assessment of the public irrigation systems and identifying
- 8 -



those that were ready for immediate transfer was a remarkable achievement.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 The internal economic rate of return (ERR) at project closing is estimated at about 32.0% and the
NPV (at 12% discount rate) at US$28.4 million. Details of the calculation are shown in Annex 3. The
benefits of the project are the result of the incremental gain in agricultural production and farmers' income
derived from increased irrigated area, better O&M, improved production practices and production
diversification. Other important results that contributed to the Project's benefits are neither included nor
quantified here. Some of the most relevant are: (i) positive effects on natural resources; (ii) improved food
security, nutrition and health as a result of increased production and product diversification; (iii) the
positive effects of strong WlUAs; (iv) the proliferation of revolving funds with high levels of recuperation
and the incentives the fund provided for undertaking productive investments (greenhouses and modem
on-farm irrigation systems); and (v) human capital development (training). The economic calculations
performed as part of this ICR took into account the cost of all components including: (i) incremental
on-farm productive investment and recurrent costs for introducing new technologies; (ii) TA to farmers;
(iii) rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure; (iv) development costs borne by WUAs; and (iv)
institutional strengthening and project administration costs. The evaluation was done by aggregating
individual results, first at the IS level, and then adding the results for the 35 transferred IS.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1 On average, considering the fact that 43,000 water user families benefited from the transfer, the
annual net on-farm income exhibited a growth of more than 40% from about US$850 to US$1,200.
Beneficiary families income increase, due to the off- and on-farm investments financed by the Project,
ranged from about 24% to more than 1000%. These results are based on 31 farm models covering the
most relevant activities of the household production units. Model household units products constituted
different basket of goods ranging from indigenous potatoes and/or maize, in very small farms in the
highland production systems, to tropical products composed of sugar cane and/or rice at coastal Ecuador.
The production patterns illustrated the positive impact of the Project in inducing rational water use patterns
and higher production efficiencies. Estimates, conservative at that, are based on observation made during
this ICR mission field visits and discussion held with 20 WUAs. The higher results correspond to models
with very low pre-Project income, which later adapted greenhouse cultivation with high value crop. The
analysis confirmed: (i) the general improvement of smallholders' income; (ii) the positive results of the
transfer of the irrigation system in all agro-ecological zones; and (iii) the higher marginal return to labor,
compared to the opportunity cost of labor wage rate, in all of the Project's areas. It was demonstrated that
even farmers living under extreme poverty and subsistence conditions could benefit from improved food
security and on-farm incomes as a result of a combination of improved irrigation infrastructure, efficient
O&M and adequate technical support. These results explain the high degree of satisfaction demonstrated
by the WUAs as observed during this ICR mission.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1 On balance the institutional impact of the project is considered modest. As discussed in para.4.2.1,
the reforms were carried out as agreed and on time, but the capacity of the new or reformed public
institutions remains weak in most cases. As was the case during the project preparation, there are a
number of players in the irrigation subsector - central government, regional corporations, municipalities
and the private sector - but without an effective agency exercising the coordination of these activities at the
national level. Although CNRH was supposed to regulate the administration of water resources and
irrigation systems, due to its limited legal authority and enforcement capability, each actor involved in the
subsector continues to act autonomously. It must be acknowledged that there are few countries in the
world that have achieved this objective. On the other hand the successful decentralization (privatization) of
-9-



operating decisions and responsibility to WUAs, has created a highly satisfactory impact on the country's
ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources in the field.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1 During the implementation of this Project, Ecuador was faced with one of the worst economic crises
in its history, which made it very difficult for GOE to provide counterpart funds for the project. At the
same time a national banking crisis dried up all credit for the private sector. Political turmoil in the country
was so extreme that, in six years of project implementation, there were a total of five Presidents and more
frequent changes in the cabinet. The appearance of new social forces in the political arena (most
importantly the indigenous peoples movement with a claim to their ancestral rights over the water sources
in the highlands) added to the problem. This situation made congressional approval of a regulatory
framework for the water sector unrealistic. The occurrence of natural disasters during the Project
implementation period, including 1997 El Nino Phenomenon, volcanic activity and droughts, caused
additional distractions for government.
5.1.2  For most of the Project's implementation period, UEP faced hostility from political and/or social
interests, to the point that several legal and political actions were initiated at different levels. Once the
transfer of IS was initiated, allegations started reaching the Congress every two or three months. There
were a total of 15 different official inquiries after March 1998. Through the transfer of the IS, the UEP
contends that the influence of some political groups over the peasants was taken-away. The State General
Controller undertook two special audits of the Project, including a visit covering 85% of the transferred IS.
The purpose of the inspection was to verify that WUAs benefited from the Project as claimed by UEP. Out
of the 15 allegations made, which included corruption associated with ICF contracts and use of funds, the
Congress concluded that none were substantiated. However, these accusations and the ensuing inquiries
diverted the attention of the UEP management from the main task of the Unit.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 The Government should have followed through on the institutional re-organization it started. Once
CNRH was established by an Executive Decree, as part of the precondition of the Loan, the Government
did not provide the required budget to CNRH and the additional legal power to execute its new mandate.
CNRH was not given the institutional importance it deserved to fully implement the activities assigned to it.
Government inaction reflected a failure in consensus building and poor management in MAG. For
instance, there were three competing draft WLs from different departments of MAG. The different draft
water laws pushed from different units of the Ministry added to the already difficult political landscape.
As a result, the draft WL is still languishing in the Congress. However, the passage of the WL was not
part of the original project objectives nor the revised components. Nevertheless, the enactment of the law
would have given CNRH additional legal foundation to discharge its duty. Also, the Project often suffered
from lack of counterpart funds. These were factors under the Government's control but where the
Government failed to provide the indispensable leadership, decision and action. By omission, if not by
commission, the Government did not fulfill all of its responsibilities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 The UEP could have been more proactive in dealing with the political problems the Project faced. It
could have pursued a public information campaign in the national media on the benefits achieved as a result
of the transfer of the IS, at least during the second half of the implementation period. The Unit chose to
function discreetly without much news coverage. While the Unit argued that its strategy was advantageous
in that it shielded the project from political interference, a good communication strategy could have
preempted some of the excessive hostility it experienced and the different allegations made against it.
- 10-



Establishing an external M&E was under the full control of the implementing agency, but it was not
properly implemented during the early stage of project implementation. Further, the implementation agency
should have been more proactive in trying to improve the participation of CNRH in the Project's activities.
The Unit could have been more effective in transferring knowledge of the international consultants, who
were actively involved in the transfer and consolidation of the WUAs.
5.4 Costs andfinahcing:
5.4.1  Out of the total project cost estimated during appraisal, US$25.5 million, the latest assessment
(Table 1. Para. 3.4.3) reveals that the actual cost of the Project stands at US$24.7 million or 97% of the
original estimate. The total loan proceeds of US$20 million was disbursed 100%, after a one-year
extension of the closing date. The distortion in the general price levels in the country, as a result of the
economic problem Ecuador underwent during the implementation of this Project, did not affect the project
cost structure substantially. The large consulting contracts with ICF for the transfer of public irrigation
systems were denominated in US dollars. According to the latest estimate, counterpart contributions stood
at 85% of the appraisal estimate.  In general, the contribution of counterpart resources is judged
satisfactory in light of the economic problem the country experienced during this period. Most of the
disbursement of GOE counterpart funds occurred during 1995. Contributions thereafter were scarce,
resulting in the Bank's rating of counterpart funding as unsatisfactory on several occasions. The WUAs
provided a major part of the local contribution in kind, instead of the planned budgetary allocation from
GOE. While all projects in Ecuador were suffering from lack of counterpart funds, this Project was able to
mobilize local support to achieve its objectives.
5.4.2  The project suffered from a significant lag in disbursements especially at the early stage of project
implementation. Although the project was expected to disburse US$2.0 million in 1994, no actual
disbursement was made and as a result, cumulative disbursement lag was maintained throughout
implementation. The lag in disbursement was due to: (i) management problems the Project Unit faced; and
(ii) political and financial instability the country experienced during most of the Project's life. A formal
revision of the disbursement schedule was made after the closing date was extended by one year.
5.4.3  The project costs by components (Table 1, para 3.4.3), in general, were in line with the appraisal
estimate. The public intuitional strengthening & reforrn component made use of 115% of the original
allocation. This was probably due to GOE creating two more RDCs than foreseen during appraisal to
handle the increased number of IS transfers. The small increase in the UEP component was due to the need
to finance its operating cost for an additional year.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1 The sustainability of the Project's benefits is considered highly likely. The RRP alluded to the fact
that "... the impact and sustainability of the Project activities would depend on how effectively the
institutional reforms are carried out and integraited into the formulation of sectoral policies. However,
given that one of the primary objectives of the project is to decrease Government's role and intervention in
irrigation, the success of the project is largely dependent on the interest and participation of the private
sector in the project activities." The private sector, as represented by the WUAs of the transferred IS, have
amply demonstrated their interest and have achieved a participation level well beyond what was envisaged
during project preparation. The project was more than just successful in developing pilot experiences of
successful transfer, which could be duplicated in the future. Indeed demand for the transfer of IS, exceeded
expectations, and the decentralization process cannot be reversed. The strategy adapted by UEP to actively
involve WUAs in the transfer of the IS, created local ownership and established a learning process in O&M
- 11 -



activities which will contribute to the long-term sustainability of the Project's impact.
6.1.2 The institutional arrangements implemented under the project are expected to contribute to the
sustainability of the policy reforms, even if the approval of the improved legal framework is further
delayed. The decentralization of the decision-making process and operational responsibilities in the
subsector, combined with the restructuring and strengthening of regional agencies and the increased role of
WUAs in irrigation development, is expected to continue beyond the life of the Project. Ultimately, project
sustainability will depend on whether WUAs can manage their IS on a self-sufficient basis. Based on the
progress achieved in such a short time by those already transferred (para. 4.1.3.), this outcome seems very
likely.
6.1.3 Recently the WUAs formed AEOR, a national association with membership of 43,000 users
(215,000 people), organized to represent the interest of the irrigation water users at the national level. The
main objectives of AEOR, are: (i) conduct training in crops and animal management, install
agro-enterprises and marketing facilities; (ii) negotiate and process complementary infrastructure to
generate efficient use of water irrigation systems in the AEOR area; (iii) provision of advice to 35 water
users associations in organization, management and O&M; and most importantly (iv) negotiate with the
Government, and/or international development institutions, foreign donors, public and private institutions
for agricultural development support. As more public irrigation systems are transferred, the AEOR is
going to incorporate more associations under its fold, which would enhance the bargaining power of the
users with the government, vendors and service providers. It can be envisaged that the strengthening of the
AEOR might force the public institutions involved in the water sector, particularly those in the irrigation
subsector, to improve their capacity and services.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 All transferred IS do not exhibit the same level of development. Those who were transferred earlier
demonstrate a higher degree of sustainability and self-sufficiency. Since more than half of the transference
of IS was implemented in the last two years, additional support is needed to consolidate them into regular
operations. This Irrigation TA Project was expected to form the basis for investment Loan, thus MAG is
relying on such an operation to consolidate and complete the reform and modernization of the subsector.
The GOE, as represented by the MAG, has provided remarkable support and is interested in transferring
the remaining public IS to the WUAs. The Ministry is planning to request a Project Preparation Facility
to continue with the preparation of the new operation. It would finance the consolidation of the transferred
systems and preparation work for transfer of the remaining 37 public IS. As a transition arrangement,
MAG has allocated US$1.2 million to continue with the consolidation and strengthening of the transferred
public irrigation systems.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1  The Bank's lending performance is rated satisfactory.  Given the observed shift in the
Government's policy towards the irrigation subsector, it was crucial that the Bank made the dissolution of
INERHI and the creation of CNRH as one of the Loan Conditions. Also, the Bank made extensive
consultations in the preparation of the project with all the sectors involved and provided high quality TA.
FAO-WB Cooperative Program provided valuable worldwide experience in irrigation transfer. However,
the ICR preparation team believes that the original focus of the technical assistance was too ambitious and
broad in that it planned to deal with the water sector as a whole. The focus on the preparation of detailed
irrigation feasibility studies, as a "second key element of the project" to guide the future public irrigation
investment plan, reflected the old paternalistic central planning concept of the seventies, rather than a new
- 12 -



irrigation policy oriented towards participative demand-driven type of investments. The RRP admitted that
the institutional arrangements might not be fully implemented, in light of which, the Project miglht have
focused on the irrigation subsector institutional strengthening.
7.1.2  The project preparation team gave due consideration to environmental aspects. The project
envisaged that a significant portion of the TA and training would be aimed at strengthening the
environmental capacity of public agencies at different levels. The project, by design, focused on nrral
poverty alleviation, since a considerable proportion of water users within public irrigation projects were
peasants living in poverty.  The RRP included detailed indicators to gauge the progress in the
implementation and for monitoring the impact of the project. This was innovative given that the project
was prepared before Logical-framework became an important part of Bank's project preparation
requirement. The major risks that would face the implementation of the Project were identified and for the
most part appropriate mitigation measures were identified. The appraisal was not able to design measures
to effectively deal with resistance to the reforms on the part of former INERHI officials employed in the
surviving institutions. Since a phased approach for lending (adaptable lending) was not an option in the
Bank at that time; the preparation team rightly opted for a TA project as a predecessor for a sectoral
project.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  Overall the Bank's supervision is considered as highly satisfactory. The RRP indicated the need
for intensive supervision of the Project due to its policy and institutional reform complexity and highly
decentralized nature.  Project supervision staff were, in general, maintained to ensure continuity.
Supervision missions were intensive with a lot of time spent in project sites discussing problems and
evaluating impact with the beneficiaries. The Bank's supervision was able to detect early the need for
changing the focus of the Project's components and made the necessary adjustment accordingly. The Bank
made it clear, its concern to the Government, when selection of project management became politicized.
Disbursements slowed down during nine months in 1997, until the UEP situation was improved with a new
management team. The Bank showed flexibility when it became obvious that it was difficult for Ecuador
to fulfill the obligation of providing adequate counterpart funds. The Bank, in coordination with the
Government, recognized that users contributions could fill the gap of counterpart funds. While lack ol
counterpart funds was affecting all projects in Ecuador in 1999/2000, due to the strong insistence by the
Bank and fruitful dialogue with MAG, the Bank supervision was successful in getting the govemment to
fulfill its commitment to provide the remaining counterpart funds. The Bank's supervision was firm in
lowering the project's performance ratings, when these problems were encountered, until solutions were
found. Hence, the Bank missions not only identified problems early, but also were actively involved in
finding solutions.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is considered as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  Borrower performance in project preparation was satisfactory. Notwithstanding the fact that there
was a lack of reliable information on the irrigation subsector, the GOE believed that the irrigation subsector
offered opportunities for substantial growth and poverty alleviation. The Government was convinced of the
need for reform and strengthening of public sector institutions while at the same time decentralizing
decisionmaking and responsibility to user groups. The Government rightly identified the issues involved in
the irrigation subsector and was prepared to enforce the actions needed for modemizing it.
- 13-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1  During implementation the GOE performance was mixed but on balance satisfactory. At the
beginning implementation fell behind schedule, and GOE made adjustments in the project components to
make them more consistent with a demand driven approach to investment. As soon as a new administration
took office in 1996, the Project was faced with problems that lasted for about two years, by which time
three Presidents had been in office and the economic and political crisis had deepened. During this period,
the commitment towards the achievement of the Project objectives was slowly eroded. As a result of
institutional instability, the Project suffered from weak management resulting in the suspension of
activities that translated into an unsatisfactory rating in the Project Status Report. However, by 1998, the
Project began to obtain strong political support as the IS transfer process gained momentum and the impact
of the Project was being realized. Since 2000, the GOE through MAG, provided more support than
expected for the transfer process, though its leadership on obtaining Congressional approval of a new
Water Law has been disappointing.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 On balance the UEP performance is considered satisfactory. The Project Unit successfully adjusted
its operations to the new focus of the components once an agreement was reached between the Government
and the Bank on the need to change the focus of the Project. The Unit was key to working out the details of
the agreement which was later endorsed by the Bank. The Unit also handled satisfactorily the coordination
of the different international consultants firms involved in the transfer and strengthening of WUAs. Once a
professional management was restored, MAG closely monitored and successfully coordinated the
implementation of the Project. The Unit, specially recently, has been strong partner with the Bank in the
implementation of the Project.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is considered as satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    It is difficult for a subsectoral project to successfully implement larger sectoral reform. The focus
of this project was to provide a TA for the Irrigation subsector. However, the project was also involved in
restructuring, organizing and strengthening institutions; formulating policy; and proposing and drafting
laws for the overall water sector. Such a program and objective of higher order is difficult to implement by
a TA project at a lower level. The successful implementation of such sectoral reforms requires a sectoral
project initiative.
8.2    Transfer (privatization) of public irrigation systems to user groups (WUAs) can create an energy
and empowerment that can greatly improve economic efficiency, private incomes and investment. The
transfer process will not be successful and sustainable unless the members of the WUAs can increase their
incomes and savings in short order. The provision of TA, as part of the transfer process, is the critical
ingredient and a catalyst for motivating farmers. The success of this project can be attributed, among other
things, to the TA in agricultural and engineering aspects of better farm management, combined with minor
rehabilitation works. These interventions can dramatically raise the value added of small farm production
units. WUAs are then in a position to mobilize a part of this value added to finance O&M and new
investment.
8.3    A key element in making the transfer process effective is having WUA's adopt truly democratic
management practices that create the full participation of all members. Since WUAs existing before this
Project were created for the specific purpose of tariff collection, the majority of the members did not
consider them as legitimate community organizations.  In fact, in some cases the leaders of these
- 14 -



associations were not actual water users. Due to this, participation was low and weak. Once the users
were able to democratically elect their representatives, they became actively involved in the project
activities and contributed significantly to its success.
8.4    The creation of an apex organization, which would represent the interest of WUAs helps in
ensuring sustainability of the IS process, since it strengthens the bargaining power of all WUAs. In
countries like Ecuador, where organized groups influence the decisions to be taken at national level, the
creation of such federation should help in representing the small irrigation farmers. The country's
experience with public irrigation transfer is redefining the relationship between the irrigation users and the
State.  The Ecuadorian experience confirms once more, the importance of the participation and
empowerment of WUAs in undertaking the administration and O&M to improve efficiency in the use of
irrigation infrastructure.
8.5   In order to become frilly successful, the re-organization of old institutions should have an
education component to train and persuade the surviving staff that they should support the
changes. This process should also have an incentive mechanism, such as higher salaries, to attract
staff that are capable and willing to upgrade their knowledge to the level required by the new task.
Public service rules should also be flexible enough in such circumstances to permit the new
organizations to release those who don't measure up.
- 15-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Nowma Pao Al
Oft    D870     MA
tARKUSU&T
PwS4M L    NSF A
BWanc.mwidi~
W6Eg1~Ol DC
US~A
Ld--Cbuxw di5 tumwjfiR BU)73a.- EC
xvvw~~k *5 do~w.t -Aixt do cwnpsiplamw de 1mp[cmuuia (1CR) pnuuiitmo
poral kSanim &NwdWa, d.bo mmaAl&W que *#a SocriuimI de naado da on apmbsvi6 Ai
dmowmoub edwn   ya qu. aqtp2t at dewuoM A La 4*WA Ew ad~. * C=vW~o do
Miax-moa T6bAl qm .1  WUUi d  g    ThIpOm  l  M%&   1 m
do deow per jpnu 4k1 p~wmutrj qi,mn OM wKU oa~wi. cm to aqu4io4 Or id AU
Mamdii (Q* N4o, OS*7.*  ~2.3 46 ftmb oO,"I
M%Uhwwm is s4ouchd6n cm qwt*d pzasw ~am  u4dAL"Mo o,m 0 p0 m40oo0o p
4.ma.L4 y .1 at m",, 0*Ia~w O,a4W6 fA- Wxbmiadk y inpoM &W 4adid do j~ta la
#)vc%xAu6*5 Vw0jv** pr pt.v 6* 9Fy PM*.Su  m*d umla
SIn o~uittwIm,, agpr'vacho laiopwuAmmmvdmju m auSI  nd *m siIn i*5dv&
DZQ$, PAMRI Y -I8BRThA.I
MDUNtTRO VS AGUICULTURA V GANADIRIJ
Or, 
fl.> * hfuwin 4cDUuld
-  ~~~~          - MdeRa43              - E
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
-16 -



10. Additional Information
Footnotes
1. The World Bank. 1994. Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development to the Executive Directors. Report No. P-6229-EC.
2. Government of Ecuador. 1996. Water Resource Management: Strategy and Policy.
3. It has been estimated (Whitaker, 1990) that because of the low tariffs, the public sector projects are being highly
subsidized to the extent that farmers are only paying some 4 percent of total costs for irrigation water. Meanwhile,
the farmers have benefited significantly from increased land values because of irrigation. A survey in 1989 of 25
properties across the country showed that, on average, irrigated land was some Sucres 500000/ha more valuable
than non-irrigated. Source: Saaltink, H. And H. Fredericksen. 1996. National Water Strategy Paper. Annex V.
Irirgation.
4. "Calculations by the Centro de Rehabilitation de Manabi (CRM) indicates that cost recovery is very low and
that over a 20 year period, only the equivalent of US$ 0.27/ha was recovered. It was proposed to adjust it to US$
40/ha that would still only cover 50 percent of the O&M costs. The basic tariff, however, would still be totally
subsidized." National Water Strategy Paper. Annex V. P.15-16.
5. Privatization is understood to mean the transfer of control and management of small public irrigation systems to
the private sector as represented by WUAs.
6. These studies were expected to cover: (i) water resource management; (ii) water rights and concessions; (iii)
water charges and cost recovery mechanisms for operation, maintenance and investments; and (iv) participation of
the private sector in the identification, construction, and O&M of irrigation system.
7. See the Aide Memoire for June 1995.
8. A preliminary review of projects for inclusion in the fast track transfer program was carried out and it was
found that the feasibility studies were unreliable. Construction costs were much in excess of what had been
estimated in the studies and actual irrigated areas were less than what had been proposed and benefits were less
than estimations. From the analysis of 56 operating projects, it was found out that the average actual irrigated area
was only around 70 percent of design estimate.
9. The World Bank. 1993. Water Resource Management Policy Paper.
10. It has been estimated that out of 56 public sector projects in operation at that time comprising a total design
area of 119,700 ha only 82,747 ha (69 %) were being irrigated. Saaltink, H. And H. Fredericksen. 1996. Ibid.
11. See footnote 3. The non-transferred IS are still subsidized, albeit at much lower level.
12. For example, for the administration and O&M of the Milagros IS alone, INERHI had dedicated 130 employees.
Today the WUAs have assumed those responsibilities and the system is working much better, covering 11,000 ha
instead of 8,000 with only II people.
13. The Board of CNRH includes the Ministers of Agriculture (President), Finance, Environment, Energy, Urban
Development, the planning office ODEPLAN; and has an Executive Secretariat in Quito with about 60 employees.
CNRH has also 11 regional agencies with about 7-8 employees in each one, totaling 140 people.
14. The three ICF selected through an International Competitive Bidding process were: The Utah State
University-Caminos y Canales;;DAI Development Alternatives, Inc-PROEXANT, and ARD-LOTTI-Integral in
charge of the following three regions: (i) northern and central Sierra; (ii) the southern Sierra; and (iii) the coastal
region, respectively.
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact indicators
Indicator/Matrix        Proposed at appraisal  Projected in 1995  Actual/Latest
__ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ __ _ _ ___  restructure  Estim ate
S4ew policy                    New policy applied      IMT policy      IMT policy
designed/implemented                                    applied          applied
Rationalize public           Reduce US$9.4 million                    CNRH budget
expenditures                   budget for INERHI                     reduced to $0.3
million
annually.
Modernize sector institutions  Elimination of INERHI  9 RDCs trained     INERHI
and Reduced CNRH       for IMT process   dissolved &
RDCs trained
Transfer IS to WUAs (# IS)             7                   19              35
Value production in         Was not estimated at appraisal or restructuring  Increased from
transferred IS                                                         $78 to $100
million
Average family income in IS  Was not estimated at appraisal or restructuring  Increased from
$850 to
$1 200/year
Employment in transferred IS  Was not estimated at appraisal or restructuring  Increased by 2
million
workdays
Benefited families in               17,600                               45,000
transferred IS
Area under transferred              15,500               45,000          88,000
systems
Average water fees in                 100% of optimal O&M            Average US$25,
transferred IS                                                         over 100% of
_________________________                      .1997                     level
% of O&M costs covered by            100%                100%             100%
users                                              I
O&M Average community         Before IMT the labor work for O&M was    18,225 (88%
work                          14,700 workdays of which users provided   increase)
O&M Average public labor    65%. Work was increased to2O.000 for which  1,840 (64%
WUAs contributed 90%              reduction)
Increment of irrigated area in  Was not estimated at appraisal or restructuring  17%
transferred IS
-18-



nput/Output Indicators:              _________
Indicator/Matrix          Proposed at        Projected in last PSRI    Actual/Latest
appraisal                                     Estimate
Training events for WUAs          2,093                                      1,714 (82%)
Users trained                     48,729                                     12,895 (26%)
Rehabilitated infrastructure       100%                   100%                   85%
Investments in rehabilitation   $2,486,400                                    $2,453,000
(99%)
Inv. in Agricultural Developm.   $626,000                                   $602,600 (96%)
Events ag Developm.                1,906                   .                  1,453 (76%)
Gral WUAs trained                   7                      35                     35
Local WUAs trained           ___                                 _246
O&M costs covered by WUAs     In 1977, 32% of O&M costs in the coastal IS was
(%)                           covered by users, today 75% is covered by WUAs     75%
(the other 25% correspond to IS still not transferred)
INERHI Budget                 US$9.4 million
CNRH budget                                                               _   US$322,000
New RDCs budget                                                              US$2.1 million
1. End of project.
-19-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ milli n equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component     US$ million*  US$ million
Public Institutional Strengthening &  10.07         11.63           115
Reform
Public Irrigation Investment Plan      3.75          2.60           69
Private Sector Development             9.66          8.40            87
Project Execution Unit (UEP)           2.02          2.06           102
Total Project Costs             25.5          24.69           97
Total Financing Required             20.0          20.00          100
* Includes physical and price contingencies (see MOP, p. 29.)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US-$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methodl
Expenditure      ICB        NCB        Other2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
Category
1. Works            0.00       0.00         4.2         0.00          4.2
(0.00)     (0.00)       (3.1)      (0.00)         (3.1)
2. Goods            0.00        0.00        1.8         0.00          1.8
(0.00)     (()                    (1.5)
3. Services         0.00        0.00        13.6        0.00          13.6
(0.00)     (0.00)       (12.7)      (0.00)       (12.7)
4. Miscellaneous    0.00        0.00        1.1         0.00          1.1
(0.00)     (0.00)       (1.1)       (0.00)        (1.1)
5. Miscellaneous    0.00       0.00         2.1         0.00          2.1
(0.00)     (0.00)       (1.6)      (0.00)         (1.6)
6. Miscellaneous    0.00        0.00        0.00        2.7           2.7
(0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
Total             0.00       0.00        22.8         2.7          25.5
(0.00)     (0.00)       (20.0)      (0.00)       (20.0)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method I
Expenditure      ICB         NCB         Other2      N.B.F.       Total Cost
Category
1. Works             0.00        1.90        3.10        0.00           5.00
(0.00)     (0.00)       (3.10)       (0.00)        (3.10)
2. Goods             0.70        0.10        0.70         0.00          1.50
(0.70)     (0.00)       (0.70)       (0.00)        (1.40)
3. Services          9.80        0.10        3.20         0.00         13.10
_   (9.70)      (0.00)       (3.20)      (0.00)        (12.9)
4. Miscellaneous     0.00        2.40        1.30         0.00          1.40
(0.00)     (0.00)       (1.30)       (0.00)        (1.30)
6. Miscellaneous     0.00        0.00        0.00         2.7           0.00
(0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total             10.50       4.60         9.60         2.7          24.70
._____________      9    :(10.40)  (0.00)    (9.60)      (0.00)       (20.00)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and
(ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component       Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate
Ban  Govt. CoF.    Bank     Govt.   CoF   Bank   Govt. CoF.
k
Public Institutional                    8.49     3.14
Strengthening &
Reform                                                                       _
Public Irrigation                       2.00     0.60
Investment Plan
Private Sector                          7.70     0.70
Development
Project Execution Unit                  1.81     0.25
(UEP)
20.0 5.5           20.00     4.69        100.00  85.27 1
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows (US$ millions)
Economic Analysis           Financial Analysis
Benefits:                   $94.9                       N.A.
Costs:                      $66.5                       N.A.
Net Benefits:               $28.4                       N.A.
IRR:                        32.1                        N.A.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Introduction. The following is a summary of the project economic, financial and fiscal analysis. A more
detailed dE6cription, including the agronomic data and parameters used, financial and economic prices, and
tables for each activity and farm model, are available in the project files. The analysis covered the 35
transferred systems grouped in 18 separate Irrigation Systems (IS) or combinations of IS within a region.
They are: San Vicente de Pusir, Salinas, El Pisque, Other CORSINOR IS; Ambato-Huachi-Pelileo,
Pachanlica, Cebadas, Santa Isabel, Checa, Other CREA IS, Macara, La Hera, Other PREDESUR IS,
Manuel de J. Calle, Babahoyo, Other CEDEGE IS, Ducos-Rajaro and Rocafuerte. Project economic and
financial ERR and NPV are estimated through the aggregation of the results for the 35 IS and compared
with the total project costs. Benefits expected from other systems to be transferred in the next months by
CEDEGE and CREA could also be considered as impact of this Project. However, they are not included in
the present ex-post estimation. Total project costs were considered even though all the benefits of project
will have their full impact in the long-run.
Financial Analysis. The financial estimate results for the most relevant activities of household production
units representing the 35 transferred systems, is summarized in Table 1. On average, considering the
43,000 water users benefited from the transfer of IS, annual net on-farm income grew by more than 40%
from about US$850 to US$1,200. Models represent household units ranging from indigenous potatoes
and/or maize farmers in very small highland production systems to tropical producers of sugar cane and/or
rice at the coast. The models illustrate the effect of the project in inducing rational water use patterns and
higher efficient production systems resulting in improving the overall family economy. Changes are based
on conservative estimations of what has been observed by the mission during visits to 20 systems where
meetings with WUAs were carried. Labor requirements, family availability and returns per family-day of
labor were also considered. The analysis confirms the project financial impact: (i) the improvement of
smallholders' income; (ii) the generalized positive results in all regions and agro-ecological zones; and (iii)
the marginal return to labor being higher than the opportunity cost of labor wage rate for the areas. These
results confirm the high degree of acceptance observed by the ICR mission in all the visited IS.
Investments considered, in six of the 31 models, included the introduction of greenhouse infrastructure and
cultivation in 140 sq meters modules of high value crops (tomatoes, pepper, etc.) as well as improvements
in traditional crops and activities (small-scale family orchards: fruits and vegetables, double purpose cattle
breeding, poultry & pigs). In other models, improvements in permanent crops like cocoa are also
considered. Farmers' actual income increments, as a result of project financing of off and on-farm
investments, ranged from about 24% to more than 1000%. The higher increases correspond to the smaller
models with very low "without project" income but introduced greenhouse high value crop. The value of
production in most systems in the highlands was too low to support water fees for normal maintenance.
- 22 -



Table 1: Financial Evaluation: Sample of Illustrative Farm Models
Family Household On-farm
Income
Type of Model                      Farm      With    With      Incre  N.P.V.
Size (ha)  out    project   ase in (US$)
project  (US$)    %
(US$)
Central & Northern Highlands
San Vicente (grains, veg. & small an.)  2,3  753     948       26     856
San Vicente with greenhouse (same)  2,3      702     2,772     307    11,258
Salinas (sugarcane, grains & livestock)  5,0  2,355  3,126     33     4,025
Salinas (sugarcane, grains & livestock)  20,0  4,539  6,537    44     10,307
El Pisque (grains, veg., small animals)  1,5  318    477       50     810
El Pisque with greenhouse (same)   1,5       249      2,502     1000  12,734
Other CORSINOR systems             1,6       416      592      42     895
Ambato-Huachi (self-consumption)   0,3       115      168      46     289
Ambato-Huachi (potatoes, alfalfa, etc.)  2,4  1,063   1,482    39     2,330
Ambato-Huachi with greenhouse (same) 2,4     1063     5,074    477    11,721
Pachanlica (potatoe, alfalfa, selfcons.)  3,7  1,706  2,321     36    3,347
Pachanlica with greenhouse (same)  3,7       1,710    5,420    317    20,562
Other CORSICEN systems             2,5       1,063    1,482    40     2,330
Cebadas with greenhouse (same)     0,9       512     2,809     548    12,943
Cebadas (potatoes, cattle)         2,1       962      1,325    38     1,817
Southern Highlands
Santa Isabel (grains, veg. for selfcons.)  0,5  329  467       42     698
Santa Isabel (grains, veg. for selfcons.)  1,0  507   718      42     1,071
Checa (cattle, grains, veg. for selfcons.)  0,5  463  638       38    881
Other CREA systems                 0,75      438      628      43     965
Macara (rice, cattle, fr.& veg)    5,0       1,062    1,985     87    5,195
La Hera (grains, cattle, fr.& veg)  0,6      568      761       34    975
La Hera with greenhouse (same)     0,6       568      2,834     499   12,712
Other PREDESUR Systems             1,2       1,135    1,522     34    1,950
Coastal Region
Manuel de J. Calle (banano & other)  3,6     1,371    1,827     33    2,308
Manuel de J. Calle (banano, sugar cane)  30,0  8,041  10,858    35    14,193
Babahoyo (rice, banano & selfcons.)  6,0     2,243    3,045     36    3,655
Babahoyo (rice, banano, grains, cattle)  20,0  4,109  6,286     53    8,665
Other CEDEGE Systems               6,0       2,243    3,045     36    4,233
Ducos Rajaro (banano & selfconsump.)  7,0    4,550    5,665     24    4,147
Ducos Rajaro (banano, soya, cacao, 4,5       6,456    8,517     32    7,752
milk)
Rocafuerte (banano & selfconsumption)  4,5   4,550    5,665     24    4,147
Many of these very low-income farms earn much of their income from other sources (migration, urban
employment) and were not committed to improve their systems. However, the agricultural development
sub-component introduced greenhouse cultivation technologies for high value crops obtaining remarkable
results. Most of these farms (about 800) recuperated their investment in the first year. It was
demonstrated that even farmers living under extreme poverty and subsistence conditions can benefit from
improved food security and better on-farm incomes as a result of a combination of improved irrigation
- 23 -



infrastructure, efficient O&M and adequate technical support, including low strategic productive
investment.
Economic Analysis. The estimated economic benefits of the project resulted from increased agricultural
production and farmers' income due to increase in the irrigated area (made possible due to better O&M),
better production practices and product diversification. Other important results adding to benefits from the
Project are not quantified. Some of the most relevant are: (i) positive effects on natural resources; (ii) food
security, nutrition and health as a result of increased and diversified production; (iii) side effects of
strengthening water users' and community organizations; (iv) promotion of revolving funds with high levels
of recuperation of the financial incentives for productive investments (greenhouses and modem on-farm
irrigation systems); and (v) investments in human capital (training).
Economic return calculations included the cost of all project components: (i) incremental on-farm
productive investment and recurrent costs for the adoption of new technologies on the prevailing production
systems; (ii) technical assistance to farmers; (iii) rehabilitation of the irrigation infrastructure; (iv) WUA
development costs; and (iv) institutional strengthening and project administration costs. The overall
evaluation was estimated by aggregating individual results, first at the IS level and later on by adding the
results for the 35 transferred IS. The internal economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated at about 32.1%
and the NPV US$28.4 million. Table 2 shows the area, beneficiaries, aggregated benefits, province in
which the IS are located and the poverty index in the specific community.
Details about the incremental production generated by the project, estimated according to the aggregation
of farm models, the total project costs (infrastructure and productive investments, technical support costs,
including public institutional strengthening & policy reform components), and the resulting economic
indicators (ERR, NPV) are summarized in Table 3.
Fiscal Analysis. Public budget for irrigation reduced considerably from about US$9.4 million per year (in
1995) to about US$2 million per year (in 2000), including the budget for CNRH (US$322,000) and about
US$1.5 million for the new 4 RDCs. The budget allocated to the subsector will continue to drop as all the
remaining IS are transferred.  WUAs of the transferred IS have assumed 100% responsibility for
administration and O&M costs. While proportions may vary from system to system, the water tariffs paid
by users cover on average 60 to 80 percent of the estimated optimal level which constitute a remarkable
success in the very short period in which the transfer was implemented. The speed at which these positive
results are gained is notable because transfer projects typically have a span of many years while this
process was initiated only 3 years ago.
- 24 -



Table 2. Economic Evaluation: Summary data of the Transferred IS
IS Incremental Value of Location    Poverty
Transferred  Irrigation IS  Family   Production ($000)                  index %
Systems              area   househo With     With     Perc
(Ha)  Ids      out     project  ent
project
San Vicente de Pusir IS  400  170    193     297      54   Carchi       78
Salinas IS           2,115   137     840     1,216    45   Imbabura      76
El Pisque IS          8,264  5,200   3,053   4,522    48    Guayllabam.  78
Other CORSINOR IS     8,765  5,175   3,271   4,624    41   Pichincha.    76
Ambato Huachi Pelileo  5,840  12,500  4,358  7,263    67   Tungurahua    75
Pachanlica IS         600    158     548     837      53   Tungurahua    75
Cebadas IS            700    646     511     2,066    404   Chimborazo   71
Santa Isabel IS      828     1,242   859     1,231    43   Azuay         75
Checa IS              1,200  3,000   1,521   2,212    45   Azuay         71
Other CREA IS         2,600  4,174   2,644   3,744    42    Az. & Cafnar  78
Macara IS             1,900  367     707     1,118    58    Loja         72
La Hera IS            174    261     199     376      89    Loja         83
Other PREDESUR IS     1,912  1,538   2,282   3,285    44    Loja         87
Manuel de J. Calle IS  14,27  362    7,810   10,284   32    Guayas       75
6
Babahoyo IS           4,000  600     5,247   7,175    37    Los Rios     67
Other CEDEGE IS      20,84   3,772   21,651  30,284   40    G & Bolivar  74
4.
Ducos-Rajaro IS       5,000  520     7,465   9,677    29    El Oro       42
Rocafuerte IS         8,300  1,200   15,485  19,978   29    Manabi       80
Main Assumptions:
Description of the Approach. The estimations for the financial and economic analysis were based on the
mission's visits, interviews and field observations in 20 out of the 35 transferred IS. The method adapted
was to consider a scenario approach, analyzing a selection of activity budgets for prototype farm systems
typical of irrigated family households in a sample of 14 IS and including the other 21 IS into 4 groups
corresponding to different RDC. Thirty crop models and thirty one farm models have been identified to
cover the universe of beneficiaries and comparison with and without project situations was made in order to
measure the marginal changes induced by the project. Budget analysis took into account minor on-farm
investments, production parameters, recurrent costs and labor requirements. The use of on-farm income
improvements (before family labor costs) and its NPV have been preferred as indicators of financial
results, since family labor opportunity cost is almost null and most of the models basically dealt with
inexpensive technology improvements.
The main assumptions for the financial analysis were: (i) discount rate: 12%; (ii) time horizon: 20 years;
(iii) labor, input and output prices: constant second quarter 2001; (iv) 80% of investment costs in
greenhouses included in farm models, were financed by the project. For the purpose of the financial
analysis and its effect on the cash flow, two constant payments including a 5% annual interest rate were
considered, beginning in the following year of the investment period. Financial prices are average monthly
farm gate prices for a normal year in order to account for seasonal fluctuations.
- 25 -



The adjustments made for the economic analysis mainly reflected the removal of taxes and subsidies from
project costs and pricing. The policy reforms and the opening of the economy that have been taking place
in the last years, together with the adoption of the US dollar as the local currency, leads to the conclusion
that domestic prices in general tend to correspond to border economic values. In general, it is considered
that there are few distortions on agricultural input and output prices, as they bear limited taxation and
subsidies. Project costs have been adjusted by a standard conversion factor of 0,9 while a conversion
factor of 0.60 to reflect the opportunity cost of unskilled labor was used for the economic analysis. Even
though the project would increase on- and off-farm employment in the selected marginal areas,
unemployment and under-employment would not be altered.
- 26-



Table 3 Project Summary Aggregated Economic Budget (In US$ '000)
Without Project     Increments
1           5to20 1         2        3     4       5     6       7       15-20
Main Production
Yellow maize                      1,542       1,542   -       -        -     6       34    108     246     1,031
Rice                              6,666       6,666   -       -        210   777     1,365 1,808   2,084   2,597
Maize                             1,530       1,530   -       -        9     57      173   349     536     1,036
Beans                             1,271       1,271   -       -        -     6       34    104     226     754
Barley                            36          36      -       -        -     0       1     3       6       9
Soybeans                          5,615       5,615   -       -        36    217     629   1,202   1,759   2,808
Milk                              6,005       6,005   -       -        23    143     452   963     1,575   3,291
Meat                              1,660       2,122   -       -147    -384   -770   -910   -1,178  -1,044  19
Pork                              3,345       3,345   -       -        2     18      72    185     390     1,673
Potatoes                          1,729       1,729   -       -        -     1       7     24      62      379
Onions                            3,631       3,631   -       -        -     7       37    119     207     820
Tomatoes                          1,991       1,991                          -       -19   -17     61      808
Tomatoe (greenhouse)              -           -       -       -        -     150     651   1,490   2,390   3,015
Fruits                            512         512     -        -       -     -       2     8       26       187
Apple/Peaches                     1,012       1,012   -       -        -     -       -     35      151     506
Banano                            34,304      34,304  -       -        30    277     1,060 2,467   4,151   9,148
Cocoa                             862         862     -       -        9     53      149   266     372     678
Vegetables                        721         721             -        -     1       3     9       30      366
Sugar cane                        3,516       3,516   -       -        -     -       -     27      150      1,278
Raw sugar                         1,292       1,292   -       -        -     4       21    64      266     690
Alfalfa                           1,149       1,149   -       -        -     -       3     35      119     246
Sub-total Main Production         78,390       78,852  -       -147    -66   947      3,763 8,072   13,761  31,338
Production Cost
Investment
Inputs                        -            -       -       -       96    225      312   264     68      -
Services                      -            -       -       -        16   37       51    43      11
Other Inputs                  -           -        -       -       6      14      20    17      4
Sub-Total Purchased Inputs      -           -       -        -       123   287     398   337      87
Family Labor                  -           -        -       11      51    76       149   164     171
Sub-total Investment Costs        -           -       -        11      174   363     547   501     258
Operating
Seeds and other               4,166       4,163    -       -0      34     142     299  488      694     1,356
Inputs                        233          233     -       -       -      15      66    155     261     346
Fertilizers                   21,500       21,500  -       -       128   662      1,761 3,431   5,416   11,607
Agrochemicals                 17,062       17,062  -       -       59    304      803   1,580   2,479   5,235
Services                      6,144        6,144   -       -       35     140     284   452     625     1,095
OtherInputs                   3,125        3,125   -       -        10   65       209   453     765     1,870
Sub-Total Purchased Inputs      38,969      38,966  -        -0      173   863     2,217 4,264    6,674   14,092
Family Labor                  4,995        12,714  -       -       12     109     410   879     1,461   3,261
Sub-total Operating Costs         43,964      51,680  -        -0      185   972     2,627 5,143   8,135    17,353
Sub-Total Production Cost         43,964       51,680  -       11      359    1,334   3,174 5,643   8,393   17,353
Project Total Costs
Agricultural Development Costs    -           -       56       56      85    85      141   141     -        -
Institutional Strengthening       -           -       47       47      71    71      118   118
Infrastructure Rehabilitation     -           -       224      224     516   516     379   379
Regional Corporation Costs        -           -       28       28      110   110     414   414
UEPCosts                          -           -       696      1,354   2,616 2,331   1,628 2,916    1,688   -
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/ear     Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
01/90                       5   Irrigation Engineer, Ag.
Economist, Consultant,
Agriculturalist,
Env. Specialist
10/90                       3   Economist, Irrigation Engineer
FAO/CP, Agriculturalist
FAO/CP
3/91                        2   Irrigation Engineer,
Agriculturalist
01/93                       3    Ag. economist, Agriculturalist,
Irrigation Engineer
04/93                       3   Agriculturalist, Ag. Economist
(FAO), Institutions specialist
06/93                       4    Agriculturalist, Irrig. Engineer
(Consultant), Consultants(2),
7/93                        2    Agriculturalist, Ag. Economist
(FAO)
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/93                       5   Agriculturalist, Sr. Irrigation
Engineer, Economist, Sr.
Agricultural Economist,
Consultant
Supervisdon
12/94                       3   Irrigation Engineer,               S            S
Agriculturalist, Irrigation
Engineer
6/95                         3   Institutional Development Spe.,   S            S
Sr. Irrigation Engineer,
Water Resource Specialist
9/95                         1   Sr. Irrigation Engineer           S             S
01/96                        1   Consultant                        S             S
5/96                        2    Sr. Water Resource Engineer,      S             S
Environmental Specialist
9/96                             Sr. Irrigation Engineer,          U             S
Sr. Water Resource Engineer
6/97                         1   Irrigation Engineer               U            U
10/97                       2   Irrigation Engineer, Agricultural  S            S
Economist
6/98                        2    Irrigation Engineer, Agricultural  S            S
Economist
10/98                       3   Irrigation Engineer, Agricultural  S             S
- 28 -



Economist, Irrigation Engineer
5/99                        3   Agricultural Economist,          S            S
Agricultural Economnist,
Operations Analyst
10/99                       4   Sr. Agricultural Economist,      S            S
Irrigation Engineer, Agricultural
Economist, Team Assistant
5/2000                      4   Sr. Agricultural Economist,      S            S
Irnigation Engineer, Agricultural
Economist, Consultant
08/2000                     2   Sr. Agricultural Economist       S            S
Operations Analyst
02/2001                     3   Sr. Agricultural Economist,      S            S
Irrigation Engineer, Operations
Analyst
06/2001                     3   Sr. Agricultural Economist,      S            S
Irrigation Engineer, Operations
Analyst
ICR
08/2001                    2    Operations Analyst,              S            S
Agricultural Economist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             93.1                      202.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                  11.6                       39.8
Supervision                           140.7                      435.6
ICR                                   20.0*                       31.9
Total                                 265.4                      709.7
* Estimate based on work program agreement.
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                     O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
Fl Physical                            OH    *SUOM     ON    ONA
O Financial                            * H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
O Institutional Development            O H   O SU * M  O N   0 NA
El Environmental                       O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction             OH   OSUOM      ON    O NA
Ol Gender                        O H  OSU*M      O N   O NA
El Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
El Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management            0 H   O SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM     ON    * NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
I Lending                                           OHS OS       Ou     O HU
El Supervision                                      OHS Os       Ou     O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
LI Preparation                                      OHS OS       O u    O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS 0 S     0 U    0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U    O HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Anguita, Pablo. 1995. Manual de Operaciones de la UEP.
Campuzano, John. 2001. Linea Base Preliminar Agricola 37 Sistemas de Riego a Transferirse.
Government of Ecuador. 1996. Water Resource Management: Strategy and Policy.
Mauricio, Realpe. 2001. Manual de Riego Parcelario.
Perez, Efrain. 1998. estudio de la ley de aguas.
Portugal, Alvaro. de. 1995. Planificacion y Monitoreo de la UEP.
Saaltink, H. And H. Fredericksen, Fundacion Amazonas. 1996. A Strategy for Management of the Water.
------.: Water Resources Information System.
------. Fundacion Amazonas. 1996. Appendix V: Irirgation.
---. Fundaci6n Amazonas. 1996. Appendix VIII: Rural Poverty and Water Resource.
Several Aide Memoire and Project Status Reports.
Several evalulation reports from Comision para el desarrollo de la Cuenca del rio Guayas (CEDEGE);
Centro para el desarrollo y transformaci6n de las provincias de Azuay, Cafiar y Morona Santiago (CREA);
Corporaci6n para la rehabilitaci6n de Manabi (CRM) y Programa Regional para el Desarrollo del Sur del
Ecuador (PREDESUR).
The World Bank. 1993. Water Resource Management Policy Paper.
-----. 1994. Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors. Report No. P-6229-EC.
UEP. 1995. Normas Gestion Administrativa, Contraction de Obras, Adquisici6n de Bienes y Servicios
Consult.
-.1996. Analisis y Disefio Juridico/ Instit. Manejo / Usos de Agua en el Ecuador.
-----. 2001. Linea Base Preliminar y Determinaci6n de Metas Agricolas Riego Comunitario.
UEP-PAT. 2001. Efectos e impactos de la transferencia de los sistemas de riego estatales a las Juntas
Generales de Regantes.
Varela, Carlos. 2001. Estudio Sistematico Sobre Experiencias en Los Sistemas de Riego.
- 32 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR
INFORME DE CIERRE
MINISTERIO DE AGRICULTURA Y GANADERIA
UNIDAD EJECUTORA DEL PROYECTO DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA AL SUBSECTOR RIEGO (UEP-PAT)
(Prestamo 3730 BIRF-EC)
L INTRODUCCION
El Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia (MAG) y la Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto (UEP) elaboraron el presente
Informe de Cierre del Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica al Subsector de Riego (PAT), fmanciado por el prestamo
3730 BIRF-EC, en cumplimiento de los compromisos asumidos ante el Banco Mundial.
El Informe de Cierre recoge la evaluaci6n del proyecto desde la fecha de efectividad, Enero/95, hasta la fecha de
cierre, Junio/0I y la informaci6n adicional requerida en las pautas del BM para la preparaci6n de los Informes de
Cierre (ICR-Implementation Completion Reports).
Este proyecto fue co-financiado por el Gobiemo del Ecuador (US $ 5,5 millones), y el Banco Mundial (US $ 20
millones) e implementado por el Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia (MAG) a traves de la Unidad Ejecutora del
Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica al Subsector Riego (UEP-PAT), el Consejo Nacional de Recursos Hidricos (CNRH)
y las Corporaciones Regionales de Desarrollo (CRD's) .
Desde el punto de vista del prestatario, tanto la preparaci6n como la concepci6n  inicial del proyecto fueron
acertadas y correspondieron a la realidad del pais. Fue correcta la previsi6n de asistencia tecnica y entrenamiento
para que el MAG, INERHI (CNRH) y las CRD's asumieran sus funciones. La linea base fue debil.
El Decreto Ejecutivo 2224 y su reforma, que nace de la Ley de Modernizaci6n del Estado, Privatizaciones y
Prestaci6n de Servicios por parte de la Iniciativa Privada, cre6 el Consejo Nacional de Recursos Hidricos -CNRH-,
en el marco de la " Organizaci6n del Regimen Institucional de Aguas", concediendole las funciones que la Ley de
Aguas, la Ley de Creaci6n del INERHI y la Ley de Desarrollo Agrario asignan a este Instituto y , ademas, entre
otras, la de regular la administraci6n de los sistemas de riego v normar la transferencia de esos sistemas a los
usuarios. Determin6, ademas, el rol de la Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica para el Subsector de
Riego (UEP-PAT) como es la de coordinar la transferencia de los sistemas de riego en manos del estado a los
usuarios.
Con estos antecedentes el Gobiemo del Ecuador, firm6 el Contrato de Prestamo con el Banco Mundial (BIRF
3730-EC) para el "Proyecto de Asistencia Tecnica al subsector Riego".
II.     EVALUACION DEL DESARROLLO DEL OBJETIVO, DISENO Y CALIDAD AL INICIO
2.1     Obietivos OriLinales. Los objetivos originales del proyecto fueron: (a) mejorar el diseiio y la
implementaci6n de politicas, racionalizar las operaciones y gastos de las instituciones; (b) promover la
participaci6n sostenible del sector privado como un medio de mejorar la utilizaci6n y eficiencia de los sistemas de
riego; (c) desarrollar la estructura reguladora y administrativa que asegure la efectividad de las futuras inversiones
en los sistemas de riego.
2.2     Los objetivos del proyecto fueron acertadamente establecidos, la mayor parte se cumpli6 y en algunos
casos se super6 la meta inicial, como fue el caso del nfumero de sistemas de riego transferidos a los usuarios. Al
decidir elaborar la Estrategia Nacional para el Uso y Preservaci6n del Agua, los objetivos correspondientes al
fortalecimiento del MAG, CONADE, ODEPLAN, fueron suprimidos, pero los correspondientes al CNRH, a las
CRDs fueron cumplidos satisfactoriamente.
2.3     Obietivos Revisados. En Junio de 1995, con base en los acontecimientos y cambios producidos en el
- 33 -



pais, los cuales han afectado la realidad del subsector riego y de acuerdo a las nuevas directrices operacionales del
Banco Mundial(BM), se consider6 necesario que el pais cuente con una Estrateiia Nacional para el Uso y
Preservaci6n del A ua, como condici6n previa para procesar cualquier operaci6n futura relacionada con el
desarrollo de sus recursos, con apoyo fmanciero del Banco, por lo tanto se acord6 con la Misi6n Evaluadora del
BM,' ajustar algunos elementos de los componentes del proyecto para conseguir mayor efectividad en el
cumplimiento de los objetivos, sin modificar substancialmente su naturaleza y prop6sitos, dadas las nuevas
politicas del BM, la liquidacion del Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidricos, (INERHI) y la carencia de recursos
de las Corporaciones Regionales de Desarrollo (CRDs), para atender la operaci6n y mantenimiento (O&M), de los
sistemas transferidos.
2.4 El prop6sito fundamental del proyecto fue el ayudar al Gobierno del Ecuador (GOE) a iniciar el proceso de
modernizaci6n del subsector riego, mediante el establecimiento de una estructura administrativa adecuada, con una
nueva visi6n y el reordenamiento del sector agropecuario. Tambien se contemplaba la liquidaci6n de algunas
instituciones, la reorganizaci6n de otras y finahnente la creaci6n de nuevas instituciones con roles mas defmidos y
con mnisiones mas precisas. Igualmente se concebia un plan de desarrollo agricola que dinamizara la economia y la
producci6n dentro de los sistemas de riego.
2.5 El subsector del riego, se caracterizaba por un ineficiente uso de los recursos naturales y puiblicos, baja
productividad, ausencia de prioridades y falta de participaci6n de los beneficiarios, ademas, mientras el sector
privado atendia 400.000 has., el sector publico, se estimaba, solo llegaba a 200.000has. El INERHI, fundado en
1966, tenia la responsabilidad de estudiar, construir y manejar el riego piiblico en el Ecuador, sin embargo su labor
fue ineficiente debido a su inadecuada organizacion, donde primaba la ingenieria y habia ausencia de planes de
desarrollo agricola y de producci6n. Mas tarde, hubo cuatro CRDs,3 y algunas instituciones provinciales y
municipales manejando sistemas de riego. El subsector se caracterizaba por: (i) debiles instituciones con baja
capacidad de gesti6n; (ii) ineficiente organizaci6n institucional; (iii) falta de una estrategia de desarrollo y de
politicas para inversi6n a nivel nacional; (iv) uso ineficiente de los recursos hidricos; (v) ausencia de una estructura
complementaria que ofreciera asistencia tecnica, extensi6n agricola; (vi) ninguna participaci6n del sector privado;
y (vii) riego puiblico altamente subsidiado.
2.6 La organizaci6n mas importante a nivel de la comunidad y el primer objetivo del proyecto eran las
Organizaciones de Usuarios del Agua (OUA), quienes serian los responsables de la Adrninistraci6n, Operaci6n y
Mantenimniento (A,O&M) de los sistemas de riego (SR) una vez iniciado el proceso de Transferencia de los
Sistemas de Riego (TSR) por el PAT.
Es decir, el desarrollo de nuevos sistemas en otras zonas del pais y una inversi6n racionalizada en apoyo a las
nuevas estructuras sociales de riego generadas a partir de este proceso de transferencia.
2.7    Componentes Originales
A) Reorganizaci6tn yfortalecimiento institucional:
a) organizaci6n del Consejo Nacional de Recursos Hidricos (CNRH)
b) apoyo al proceso de descentralizaci6n, fortaleciendo las CRDs y adoptando una nueva estructura organizativa
para el INERHI
c) preparaci6n de la estructura administrativa requerida para la operaci6n de la estructura descentralizada
mencionada en (b), que contenga procedimientos y mecanismos para implementar nuevas estrategias y politicas
con relaci6n a:
i. manejo de los recursos hidricos
ii. derechos de agua y concesiones
iii. tarifas de agua y mecanismos para la recuperaci6n de inversiones en rehabilitaci6n, operaci6n y mantenimiento
de los esquemas de riego, incluidos los Proyectos Pilotos
iv. participaci6n del sector privado en la identificaci6n, disefio, construcci6n, operaci6n y mantenimiento de los
esquemas de riego.
- 34 -



B) Programa de desarrollo del sector privado
Desarrollo de adecuados y sostenibles mecanismos para las CRDs para promover, financiado por los usuarios, el
diseino, construcci6n, rehabilitaci6n, terminaci6n, operaci6n y mantenimiento de los esquemas de riego y procurar
la transferencia de estas responsabilidades a los usuarios privados, mediante:
a) la ejecuci6n de Proyectos Pilotos
b) el fortalecimiento de la capacidad administrativa y productiva de las organizaciones de usuarios del agua
interesadas en realizar los Proyectos Pilotos
c) la ejecuci6n de un programa de entrenamiento y comunicaciones para el beneficio de los usuarios del agua; y
d) la revisi6n del estado actual de los esquemas de riego desarrollados por el sector privado
C) Plan de inversiones piblicas en riego
Preparaci6n de un plan de trmnino medio para la rehabilitaci6n o conclusi6n de esquemas de riego en el territorio
del prestatario, bajo la estructura reguladora y administrativa y mecanismos desarrollados en las partes A y B del
proyecto, mediante:
un detallado inventario nacional de los esquemas de riego existentes que requieran rehabilitaci6n o conclusi6n
desarrollo y aplicaci6n de criterios comprensivos para la selecci6n de los esquemas de riego a ser incluidos en el
plan de termino medio relacionado aqui; y
* preparaci6n de estudios de factibilidad de los esquemas de irrigaci6n referidos en (b)
2.8 Componentes Revisados. En conjunto, representantes del GOE y Banco Mundial, ajustaron algunos
elementos incorporados en los diferentes componentes del proyecto con la intenci6n de conseguir mayor efectividad
en el cumplimiento de los objetivos, sin modificar substancialmente su naturaleza y sus prop6sitos.
A) Componente de Fortalecimiento y Reforma Institucional del Sector Publico
concluir la organizaci6n del CNRH, dotindolo de los recursos humanos y financieros requeridos
apoyo al proceso de descentralizaci6n, fortaleciendo las CRDs para lo cual el proyecto fmanciara un grupo
reducido de especialistas internacionales por dos anos
concluir la liquidaci6n del INERHI, traspasando el personal, los activos y pasivos a las CRDs y CNRH
dentro del Programa Sectorial Agropecuario apoyado por el BID, se preparari un nuevo marco regulador
para el sector de Recursos Hidricos para la operaci6n de la nueva estructura
preparaci6n de la Estrategia Nacional para el Uso y Manejo de los Recursos Hidricos del Pais, por el
CNRH y la UEP.
Al decidir elaborar la Estrategia Nacional para el Uso y Preservaci6n del Agua, los objetivos correspondientes al
fortalecimiento del MAG, CONADE, ODEPLAN, fueron suprimidos, pero los correspondientes al CNRH, a las
CRD's fueron cumplidos satisfactoriamnente.
B) Programa de desarrollo del sector privado
Con base en los progresos alcanzados por este componente y en el inventario de Proyectos de Riego, se inici6 la
selecci6n de Proyectos Piloto, pero no obstante el esfuerzo desplegado por la UEP y las CRDs, el Gobiemo y la
Misi6n concluyeron que el programa de Proyectos Piloto, siete sistemas de riego, no seria la mejor forma de
realizar la transferencia de A,O&M a los usuarios, quienes reclaman que esta responsabilidad les sea asignada,
por lo cual se acord6 modificar el programa para transferir el mayor nOunero de sistemas a los usuarios durante la
vigencia del proyecto, (Fast Track Program), el cual incluiria 19 sistemas.
Las modificaciones al Programa de Proyectos Piloto acordadas por el MAG y la Misi6n fueron:
las CRDs y la UEP defminirn conjuntamente las areas regadas cuya A,O&M se transferiri a las
- 35 -



Asociaciones de Usuarios
disefio de un programa de asistencia t6cnica a las asociaciones de usuarios comprometidas con la
transferencia, el cual incluira apoyo a la A,O&M y a la producci6n.
*      Podra incluir aporte de recursos para:
i.     la construcci6n de obras emergentes de rehabilitaci6n
ii.    el fmanciamiento, en base decreciente, por un periodo de tres anios del personal tecnico requerido para que
las organizaciones de usuarios operen y mantengan sus sistemas
iii.   la UEP y el CNRH prepararan los procedimientos para la transferencia a los usuarios
C) Plan de inversionespaiblicas en riego
La selecci6n de proyectos para el Plan de Inversiones, a Junio/95 habia progresado notablemente y se habia
realizado con base al inventario coordinado por el MAG (IDEA) y la participaci6n de expertos de la UEP, del
CNRH, del INERHI y de las CRDs.
Este trabajo constituy6 la prinera aproximaci6n al Plan de Inversiones Publicas para el subsector Riego, donde se
incluia a diez sistemas en operaci6n y un proyecto nuevo, con una inversi6n prevista del orden de un mill6n de
d6lares. Se debian realizar las siguientes acciones:
*      precisar los sistemas considerados en el programa
*      elaborar los Terminos de Referencia para la ejecuci6n de los estudios requeridos
elaborar los estudios, el PAT los financiara
Este plan se posterg6 hasta completar el estudio de las politicas, la Estrategia de Manejo de los Recursos Hidricos y
del Ajuste de la Nueva Ley de Aguas
D) Gestion del Proyecto e Implementacion
*      Firma de los acuerdos subsidiarios entre la UEP y las CRDs, una vez que se defina con cada CRD el tipo
de apoyo que el PAT le brindara en tenminos de recursos fmancieros, equipos y servicios.
*      Actualizaci6n de las actividades programadas del proyecto, incluyendo la reasignaci6n de costos entre las
distintas categorias, e incluir los costos correspondientes a los servicios de consultoria que seran contratados por la
UEP para ejecutar los trabajos de una futura operaci6n con el Banco
m.     CUMPLIMIENTO DE OBJETIVOS Y RESULTADOS
A) Resultados alcanzados
Desde enero de 1995, cuando se deterrnin6 la ejecuci6n efectiva del prestamo 3730-Ec, el pais ha venido
desarrollando los cambios estructurales requeridos para hacer el gran cambio en el manejo de los recursos hidricos
y con especial enfasis en el manejo de los sistemas de riego construidos y administrados por el Estado a traves del
INERHI o las CRDs. Los resultados mas significativos que podemos registrar son:
Formulaci6n de Politicas y Estrategia para el Uso de los Recursos Hidricos del Pais
Establecimiento del CNRH, como agencia planificadora, normativa y reguladora de los recursos hidricos,
mas pequefia que el disuelto INERHI
Liquidaci6n del INERHI y transferencia de recursos humanos, fmancieros al CNRH y a las CRDs y de los
sistemas de riego bajo su administraci6n
Descentralizaci6n y transferencia a los usuarios de A,O&M de la infraestructura de riego propiedad del
Estado
Definici6n de un nuevo rol, normativo y regulador para el sector puiblico en el desarrollo del subsector de
riego
Organizaci6n, constituci6n, legalizaci6n, fortalecimiento y consolidaci6n de las JGUs, responsables de la
A,O&M de su respectivo sistema de riego
- 36 -



Descentralizaci6n de la ejecuci6n de la transferencia a las CRDs, que asumieron la responsabilidad de
transferir y apoyar a las Organizaciones de Usuarios en las responsabilidades de A,O&M, su consolidaci6n y
sostenibilidad
Transferencia de 35 sistemas de riego en el pais, frente a 7 programados originalmente en el Plan de
Proyectos Piloto y 19 en el llamado "Fast Track Program"
Inversi6n de US$ 2.5 millones en la rehabilitaci6n de la infraestructura de los sistemas transferidos
Dotaci6n de equipos y reparaci6n y mantenimiento de vehiculos a las CRDs; ademas de equipamiento
para el MAG por $120.000
Establecimiento de las bases e iniciaci6n del proceso para la expedici6n de una nueva Ley de Aguas
Capacitaci6n de los funcionarios de las CRDs involucrados en el programa de transferencia
Capacitaci6n de los Usuarios, su organizaci6n y sus cuadros directivos
B) Productos por componente
Al evaluar individuahnente cada componente se puede verificar que en su gran mayoria los objetivos iniciales han
sido alcanzados satisfactoriamente y en gran medida muchos de ellos superados significativamente; asi:
b.1) Componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional
En el componente de fortalecimiento institucional con la disoluci6n del INERHI y la conformaci6n del CNRH, se
redujo el nuimero de empleados que servian al INERHI en un 75%, esto es, de 1600 empleados se pas6 a 400; asi:
140 que se incorporaron al CNRH incluidos en esta cifra a los Ministros de Agricultura (presidente del CNRH),
Finanzas, Medio Ambiente, Energia, Desarrollo Urbano, la oficina de planificaci6n ODEPLAN y una secretaria
ejecutiva en Quito con aproximadamente 60 empleados, 11 agencias regionales con un promedio de 7 empleados
cada una y 260 empleados que se incorporaron a nueve CRD's .
El proyecto fmanci6 la capacitaci6n del equipo tecnico del CNRH, el equipamiento y la realizaci6n de estudios
sobre politicas de estudios del agua, ley de aguas, procedimientos para la transferencia de los sistemas, planes de
operaci6n, fortalecimiento y manuales de capacitaci6n).
El apoyo prestado al Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, posibilito la entrega de equipos y materiales por un
monto de US$ 120.000.
Las nueve CRD's fuieron entrenadas para llevar a cabo el proceso de transferencia de los sistemas de riego, es asi
como gran parte del personal de las CRDs se encuentra capacitado para continuar con el proceso de transferencia y
con la aplicaci6n de las nuevas politicas del subsector.
Las CRDs con el apoyo de las firmas consultoras intemacionales (FCI) tenian que: Orientar, monitorear, promover
y fortalecer a las organizaciones de usuarios de los diferentes sistemas de riego, conducir el proceso de
transferencia, aplicar y difundir las nornas y procedimientos del CNRH. Para lo anterior se proporcion6 asistencia
tecnica, equipamiento y capacitaci6n, sin embargo fue necesario que las FCI asumieran en gran medida el proceso
de transferencia, durante los dos primeros afios, hasta que el personal de las CRD's estuvieron en capacidad de
asumir el rol que les corresponde. Esta preparaci6n se complement6 con giras de observaci6n y capacitaci6n a 40
empleados de las corporaciones quienes visitaron, EEUU, Republica Dominicana, Mexico y Perui. Al cierre del
proyecto la mayor parte de las CRD's han asumido totalmente el proceso de transferencia de los sistemas de riego e
inclusive estan acelerando la transferencia de los sistemas de riego restantes.
De los recursos asignados para las CRDs, US$ 6.7 millones se utilizaron, que corresponde al 87%, es decir US$
5.8 millones.
Los recursos monetarios asignados al componente de fortalecimiento institucional alcanzan la suma de US$10,2
millones, incluidos valores de capacitaci6n y apoyo a consultoras.
- 37 -



Aportes de Apoyo Institucional*
(miles $ USD)
Componente del     Valorizaci6n del Apoyo
Proyecto
Aporte Estado            Fondos
PATTOTAL
1.- MAG                                   20         100120
2.- CNRH                                 2.00C    1.5053.505
3.- CRD's                                  835    5.8356.670
TOTAL                                   2.855   7.44010.295
* Incluidos valores de re-expresi6n monetaria
b.2) Desarrollo del sector privado:
Este componente presenta los mejores resultados al cierre del proyecto, dado que super6 en un 500% las metas
originahnente establecidas, logrando la transferencia de 35 sistemas estatales a los usuarios de los 72 existentes a
nivel nacional y superando los 7 inicialmente propuestos como meta.
Este componente durante el desarrollo del Programa, centr6 sus actividades en la conformaci6n, legalizaci6n y
capacitaci6n de las JGUs, logrando los objetivos propuestos para las 35 JGUs, es decir conformaci6n de las
correspondientes Juntas Locales de Usuarios, JLUs y pleno funcionamiento de los Directorios. Se fortaleci6 esta
capacitaci6n con giras de observaci6n de los usuarios a sistemas similares. Las JGUs participaron activamente en
el proceso de transferencia, y por su propia iniciativa conformaron la Asociaci6n Ecuatoriana de Juntas Generales
de Usuarios (AEJUR) organizaci6n que agrupa las 32 JGUs de los sistemas transferidos.
Es importante resaltar la participaci6n de las JGUs en la planificaci6n e implementaci6n de la rehabilitaci6n y
adecuacion de los sistemas de riego financiada por los usuarios, en el desarrollo de la O&M, en la preparacion y
prestaci6n de servicios a la producci6n y planes agricolas, en la resolucion de conflictos y en capacitaci6n
suplementaria a los miembros de los comites en temas que incluyeron contabilidad basica, fmanzas, producci6n,
mercadeo, recaudo de tarifas y manejo del riego predial.
Para los sistemas transferidos, el componente de Fortalecimiento Organizacional presenta un 93% de
cumplimiento fmanciero entre lo programado y lo ejecutado, con un desembolso global de $ 486.556 y un saldo no
utilizado de $ 36.685 d6Mares.
b.3)Componente de Rehabilitacion de la Infraestructura.
La rehabilitaci6n de la infraestructura fisica de los sistemas de riego transferidos constituy6 una de las prioridades
del proyecto PAT, las obras de rehabilitaci6n fisica corresponden a las necesidades particulares de cada sistema y
presentan un cumplimiento con relaci6n a lo programado del 86 % y fmancieramente se logra un cumplimiento del
99% entre lo asignado y lo invertido Ilega a US $ 2,4 millones gastados y US$ 0.33 millones de saldo.
Aparte de la importancia de la rehabilitaci6n misma de los sistemas, este componente gener6 un nivel importante
de ocupaci6n de mano de obra de los mismos usuarios que alcanza el 41% del costo total de las obras realizadas.'
b.4) Componente de Desarrollo Agricola.
El sector agricola del Ecuador es importante y cuando se formul6 el proyecto6, representaba un 18%, del Producto
Intemo Bruto, PIB, su influencia se mantendra por un tiempo largo dada su preponderancia frente a los otros
sectores de la producci6n y a la vocaci6n del pueblo ecuatoriano, como tambien a los planes gubemamentales para
- 38 -



combatir la pobreza. No obstante, en el pasado, haber registrado solamente incrementos en el area productiva, hoy
y gracias a la introducci6n de tecnologia de punta, ya se experimentan incrementos significativos en la
productividad, especialmente en areas como la Sierra donde era predominante la agricultura de subsistencia, pero
que con la introducci6n invernaderos (20 x 7 mts 6 140 mts2 ) y de sistemas de riego localizado, se han logrado
producciones significativas, demostrando de paso que las pequeiias parcelas pueden ser rentables cuando se
explotan adecuadamente y rompiendo el paradigma existente en la Sierra, que s6lo con grandes extensiones se
puede hacer agricultura rentable; tal es el caso de los cultivos de tomate bajo invernadero, en los cuales con
adecuada asistencia tecnica, se pas6 de producciones de 20 ton/ha a 200 ton/ha.
En el componente de desarrollo agricola las principales actividades se centraron en promover practicas agricolas y
culturales rentables que coadyuven a mejorar los niveles de ingresos familiares, a fin de poder enfrentar
adecuadamente la elevaci6n de las tarifas y la economia campesina en general.
A junio del 2001, el nivel de cumplimiento de las actividades programadas alcanza un 70.8 %, este nivel inferior
al de los otros componentes, se explica, por el hecho de que las actividades de apoyo de este componente se
iniciaron con posterioridad a los otros componentes; la inversi6n en este componente lleg6 a US$ 0.6 millones lo
que representa el 96 % de lo asignado.
b.S) AndlisisFinancieroyEconomico.
Para la evaluaci6n del proyecto se utiliz6 el paquete computacional FARMOD, construyendo escenarios con y sin
proyecto, partiendo de la definiei6n de modelos de cultivos con los principales productos agricolas en las diferentes
zonas y mediante combinaciones de cultivos, se definieron modelos de fmcas en los sistemas intervenidos.
El analisis econ6mico financiero se realiz6 mediante observaciones directas en 20 de los 35 sistemas transferidos,
se defini6 una muestra de 14 sistemas y se extrapol6 a los restantes 21, agrupandolos en 4 grupos correspondientes
a cada una de las CRD's.
Se desarrollaron 31 modelos de fincas con 30 cultivos identificados, cubriendo asi, el total del universo de
beneficiarios y comparando las situaciones con y sin proyecto a fm de medir los cambios marginales motivados
por la intervenci6n del proyecto.
Como principales indicadores de resultados se tomaron parimetros de producci6n, costos recurrentes y
requerimiento de trabajo, el incremento del ingreso familiar y el VAN se utilizaron como indicadores financieros.
Dentro de los supuestos utilizados para este analisis estin:
Una tasa de descuento internacional del 12%, los precios de entrada y salida constante al segundo cuarto del 2001
se calculo sobre el 80% del costo de inversi6n en invernaderos incluidos en los modelos de finca.
De igual forma fueron considerados dos pagos constantes incluidos un 5% anual de interes sobre el flujo del dinero
efectivo, a principios del siguiente afio del periodo de inversi6n. Los precios fmancieros son promediados
mensualmente con los ingresos de la fmca para un anlo normal.
Los ajustes realizados para el analisis econ6mico, considerando que hay pocas distorsiones en los ingresos
agricolas han sido ajustados por un factor estandar de conversi6n de 0,9 y 0,6 para el costo de oportunidad de mano
de obra no especializada.
La evaluaci6n econ6mica fmanciera al cierre del proyecto arroja los siguientes resultados
TIR            32.1%                         TIRF           31.7 %
VANE           US$ 28.4 millones             VANE           US $ 29.7 millones
C) Principalesfactores que afectaron el Proyecto
c.1)    Como factores fuera del control del GOE y UEP se pueden sefialar la inestabilidad politica concomitante
- 39 -



con la crisis econ6mica que condujeron a cambios no convencionales del Presidente de la Republica y que
produjeron la correspondiente inestabilidad en los demas niveles del Ejecutivo, como en el MAG, en la UEP, la
cual s6lo adquiri6 la estabilidad requerida a partir de 1998 y tambien en las Direcciones Ejecutivas de las CRDs, lo
cual impidi6 la l6gica continuidad requerida de estas en el proceso de transferencia.
c.2)   Pero, como factores controlables por el GOE se pueden mencionar: (i) la magnitud de la reforma
institucional propuesta; (ii) la inestabilidad presentada en la UEP que tal s6lo en 1998 adquiri6 la estabilidad
requerida; (iii) falta de compromiso del MAG para apoyar decididamente el proyecto; (iv) perdida de informaci6n
tecnica, principalnente hidrol6gica y cartografica al cambio del INERHI al CNRH; (v) deficiente preparaci6n de
los planes de creaci6n del CNRH, especialmente en la escogencia de personal y su adecuada preparaci6n para
afrontar el cambio que afrontarian.
c.3)    La falta de recursos en las CRDs, impidi6 cumplir los compromisos adquiridos con las JGUs, lo cual
gener6 desconfianza en estas. S6lo hasta 1998, el MAG cre6 las condiciones para la nonnal ejecuci6n del proyecto
de transferencia, pero no el de fortalecimniento institucional por lo que la mayor oposici6n se encontr6 en los
empleados transferidos del INERHI al CNRH, quienes temian ser desplazados, dando como resultado la ausencia
de compromiso del CNRH con la UEP.
D) Sostenibilidad
El proyecto seri sostenible en la medida que haya continuidad en la politica del Estado para mantener y concluir el
proceso de modernizaci6n del subsector riego. Las JGU's muestran hoy un entusiasmo y voluntad de mantener el
esquema implementado, pero mantener este estado depende en gran parte del cumplimiento y atenci6n que las
Instituciones encargadas, CRD's, les presten atenci6n y ejecuten sus actividades con equidad y justicia social y no
suceda lo que pas6 en algunas provincias donde sistemas de riego que no quisieron aceptar la transferencia fueron
mejor atendidos, beneficiados con mayor ayuda, que los transferidos, provocando desaliento en sus usuarios y
desestimulo al proceso de transferencia.
E) Desempeno el Banco y los acreedores
e.1) Desempeno del Banco
El desempenLo del Banco fue bueno, desde la preparacion del proyecto los distintos funcionarios que han
participado han ofrecido colaboraci6n y apoyo a los funcionarios nacionales para el desarrollo arm6nico del
proyecto, y aum en los casos de inestabilidad institucional el Banco obr6 como catalizador de graves deficiencias
administrativas. Los desembolsos fueron oportunos y nunca se presentaron problemas de financiamiento. Las
buenas relaciones llevadas entre el Banco, el MAG y la UEP fue un factor positivo para la culminaci6n del PAT y
la preparaci6n de futuras operaciones que fortificarin las ya realizadas dentro del proyecto.
e.2) Desempefio del Prestatario; GOE. de la UEP v de las CRDs.
El Gobiemo entreg6 en forma limitada los fondos de contrapartida y no impuls6 los cambios oportunos del marco
legal ni de las reformas institucionales requeridas. La escasa pernianencia de las autoridades del MAG produjo el
mismo efecto en la UEP, la cual alcanz6 su estabilidad solamente en 1998, logrando desde entonces su plena
actividad y maxima productividad hasta lograr la conclusi6n del proyecto en los terminos inicialmente planteados,
aunque para ello se requirio de una ampliacion de un afio. Al estar las CRDs obligadas a respetar los
procedimientos establecidos para el sector puiblico en lo relacionado con las adquisici6n de bienes y materiales, su
accionar en los procesos de adquisici6n hizo que los programas de rehabilitaci6n fueran demasiado lentos. La
UEP estimul6 la creaci6n de subconvenios entre las CRDs y las JGUs, para que los recursos fueran ejecutados
directamente por los Usuarios y asi subsanar la anomalia anterior.
Desempefno de la Consultoria. La presencia de las firmas de Consultoria aport6 experiencia y agilidad al proyecto
-40 -



y fue un factor clave para la capacitaci6n del personal de las CRDs. Su desempefio en la organizaci6n y puesta en
marcha de las JGUs fue decisivo para el funcionamiento de estas, lo mismo que la ejecuci6n de los planes de
desarrollo agropecuario y de capacitaci6n de los usuarios. La organizacion final que hoy ostentan las JGUs el lo
relacionado con la A,O&M de los sistemas de riego es una garantia para su sustentabilidad.
Desempefio de las Juntas Generales de Usuarios. Este tipo de organizacion ha sido la herramienta mas eficaz
para trasladar a los usuarios la responsabilidad de atender directamente la A,O&M de sus propios sistemas de
riego, lo cual genera ventajas para ellos mnismos representadas en la capacidad de decisi6n de todo lo relacionado
con la administraci6n local de su sistema sin tener que apelar a niveles de decisi6n mas altos. Tambien se coafe el
peligro de que las JGUs entren en orfandad tecnica si las instituciones encargadas de apoyarlas no tienen claridad
conceptual de su nuevo papel que han de desempeniar en este esquema. Modelo de administraci6n de los recursos,
especialmente los financieros, es conveniente que se establezca un organismo de control ejercido directamente por
los usuarios. Una visi6n de autogesti6n de la JGU, que le permita dar la soluci6n a sus problemas, ostentando
dignidad y sin caer en la mendicidad que les ensefi6 el patemalismo estatal, es indispensable.
F. Comentarios de los Socios
Las JGU's de los sistemas de riego transferidos, en reuni6n celebrada en Vilcabamba el dia 20 de Abril del 2001,
protocolizaron la constituci6n de una organizaci6n de caricter nacional que las agrupara y velara por sus intereses,
creando asi la Asociaci6n Ecuatoriana de Juntas de Usuarios, AEJUR. En esta reuni6n, todas las JGUs,
suscribieron un documento dirigido al Ministro de Agricultura en el cual manifiestan su agrado por los resultados
obtenidos en el proceso de transferencia y le solicitan la continuidad del PAT, de tal manera que se involucre a los
37 sistemas que aun no se han transferido y para consolidar el trabajo realizado en los ya transferidos.
Posteriormente, el I y 2 de Junio del 2002 , se celebr6 el Segundo Congreso Nacional de Regantes en
Guayllabamba, donde ratificaron el pedido anterior ante el sefior Ministro de Agricultura y la Misi6n del Banco
Mundial.
G. Lecciones aprendidas del Proyecto
A continuaci6n se indican las ensefianzas positivas obtenidas (fortalezas) a lo largo del Proceso de Transferencia
y las debilidades por corregirse, para una mayor sostenibilidad de la Administraci6n y Desarrollo de los sistemas
de riego.
1.     El PAT ha demostrado que la transferencia de los sistemas de riego a los usuarios es el mecanismo mas
id6neo para descentralizar y desconcentrar la administraci6n publica y que los usuarios del riego, si son capaces de
ser los gestores de su propio desarrollo y de administrar sus propios sistemas de riego.
2.     Que la transferencia no es un fin en si mismo, sino un medio para que los usuarios logren:
a.     Organizarse, con actitudes positivas y proactivas, para lograr independencia en la A,O&M, generando en
los usuarios los compromisos sociales en beneficio de su sistema.
b.     Generar sentido de pertenencia con el sistema, apropiandose de la A,O&M.
c.     Administrar el sistema en forma eficiente, transparente y con criterios de equidad social, donde la
rendici6n de cuentas sea oportuna y completa para generar la requerida conflanza de los directivos en la
comunidad.
d.     Generar en los usuarios la cultura de pago de servicios en forma oportuna
e.     Desarrollar la agricultura intensiva y tecnificada para mejorar su nivel y calidad de vida. Consolidar el
cambio logrado, al haber pasado de un cultivo tradicional de subsistencia a cultivos altemativos comerciales.
f.     Trabajar en el riego parcelario con adopci6n de teenologias de punta, para mitigar la erosi6n de los suelos
y mejorar la eficiencia de uso del agua.
g.     Desarrollar la capacidad de pensar, decidir y gestionar.
h.     Hacer conciencia en los usuarios de las imnensas ventajas comparativas que poseen los agricultores dentro
de un sistema de riego en contraste con aquellos que no poseen ese privilegio
-41 -



En cuanto a las lecciones que debemos aprender se concluye en las siguientes:
a.      Que no todos los grupos humanos por sus diferentes comportamientos psicol6gicos o escala de valores,
aceptan trabajar solidariamente para mejorar a la comunidad. La politiqueria, el individualismo, los conflictos y
fricciones entre los usuarios, familias, como al interior de las mismas, priman mas que los prop6sitos de uni6n en
pro del bienestar colectivo; por lo cual es necesario trabajar con las nuevas generaciones.
b.      Que es necesario consolidar las unidades administrativas en cada sistema de riego, con personal
contratado y permanente, para evitar la distorsi6n de las responsabilidades de los Directorios o Directivas, que
estan presionando por remuneraciones mensuales, que de darse se generaran graves conflictos futuros.
c.      Las decisiones tomadas en Asambleas, Directorios o Directivas de las JGUs, deben ser implementadas con
rapidez.
d.      Los Directorios de las JGU's, deben entender que la raz6n de su existencia es la prestaci6n de servicios
para mejorar el nivel y calidad de vida de los usuarios.
e.      La influencia del PAT debe extenderse al nivel de subcuenca hidrogrifica aportante y no solamente a
nivel de sistema.
f.      Mediante subconvenios entre las CRDs y las JGUs, darle mayor participaci6n a estas en el manejo y
ejecuci6n de los recursos dados por el proyecto a las CRDs.
H) Recomendaciones
En raz6n de que el tiempo de duraci6n del proceso, tres anios despues de las firmas de los documentos de la
transferencia en unos casos y en otros tan solo meses, result6 muy corto para lograr cambios sociales que de por si
requieren de la fornmaci6n de generaciones, se sugieren las recomendaciones siguientes para la consolidaci6n del
proceso:
1.      Insistir en el fortalecimiento de las organizaciones mediante capacitacion en: Formaci6n de lideres,
cuadros de relevo, gerencia social, gerencia de recursos, gesti6n local y contraloria social. En la capacitaci6n se
debe incluir a los nifnos y j6venes, hijos de los usuarios, como tambien a los maestros y autoridades que viven o
trabajan en los sistemas.
2.      Con fines administrativos, ajustar y/o modificar los Estatutos y Reglamentos conforme las experiencias,
conflictos y necesidades de los sistemas. Crear un organismo de control por parte de las Asambleas Generales para
vigilar las actuaciones de los Directorios o Directivas.
3.      Mantener presente la necesidad de disponer de balances contables actualizados de los recursos, de los
planes de gesti6n de recaudos, vigilancia mensual de los estados presupuestarios y de actividades; y, actualizaci6n
de las normas tributarias y su respectivas declaraciones ante el SRI.
4.      En la elaboraci6n de los presupuestos anuales de actividades e inversiones, se deberi incluir los aportes al
Seguro Social para el Administrador, Canaleros y Secretaria-Recaudadora, en razon de las remuneraciones
acordadas; los contratos de servicios del Contador, se deberan considerar con la modalidad de servicios
profesionales, sin relaci6n de dependencia.
5.      Es necesario que los Directorios se acostumbren a utilizar para el seguirniento de la Administraci6n: los
Estatutos, Reglamentos, Balances Contables, Planes Operativos Anuales de actividades e inversiones (POA), asi
como los manuales de Administraci6n, Operaci6n y Manteniniento, que a excepcion de los balances contables que
es responsabilidad propia de Contadores autorizados, fueron trabajados con los usuarios.
Borrower's ICR Footnotes.
I. Banco Mundial. 1995. Ayuda Memoria de la Misi6n de Supervisi6n, Junio de 1995
2. GOE, 1996. Estrategia para el manejo de los recursos hidricos. Apendice V. Riego: Conclusiones y recomendaciones
3. Comisi6n para el desarrollo de la Cuenca del rio Guayas (CEDEGE); Centro para el desarrollo y transformaci6n de las provincias de Azuay,
Catlar y Morona Santiago (CREA); Corporaci6n para la rehabilitaci6n de Manabi (CRM) y Programa Regional para el Desarrollo del Sur del
Ecuador (PREDESUR).
- 42 -



4. Evaluaci6n de resultados del proyecto. UEP, agosto del 2001.
5. Efectos e impactos de la transferencia de los sistemas de riego estatales a las Juntas Generales de Regantes UEP-PAT mayo 2001.
6. Banco Mundial. 1994. Reporte y recomendaciones del Presidente del BIRF al Directorio. Reporte NO P-6229-EC.
- 43 -



- 44 -



