Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3730 EC
                              Loan Agreement
            (Irrigation Subsector Technical Assistance Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated October 19, 1994
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3730 EC
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
      any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
      provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
      Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Annual Work Plan" means any of the Borrower's annual work
plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of the Project by
CONADE (as hereinafter defined), MAG (as hereinafter defined), INERHI (as
hereinafter defined) and the Regional Agencies (as hereinafter defined),
including the main activities to be carried out under the Project during the
respective year, their objectives, expected results or outputs, cost
estimates and budgets, counterpart resources, evaluation criteria and
performance indicators, institutional arrangements and responsibilities, key
dates and timetables for implementation, as such annual work plans may be
revised from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (b)   "CEDEGE" means the Borrower's regional commission for the
development of the Guayas River basin (Comision de Estudios para el
Desarrollo de la Cuenca del Rio Guayas);
      (c)   "Central Sierra" means the Borrower's provinces of Cotopaxi,
Tungurahua, Chimborazo and Pastaza;
      (d)   "Central Bank" means the Borrower's central bank (Banco Central
del Ecuador);
      (e)   "CONADE" means the Borrower's national development council
(Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo);
      (f)   "CNRH" means the Borrower's proposed national council of water
resources (Consejo Nacional de Recursos Hidricos), to be responsible for
planning, coordinating and monitoring the Borrower's policies for its
irrigation subsector, in substitution of INERHI (as hereinafter defined);
      (g)   "Cooperation Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into
between MAG (as hereinafter defined) and CONADE, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of carrying out Part C of the
Project;
      (h)   "CREA" means the Borrower's regional center for the economic
transformation of Azuay, Canar and Morona (Centro para la Reconversion
Economica del Azuay, Canar y Morona);
      (i)   "CRM" means the Borrower's regional center for the
rehabilitation of Manabi (Centro de Rehabilitacion de Manabi);
      (j)   "Implementation Timetable" means the timetable set forth in the
letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith;
      (k)   "INERHI" means the Borrower's national institute for water
resources (Instituto Ecuatoriano de Recursos Hidraulicos), including the
regional divisions referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement and
CNRH, once it is established, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, and has
assumed all the functions and responsibilities of INERHI;
      (l)   "INERHI Law" means the Borrower's Decreto Supremo No. 1551 of
1966;
      (m)   "MAG" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia);
      (n)   "Northern Sierra" means the Borrower's provinces of Pichincha,
Imbabura, Carchi, Esmeraldas, Napo and Sucumbios;
Page  3
      (o)   "Pilot Project" means any pilot project to be selected by INERHI
or by a Regional Agency, as the case may be, and approved by MAG, in a
manner and under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, involving
investments made or proposed to be made in rehabilitation or completion of
irrigation schemes, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
      (p)   "PREDESUR" means the Borrower's regional program for the
development of southern Ecuador (Programa de Desarrollo Regional del Sur del
Ecuador);
      (q)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement;
      (r)   "Regional Agency" means any of the following agencies of the
Borrower: CEDEGE, CREA, CRM, PREDESUR and the entity, satisfactory to the
Bank, to be designated or created by the Borrower, as the case may be, to
carry out a Pilot Project in the province of El Oro;
      (s)   "SENDA" means the Borrower's national secretariat for
administrative development (Secretaria Nacional de Desarrollo
Administrativo);
      (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (u)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means any of the agreements    to be
entered into between the Borrower, through MAG, and (i) INERHI; and (ii)
each Regional Agency, for the transfer of part of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the Categories set forth in the table in
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and the counterpart funds
necessary for Project implementation, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, the obligation
of each Regional Agency to take all actions necessary or appropriate to
enable the Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections 3.02, 3.03
(c), 3.05, 3.06, 3.07, 3.09 (a), 3.10 and 4.01 of this Agreement and the
provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as any of
such agreements may be amended from time to time under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank;
      (v)   "Transferral Agreement" means any of the agreements to be
entered into between INERHI and each Regional Agency for the transfer of the
responsibilities for the design, construction, operation and maintenance of
irrigation schemes, from INERHI to each such Regional Agency, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (w)   "UEP" means the Project executing unit (Unidad Ejecutora del
Proyecto) referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the Central Bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  4
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                  date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                  2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
                  Period in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                  percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
                  the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                  borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
                  may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as provided in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                  months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
            "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
      of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
      for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
      in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
      (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
      Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
      amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
      at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
            "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
      Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
      determined in respect of such Quarter."
            "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
      January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower, or any
person authorized in writing by such Minister, is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Article V of the
Page  5
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and,
to this end, through CONADE and MAG, shall and shall ensure that INERHI and
each Regional Agency carry out the Project, with due diligence and
efficiency, in accordance with the Annual Work Plans and the Implementation
Timetable, and in conformity with appropriate administrative, maintenance,
environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Agreements, the Transferral Agreements or the Cooperation Agreement in such
a manner as to:
            (i)   protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank;
           (ii)   comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and
          (iii)   achieve the purposes of the Project.
      (c)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) hereof, the Borrower shall: (i) allocate in each of its annual
budgets and make available promptly as needed the counterpart funds for
Project implementation as provided in the Annual Work Plan for the year in
question; and (ii) not later than June 30 of each year, starting in June
1994, furnish to the Bank a copy of the budget proposal for the year
following the date of presentation of such budget proposal in accordance
with the Annual Work Plan for the year in question;
      (d)   the Borrower shall: (i) open not later than 45 days after the
Effective Date, and thereafter maintain during Project implementation, an
account in a bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for
purposes of depositing the counterpart funds mentioned in paragraph (c)
above; and (ii) make an initial deposit of $200,000 equivalent (as
counterpart funds) in the account referred to in subparagraph (i) herein.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain within MAG (until CNRH
is established) and reporting directly to the Minister, a Project executing
unit, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank,
including, inter alia, the following functions and responsibilities:
            (i)   overseeing the execution of the Project by CONADE, INERHI
                  and the Regional Agencies;
           (ii)   reviewing all consultants' reports and evaluating their
                  findings and recommendations;
          (iii)   monitoring the implementation of such findings and
                  recommendations by INERHI and the Regional Agencies, as
                  approved by the Bank;
           (iv)   preparing the reports referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of
                  this Agreement; and
            (v)   coordinating the procurement of goods and works, and the
                  selection of consultants to be financed out of the
                  proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that UEP is at all times headed by a
Project director, with qualifications, experience, functions and
Page  6
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified staff in
adequate numbers.
      (c)   The Borrower shall cause INERHI and the Regional Agencies:
            (i)   to appoint and retain, until completion of the Project:
                  (A)   Project coordinators with qualifications,
                        experience, functions and responsibilities
                        satisfactory to the Bank; and
                  (B)   qualified staff in adequate numbers, as
                        counterparts of the consultants employed under the
                        Project; and
            (ii)  to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources required for the discharge
                  of the functions of the Project coordinators.
      (d)   The Borrower shall ensure that once CNRH is established, UEP
will become part of such council and report to its President.
      Section 3.04. (a) By no later than 30 days after the Effective Date,
the Borrower shall restructure the Board of Directors of INERHI with
members, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. The
members of such Board shall include, inter alia, the Borrower's Minister of
Finance and representatives of institutions within the Borrower's territory
to be appointed by the Borrower. The functions and responsibilities shall
include, inter alia, the design of policies for the irrigation subsector,
and the planning, regulation, and coordination of water resource
utilization.
      (b)   By no later than 60 days after the Effective Date, the Borrower
shall empower the Executive Director of INERHI with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including responsibility for:
            (i)   preparation of proposals on policy formulation, resources
                  allocation and technical guidelines in the irrigation
                  subsector; and
           (ii)   implementation of the decisions of the Board of Directors
                  of INERHI, as restructured pursuant to paragraph (a)
                  hereof.
      (c)   The Borrower shall and shall cause INERHI to maintain the
organizational structure of INERHI referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b)
herein, including, inter alia, a central department, in charge of planning
and regulatory matters, and one or more regional divisions for the Central
and Northern Sierra in charge of the design, construction, operation and
maintenance of irrigation schemes in their respective regions.
      (d)   The Borrower's obligations under this Section shall cease
whenever legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, providing for an overall
restructuring of the Borrower's water sector, including the irrigation
subsector, is in full force and effect in the Borrower's territory.
      Section 3.05. With regard to the services of the consultants to be
hired under the Project, the Borrower, through CONADE and MAG, shall and
shall ensure that INERHI and the Regional Agencies:
      (a)   promptly after the completion of each service, furnish to the
Bank copy of the consultants' findings and recommendations;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
findings and recommendations; and
      (c)   review and implement, as the case may be, the Annual Work Plans
in accordance with the recommendations of such consultants, taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon.
      Section 3.06. With regard to the training programs to be carried out
under the Project, the Borrower, through CONADE and MAG, shall and shall
Page  7
ensure that INERHI and the Regional Agencies:
      (a)   furnish to the Bank, for its approval, the content of the
respective programs as well as the schedule for their implementation;
      (b)   select the beneficiaries of such training programs, in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (c)   furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the results of each such training
program and the benefits to be derived therefrom.
      Section 3.07. With regard to the execution of Part B (a) of the
Project, the Borrower, through MAG, shall cause INERHI and the Regional
Agencies:
      (a)   to apply the procedures and to abide by the schedule set forth
in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank of even date herewith for the
implementation of Pilot Projects;
      (b)   to carry out individual environmental impact assessments,
satisfactory to the Bank, as part of the feasibility study for each such
Pilot Project; and
      (c)   to follow the recommendations of such environmental impact
assessments in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of each
such Pilot Project.
      Section 3.08. With regard to the execution of Part C of the Project,
the Borrower, through CONADE and MAG, shall:
      (a)   by no later than December 31, 1994, furnish to the Bank a
detailed schedule, satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of Part
C of the Project, including a preliminary list of future investments in
irrigation schemes requiring feasibility studies; and
      (b)   carry out individual environmental impact assessments,
satisfactory to the Bank, as part of each of the feasibility studies
envisaged under Part C (c) of the Project.
      Section 3.09. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07
of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through CONADE and MAG, shall
ensure that:
      (a)   by no later than October 30 and April 30 of each year during
Project implementation, starting in October 1994, INERHI and the Regional
Agencies furnish to UEP reports on the progress achieved by them in the
implementation of the Project during the immediately preceding semester,
including evidence of the use of the counterpart funds to be deposited each
year in the Project Account; and
      (b)   by no later than November 10 and May 31, respectively, of each
year during Project implementation, starting in May 1995, UEP furnish to the
Bank a report consolidating the results of the reports referred to in
subparagraph (a) hereof, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request. The report to be furnished by UEP shall also include a
draft Annual Work Plan for the upcoming calendar year.
      Section 3.10. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01
of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through UEP and in conjunction with
the Bank, shall:
      (a)   by no later than November 30 of each year during the execution
of the Project, starting in 1994 (with the exception of 1996), review the
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project during the
corresponding calendar year, such review to be based on the progress reports
referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement, the corresponding Annual Work
Plans and the Implementation Timetable; and
      (b)   by no later than November 30, 1996, review the overall progress
in the implementation of the Project, including an assessment of the
performance of the Borrower's obligations under this Agreement, and the
Page  8
available findings and recommendations of the consultants hired under the
Project.
If, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank determines that the
progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of its
objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower shall and shall ensure that
INERHI and the Regional Agencies promptly take all such action, satisfactory
to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the
Project or the achievement of its objectives.
      Section 3.11. By no later than 90 days after the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an
operational manual for the coordination of all the activities to be carried
out under the Project.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing prin- ciples consistently applied,
                  by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                  not later than six months after the end of each such
                  year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                  reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                  said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out
                  of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
Page  9
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   INERHI Law or the legislation referred to in Section 3.04 (d)
of this Agreement, or any provision thereof, shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of
the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement;
      (b)   INERHI or any Regional Agency shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreements and the Transferral
Agreements;
      (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that INERHI or any Regional Agency will be able to perform its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreements or the Transferral Agreements;
      (d)   except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower or any
other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of INERHI or any Regional Agency or for the
suspension of the operations of INERHI or any such Regional Agency so as to
affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of
the Borrower or INERHI or any such Regional Agency to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Subsidiary Agreements or the
Transferral Agreements; and
      (e)   INERHI's Resolutions No. 23, dated December 23, 1993 and No. 25,
dated January 6, 1994 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, waived or failed to be enforced so as to affect, in the opinion
of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry
out the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) or (e) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition
to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the organizational
structures of UEP (including the required staffing, functions and
responsibilities) and INERHI referred to in Sections 3.03 (b) and 3.04 (c)
of this Agreement, respectively, shall have been approved by SENDA.
      Section 6.02. The date January 17, 1995 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement,
the Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Page  10
            Ministerio de Finanzas y Credito Publico
            Avenida 10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
            Quito, Ecuador
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFINANZAS               22358 MINFIN-ED
                  Quito, Ecuador
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                        By /s/ Edgar Teran
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods                      1,500,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 80% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items
                                                procured locally
Page  11
(2) Works under                3,100,000        75%
    Pilot Projects
(3) Consultants'              12,200,000        100%
    services and
    studies
(4) Training                   1,100,000        100%
(5) Incremental                1,600,000        100%, until with-
    Operating                                   drawals under
    Costs                                       this Category
                                                have reached an
                                                aggregate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $1,000,000;
                                                66%, until with-
                                                drawals under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached an aggre-
                                                gate amount
                                                equivalent to
                                                $1,450,000; and
                                                33%, thereafter
(6) Unallocated                  500,000
                               __________
    TOTAL                     20,000,000
                               ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the cost of operation
and maintenance of vehicles and domestic and international travel of
personnel of CONADE, MAG, INERHI and the Regional Agencies, required for the
execution of the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed
$1,000,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 hereof, on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after December 1, 1993;
    (b)   expenditures under Categories (1) through (5) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 hereof, incurred by: (i) INERHI; and
(ii) each Regional Agency, unless the Bank has been furnished with a
certified copy of the respective Subsidiary Agreement (and in the case of
each Regional Agency, also the respective Transferral Agreement), duly
executed by the respective parties thereto;
    (c)   expenditures for a Pilot Project (under Category 2 of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 hereof), unless such Pilot Project has been
approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Schedule
6 to this Agreement; and
    (d)   expenditures under Categories (1), (3) and (5) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 hereof, for Part C of the Project, unless the Bank has
been furnished with a certified copy of the Cooperation Agreement duly
executed by the parties thereto.
Page  12
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for
works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent each, goods estimated
to cost less than $150,000 equivalent each, and for consultants' services
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each for firms and less than
$20,000 equivalent each for individuals, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to rationalize the operations and
expenditures of the Borrower's institutions in the irrigation subsector; (b)
to promote the sustainable participation of the private sector as a means
of improving the utilization and efficiency of irrigation schemes in the
territory of the Borrower; and (c) to develop the necessary regulatory and
administrative framework to ensure the effectiveness of future investments
in irrigation schemes in the territory of the Borrower.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:   Institutional Reorganization and Strengthening
    Development of the regulatory and administrative framework required to
rationalize the Borrower's role in its irrigation subsector, while
simultaneously reorganizing and strengthening the corresponding Borrower's
institutions, through:
    (a)   organization of CNRH;
    (b)   support of the decentralization process by strengthening the
Regional Agencies and adopting a new organizational structure of INERHI; and
    (c)   preparation of the administrative framework required for the
operation of the decentralized structure referred to in (b) above, involving
procedures and mechanisms to implement new strategies and policies with
relation to:
          (i)   water resource management;
         (ii)   water rights and concessions;
        (iii)   water charges and cost recovery mechanisms for
                rehabilitation, operation and maintenance of irrigation
                schemes included in the Pilot Project; and
         (iv)   participation of the private sector in the identification,
                design, construction, operation and maintenance of
                irrigation schemes.
Part B:   Private Sector Development Program
    Development of suitable and sustainable mechanisms for the Regional
Agencies to promote user-financed design, construction, rehabilitation,
completion and operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes, and to
foster the transfer of such responsibilities to private users, through:
    (a)   carrying out of Pilot Projects;
    (b)   strengthening of the administration and productive capacity of
water users' organizations interested in the carrying out of Pilot Projects;
    (c)   carrying out of a comprehensive training and communications
program (aimed at disseminating the experience obtained in the Pilot
Projects) for the benefit of water users; and
    (d)   carrying out of a comprehensive review of the current status of
privately-developed irrigation schemes.
Page  13
Part C:   Public Sector Irrigation Investment Plan
    Preparation (in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement) of a medium-
term plan for rehabilitation or completion of irrigation schemes in the
territory of the Borrower, under the regulatory and administrative framework
and mechanisms to be developed under Parts A and B of the Project, through:
    (a)   a detailed national inventory of existing irrigation schemes that
require rehabilitation or completion;
    (b)   development and application of a comprehensive criteria for
screening and selection of the irrigation schemes to be included in the
medium-term plan referred to herein; and
    (c)   preparation of feasibility studies of the irrigation schemes
referred to in (b) herein.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in Dollars)*
November 1, 1999                                    380,000
May 1, 2000                                         395,000
November 1, 2000                                    405,000
May 1, 2001                                         420,000
November 1, 2001                                    435,000
May 1, 2002                                         455,000
November 1, 2002                                    470,000
May 1, 2003                                         485,000
November 1, 2003                                    505,000
May 1, 2004                                         520,000
November 1, 2004                                    540,000
May 1, 2005                                         560,000
November 1, 2005                                    580,000
May 1, 2006                                         605,000
November 1, 2006                                    625,000
May 1, 2007                                         645,000
November 1, 2007                                    670,000
May 1, 2008                                         695,000
November 1, 2008                                    720,000
May 1, 2009                                         745,000
November 1, 2009                                    775,000
May 1, 2010                                         800,000
November 1, 2010                                    830,000
May 1, 2011                                         860,000
November 1, 2011                                    895,000
May 1, 2012                                         925,000
November 1, 2012                                    960,000
May 1, 2013                                         995,000
November 1, 2013                                  1,030,000
May 1, 2014                                       1,075,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
Page  14
                                  The interest rate (expressed as a
                                  percentage per annum) applicable to the
                                  Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied
                                  by:
Not more than three years                     0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                     0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                       0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                    0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                    0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                     1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   Procurement Procedures
1.  Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more per contract
or per bid package, shall be procured under contracts awarded through
limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of qualified suppliers, satisfactory
to the Bank, eligible under the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
chris
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A.1, the
Borrower shall use or cause to be used relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use or cause to be used standard bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
    (c)   To the extent practicable contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more.
2.  Furniture and office equipment, and other goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract or per bid package, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to:
    (a)   $60,000 with respect to furniture and office equipment; and
    (b)   $90,000 with respect to goods other than the goods referred to in
subparagraph (a) herein, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  15
3.  Works to be carried out under Part B (a) of the Project shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
procured locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Part B:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for goods awarded under Part
A.1 hereof; and (ii) each contract for works awarded under Part A.3 hereof
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part C:   Standard Bidding Documents
    All procurement of works pursuant to the provisions of Part A.3 hereof
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower, INERHI and the Regional Agencies in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall and shall cause INERHI and
the Regional Agencies to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants
Guidelines). For complex, time based-assignments, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultant's services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall
use or cause to be used other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts with firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,500,000 and to contracts with
individuals estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent each, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000. However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts,
to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature,
as reasonably determined by the Bank, and to amendments of contracts with
firms and individuals raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above in the case of firms and to $20,000 equivalent or above in the case
of individuals.
Section III. Special Provisions
A.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in
Page  16
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all
procurement of goods referred to in Part A.1 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.  Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of each
bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative
proposals, if they have been requested or permitted, shall be read aloud
when opened.
2.  Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local representative for
purposes of submitting bids.
3.  Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial solvency
certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the procuring party without
recertification by any Ecuadoran bank or other Ecuadoran person or entity.
4.  Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign sureties
approved by the procuring party shall be admissible without recertification
or other participation by any Ecuadoran bank or other Ecuadoran person or
entity.
5.  Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods shall not be required
to be counter-guaranteed by such supplier in whole or in part. This
provision shall not prevent the procuring party from obtaining other
performance warranties from such suppliers.
B.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all
procurement of works referred to in Part A.3 of Section I of this Schedule:
1.  Foreign contractors shall be allowed to bid on all contracts.
2.  The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which shall be
at least thirty days from the date of the last advertisement of the
invitation to bid.
3.  The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three days in a
newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.
4.  Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance
with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
C.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in
this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the following provisions shall
govern all employment of consultants referred to in Section II of this
Schedule:
1.  Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as
a condition of participation in the selection process, but may be required
to be so registered, at the time of contracting, if the Borrower and the
Bank so agree.
2.  Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting
contracts to any local firm or person, except in connection with a joint
venture arrangement where: (i) a sufficient number of capable domestic firms
or individual consultants exist to allow a foreign consultant reasonable
freedom of choice; (ii) the contribution of either party to the joint
venture arrangement will not be constrained by any prescribed manner or
extent of participation; and (iii) the foreign consultant is not required
to associate itself with any specific named domestic firms or individual
consultants.
3.  Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to
provide services in Ecuador to be locally registered with a minimum capital
different from that required to domestic firms.
4.  Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be required
to pay fees to the Ecuadoran Consultants' Association that are different
from those required for Ecuadoran consultants.
Section IV. Internal Approvals
Page  17
    Any approval by the Borrower's controller general (Contralor General del
Estado) and the Borrower's attorney general (Procurador General del Estado)
shall be limited to:
    (a)   the standard bidding documents referred to in paragraph (b) of
Part A.1 and Part C of Section I of this Schedule; and
    (b)   the standard form of contract for consultants' services referred
to in paragraph 1 of Section II of this Schedule.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish
to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
Page  18
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                     Procedures for Pilot Projects and
               Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Agreements
1.  When presenting a Pilot Project to the Bank for approval, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with:
    (a)   an assessment of INERHI's and the Regional Agencies' compliance
with: (i) their obligations under the Subsidiary Agreements and the
Transferral Agreements; and (ii) local and national environmental laws and
regulations; and
    (b)   an appraisal of the Pilot Project, such appraisal to include:
          (i)   a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed
                out of the proceeds of the Loan;
           (ii)       the individual environmental impact assessment
                      referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement;
                      and
          (iii)       such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
                      request.
2.  The Subsidiary Agreements shall provide that the Borrower, through UEP,
shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the
Page  19
Borrower, including the right to:
    (a)   require INERHI and the Regional Agencies to carry out their
corresponding parts of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial, environmental and
ecological standards and to maintain adequate records;
    (b)   require that:
          (i)   the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds
                of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the
                provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)   such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
                carrying out of the Project;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank or
the Borrower, if the Bank or the Borrower shall so request, the goods and
the sites, works, plants and constructions included in the Project, the
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
    (d)   require that:
          (i)   INERHI and the Regional Agencies shall take out and
                maintain with responsible insurers such insurance against
                such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with
                sound business practices; and
         (ii)   without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance
                shall cover the hazards incident to the acquisition,
                transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the
                proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation,
                any indemnity hereunder to be made payable in a currency
                freely usable by INERHI and the Regional Agencies to
                replace or repair such goods;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and
financial condition of INERHI and the Regional Agencies and to the benefits
derived from the Project; and
    (f)   suspend or terminate the right of INERHI and the Regional Agencies
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by INERHI and the
Regional Agencies to perform their respective obligations under the
Subsidiary Agreement.
3.  The Subsidiary Agreements shall also provide that if the Borrower shall
have determined at any time that any payments made under such Subsidiary
Agreements were used by INERHI and the Regional Agencies for an expenditure
not eligible for financing under Schedule 1 to this Agreement or used in any
manner contrary to the provisions of this Agreement, INERHI and the Regional
Agencies shall, promptly upon notice from the Borrower, refund to the
Borrower an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof
specified by the Borrower.
