Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 7654-BEN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
BENIN
FOR A
BORGOU REGION PILOT RURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
May 7, 1998
AGRICULTURE III
Country Department 13
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1998)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 100 = US$0.16
US$1 = CFAF 614
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APNV                 Approche Participative Niveau Village
ASIP                 Agriculture Sector Investment Program
BRPSP                Borgou Rural Pilot Support Program
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CC                   Village Committees (Comite de Concertation Villageois)
APL                  Adaptable Program Loan
IDA                  International Development Association
LIL                  Leaming and Innovation Loan
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
PGRN                 Natural Resource Management Project (Projet de Gestion des
Ressources Naturelles)
PILSA                Community-Based Food Security Project (Projet d'Interventions
Locales pour la Securite Alimentaire)
PRSA                 Agriculture Services Restructuring Project (Projet de Restructuration
des Services Agricoles)
PSC                  Project Steering Committee
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:    Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Mr. Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:    Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader:    Mr. Madani M. Tall
'The exchange rate of the CFAF is fixed at 100:1 to the French Franc which is a floating currency.



Benin
Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objectives .................                                .........................................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators ......................2
B. Strategic Context ..........................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project .............................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ....................................................3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ....................3
C. Project Description  Summary ..........................................................4
1. Project components ....................................................4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..........................5
3. Benefits and target population ...................................................5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................6
D. Project Rationale .........................................................8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ....................                       ..............8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development
agencies ....................................................9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .................                          .............. 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ..........................                          ............ 10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ................................................... 10
E. Summary Project Analyses .........................................................                               11
1. Economic .........................................................                                               l1
2. Financial .........................................................                                              l1
3. Technical ..........................................................                                             I
4. Institutional ......................................................... 11
5. Social .........................................................                                                 11
6. Environmental assessment .................1........................................   1
7. Participatory approach ......................................................... 12
F. Sustainability and Risks .........................................................                                           12
1. Sustainability ....................................................                                             12
2. Critical risks .................................................... 13
3. Possible controversial aspects ....................................................                              16



CONTENTS (continued)
Page
G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                            16
1. Effectiveness conditions ..................                       16
2. Other .................. 16
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                    16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                   16
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Financial Summary
Annex 5.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 6.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7.     Documents in Project File
Annex 8.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.     Country at a Glance
Map: IBRD No. 29513



Benin
Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 13
Date: May 7, 1998                                   Task Team Leader: Mr. Madani M. Tall
Country Director: Mr. Theodore Ahlers               Sector Manager: Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse
Project ID: 57345       Sector: Agriculture         Program Objective Category: ESD/Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)   Program of Targeted Intervention:  [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan    [X ] Credit       [] Guarantee    [  Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 4.0 million equivalent/SDR 3.0 million
Proposed terms:                        [x]  Multicurrency     [ ]  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 [I   Standard Variable  [ ]  Fixed                 [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: n/a
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                             Local             Foreign         Total
Government                                                0.78                              0.78
IDA                                                       2.20               1.80           4.00
Beneficiaries                                             0.22                              0.22
Total       3.20               1.80           5.00
Borrower: The Republic of Benin
Guarantor:
Responsible agency (ies): Ministry of Rural Development
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1999     2000       2001       2002
Annual 1.5        1.3        1.0        0.2
Cumulative 1.5       2.8         3.8       4.0
For Guarantees:                                []   Partial credit   L  Partial risk
Proposed coverage: N/A
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:            [    Yes              [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 1998-2001  Expected effectiveness date: 7/98    Expected closing date: 12/31/2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30,1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project's main objective is to improve the capacity of rural women and village communities to better
manage their socio-economic environment through: (i) improving the understanding of this environment
(information, analytical tools, site-specific workshops); (ii) improving local institutions, in particular
village committees (Comites de Concertation Villageois) to strengthen collective decision-making
capabilities (selecting objectives and priorities, planning etc); (iii) providing the populations with the
resources to implement their development plans; and (iv) improving the capacity of the providers of
goods and services to respond to demands from the rural communities to carry out sustainable
development activities designed and implemented through a participatory approach. In particular, the
project would seek to:
*  strengthen the capacity of village communities to design, prepare and implement village
development plans by using a participatory approach and simpler procedures to the diagnosis of
priorities and implementation of solutions; and
*  meet the immediate needs of up to 50% (250) of the rural communities of the Borgou, for increased
access to services and to basic productive and social infrastructure;
-  test new resource mobilization and implementation arrangements as a prelude to the pending
decentralization law under consideration by the Government.
Key performance indicators of progress towards achieving program objective will monitor both the
effectiveness of the instruments used and the impact on the beneficiaries so as to enable the Government
to assess the replicability of the project on a national scale. The indicators will be measured through: (i)
the number of people attending trainings, the number of village committees operating efficiently, the
number/status of village development plans designed and the quality of the participatory process. (ii) the
number/variety/status of completion and sustainability of indigenous maintenance mechanisms of rural
infrastructure facilities and services and their impact on increased incomes/opportunities, the number of
private suppliers/contractors mobilized. (iii) the complementary roles of the Project Steering Committee
(Comite de Supervision Departemental-CSD), the District-level Approval Committee (Comit6
d'Approbation Sous-Prefectoral-CASP), the Technical Support Unit (Cellule d'Appui au Programme-
CAP), and village-based committees (Comite de Concertation Villageois-CC); and (iv) the
responsiveness of government services through beneficiary surveys.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: P-6308-BEN Date of latest CAS discussion: 6/7/94
Next CAS will be presented to the Board 9/98
A series of four in-country national and regional consultative workshops, convening key stakeholders
from various levels of government, sectoral ministries and civil society have been held in preparation of
the next CAS due to go to the Board (early in FY99).
The sector-related CAS goal is to improve the socio-economic environment of the Borgou's population
by supporting the implementation of a sustainable development program. This is centered on further
rationalizing the role of the public sector, to create an environment favorable to private sector activity
and to improve the provision of social services through increased quality and coverage (para 26 of CAS
dated 05/11/94).



Page 3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Agriculture, the main stay of Benin's economy, employs 70% of its people, accounts for close to 40% of
its GNP and generates over 80% of its export earnings. The main sector issues are:
(i) Cotton farming dominates revenue generating activities in rural areas and is expected to remain the
main source of agricultural growth in Benin, although its expansion may be limited by the imperatives of
biodiversity conservation;
(ii) Diversification of agricultural sources of growth will depend on the efficiency of input supply,
extension services, marketing channels, rural roads and access to credit for farmers and producer groups.
Given the government's progressive withdrawal, there is an increasing need for private sector provision
of technical services to support improved production and marketing capacity by rural communities.
The country's agricultural development prospects were strengthened by the 1994 historic and sharp
devaluation of the CFAF which improved the profitability of the sector, in particular that of cotton. The
encouraging maintenance of average annual agricultural growth of more than 4% over the preceding 5
years, with subsequent increases in farmers' production and revenues, provided the context for the
Government's updated agricultural strategy and investment program, which was presented to, and
reviewed with, donors at an agriculture Round Table Meeting in September 1995. The government
strategy is to promote social and economic development in rural areas through private
investments/initiative by: (i) tackling the unfinished economic reform agenda; (ii) implementing its
institutional policies and in particular decentralization i.e., devolving decision-making and resources to
local populations and institutions and strengthening the latter; and (iii) improving populations access to
better physical and service infrastructure.
The main constraints are: (i) the physical resource base (need to intensify and to conserve the threatened
natural resource base); (ii) centralized and inefficient government services (agriculture, social services);
(iii) local institutions/capacities (education, institutions skills, financial resources) still weak.
This is precisely the constraints that the pilot Borgou will try to tackle. The first strategic choice is to
change the rules of the game: the decision-makers are going to be the local populations, and Government
services are going to acquire a "service mentality"; the second tactical decision is to try new
approaches/processes on a pilot basis in the region of the Borgou (why: because of the strength of the
economy and local/professional organizations there) and to mainstream them, as soon as they are proven
effective, into the national ASIP.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The sector issues to be addressed by the project are summarized in B2 (ii) above; by withdrawing from
all productive sectors and strengthening its regulatory role, the Government's first strategic choice was to
use the project as a means of testing ways of promoting the participation of a broad range of private
sector partners in the agriculture sector. The Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project (BRPRSP) will
focus on promoting the initiatives of farmers organizations and rural communities. The Government's
second stratepic choice is based on its strong support for the recommendations of the National Seminar
(PASA) on the new vision for rural development in July 1997 which endorsed "participatory
management" as the approach for future regional rural development activities. The Borgou Pilot Rural
Support Program has been prepared with the target rural communities in a comprehensively participatory
(as opposed to a merely consultative) manner. The project components are the priorities identified by
those same communities. The same communities will be responsible for managing the implementation of
their priority activities financed under the project.



Page 4
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
In support of the stated objectives, the pilot program would be a LIL. It would be implemented in the
Borgou Region for a period of three years feeding into the national ASIP under preparation and supposed
to kick-in in a 1 8-month time. The ASIP would be based on the new strategy with decentralization as its
backbone and the LIL would provide testing ground for new operational approaches. The main
components would be the following:
*  Capacity building in rural villages of the Borgou to be done through: (i) rural anlimation and
consolidation of the village-based participatory diagnosis approach; (ii) adult and functional literacy
for women, members of village committees and farmers organizations; and (iii) technical training for
various groups of producers with an inclusive emphasis on women, youths and Fulani herders, who
to date, have not benefited from training programs. This would be done to facilitate decentralization
and empowerment of rural communities through a transfer of responsibilities and the advent of new
procedures.
*  Community-based local development to be supported through the financing of: (i) priority village
infrastructure (storage facilities, bottom-lands, rural roads and tracks, water points, wells, social
infrastructure, etc.); (ii) promotion of natural resource management technologies; and (iii) extension/
adaptive research, and technical support to farmers organizations/producer groups.
*  Participatory Management. Technical Support and Monitoring to be supported through the financing
o,f training in basic planning and management processes for the target village groups; the
establishment of simple procurement and financing mechanisms to be managed by the beneficiary
groups; the establishment of simple (self assessment) monitoring by the beneficiaries coupled with a
focused monitoring and evaluation mechanism to assess and either mainstream or drop results from
the pilot; and the provision of decentralized technical support for the target beneficiary groups.
Component               Category     Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing   Bank-
(US$M)              (US$M)  financing
A. Capacity building in rural   Capacity      1.08           22       0.82       20
villages of the Borgou          building
B. Community-based Local        Physical     3.22            65       2.70       68
Development
C. Participatory Management,    Project      0.70            13       0.48       12
Technical Support, and Monitoring  Management
Total 5.00           100      4.00       100



Page 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project will contribute to the implementation of ongoing
institutional and regulatory reforms of agricultural services, by testing decentralized management and
contracting practices in anticipation of the implementation of the pending public administration reform
and restructuring of rural development institutions (MDR, CARDERs, INRAB), and in light of the
recently-adopted decentralization law. Providers of services would be (public and private) directly
accountable to village committees and groups as the latter would be responsible for contracting/payment
and evaluation of works and services. It is expected that the current nature of relationships between rural
communities and Government services will evolve with the former taking on a more important and
growing role in the development process.
3. Benefits and target population:
Economic benefits will be generated through:
* increased value of production through enhancement of processing activities and cost effectiveness,
better management of production and marketing practices as a result of better responsiveness and
relevance of technical advice, and rural employment opportunities as a result of increased investment
in rural areas.
Social benefits include:
*  improved participation in access by project beneficiaries, specifically women, to the decision-making
process and investment opportunities, hence facilitating ownership and sustainability of project
activities at the local level;
-  increased organizational capacity of the communities and producer groups involved, contributing to
the formation of social capital and sustainability of the expected economic benefits; and
-  improved living and production standards as a result of the specific rural/social infrastructure
projects/roads, drinking water, stores, etc. undertaken by the beneficiaries.
Environmental benefits. The project will promote technologies that will help maintain the natural
resource base and avoid environmental degradation in the Borgou, particularly with respect to
deforestation, loss of soil fertility, and soil erosion. In this regard practical solutions tested in the context
of the Natural Resource Management Project will be extended to the Borgou region.
Incidence. The distribution of project funds ensures that about 85 percent of project resources flows
directly to the target population to support productive investments, community development and
technical support to farmers and producer groups in targeted rural communities.
Targeting. The program will benefit up to two hundred and fifty "Village Committees". Specific
emphasis would be placed on women groups, and Fulani herders. Overall population in the villages
concerned by the pilot program amounts to about 450.000 people. About 17% of the population is Fulani
herders:
*  geographic targeting was carried out during the participatory diagnosis initiative in 250 villages out
of the 500 villages of the Borgou's region.
*  eligibility criteria for beneficiaries were defined during the participatory diagnosis initiative.
*  eligibility criteria include the definition of clear priorities as established by the Comite Villageois de
Concertation (CC), and the capacity of the concerned community to contribute financially to certain
types of investments.



Page 6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements: A detailed draft implementation manual (Manuel de
Proc6dures) is available.  It was finalized during negotiations. A  summary of implementation
arrangements is presented below:
Implementation period: 3 years: 1998-2001
Executing agency: Ministry of Rural Development (MDR)
Proiect oversight: Project Steering Committee (Comite de Supervision Departemental-CSD), comprising
the various agencies representing the concerned Ministries (i.e. Rural Development, Education, Health,
Infrastructure and Water Resources) at the level of the Borgou region and representatives from the civil
society and producer groups (UDP, Regional Development Association, Village Committee
representatives). Its main role would be to define the region's main development policy orientation,
provide overall guidance in line with policies established at the national level, and ensures that
investments proposed for the various districts are well integrated in development plans established at the
regional level. At the district level, a Committee (Comite d'Approbation Sous-Prefectoral-CASP) will
be established in each of the 14 districts of the Borgou region. Its composition would reflect that of the
Project Steering Committee at the regional level. The District-Level Committee would play a key role as
it is expected to approve/reject, on the basis of agreed guidelines stipulated in the implementation
manual, proposals emanating from village committees. One of its key function would be to ensure that
there is no duplication in anyone village and that interventions under all projects at the district-level are
complementary to those carried out by Government services (especially in the case of social services).
The CASP will also disseminate information and suggest/encourage, to the extent possible, village
committees to consolidate resources to facilitate the financing of investments, on infrastructure in
particular for which a single village may not have enough capacity/resources.
Project Management : Technical Support Unit (TSU), staffed with professionals recruited from the
private sector would be entrusted with day-to-day management of the project. Its main functions would
be: (i) coordinating activities under the project, including the handling of requests for funding,
organizing training activities, managing project funds, monitoring and evaluation, reporting to
Government and donors, progress on the project and lessons learned; and (ii) the provision of technical
support to rural communities at their request through three mobile teams of specialists, each comprised
of one Rural Development Specialist, one Civil Engineer, and one Financial Specialist. Each team
would cover about four districts in the Borgou region which has a total of 14 districts. In addition to the
technical specialists, the TSU would be staffed with a Project Coordinator, a M&E specialist, a Financial
Management Specialist, an Accountant, and support personnel. The TSU would be under the tutelage of
the Ministry of Rural Development's regional directorate (CARDER) located in Parakou. However, the
CARDER Borgou would not interfere in its day-to-day management and responsibilities between
CARDER staff and the TSU would be clearly highlighted in the implementation manual. The TSU is
seen as a "biodegradable" unit that would play the role of a facilitator.  Its assistance to rural
communities would be phased out as the latter's technical and managerial capacities improve; or
solicited and paid for by the latter as their financing capabilities improve and progress is made on the
fiscal decentralization front. The Government's role in daily implementation would be strictly limited
and Government services would play no role in the decision-making process at the village level.
Project implementation: Contrary to most traditional projects, beneficiaries (organized through various
groups within the 250 villages concerned by the project) will have the primary responsibility for
implementation under the Pilot Program. This requires not only a fundamental "cultural" change of
approach by donors and Government staff alike, but also necessitates the implementation of a number of
accompanying measures such as i) basic training in functional literacy and basic planning processes; (ii)
establishment of simple procurement and financing mechanisms, iii) provisions of decentralized
technical support to the beneficiaries. In the context of the Pilot Program, beneficiaries (groupements)



Page 7
will: (i) formulate their own request for financing after having consulted suppliers/contractors and NGOs
with a good track record; (ii) submit the request to the village committee (Comite de Concertation
Villageois) which will ensure that it is in line with priorities established in the village development plan
and facilitate subsequent transmittal (on behalf of the group) to the district-level committee (Comite
d'Approbation Sous-Prefectoral) for approval. Once the request is approved by the CASP and its
conformity with the implementation manual established, beneficiaries are informed of the decision and
the Technical Support Unit is directed to provide funding for the activity/micro-project approved. With
technical and financial support from the pilot project, beneficiaries will recruit contractors and pay (all or
part of the cost depending on the complexity and cost of the work/service) when the work has been
completed or service rendered.
Accountina. Financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
The Technical Support Unit (TSU) will manage the financial accounting and maintenance of separate
project accounts and records for project related expenditures in accordance with principles and practices
satisfactory to IDA, and provide annual financial statements. All project accounts, the special account
and financial statements would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit report
would specifically include the auditors' opinion on the Special Account and on the reliability of
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) as a basis for IDA credit disbursement. The audit report would also
include an assessment as to whether goods and services have been procured from eligible sources, and an
opinion on the proper utilization of goods and services under the project. The auditors' reports would
further include a statement on the adequacy or otherwise of the accounting system and internal controls.
The cost of audit would be paid from the IDA credit. The audited statements, accounts, auditors' long-
form reports and short-form opinion reports would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year. The establishment of an internal accounting and financial management
system acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Monitoring and evaluation (M & E) arrangements:
The village-specific CC (Comite de Concertation) will have primary responsibility for monitoring
project implementation (self-assessment) at the field level. The technical support unit (TSU) of the
project management will also implement a simple monitoring and reporting system focusing on the
effectiveness of instruments and new procedures, and the impact of project activities on beneficiaries,
through regular field visits, gathering information at the village level on the status of project
implementation, and regularly submitting reports to the Project Steering Committee. Information
relative to project development impact will be provided annually. M&E will be guided by the Logical
Framework matrix (see Annex 1) and so permit follow up on the input, output and impact indicators,
including environmental indicators agreed upon. Progress towards project outcomes will be evaluated
during execution and at project completion. A project mid-term review will be carried out by the
Government and IDA after the first 18 months of project implementation. This mid-term review would
determine, based on the results of the M&E evaluation system and experience gained in the field, the
extent to which the project is performing vis a vis its development objectives and the possibility of its
replicability in other regions of Benin. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared at least
six months prior to the final disbursement of the Credit. The Government will prepare its own evaluation
of the project including a plan for its continued implementation if needed. For this purpose, it could
enlist the support of an independent entity (NGO, University, Consulting Firm, etc.) to carry out all or
part of the evaluation.



Page 8
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The rationale for the Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project (BRPRSP) is the need to improve the
capacity of farmers organizations, women producer groups and their village communities to better
manage their socio-economic environment. Five alternative instruments and gRpproaches were reviewed
and two considered in depth, in the process of matching possible project modalities with the rationale.
The cross-sectoral nature of project implementation of the BPRSP is comparable to that of a "classic"
integrated rural development (IRD) project, but the participatory diagnostic, implementation and
management is a radical departure. While originally developed as a Pilot for the Agriculture Sector
Investment Program (ASIP), also currently in preparation, financing under a (PPF) was considered but
later dismissed. An Adaptable Program Loan (APL) is now being considered in FY2000 for a more
comprehensive support to the sector, both as an alternative to the ASIP and as a follow-up to the ongoing
(Agricultural Services restructuring Project (PRSA) and Natural Resource Management Project (PGRN).
The proposed Social Fund project, also under preparation has similar objectives.  However, its
institutional arrangements (use of NGOs as executing entities and an AGETIP-like structure for its
overall management) differ from institutional arrangements proposed under the Borgou Pilot. Moreover,
the Borgou Pilot goes further in empowering communities to directly manage their own affairs and
proposes to test a mix of implementation arrangements that would help shape future modalities for rural
development institutions and the way they provide services to rural communities. As a result the
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) has now been identified as the alternative instrument, found
appropriate by the Government, the donors and the Bank alike. In particular, this choice permits
assessment of both the Borrower's and the beneficiaries' capacity before phased replication to a sector
wide application through an APL if and when suitable answers to some of the central questions are
found. In this case, there is an urgent need, both economically and politically, to empower local
populations to manage their own affairs. Government wants to do just that nationally but doesn't know
exactly: (i) what is the population's capacity to do so, (ii) whether there is an alternative to public service
delivery practices, and (iii) what are the right processes for the Government to change public service
culture and provide the right amount of support and guidance to rural communities. Therefore, before
launching into the actual implementation phase, on a national scale, of its new strategy, it wants to try
several promising approaches, and "debug"' the system and facilitate the execution of an effective rural
community-based development strategy.



Page 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                          Project             Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementat  Development
ion Progress    Objective
(IP)         (DO)
Capacity building process for NGOs,     Rural Water Supply                   S             S
consultants and contractors in provision of
services
-Weak Central Services of the MDR and   Agriculture Services                 S             S
CARDERs
- Lack of training for MDR and CARDERs
staff
- Lack of support for farmers organizations
- Weak livestock services
- Weak nutritional status for women and  Food Security                      S              S
children
- Lack of income generating activities
- Lack of a National nutrition policy and
food security planning
Education Development               U              S
- Weak institutional capacity          Environment Management Project       S             HS
- Lack of EIA Legislation
- Poor environmental inforrnation
- Lack of Environmental
education
Transport Sector                    S             HS
-Weak accounting and financial         Population and Health                U             U
management capacity
- rapid turnover of staff which weakens
institutional capacity in the sector
- Need for improved access to savings and   Rural Credit II                HS             HS
loan services for rural dwellers
Other development agencies
AfDB                                    Natural Resources Atacora-Zou
FED                                     Natural Resources Atacora-
Borgou
Cooperation Suisse                      Functional French Literacy
Program
Cooperation Francaise                   Agriculture Sector Training
Program
FAO                                     East Borgou Herders Association
FED                                     Borgou Livestock Sector
Development Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Sector-Wide Lessons Learned As a prelude to a sector-wide support program, the proposed pilot builds
on the lessons learned from the 95-97 in-country consultations with government and donors in the
process of reviewing the governments updated agricultural strategy - namely, given the goal of
strengthening the role of the rural economy in the national economy, the BRPRSP must address the range
of cross-sectoral concerns of rural communities in an integrated manner, as foreseen in Component 2.
On the basis of the lessons learned from the 18 months of intensive village-based diagnosis of
constraints, priorities and planning of development solutions, the need to train and then to build on a
participatory planning process has been addressed in component 1.
Proiect-Specific Lessons Learned. Positive examples can be drawn from projects operating in the
country: the Natural Resource Management Project (PGRN); the Community-Based Food Security
Project (PILSA); and the Agricultural Services Restructuring Project (PRSA). Overall implementation
progress of these projects remains satisfactory. However, some shortcomings regarding counterpart
funds and the weakness of M&E in particular have been flagged. The proposed program acknowledges
these shortcomings and proposes to: (i) bring all partners (village committee members, farmers
organizations, NGOs and other private contractors) involved in the program together in consolidating
the diagnosis approach so that they assume responsibility for monitoring the results (components 1 & 3);
(ii) make the extension system more open and accessible to all beneficiaries; (iii) provide continued
assistance and training to farmers organizations (component 2); and (iv) ensure that budgetary and
bureaucratic processes do not jeopardize the program implementation (component 3).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government is fully committed and engaged in the realization of the project. Its commitment and
ownership are reflected through: the adoption of a new national extension strategy (APVN); a tested
initiative first implemented in the Borgou and recently extended to all regions (community initiatives,
involvement of all stakeholders and sustained interest, commitment and participation during that period
has been a strong evidence of Government and beneficiary ownership of the project). There is also an
agreement to decentralized administrative and financial procedures and recognition that management of
project planning/implementation lies with beneficiaries. Finally, the preparation phase was completed
without delay.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Value added (for the Borrower) of Bank support in this project is two-fold: the Bank is actively
supporting the Government's role and partnership with private sector agencies and associations in both
agriculture and the social sectors in Benin, and so has the comparative advantage of cross-sector
oversight - a key factor in Component 2; the Bank is willing to finance this small scale innovative
approach to rural development as requested by the Government.
Value added (for the Beneficiaries) of Bank support in this project lies in the Bank's demonstrated
commitment to decentralized provision of technical services (Component 2).
Value added (for the Bank of Bank support) in this project lies in the challenging opportunity to develop
simple and effective procurement and monitoring procedures, accessible to communities but not
necessarily literate communities - (Component 3) and first-hand knowledge of lessons learned before the
preparation and financing of full-fledged community-based rural development operations.



Page 1 1
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1-2. Economic and Financial Analysis. Because of the experimental nature of the project an economic,
financial and fiscal analysis was not attempted. However, it is important to note that: (i) local decision-
making implies that investments are relevant and returns optimized; (ii) rationing of funds implies that
only priority investments will be undertaken; (iii) active participation in extension activities will improve
the efficiency of existing services; and (iv) a few investments would be of a social nature and therefore
would not readily lend themselves to a detailed economic and financial analysis. The nature, scope and
amounts destined to investment will only be determined by communities based on their priorities as the
project evolves. These priorities are expected to shift from one village to the next and there is no pre-set
or standardized menu of investments.
3. Technical:
The technical design of the proposed program was simplified, during the preparatory process, both in
terms of scope, complexity and cost estimates to ensure that it is in line with actual implementation and
financing capacity of rural communities in the Borgou. Because the project would be demand-driven
and require a financial contribution from the beneficiaries, it minimizes the risk of oversizing and
complexity.
4. Institutional
a) Project Execution
The Project would be executed through a Technical Support Unit (TSU) on behalf of the Ministry of
Rural Development. The TSU would be under the tutelage of the MDR's regional directorate in the
Borgou and overall guidance would be provided by the Project Steering Committee (Comite de
Supervision Departmental-CSD). The TSU would be expected to collaborate with, and provide technical
support to, the district-level committees (Comitds d'Approbation Sous-Pr6fectoral-CASP).
b) Project Management
Project management will be assumed by professionals experienced in both agricultural services and
participatory management assisted by a team of technical support and financial specialists. The
Technical Support Unit will coordinate inter-institutional activities and will manage and disburse funds
as per requested and approved needs. Beneficiaries will be required to contribute to local development
activities for all of their requested project support, according to eligibility criteria and cost sharing
mechanisms specified during the preparatory process (cf. annex 2 and implementation manual).
c) Project Implementation/Participatorv Management
The beneficiaries implementing project activities are: (Groupement Villageois) GV, GF (Groupement
des Femmes), AVC (Association Villageoise de Chasse), GM (Groupement Maraicher) etc. The CC
(Comit6 de Concertation Villageois) includes members of the beneficiary groups and the CASP (Comite
d'Approbation Sous-Prefectoral) includes members of the beneficiary groups, professional groups and
related Ministry representatives at the district level.
5. Social: The Profile of Rural Poverty in the Borgou is based on the National Household Survey
(published 96). This profile provided the basis for the participatory diagnosis process implemented in
the 250 target communities of the Borgou. Moreover, various social assessments have been carried out
in the Borgou to determine social composition, land-use practices, and the interface and sometime
complex relationship between the different socio-economic groups (herders, farmers, hunters, craftsmen,
etc.)
6. Environmental assessment: Category C; The Project DO specifically addresses introducing the
beneficiary communities to sustainable development using participatory planning processes,



Page 12
forestry/soil and natural resource management techniques, community dispute resolution skills. Specific
environmental monitoring indicators have been included in the logframe and the Implementation Manual
to assess soundness of the various processes and new techniques proposed by the project.
7. Participatory approach:
Identification/Preparation  Implementation   Operation
Beneficiaries/Community groups  COL                    COL                COL
Local agency                    COL                    COL                COL
NGOs                             COL                   COL                COL
Local government                CONS                   CONS               IS
Academic/Research               COL                    CONS               CONS/IS
IS = Information Sharing; CONS = Consultation; COL = Collaboration
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The piloting of the preparatory participatory diagnosis was conducted with 250 villages from the 500
villages of the Borgou. The 18-month process was characterized by active participation of the
beneficiary community groups who were involved in the preparation and design of this project through
information sharing and consultation throughout the process.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Similarly, NGOs, local government staff, academic and research agencies were actively involved in the
project preparation process through consultation, and elaboration of the logframe (Cadre Logique); their
active participation will be solicited throughout implementation as both providers of services (training,
capacity-building), and as stakeholders.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability will be addressed at four levels:
*  literacy will be promoted actively to ensure that all CC members have the opportunity to become
fully competent, with a particular inclusive focus on women, youth, and Fulani herders; therefore
enabling them to pursue activities after the project.
*  the community-based local development initiatives will focus on the appropriate sustainable
management of village infrastructure, and sustainable technologies for natural resource management;
*  beneficiaries will be required to contribute between 10 and 25 percent of the direct cost for all their
requested project support. This contribution will evolve in time and in line with increased revenue-
earned potential of the rural population; and
*  support and monitoring functions carried out by the Technical Support Unit will be progressively
streamlined to ensure that beneficiaries will in time themselves finance their required technical
support and guidance.



Page 13
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
sk Risk Rating                                                 Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Development
Objective"
(i) Availability of competent private operators and  Low       The TSU to ensure support for the
NGOs may be limited for some of the priority                   beneficiary communities in organizing
training activities identified by the pilot                    extensive national wide search for operators
communities                                                    where necessary
(ii) The "Comitds de Concertation" ability to ensure   Low     Component 1 specifically provides for the
non-duplication of project activities with their               TSU to ensure quality participatory
communities will be compromised by "interference"              diagnostic in the basic planning processes for
the CC to address this risk. The oversight
responsibility of the Borgou Department
Project Steering Committee and the criteria
for project approval to be used by the CASP
(district level committee) address this risk
(iii) Identification and selection of candidates  Low          Ensuring the representation of beneficiary
eligible for exchange field trips and study tours will         groups, professional groups and related
be biased                                                      ministry representatives or the CASP ( e.g.
E.4c) address this risk
(iv) Availability of construction materials and  Modest        The quality of technical guidance provided
competent wells drillers will be limited due to                by TSU and relevant technical services must
geographic location of Borgou and target                       necessarily ensure that these risks are
communities                                                    considered during both the CC decision
process on village development plan
priorities and during the contracting process.
(v) Drought and floods will delay contract execution  Modest   The training in basic planning processes
on construction activities                                     foreseen in component I will address the
issue of optimal seasonal timing of
construction contracts to minimize this risk
(vi) Competent private operators will not be   Modest          Co-ordination by the TSU may provide for
available to fulfill the works contracts                       packaging a number of construction activities
of different communities by lots to attract
competitive operators when appropriate
(vii) Beneficiary village communities will not be    Low       Quality at entry measures to address potential
able to/will be delayed in identifying agreement on            barriers to building consensus and support
other priority infrastructures                                 for CC decisions are especially included in
the participatory diagnostic and basic
planning training in component 1.



Page 14
(viii) Natural Resource Management issues - other  Low        Forest management techniques and dispute
than forest management and dispute settlement will           settlement skills emerged as the
be identified as priorities by beneficiary groups            overwhelming priority identified during the
preparatory participatory diagnostic in the
Borgou villages to date. Should other
priority issues emerge, the
preparatory/decision making process of the
CC/CASP provides a generous timeframe for
the TSU to identify the necessary support
skills.
(ix) CARDER-Borgou will not work closely with    Modest      Active involvement of the CARDER-Borgou
the TSU                                                       in the identification/recruitment process of
the TSU; representation of the CARDER or
the Departmental Project Steering Committee
and CASP; regular informal and formal
reporting by the TSU are all steps designed
to minimize this possible tension (of E4).
(x) Qualified staff do not remain with the TSU for   Modest  Careful and transparent recruitment process
the project duration                                         for the TSU staff will be essential - in line
with the ongoing MDR institutional reform.
Contractual arrangement which provide
incentives for TSU staff to be rewarded for
quality of project activity outputs may be
considered.
(xi) The TSU is not able to function with autonomy  Modest   Attentive supervision by the Bank, to ensure
that 1) the reporting responsibilities of the
TSU are clearly understood by all parties
(annex 1.3) and 2) the checks and balances
provided by the respective roles of PSC,
CARDER and CASP are functional
(xii) The village communities and producer groups  Low       Component 1 in the provision for training in
are not responsive to the TSU                                communications and various technical skills
together with component 3 which provides
for recruitment of TSU staff with experience
in participatory management (E.4) both
address this risk.
(xiii) The village communities are slow to /do not   Low     The preparatory diagnostic decision making
accept responsibility for self assessment monitoring         process identifying community development
priorities for consideration by CASP is
designed to ensure community responsibility
for self-monitoring, as part of the
implementation process



Page 15
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
(i) Village communities and producer groups do not           In addition to the basic training in planning
accept the decisions of the CASP and do not (or              and communication skills (component 1) the
only partially) count on the support/guidance from    Low    institutional design measures of components
the TSU                                                      3 (representation of beneficiary groups or the
CASP) address this risk.
(ii) Availability of competent private operators and  Modest  Techniques such as using the lead-time of the
NGOs may be limited for some of the training and             participatory /diagnostic/CASP approach
technical contracts required by beneficiary                  process, and packaging of contracts will
communities                                                  contribute to minimizing this risk.
(iii) The CASPs do not function autonomously nor   Low       The design of component 3, to ensure broad
transparently                                                technical, government and beneficiary
representation on the CASP addresses this
risk.
(iv) Lack of available competent private operators,  Modest  Minimizing measures for anyone of this set
lack of adequate material for construction and the           of risk elements have been identified under
vagaries of extreme weather conditions delay or              their specific program components - a
prevent implementation of priority infrastructure            combination of any or all 3 of the risks
needs.                                                       would present a considerable risk, for which
only limited effect from preventive forward
planning measure can be expected.
v) Qualified TSU working with responsible    Modest          Attentive supervision by Bank to ensure that
autonomy are not able to incrementally facilitate and        signs of possible over-extension of the TSU
organize the required range of technical                     are detected early and measures such as
management and monitoring support activities for             revision of TSU staff responsibilities or
the total of identified beneficiary communities.             rescheduling of target activities can be
initiated.



Page 16
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: n/a
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  Recruitment of Technical Support Unit Staff
* Implementation Manual has been adopted by the Government
*  Establishment of an internal accounting and financial system acceptable to IDA
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]       ba    i
Task Team Leader:iMadan M    I
[signature]
,>ector Manager/Director: Jean-Paul Chausse         \
[signature]
Country Manager/Director: Theodore 0. Ahlers



Page 17
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Benin: Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project
Narrative Summary          Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Government-related                                                                         (Goal to Bank Mission)
agriculture policies obiectives:   G.D.P and agricultural growth  National statistics      Inner co-ordination in
To further rationalize the role of  rate.                                                  support of the
the public sector and agricultural                                                         governments' sectoral
institutions, to create an                                                                 policies develops further
enviromnent favorable to private
sector activity in agriculture; to
invest in capacity building and
infrastructure to support
increased quantity and improved
quality of agricultural
production.
Program Development
Objective:
To improve the capacity of rural  Rural communities access to  Status report on baseline   (Program Development
women and village communities  production and social services  survey.                     Objective to CAS)
to better manage their socio-  increased and quality of life  Various reports of activities    Governments'
economic environment through   indicators significantly improved   Annual work programs    sectoral/macro-economic
sustainable development                                       Supervision reports          policy remains favorable.
activities                                                                                 Private sector operators,
NGOs and the Borgou
communities are
responsive to the
opportunities provided by
the project
Proiect Development                                                                        (Project Development
Obiectives:                                                                                Objectives/Program
*  To strengthen the capacity of  At least 200 villages have                               Development Objectives)
village committees to design,  prepared and initiated
prepare and implement       implementation of local        Status report on baseline    Rural populations are
village development plans in  development plans by 2001    survey.                      effectively engaged in
a participatory fashion by                                 Various reports of activities    realizing the actions of the
using a decentralized                                      Annual work programs         program
approach to the diagnosis of                               Supervision reports
priorities and implementation
of solutions.
*  To meet the immediate needs
of up to 50% (250) of the
rural communities of the
Borgou, for increased access
to services and to basic    Quantity and quality of rural  Supervision and progress
productive and social      infrastructure significantly    report
infrastructure.            improved in at least 75% of
villages
*  To test implementation                                    I                            I



Page 18
arrangements as a prelude to
the decentralization law
under consideration by the
Government.
At least 75% of villages have
demonstrated capacity to
implement micro-projects under
new decentralized management
approach
Project Outputs:                                                                           (Outputs to Objective)
I. Capacity buildinZ in rural
viFlares of the Borgou
Borgou's rural populations will   At the end of the program: i) at    Status report on baseline  Competent private
have acquired new skills due to   least 80% members of the    survey.                      operators and NGOs will
functional literacy, post-    "Comites de Concertation" will    Various reports of activities  be available, provide
literacy/technical training and  have completed and be using the   Annual work programs    training services and will
community development          skills acquired from the literacy    Supervision reports    fulfill their contracts
program                        Monitoring reports
(ii) at least 80% members of the   "Comites de Concertation"
"Comites de Concertation" will   self-evaluation reports
have completed and be using the
knowledge acquired from the
post-literacy/technical of the
beneficiary producers (women
included) will be using the
knowledge acquired from their
respective training program.
Rural radio programs peak
listening time to be at least 80%
of beneficiaries
MI. Community-Based Local
Development
Borgou's rural populations will   At the end of the program (i) at    World Bank supervision  Construction materials and
be benefiting from effective land  least 75% of infrastructure are  report                 well drillers are available
management strategy:           completed and functional       Various reports of activities    - Drought and floods do
- design and financing of                                     Evaluation report            not delay completion time
priority village infrastructure;    (ii) 80% of planned Extension  Monitoring report       of works.
- participatory management of    and Adaptive research achieved    Investigation report    - Competent private
natural resources;                                            "Comites de Concertation"    operators will be available
- extension and adaptive      (iii) 80% of planned actions in the  self-evaluation report  to fulfill the works
research                       area of natural resources                                   contracts
management are achieved        Monitoring of selected       - Beneficiary village
environmental performance   communities are able to
(iv) provision of results of   indicators                   agree on priority
monitoring both village-project                             infrastructures
specific and project-area wide                              - CARDER BORGOU
environmental indicators on the                             works closely with the
basis of following three criteria:                          TSU
- maintenance of ground water
table levels
- maintenance of soil fertility
- potential for soil degradation
and water pollution.



Page 19
III. Participatorv Manajement
and Technical SuDDort
(i) The Borgou beneficiary     3.1 - The PSC, district level                               The Technical Support
village groups will have been  committee and TSU are                                       Unit is autonomous. It is
trained in basic               constituted and functional                                  staffed with qualified
planning/management;           3.2.1 Beneficiary requests are                              employees.
procurement/accounting and     developed with support from TSU                             The village communities
monitoring processes           and reviewed by the district level                          and producer groups are
committee                                                   responsive to the TSU.
(ii) have benefited from       3.2.2 The TSU releases funds and
decentralized technical support   provides/facilitates provision of                        The village communities
from the TSU                   technical advice as appropriate.                            accept responsibility for
3.3 - Village specific CCs                                  self assessment monitoring
(iii) will have received       implement field level (self
Monitoring-Support-Guidance to  assessment) monitoring in line
support "Comites de            with 3.2, activity specific inputs
Concertation" and farmers      and outputs.
organizations                  3.4 - The TSU implements simple
fields visit based monitoring of
beneficiary community group
activities, providing on the spot
feedback to beneficiary groups
and annual report to PSC, on
BPRSP inputs, outputs and
import.
Inputs:                                                                                    (Components to Outputs)
Capacity Building in Rural
Villages of the Borgou         1. Functional Literacy. Post-
*  to be done through:         Literacy, Technical Training and                            Village communities and
Community Development                                       producer groups are
(i) rural animation and        TSU to support beneficiary                                  responsive to the decisions
consolidation of the village-  groups in Organization of                                   of the CASP and the
based particpator d s  contracts with NGOs, private                               guidance of the TSU.
approachr (ii) adult and      sector agencies and various                                  Competent private
functional literacy for women,    government units to provide                              operators and NGOs are
members of village committee    training in the following:                                 available to provide
and farmers organizations; and    1.1. Functional literacy                                 training services and will
(iii) technical training for various  1.2. Post-literacy                                   fulfill their contracts.
groups of producers with an    1.3. Training
inclusive emphasis on women,    1.3.1. Training of herders
youths~~~ an'uaihreswot   1.3.2. Specific training designed
youths and Fulani herders who to  frpoueso  ehia  en
date, have not benefited from  ofo productison:tcnca  en
training programs.             ofrodcin
a) Training of members of
"Comite de Concertation"
b) Training of farmers in
multiplication of seeds
c) Specific training designed for
producers (women included)
d) Translation of specification
sheets in local languages: six (6)
local languages and eight (8)
technical themes



Page 20
e) Training of private nursery
gardeners
1.4. Community development
1.4.1 Support to local Radios of
Parakou and Banikoara
1.5.1. Widespread campaign of
mass training
1.5.2. Exchange field trips
1.5.3. Study tours
1.5.4. Support to farmers
organizations
US$1.2 million
Community-Based Local
Development
to be supported through the    2. Infrastructure                                             The CASP will be able to
financing of:                TSU to support beneficiary                                      operate with autonomy and
groups in managing financing of                                 in a democratic manner.
(i) priority village infrastructure   contractors to provide services in
(storage facilities, bottom-lands,  the following areas:                                        Competent private
rural roads and tracks, water   2.1 Water supply                                                operators, adequate
points, wells, social           2.1.1. Village-based Well drilling                               construction materials are
infrastructure, etc.); (ii)     2.1.2. Stock watering                                           available; extreme weather
promotion of natural resource                                                                   does not delay construction
management technologies; and    2.2 Feeder Roads                                                activities.
(iii) extension/ adaptive research,
and technical support to farmers   2.3. Other infrastructure
organizations/producer groups.
2.4. Natural Resources
Management
TSU to support beneficiary
groups in organization of
contracts with NGO's, private
sector or government units to
provide training in:
Forest management techniques,
approaches to participatory
disputes settlement.
2.5. Extension and Adaptive-
Research
PSC and TSU to ensure:
2.5.1. Regular delivery of
field/certified seeds to producers
2.5.2. Periodic/annual agricultural
fora for research feedback to
producer groups
US$3.0 million



Page 21
Participatory Management,
Technical Support and
Monitoring
*  to be supported through:
the financing of training in basic  3.1. The establishment of the
planning and management        PSC, district-level committee and
processes for the target village    TSU.
groups; the establishment of  3.2. Autonomous TSU to support
sigople procurement and       beneficiary groups in planning,
financing mechanisms to be    management of implementation
managed by the beneficiary     and monitoring of activities.
groups; the establishment of  3.3 TSU organizes regular field
sirple (self assessment)      monitoring and reporting to PSC,
mnonitoring by the beneficiaries;   dititlvlcmite
the provision of decentralized
technical support for the target              U    0.8 million
beneficiary groups.



Page 22
Annex 2
Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$1.2 million (total cost of component, including contingencies).
Capacity building in rural villages of the Borgou: under this component the project would
provide literacy, training, and community development support to targeted village communities
to reinforce existing capacity through their various organizations. The project will finance the
full cost of training programs and rural animation activities: (i) training of herders; (ii) specific
training designed for producers on technical means of production; (iii) training of members of
"Village Committees" on organizational and simple management practices; (iv) training of
farmers; (v) specific training designed for producers-women included; (vi) translation of
specification sheets in local languages; (vii) training of private nursery gardeners: (i) support to
local radios of Parakou and Banikoara; (ii) widespread campaign of awareness-raising on proven
production and natural resource management techniques; (iii) exchange field trips experiences;
(iv) study tours; and (v) support to farmer organizations, and extension/adaptive research by
developing, at the request of producers, various field seeds and certified seeds and organizing
agricultural forum days to inform producers. Beneficiaries' contribution will be up to 15% for
the literacy programs: (i) functional literacy and (ii) post-literacy.
Project Component 2 - US$3.0 million (total cost of component, including contingencies).
Community-based local development: Under this component, the project will focus primarily
on resolving the immediate needs of rural communities through better access to services and
basic productive and social infrastructure. This will be done on the basis of priorities established
by villagers themselves and translated through specific village development plans, and achieved
for: (i) water supply; by the realization of village-based well drilling and waterworks; (ii) feeder
roads; by the realization of access to production sites and enclave villages; (iii) social services
infrastructures; by the realization of health posts, classrooms, storage facilities etc.; (iv) natural
resources management by promoting technologies capable of protecting the soil from
degradation, and by discouraging development/practices that may damage the natural resource
base, and by testing adapted intensification techniques.
Project Component 3 - US$0.8 million (total cost of component, including contingencies)
Participatory Management, Technical Support, and Monitoring: The project is to be
implemented over a three-year period. The project will provide direct assistance from its staff,
including three teams of technical support specialists in the Technical Support Unit to provide on
demand, support and guidance in the design and execution of the various activities. Up-front
beneficiaries' contribution will be in kind or/in cash. With the support of the TSU, it is expected
that the project implementation will contribute to the piloting of a new generation of
decentralized rural operational processes and will foster the consolidation of the participatory
diagnosis approach, which builds better participation and ownership by the beneficiaries.
Information generated through monitoring and evaluation efforts at all levels and in particular by
TSU would enable the Government to assess the suitability of the new participatory processes
before replication in other regions of Benin. Government has agreed that project management
will be entrusted to experienced private-sector professionals. All key project staff will be
selected on the basis of an open competitive process and with fixed-term renewable contracts.
Appointment of a project management team acceptable to IDA will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.



Page 23
Annex 3
Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local          Foreign       Total
----------------US $ million------------------
A. Capacity building in rural villages of the Borgou      0.6              0.4         1.0
B. Community-based local development                      1.9              0.8         2.7
C. Participatory Mgnt, Technical Support, and Monitoring  0.3              0.3         0.6
Total                                                     2.8              1.5         4.3
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                  0.2             0.1          0.3
Price Contingencies                                     0.2             0.2          0.4
Total Project Cost                                        3.2              1.8         5.0



Page 24
Annex 4
Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project
Financial Summary
(in US$ million)
Years Ending
(Indicate currency, units and base year)
Implementation Period                       Operational Period
1998    1999    2000                      2001    2002    2003
Proiect Costs
Investment Costs             1.0      1.3     2.3
Recurrent Costs              0.1      0.1     0.2                       0.2      0.2     0.2
Total                      1.1     1.4      2.5                      0.2      0.2     0.2
Financing Sources (% of total
proiect costs)
IBRD/IDA                     82       79      75
Government                    11      12       13
Beneficiaries                 7       9        12                       100     100      100
Total                     100      100     100                     _
Main assumptions: Under the project, Government's contribution will be limited to covering taxes and
duties. Beneficiaries will share in the cost of training, services and infrastructure. They are also
expected to gradually cover maintenance and operating costs.



Page 25
Annex 5
Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    All goods, works and services financed under the IDA Credit would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines of goods, works and services [(Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996 (Goods and
Works Guidelines), and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997 (Consultants Guidelines)]. Contracts to supply goods and equipment,
vehicles and consulting services would be processed and awarded by the project management.
All procurement would be carried out by the Technical Support Unit (TSU) which would be
staffed with procurement proficient staff.  Given the nature of the project, a standard
procurement plan would not be prepared as demands from the 250 villages concerned by the
project would be determined as a result of the participatory diagnosis process. These demands
are also expected to vary from one village to the next, therefore making the preparation of a
procurement plan in advance impossible.
Procurement of Works
2.    As the contracts for civil works are not expected to exceed US$30,000, no ICB is
envisaged. Works estimated to cost US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed US$300,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the guidelines.
Community Participation
3.    About 250 villages would be concerned by the project. Small works (wells, small dikes,
tracks, rehabilitation of schools and health posts, etc) estimated to cost less than US$30,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$2.9 million equivalent, may
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded in accordance with the provision of
paragraph 3.15 of the guidelines. The bidding documents shall include a detailed description of
the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who makes the lowest responsive offer for the required work, and
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Procurement of Goods
4.    Given the small quantities of goods to be purchased under the project and the fact that it
would be difficult to do bulk procurement, no ICB is envisaged. Goods estimated to cost
US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$100,000
equivalent may be procured by National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, acceptable to
IDA. Contracts under US$50,000 for the procurement of items that cannot be grouped into bulk
procurement and for readily available off-the-shelf goods would be procured by comparing price
quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers. Procurement by this method should not
exceed the total sum of US$97,000 over the project's life. The implementation unit would be
required to prepare a computer-based system to monitor that the aggregate amounts agreed upon



Page 26
would not be exceeded during project implementation. IDA's prior review procedures would
apply to all purchases for which the contract value is equivalent or in excess of US$30,000 for
civil works and US$50,000 for goods.
Consultants' Services
5.     Consultants' services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and
the following provisions of this Section I.
5.1    Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 5.2 below, consultants' services shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based
selection of consultants.
T'he following provisions shall apply to consultants' services to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list
of consultants for services such as socio-economic studies, rural organization, training of
beneficiaries, teaching of rural population, and preparation of technical documents in view of
building of small rural infrastructures (wells, dikes, stock rooms/warehouse etc.), estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.2    Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
a) Least-cost Selection. Services for audit and advisory services estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
b) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications. Services for rural radio broadcasts,
feasibility studies, and adaptive research and extension estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.
c) Individual Consultants. Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.



Page 27
5.3    Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
a) Selection Planning. Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals,
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 1 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all
consultants' services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
b) Prior Review. (i) With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. (ii) With respect to each
contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the
equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior
review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall
have been given.
5.4   Post Review.
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the procedures
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Disbursement
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
1.    Disbursements will be fully documented except for contracts below the
equivalent of US$30,000 for civil works and individual consultants and US$50,000 for goods
and consulting firms. For such contracts borrower will be allowed to submit withdrawal
applications based on statement of expenditures (SOEs). All supporting documents for such
applications will be retained by the Project Management Unit and made readily available for
review by periodic IDA supervision missions and external auditors. All expenditures above the
equivalent of US$30, 000 for civil works and individual consultants, and US$50,000 for goods
and consulting firns would be eligible for direct payment.
Special account:
2.    To ensure that funds for project implementation are available as and when
needed, a Special Account in local currency would be established at a commercial Bank
acceptable to IDA, with an initial deposit equivalent to US$200,000, to cover about three months
of expenditures, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account after Credit effectiveness. The
Special Account would be replenished monthly or more often when the total disbursed amounts
to one third of the initial deposit, whichever is sooner. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 31, 2001.



Page 28
Annex 5, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$'000 equivalent)
Expenditure Category                         Procurement Method                     Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB       Other          NBF
1. Works                                      300        2957                         3257
(240)     (2279)                        (2519)
2. Goods                                      100         97                           197
(100)      (61)                         (161)
3. Services                                              1228    1/                   1228
(1030)                       (1030)
4. Miscellaneous                                          320    2/                    320
(290)                        (290)
Total                                      400        4600              0           5000
(340)     (3660)            (0)         (4000)
Note:    N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangement for the items listed under "Other"
and details of the items listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table
or in the text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit.
1:     All consulting services would be obtained in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines
(see also paras. 5.1-5.4 of this annex). Most consultant services would be obtained using short
lists from databases already compiled by other IDA funded projects in the country.
2:     Miscellaneous expenditures are those related to the project's incremental operations costs. They
include rent, utilities, office supplies, vehicle and equipment operating and maintenance costs, and
travel allowances of project staff. They would be mostly obtained through local shopping
procedures, given the small amounts of the individual purchases and the difficulty in combining
them in sufficiently large lots.



Page 29
Annex 5, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement          Contracts Subject to
Category              (Threshold)              Method               Prior Review
1. Goods               Equal or more than     NCB                     Equal or more than
US$50,000                                      US$50,000
Less than US$50,000    Comparison of at least
three quotations
2. Works               Equal or more than      NCB                    Equal or more than
US$30,000                                      US$30,000
Less than US$30,000    Community participation
3. Services                                                           Equal or more than
US$30,000 for
individuals and equal or
more than US$50,000 for
firms.
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review estimated at: $0.5 m, or 10%
percent of total costs.



Page 30
Annex 5, Table C: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category               Amount in US$        Financing
million          Percentage
1. Vehicles, Equipment, Furniture, office supplies  0.15          100% of foreign
and fuel                                                          and 80% of local
expenditures
2. Grants                                            2.30           80% of local
expenditures
3. Consultant Services and Training                  0.90              100%
4. Operating Costs                                   0.30              100%
5. Unallocated                                       0.35
Total       4.00



Page 31
Annex 6
Borgou Pilot Rural Support Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$ 000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
100                  70
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         6                    9
First Bank mission (identification)            07/01/1997           07/01/1997
Appraisal mission departure                    09/22/1997           09/22/1997
Negotiations                                   04/27/1998           04/27/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  07/01/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Mr. Theodore Ahlers                       Country Director
Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse                     Sector Manager
Mr. Madani M. Tall                        Senior Economist/Task Team Leader
Mr. Danny Benor                           Advisor to the Vice-President
Mrs. Elizabeth Morris-Hughes              Senior Operations Officer
Mr. Jeffrey Lewis                         Lead Specialist NRM
Mr. Nicolas Ahouissoussi                  Agriculture Operations Officer
Mr. Michel Aklamavo                       Agriculture Services Specialist
Mr. Amos Ben Mayor                        Agriculture Services Specialist
Mr. Desire Coquillat                      Financial Analyst/Consultant
Mr. Pierre Debourvy                       Rural Development Specialist/Consultant
Mr. Ren6 Cipriani                         Implementation Specialist/Consultant
Mr. Harry Palmier                        Institutional Development Specialist
Mr. Serigne 0. Fye                        Environmental Specialist
Mr. Soulemane Fofana                      Operations Analyst
Ms. Wilda Sajous                          Task Assistant
Mr. Christian Fauliau                     Agriculture Institutions Specialist
Mr. Hughes Agossou                        Financial Analyst



Page 32
Annex 7
Borgou Pilot Rural Support Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
- Detailed Cost Tables
- Detailed Logframe
C. Other
- Document Cadre sur le Programme Pilote
- Documents on Village-based Participatory Diagnosis Approach (APNV)
*Including electronic files.



Page 33
Annex 8
Status of Bank Group Operations in Benin
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                          disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit     Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                               IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 38
Active Loans
BJ-PE-117      IDA29240      1997   GOVERNMENT                         TRANSPORT SECTOR                  0.00       40.00            0.00         35.87        8.16       0.00
BJ-PE-1ll      IDA27270      1995   GOVERNMENT                         SAC III                           0.00       40.00            0.00         17.38       20.91       0.00
BJ-PE-112      IDA27120      1995   GOVERNMENT                         ENV. MANAGEMENT PROJ              0.00        8.00            0.00          6.13         1.17      1.17
BJ-PE-118      IDA27340      1995   GovT. OF BENIN                     POPULATION AND HFALT              0.00       27.80            0.00         23.19       13.53       6.51
BJ-PE-103      IDA26130      1994   GOVERNMENT OF BENIN N              EDUCATION DEVELOPMEN              0.00       18.10            0.00         15.34       11.56       6.94
BJ-PE-116      IDA25520      1994   GOVERNMENT                         ECON. MGMT.                       0.00        5.20            0.00          3.63        3.25       1.32
BJ-PE-121      IDA26220      1994   REPUBLIC OF BENIN                  RURAL WATER SUPPLY &              0.00        9.80            0.00          5.90         6.02      1.39
BJ-PE-99       IDA26010      1994   GOVT OF BENIN                      FOOD SECURITY                     0.00        9.70            0.00          5.09        2.58       1.41
BJ-PE-120      IDA25290      1993                                      RURAL CREDIT II                   0.00        3.80            0.00          2.48        1.69       1.04
BJ-PE-106      IDA23440      1992   GOVERNMENT                         MGT OF NAT RESOURCES              0.00       14.10            0.00          1.53         -.32        .87
BJ-PE-105      IDA22850      1991   GOVERNMENT                         AGRIC. SERVICES                   0.00       12.30            0.00          3.27        2.39       2.16
BJ-PE-108      IDA22840      1991   GOVERNMENT OF BENIN                POWER REHAB                       0.00       15.00            0.00          9.00        8.21       0.00
Total                                                                                                    0.00      203.80            0.00        128.81       79.15      22.81
-     Active Loans          Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)                   66.03               448.84              514.87
of which has been repaid:                   0.00               33.09               33.09
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 203.80               400.19              603.99
Amount sold                      :                 0.00               10.46               10.46
Of which repaid               :                0.00               10.46               10.46
Total Undisbursed                               128.81                 2.43              131.24
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS 5 highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 34
Annex 9
Benin at a glance                                                               8/28/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan    Low-
Benin     Africa  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                          5.6       600    3.229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                              360        490      500                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                 2.0       294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                          2.9       2.7      1.7      GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                                         2.5       2.6      1.7
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% ofpopulation)               33
Urban population (% of total populatlon)                42         31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        50         52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                95         92       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% otchildren under 5)               36
Access to safe water (% of population)                  70         47       53
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                     63         43       34              Benin
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoo-age population)     72         72      105
Male                                                             78      112                Low-income group
Female                                                           65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1996     1996
GDP (billions US$)                             0.7      1.0       2.0      2.2      Economic ritiose
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 19.3      8.9      19.0     17.5
Exports of goods and services/GDP             21.1     34.4      25.6     24.8              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     1.7      0.8       9.3      9.2
Gross national savings/GDP                     9.2      4.7      12.2     12.6
Current account balance/GDP                  -15.6     -4.2      -7.4     -5.3
Interest payments/GDP                          0.1      1.3       0.0     0o0       Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                12.7     78.1      77.9   . 77.8
Total debt service/exports                     3.7     11.5       7.1     16.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                        44.3     37.4
Present value of debt/exports                                   151.5    162.7                   Indebtedness
197545  1986-96      1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                 -     Benin
GOP                                  4.4       3.5      4.8       5.5      5.8          -. Low-income group
GNP per capita                        1.4     -0.8      3.0       2.2      3.0
Exports of goods and services        4.4       1.8      6.0      20.0     12.3 3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% of GDP)                                                                          Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                   30.5    34.5       33.9     35.1      40
Industry                                      16.2     18.1      14.2     13.7      30
Manufacturing                               12.2      8.2        8.1      8.0     20
Services                                      53.3     47,4      51.9     51.2      10 jN/
o~~~~~~~~ _ 
Private consumption                          89.1      83.8      79.8     79.6      10     91   92   93   94   95
General government consumption                 9.3     15.4      10.9     11.2               -G oD         --*-GDP
Imports of goods and services                38.7      42.5      35.3     33.1
1975-5  1986-96       1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports l%)
Agriculture                                    3.7      5.2       0.6      7.6      60
Industry                                       7.6      3.6       5.9      3.9      40
Manufacturing                                2.5      4.2        5.2      5.8
Services                                       4.0      1.3       6.5      4.7      20
0
Private consumption                            3.0      2.1       6.8      0.6      o             92
General government consumption                 3.4     -0.2      18.5      3.5    -20             ' 9
Gross domestic investment                      4.2     10.3      32.5     -7.1      0-
Imports of goods and services                  1.7      0.5      36.9     -3.3                    Expors  Im ports
Gross national product                         4.2      3.3       4.9      5.8
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
Benin



Page 35
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1995      1996
Domesticprices                                                                          Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             40
Consumer prices                                    ...14914.9                  4.7
Implicit GOP deflator                           14.2     -4.9       16.6       3.0      20-
Govemment rinance
(% of GDP)                                                                              0        1
Current revenue                                   ..    12.7        14.4      15.1             91    92    93    94    95    96
Current budget balance                             ,      -4.7        2.2      3.2               -G DP det. -0-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..    -4.7        -7.0      -4.6
TRADE
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                          Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                               ,,      298        405       423      750
Cotton                                           ..      42        173       210
Fats                                             .        4         17        11
Manufactures                                             40          0         0      SW
Total imports (cio                                 .   326    557   548                    H H0 jh.H
Food                                            ..      126        114       1 19     250
Fuel and energy                                  ..      61         73        76
Capital goods                                   ..       72        210       217        0   __________________
Export price index (1987=100)                     ..      157        250       253           90   91   92   93   94   95   90
Import price index (1987=100)                     ..      151        176       181                 0 Exports   ntlmports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                          ..     104        142       140
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions usS)                                                                          Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   144       360        531      546
Imports of goods and services                   264       444        732      728           90   91   92   93   94   95 |9
Resource balance                               -119       -85       -201      -182                                  i
Net income                                        -1      -21        -4       -41                               Lj
Net current transfers                            15        62         96      107
Current account balance,                                                                                                    lJ
before official capital transfers             -106      -44       -150      -116      .6,           Li
Financing items (net)                            86        30        134      164      .91
Changes in net reserves                          20        14         16       -48
Memo:                                                                                  _
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)              15         8        296      360
Conversion rate (locaLUUSS)                   214.3    449.3       512.2    543.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             86       817      1,576     1,712
IBRD                                            0        0           0        0                     F  G
IDA                                            19      125        498       520                    52 35
Total debt service                                6        49         43       99                                    B
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0
IDA                                             0        2           7        7
Composition of net resource Flows
Official grants                                20       27        113         0             E 709\      I       J  C
Official creditors                             12       29         65         0
Private creditors               .               0       -18         0         0    |
Foreign direct investment                       2        0          1         0                               D
Portfolio equity                                0        0          0         0                              366
World Sank program
Commitments                                     4        5         76        40       A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   4       19         31        41       B -IDA    0-Other multilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          3         3       C-IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                       4       19         27        37     __1
Interest payments                               0        1          4         4
Net transfers                                   4       18         24        34



MAP SECTION



N G E R                                                                            I N    E R                      ph,
*;       0\   *9-- <                                                                                                                0_1_y  >  t hsoaeSu 
5URKI9  FASOo,o                                                                                                                           .
[,   *N  J~,   I.   B U R K I N  A     \      \                      KThimm, W. ,,   - G-,
K ;   NIGERIA                                            N )Ney                                               )     o~oo
<._,9 J                                  '                                 N  I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  E R I A
K bl~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
,, j
-4~~~~-
Pj\,  'Ri                                            ,,               '
/.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
t     Kobi,>  s 9;  ''   fl                                                          -~''~                B E N  I N
_9>                                 {>3~~~~~ ~~~~~B- o                                              BORGOU PILOT
,.i                   1)                                . g > ~~~~RURAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
T'oko,utoBORGOU REGION
t.   l~~~~~~ PAVED ROADS
i NATITINGGU    Rosooe             Kd b                                   EARTH ROADS
K'ocoo            j~-  Kou'o                                                                ----   TRACKS
10                                                                                                                                                    10 T  O    G O   t  CnteTuesse   RIVERS
<    ,                        t            R  Dlebr~~~~~~~~~~~~~166 K-ni-g..dOo  3                       INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
I   j)          i                                     /                             t    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL AIRPORTS
R d(Dmp)    Dugou                                            > OLe  )woo                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
-E  i                                    53v310ul       S ove              X                         >~~~~~~~~~I...    REGION CAPITALS
a i y tl / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION BOUNDARIES
1          | kbehi      Logo:oueX                IgbodXl=)                  ---- ~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
F"o                   r                                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ad.kpl..& 
/  t   ABOMEB                                                             PILOT
)'-                                          i                                                       URA  SUPPORTm PROGRAMl 
7-Lsooou.oho ,eO   --<,Rue                                            TRACKS I.,
Tl_                 Dz 2  \t_7             9      ^t' 0    :>  Wle~~~~~~~~~~~D   t  1b-  r  23    40  60    80    100
7                       C   Agot               ,,;,. Adioh924_  og D~A    S.6i                     KILOMETERS
6    RenA             GuEsseC.                                      RAILWAYSO 
"'   T   O   G    O                                                                                          RELAGOS
Z~~~~ DT1nHRHp   Kofnod0-7ITEN TO A                                                                                              IPR
0i                        0-, OTvlE                                                                                      SELECTED    CIT S    A D    T
8                                                                                                    A    REGION CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~2  3



