Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24797
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-30980)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
FOR A,
BORGOU PILOT RURAL SUPPORT PROJECT
12/20/201)2
Rural Development 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 08/31/2002)
Currency Unit = CFAF (BCEAO)
CFAF 100 = US$ 0.142
US$ 1 = CFAF 660
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL           Adaptable Program Loan
APNV          Village Level participatory Approach
(Approche Participative Niveau Village)
ASIP          Agriculture Sector Investment Program
BPRSP         Borgou Pilot Rural Support Program
CARDER        Regional Center for Development and Rural Equipment
Centre d'Appui Regional pour le Developpement et l'Equipement Rural
CASP          District Approval Commnittee
(Comite d'Approbation Sous-Prefectoral)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CC            Village Concertation Committee
(Comite de Concertation Villageois)
IDA           Intemational Development Association
LIL           Leaming and Innovation Loan
NGO           Non-Govemmental Organization
PAMR          Borgou Pilot Rural Support Project
(Projet dAppui au Monde Rural)
PGRN          Natural Resources Management Project
(Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles)
PILSA         Community-Based Food Security Project
(Projet d'Interventions Locales pour la Securite Alimentaire)
PRP           Poverty Reduction Program
PRSA          Agricultural Services Restructuration Project
(Projet de Restructuration des Services Agricoles)
PSC           Project Steering Committee
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
TSU           Project Technical Support Unit
(Cellule d'Appui Technique CAT)
WB            World Bank
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Antoinette M. Sayeh
Sector Manager:   Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader:   Noel Chabeuf



BENIN
BORGOU PILOT RURAL SUPPORT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 5
6. Sustainability                                                                     7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    9
9. Partner Comments                                                                  11
10. Additional Information                                                           12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                22






Project ID: P057345                                      Project Name: BORGOU PILOT RSP
Team Leader: Noel Rene Chabeuf                           TL Unit: AFTR2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: BORGOU PILOT RSP                              LIC/TF Number: IDA-30980
Country/Department: BENIN                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Other social services (25%); Roads & highways
(24%); Water supply (24%); Agricultural extension
and research (15%); Central government
administration (12%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/15/1998                             Effective: 09/01/1998        03/18/1999
Appraisal:  04/09/1998                               MTR: 09/18/2000           01/05/2001
Approval:  06/16/1998                             Closing: 12/31/2001          06/30/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  Republic of Benin/Ministere du Developpement Rural
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:     Antoinette M. Sayeh                      Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:      Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                        Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:  Noel Chabeuf                             Madani M. Tall
ICR Primary Author:  Younes Bouarfa; Noel Chabeuf
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in Schedule 2 to the DCA "the objectives of the project (PAMR) are to: (a) improve the
capacity of about 250 village communities in the Borgou Region to better manage their socio-economic
environment through sustainable development activities designed and implemented through a participatory
approach; and (b) assess the Borrower and Beneficiaries' planning and implementation capabilities before
phased replication of the tested participatory approach in other parts of the Borrower's territory."
As stated in the PAD: the project's main objective was to improve the capacity of rural women and
rural communities to manage efficiently their socio-economic environment through: (i) Raising their
awareness and improving their knowledge and understanding of their own enviromnent (information
gathering, analytical tools, site-specific workshops); (ii) improving local institutions, in particular village
committees (Comites de Concertation Villageois), to strengthen collective decision-maidng capabilities
(selecting objectives and priorities, planning, etc); (iii) providing the populations with the resources to
implement their development plans; and (iv) improving the provision of goods and services, through
providers' capacity strengthening, to respond to the communities' demands to carry out participatory-based
sustainable development activities. The project would, more specifically, seek to: (i) strengthen village
communities' ability to design, prepare and implement village development plans by using a participatory
approach and simpler procedures for defining priorities definition and implementation of solutions; (ii) meet
the immediate needs of up to 50 percent (250) of the Borgou rural communities for improved access to
services, and basic productive and social infrastructure; and (iii) test new resource mobilization and
implementation arrangements as a prelude to the pending decentralization law, then under consideration by
the govermment.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objective remains pertinent. After the Mid -Term Review of the project (January 2001), it was
still considered valid, and was thus unrevised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of the following parts:
Part A: Capacity Building:
1. Enhancement of the organizational and managerial capacities (project design, preparation and
implementation) of the village committees, in the nearly 250 villages of the Borgou Region, with particular
regards to elaboration of village development plans. Improvement of the literacy and technical capacities of
the committees and Community Groups through the provision of technical advisory services and of a
training program.
2. Implementation of a program of field trips and study tours. Improvement of local radio stations, in
Parakou and Banikoara, through the provision of staff training and small equipment acquisition.
3. Improment of the technical capabilities of producers' Committee Groups through provision of technical
advisory services in terms of extension and adaptive research. Implementation of a series of agricultural
fora to inform producers.
Part B: Community-Initiated Local Development
Provision of Grants for the financing of community-initiated sustainable development activities including,
inter alia, activities relating to water supply (well drilling and water works), social services infrastructure
- 2 -



(construction of health posts, classrooms, and storage facilities) and natural resource management
technologies.
Part C: Evaluation
Results evaluation for the activities carried out within the beneficiary-oriented participatory approach.
Assessment of the suitability of such participatory approach for potential replication in other parts of the
Borrower's territory.
Part D: Institutional Management
Improvement of the operational and technical capacities of the Technical Support Unit (TSU) for project
implementation through the provision of advisory services and training, and the acquisition of equipment,
furniture and vehicles in order to allow TSU to take charge of project activities monitoring.
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components did not require revision during the implementation phase. After the Mid-term
Review, considering the short life span of the project, and following the evolution of the exchange rate
between the SDR and CFA Franc, a reallocation of the unallocated funds from the Credit was made,
without balance changes between project categories/components. The project closing date was extended by
six months, that is until June 30, 2002 instead of December 31, 2001. This extension aimed mainly at
compensating for the six month delay, which occurred in getting the Developmental Credit Agreement
effective.
3.S Quality at Entry:
Performance at entry was not rated. The objective of the Govemment's agriculturaVrural strategy, during
the second half of the 90s, was to promote socio-economic development in the rural zones through the
mobilization of private sector initiatives and investments. This was to be realized by decentralizing the
decision-making process and transferring resources to the benefit of local populations and village
communities. As the limited capacity of the rural population and their instutions was identified as one of
the main constraints to the decentralization process, the Project intended to assist farmers' organizations,
women's groups and village communities in managing their own socio-economic environment. While other
projects/programs had been designed for the same purpose (e.g. Social Fund Project), the PAMR intended
to go further in terms of decentralization and effective clelegation of responsibility to rural communities to
manage their development. The objective was to test, at the field level, a number of decentralized
procedures/approaches that could serve as the basis for future rural development rules and policies in the
country. For this purpose, a LIL was considered as the most suitable instrument for the WB as well as for
the Government. The project did not overestimate the capacity of the rural population to undertake new
responsibilities, given that the beneficiaries benefited from appropriate technical support and advice. As
expected, the existing public services, contracted by the project, were able to provide adequate training and
consulting to the communities and local enterprises had sufficient capacity to respond to the demand
generated by the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project originally targeted 259 villages, where a Village Concertation Committee (CC) was
established.  Demand-driven project interventions took place in 229 of these 259 villages. One hundred
and fifty villages had at least one rural infrastructure built under the project (a total of 296 infrastructures
were built). It was found that the villages in the target group which did not benefit from project
interventions had their needs satisfied through other projects or programs.
- 3 -



The Village Concertation Committes (CCs), established under the project, met regularly twice a month.
Those that were not fully functional were remodeled by their members (25 percent). Altogether, the 229
operational CCs gather more than 700 village associations, which have become operational and
autonomous. They have been assessed as satisfactory by the beneficiaries. Only 5 percent have shown
shortcomings. Ethnic minorities (Fulani herders) were well represented in the CCs (they represent 17
percent of the population at large and 28 percent of CC membership), but women accounted for only 23
percent of membership of these committees.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Capacity Building:
All the members of the CC (3,676 people including 3,164 men and 512 women), have been trained in 259
rural communities on the organization, planning and management of community based socio-economic
activities.
Literacy training has reached 5,638 people (2,878 men and 2,760 women). Other forms of training have
also been implemented: "improved cropping system" (429 men, 1 woman); grassroots veterinary care (391
men, 4 women); seed multiplication (80 men, 21 women); tree nursery management (36 men); bee keeping
(291 men, 34 women); fish farming (143 men, 8 women); household hygiene and nutrition (120 women);
processing of agricultural products (228 women); training of midwives and first-aid workers (22 midwives,
22 First Aid workers); HIV/AIDS awareness (3,000 persons of which 500 women).
The project spent CFAF 185.6 million on training, CFAF 153.6 million of which was targeted at
production diversification in 10 different activities, and 89 percent of the planned income-generating
activities were eventually launched. Although it was originally planned to support two rural radios
(Parakou and Banikoara), the project eventually extended its support to another three (Deeman in Parakou,
Nonsina in Bembereke and Su Ti Dera in Nikki), through standard contracts for staff training, improved
equipment, and cooperation for the dissemination of public information on project activities, and
advertisement for community-driven procurement of work services and goods. This cooperation resulted in
a spectacular by improved exposure of the project towards the rural population and other target audiences,
including government; and greatly increased communication with beneficiary communities and operators.
Communitv-Based Local Development:
At the end of the project, 296 infrastructures are now completed and functional. This comprises 83
classroom modules, 45 agricultural input storage warehouses, 16 village health units, 62 public double
latrines, 30 double school latrines, 15 latrine/showers for the health units, 9 literacy centers, 8
agro-processing units, 3 facilities for local Savings and Loan associations, 5 market shelters, 16 wide
diameter wells, 1 multipurpose dam, 4 small bridges, 2 rehabilitation of boreholes equipped with pumps.
Extension and adaptive research, like all project activities, were demand-driven. Demand was strong and
focused on improved production technologies and agricultural practices. The project supported the
establishment of improved seed production farms and training in improved agricultural management
system. It appears that currently available technological packages are not very well suited to the needs of
farmers in the two project "Departements" (Borgou and Alibori). They rely too much on inputs that are not
readily available, such as fertilizers and pesticides. Between 1999 and 2002, the average farm acreage
planted with improved seeds increased from 0.53 ha to 1.10 ha (23 percent of the cultivated area). The
percentage of women using improved agro-processing technologies rose from 22 percent to 42 percent in
the meantime (from 10 percent to 19 percent for men).
In terms of natural resource management, 49 community-based micro projects were implemented, including
-4 -



14 were community vegetable gardening projects (1.75 ha each), 1 village watershed management
operation, 4 tree nurseries, 10 manure pits, and 20 bee-keeping site developments. In addition, a
multipurpose dam, benefiting 5 communities, was built.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Given the experimental nature of the project, no economic/financial/fiscal analysis was undertaken at
appraisal. However, it was expected that investment decisions being the responsibility of the beneficiaries
themselves, the rate of return would be maximized. According to the socio-economic impact study carried
out in April 2002, 11 of the 12 types of micro-projects reviewed yielded net profits ranging from CFAF
2,000 to CFAF 1.5 million per year, with an average of CFAF 143,000 (US$ 200). Two activities did not
produce any significant profit: shea butter production and fish farming. However, this poor performance
does not imply net losses, since labor is valued at CFAF 1,000 per day for fish farming and CFAF 700 per
day in shea butter processing. For the whole project, the NPV is CFAF 1,291. The ERR is 57 percent.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
For the same reason as for the ERR, no financial analysis had been done at appraisal. The socio-economic
impact study provided interesting information on project financial results: see table in Annex 3.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutions have been established and rranaged as planned, and the institutional development
impact of the project has been highly satisfactory (HSI).
* The Steering Committee met regularly to supervise project implementation.
* The Technical Support Unit (TSU) reorganized itself shortly after implementation into three
sub-regional support teams based closer to the beneficiary communities in order to improve
communication and effectiveness.
*   The District approval committees, after a brief period of training and learning, were able to review all
the micro-project proposals submitted by the beneficiary communities within one month of submission;
thus helping to bring the total time lapse between submission and completion of micro-projects to an
average of 4 months, which is considered to be one of the major achievements of the project. These
District approval committees also were given a supervision task, which involved monthly visits to all
the sites where micro-projects recently approved were being implemented. They helped ensure
sustainability by keeping the government involved in approval and supervision, and, hence, ensuring
the coherence of project implementation with overall public development policies.
The local elections took place in December 15, 2002' in Benin. They represent an important step in the
implemention of the new decentralization policy. The Central Decentralization Commission is currently
finalizing the decree establishing the new relationship between districts and local communities. The PAMR
experience (well known by local/central administration), based on the principle of village communities and
institutions' participation, is considered a model for the establishment of balanced relationships between
district authorities and local communities across the national territory. This is one of the reasons why
Government is seriously considering the possibility of extending the PAMR approach to cover the whole
country. Such a program could help the Government to complete the administrative decentralization
process through a local community development program based on an effective and successfully tested
decentralization approach.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation anid Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One important factor that impacted positively on the project implementation and its results is the
- 5 -



environment within which the PAMR was implemented. The Borgou is a "departement" (divided during the
implementation of the project in two new administrative units: Borgou and Alibori), where the rural
population is used to a certain form of collective organization. This was, in fact, the reason why the
agricultural development strategy (characterized by a decentralization approach), adopted by the
Government of Benin in 1997, was first introduced in the Borgou region. The strategic decision, made
during project preparation to test an effective transfer of responsibilities to the Borgou village communities,
has positively influenced the implementation process and the outcome of the project. This extemal factor
should be taken into consideration in the design of a possible nation-wide extension of the PAMR
approach.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Govemment established the TSU and adopted the implementation manual and accounting/audit
systems in a timely manner, prior to project effectiveness. Subsequently, it took almost 6 months to obtain
the ratification of the Development Credit Agreement by the National Assembly. This significant delay
(considering the 3-year length of this LIL project) in launching the project activities led to postponing the
project closing date by 6 months. Although the Development Credit Agreement did not include any
obligation for counterpart funding (except for import taxes), the Government contributed a total of CFAF
60 million (US$100,000 equivalent) to the financing of the project operating costs (and the purchase of a
light liaison vehicle). During implementation, the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as other Ministries
concemed (Ministry of Planning and Ministry of Finance), demonstrated their strong support for the
project. The agreement reached with the Central administration to authorize the local communities to bid
for their micro-projects, regardless of an administrative bidding commission, was critical to the success of
the project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The TSU staff (about 12 professionals) were recruited through a transparent competitive process carried
out by the Borgou CARDER. There was no turnover in the staff composition during the project life. The
only modification that occurred after one year of implementation was the redeployment of the 9 project
field technicians to allow for a closer coverage for the 3 sub-districts of the Borgou department. The project
team, composed of young professionals, was well organized and strongly committed. Staff costs did not
exceed PAD estimation. Only short-term technical assistance was provided to the project, with the Bank's
agreement. The monitoring and evaluation system, set-up with the support of a short-term technical
assistance during PYI, has been able to provide accurate information on project progress and
socio-economic impact on beneficiaries.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At the end of the project, almost the almost entire credit amount was disbursed. The total amount of the
Govermnent contribution was made available to the project. Seventy Five percent of the total amount of
project financing benefited directly the target group. As mentioned in section par 3.4, a slight reallocation
of funds among the 3 project components took place, following MTR recommendations. Thanks to
intensive communication and good dialogue established between the implementing agency, the Country
Office and Washington-based staff, the Special Account ceiling was raised from the original CFAF 120
million to CFAF 240 million, taking into account the high rate of project disbursements. It is notable that,
prior to the effectiveness of this increase when there was an acute shortage of cash in the Special Account
(SA), project staff collegially decided to postpone the payment of their own salaries in order to give priority
to disbursements for community micro-projects. There was no delay in project implementation, as the 6
months extension of the project closing date was decided to compensate for the delay in the Developmental
Credit Agreement effectiveness. The detailed costs and financing tables are presented in Annex 2.
- 6 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the decentralization approach introduced by the project is rated Likely. As shown by a
recent survey (PAMR Impact on Beneficiaries-May 2002), 73 percent of the Village Concertation
Committees (VCC) have developed a mid-term development plan for their villages and have identified their
community investment priorities. These VCC consider that most of the micro-projects set in their plans
would be implemented using the community resources, regardless of the availability of external support.
The infrastructure maintenance, undertaken with project assistance, is likely to be sustained through the
existence of the infrastructure Management Committees (MC). The impact survey shows that 92 percent of
these MCs are effectively active and that 67 percent of the villages have set up maintenance. More
importantly, the impact survey concluded that the exercise of new responsibilities by local communities has
introduced a certain change in mentalities. Village representatives would now be reluctant to return to the
passive role they used to adopt when dealing with extemal partners. There is, however, some concern
regarding the management and maintenance of certain types of infrastructure (e.g. storage facilities) after
project completion. Village Maintenance Committee members who have been trained by the CARDER, as
a contracted service, still need follow-up support and advice, which cannot be provided by the same
CARDER due to a lack in resources. Therefore, there is a risk of infrastructure degradation and/or
mismanagement.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The PAMR objective was to test a new approach to support rural development. In view of the Mid-Term
Review conclusions, that the participatory approach was successful and that large-scale replication was
recommended, and in response to the Government's request for Bank support in extending the PAMR
approach nation-wide, the Bank recommended that the Pilot follow-up be included in the Poverty Reduction
Program partly financed by the IDA Public Expenditure Reform Credit (PERAC) and the proposed PRSC.
The ICR mission was informed by the Government that a provision of CFAF 2.2 billion had been made in
the FY 2002 National Budget (external resources) for that purpose. In view of a slower pace of transition
to consolidated programmatic lending than initially envisaged, the Bank also subsequently agreed to
prepare a CDD project for Benin, building on the achievements of PAMR and the social fund project.
After 3 years of activity, the project has effectively denionstrated that the transfer of responsibilities to the
rural communities is a critical factor for achieving sustainable development. During the present ICR
mission, the President of the Central Commission for Decentralization (Ministry of Interior) recognized the
importance of the PAMR experience for the on-going decentralization process in Benin. The ICR mission
was also informed of the Commission's intention to introduce the PAMR approach into the rules defining
future relationships between the new Districts and the local communities, within the framework of the new
decentralization policy.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank is rated Highly Satisfactory. Project preparation was based on the
recommendations of the National Seminar held in 1997 on the New Vision on Rural Management in Benin.
The Bank also built on its experience in the country in executing several rural development support
projects/programs, such as the Natural Resources Management Project (PGRN), the Community-Based
Food Security Project (PILSA), and Agricultural Services Restructuration Project (PRSA). The project
- 7-



was prepared with the effective participation (as opposed to simple consultation) of the future beneficiary
communities. The project components were designed to respond to the main priorities and constraints
identified by these communities. As mentioned earlier, the implementation phase of the project was delayed
due to political problems in Benin in late 1998-early 1999.
7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the -Bank is rated Highly Satisfactory. In total, 5 supervision missions took place
during the 3-year implementation period. The first supervision helped the project generate standard
partnership contracts to clarify and sirnplify relationship between the implementing agency and its partners.
The second mission recommended increasing the amount in the special account. The third one assisted the
project to establish procedures for the design and approval of inter-village projects. The fourth supervision
focused on the issue of the extension of the project's closing date. The last mission worked intensively with
a national team to prepare a possible follow-up operation extending the PAMR approach across the
country. A Mid-Term Review took place in January 2001 (instead of September 2000 originally planed due
to the late start-up of the project). An impact assessment study was undertaken in parallel with the MTR
and was repeated prior to project closure (May 2002). An ICR mission took place in July 2002. At project
request, ad hoc technical support missions were also undertaken during project life. Several rural
development experts from the sub-region, as well as several Bank staff visited the project.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall Bank performance was Highly Satisfactory. The Bank was very proactive during project
preparation. Particular attention was paid during the implementation of the project, given the experimental
nature of its design and approach. One of the first Bank missions participated actively in the incipient
implementation of the project. It assisted the project and the Benin authorities in adapting the "Bank
Financial Management for Community Action Programs" Guidelines in order to develop a flexible
procurement procedure allowing the communities to play the main role in the bidding process, as well as in
selecting the operators for the imnplementation of their micro-projects. This collaboration was a comerstone
for the main achievements of the project in terms of the amount and implementation period (3 years) of the
micro-projects, as well as in terms of the ownership of these projects by the communities. The Borrower
praised the efficient support of the Country Office in addressing disbursement and technical issues, as well
as in liaising with the Bank HQ.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At inception/preparation the Borrower's performance was Highly Satisfactory. Following the CFA franc
devaluation in 1994, the performance of the agricultural sector improved significantly in terms of
production and profitability. Farmers' income increased continuously during the mid-90s. Within this
context, the Government adopted a "Revised Agricultural Strategy and Investment Program" that envisaged
a greater role to be played by the private sector and the large transfer of responsibilities and resources to
local institutions. A new agricultural extension strategy, characterized by a re-organisation of public
extension services and a more active role entrusted to the rural communities was also adopted. Within this
framework, the Government requested the Bank to help test a new rural development support approach,
based on the substantial transfer of responsibilities to local communities and individual farmers.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance is considered Highly Satisfactory. The three Ministerial
Departments involved (Agriculture, Planning and Finances) agreed not to interfere in project
implementation and to give a large autonomy to the TSU and to the rural communities to run the project.
The Government's commitment to the project objectives was highly satisfactory, and provided a significant
- 8 -



support to the project management, especially with regards to supervision (and MTR) follow-up and
recommendations. The three Ministerial Departments took part in every supervision mission and in the
MTR. (The Ministry of Finance, however, was not always able to make the Govemment contribution
available in a timely manner).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency was rated Highly Satisfactory. The project was formally
under the supervision of the CARDER. However, as established in the project design, the government
authorities avoided being involved in the day-to-day work or interfering in the decision making process of
the TSU. With a light support staff composed of only 9 field technicians, the project was able to develop
intensive relationship with 259 villages (totaling 462 000 inhabitants). It succeeded in strengthening
significantly the organizational capacity of the rural population of Borgou, as well as its capacity to plan
and implement its own development. This was possible only through a skillful and firm management of
partnerships. As mentioned earlier, almost all resources available to the project were disbursed in a
cost-effective and timely manner. The team was well appreciated by its partners at the field and central
levels. It accumulated a considerable experience in dealing with rural communities as equal partners.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Government was Highly Satisfactory. The Govenmment met its legal
obligations. Furthermore, while giving the TSU an important autonomy in managing the project, the
Govemment was strongly committed to addressing the project's constraints and to monitoring achievements
and results. The recommendations made by the supervision missions were seriously analyzed and integrated
with the support of the Government. This close participation allowed the Government to be able to draw, at
an early stage, important lessons from the PAMR experience and to integrate certain aspects of the project
approach into its new poverty reduction strategy and into the finalization of its decentralization policy.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1 Rural Communities Empowerment:
The PAMR demonstrated that strengthening rural communities and introducing more democratic practices
in their intemal organization was possible within the Borgou context and with relatively limited human and
material resources. To be able to achieve these results, a certain number of factors were critical:
(a)    Emergence of community organizations. Intensive awareness raising programs were very helpful
in encouraging groups of people who had similar needs, interests or micro-projects to join their efforts in
order to address their problems and achieve their projects and objectives. Any form of organization adopted
by the group, whether formal or informal, was welcomed, provided. prior community recognition. The
commitment of the PAMR to provide support to jointly-owned micro-projects was the main incentive for
the creation of community organisations.
(b)    Transfer of responsibilities. An effective transfer of responsibilities and resources followed
quickly community's organizational efforts. This transfer allowed the communities and their organizations
to be entirely in charge of: (i) planning the development of their village and setting their priorities; and (ii)
in implementing and managing their micro-projects.
(c)    Community procurement. Decentralized procedures allowing the communities to be responsible
for the procurement process as part of the implementation of their micro-projects (including advertising,
operator selection, contracting, supervising and settling payment) were set in place effectively. This
-9..



process, completed by a training program on simple procurement procedures and an active backstopping,
led to: (i) the emergence of new capacities and skills within the communities; (ii) the reduction of the time
lapse between the submission and the completion of the micro-projects; (iii) a strong feeling of ownership
on the part of the beneficiaries.
(d)    Financial contribution. In the specific conditions of the Borgou region, the rate of beneficiary
contribution (20 percent in kind or in cash) requested by the project as a condition for co-financing did not
constitute a major constraint for the communities. As a matter of fact, the communities' obligation to first
spend their own contribution to finance their projects before having access to matching grants helped to
secure the beneficiaries' commitment.
(e)    Training and backstopping. Appropriate training programs designed to respond to concrete and
effective requests from the beneficiaries have been provided in a timely manner. Management and
maintenance were recognized to be important factors for the sustainability of the micro-projects. Limited
technical support continued to be provided to MC members after the achievement of the micro-projects.
8.2 Flexibility in project support eligibility criteria
(a)    Diversity of rural communities needs. Analyses of village developmerit plans designed by the
Borgou communities confirm the diversity of the rural population's needs and priorities. Overall, the
communities expressed their willingness to contribute to a large range of micro-projects that include social
infrastructure, agriculture productivity improvement, processing and income generating activities. This
trend confirms that the flexible approach of the PAMR, regarding project eligibility criteria, was
appropriate.
(b)    Inter-community projects. In a few cases, several neighboring communities expressed their desire
to pool their contributions together with project support in order to undertake larger projects. After a debate
between the beneficiaries, the Borrower and the Bank, the principle was accepted on a case-by-case basis.
This flexibility was highly appreciated by all stakeholders. A limited number of inter-communities projects
were then implemented (e.g. secondary school at Bori and Dunkassa; inter-community storage facility of
Banikoara; inter-community dam of Keroun). This approach also encouraged the establishment of a
dialogue among neighboring communities.
8.3 Institutional Arrangements
(a)    Implementing Agency. The TSU was expected to concentrate on a coordinating role, most of the
project activities being contracted out. This approach facilitated reduction of the size of the management
unit and led it to focus its attention on implementation issues and constraints. This supported the
cost-effective and efficient management of the project.
(b)    Community projects approval process. To have access to PAMR support, community projects had
to be approved at the local level by one of the 3 District Approval Committees (DAC) established in the
Borgou region. In addition to a community representative located in the district, each DAC included a
sub-district representative, local representatives to central administration and, NGOs repesentatives. DACs
met at least once a month. According to established rule, DACs had to approve or to reject the
communities' proposals not later than one month after their submission. The DAC decision was final. The
proximity, rapidity and transparency of the approval process were among the main factors of PAMR
achievements.
- 10 -



8.4 Women 's participation:
The main weaknesses of the project was the limited participation of women in the village organizational
process (para. 4.1) and the small number of selected micro-projects specifically oriented to respond to
women needs. This situation is explained by specific socio-cultural conditions in the Borgou such as the
islamic culture. However, more women (2,500) than men (2,200) took part in literacy courses, an
indication that, despite an original unequal situation, the project has contributed in helping women's
development. The second socio-economic impact study also found that women were represented in all the
CC. In 67% of the cases, they were part of the management activities. Observations during supervision also
highlighted the fact that although few women were holding key responsibilities in the community
organizations, they were almost always, in charge of finances. An allocation of a portion of the project
financing to respond to specific requests by women could have been at least a partial solution.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is an extract from the Borrower's implementation Report:
Project objectives were pertinent and consistent with the strategy of the government of Benin
regarding both its decentralization policy as well as its poverty reduction program which includes: (i)
state divestiture through delegation of the decision-making process and a transfer of resources to local
institutions; (ii) the promotion of an enabling environment for local development through economic
decentralization; and (iii) an improved access of the population to infrastructure and services, which
necessarily implies a participatory management of rural development and equipment.
The PAMR strategy and implementation approach were also consistent with Government strategic
options. The participatory approach at village-level allowed a new balance of power and a radical
change in the decision-making process: communities and population at large decided on their priorities
(community empowerment) while public services provided technical support and advice (technical
and/or financial assistance).
The project was instrumental in testing the adequacy and efficiency of the new approach and
procedures before their fornal adoption and their extension across the country. A clear definition of
the obligations and responsibilities of the various stakeholders, and frequent exchanges between
partners helped prevent misunderstandings. The base documents were simple, clear and adapted to the
objectives. Organizational arrangements proved relevant. The village-level participatory approach was
implemented by CARDER-Borgou, which subsequently recruited the PMU staff through a public and
transparent process. An appropriate training program for the staff was carried out at the beginning of
project implementation, based on visits to similar projects in Benin and neighboring countries.
CARDER, then, withdrew from project implementation to allow the PMU to operate independently.
The lessons learnt are that (a) the project's implementation mechanisms produced the expected
changes: CARDER and other government services are considered partners of the project and fulfill
their new role adequately, communities have given proof of their maturity and ability to manage their
development plans; (b) the project fully capitalized on other projects experience through the initial
visits program; (c) the decentralization of the PMU within three zones proved beneficial and economic;
(d) partnership through contracts with multiple partners helped involve other institutions while
preventing interference and enhancing synergies; (e) flexibility proved essential by allowing the project
to address cross-community demands, and to collaborate with other entities, such as the "communes"
- 1 1 -



and "sous-prefectures" (building of secondary schools at Bori, Dunkassa and Sonsoro); (f) the stability
of both the PMU implementation team and the IDA supervision team throughout implementation was
an important asset.
(b) Coflnanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
As mentioned earlier most project activities were extemally contracted. PAMR concluded a number of
partnership conventions with public and private sector entities.
(i)    CARDER. In the framework of the convention signed with PAMR, the Borgou CARDER was
assigned a number of activities on behalf of the project. The Regional Center played an important role in
providing technical assistance, training and backstopping to interested local communities and village
groups in the following areas: improved agriculture production systems, rural infrastructure (wells, small
dams, storage facilities, rural roads), agriculture processing etc. According to CARDER staff and
managers, the collaboration with PAMR was deemed as particularly constructive, according to the fact
that, since the introduction of the new Rural Development Policy in the late 1990, it was the first time that
the Regional Center provided its services within the framework of a contract with a rural development
project. This contractual arrangement led to an important change in the attitude and the work methods of
CARDER staff. A manager used the expression "Cultural Revolution" to describe the new situation.
(ii)   Local Enterprises. As mentioned earlier, almost 300 village infrastructures were built with the
project support. One of the most important criteria, used by community organizations in the selection
process of the operators, was the local experience of the candidates. This led to the selection of local
enterprises in more than 90 percent of the cases (altogether 81 small local operators were contracted).
Furthermore, out of hundreds of contracts signed between the communities and local enterprises, only 2
have failed. The positive impact on the local economy was appreciated by local entrepreneurs and by the
regional administration.
(iii)  Local Radios. The support provided by the project to local radios, although limited, contributed to
the dissemination of the PAMR approach by giving the possibility to the community representatives to
express their views publicly. The radio was a useful tool for putting rural conmmunities and local
enterprises in touch through the bidding advertisements.
(iv)   Rural Credit Unions. Since there are no commercial banks branches outside Parakou and Kandi,
the project concluded a framework contract with the Rural Credit Organizations operating in the region
(Unions Regionales des Caisses locales de Credit Agricole Mutuel-URCLAM). This arrangement allowed
the communities to open accounts, deposit their cash contribution, and receive project matching grants.
The system worked so efficiently that, during the last year of the project, the time lapse between the
micro-project approval and the availability of resources within the community account did not exceed 15
days.
10. Additional Information
1. At the time of project identification, the Government rural development strategy was to promote social
and economic development in rural areas through private investments by: (i) adopting and implementing a
new decentralization policy that would devolve decision-making and resources to local populations and
institutions, strengthening local communities' organizations; and (ii) improving people's access to improved
service infrastructure. The Government wanted to implement this strategy at the national level but lacked
- 12 -



knowledge about (i) the people's capacity to follow such directives; (ii) alternatives to public services
delivery, and (iii) the right processes to change public service culture and provide the right amount of
support to rural communities. Therefore, before launching this national policy, the Government considered
necessary to test this approach through a pilot project which would demonstrate the opportunities of a rural
community-based development strategy. The PAMR Borgou was, henceforth, designed as a LIL pilot
project.
2. Having monitored very closely the project experience as well as its achievements, the Government of
Benin is convinced that the PAMR approach, based on a very ambitious transfer of responsibilities in favor
of rural communities, is the most efficient method for a successful implementation of its rural
community-based development strategy at the country level .
3. Local and central administration now consider that the PAMR is also in accordance with the new
national decentralization policy, which the government wishes to start implementing in the next months
(the first round of local elections was held on December 15, 2002). In fact, the new rules defining future
relationships between municipalities and local communities have been significantly inspired by the PAMR
approach. During the ICR mission, the Central Commission for Decentralization confirmed that PAMR
experience in involving local communities in development planning and implementation was considered as
the model to be followed nation-wide.
4. The Government Poverty Reduction Program (PRP) is currently being completed. As a means to
address rural poverty reduction, the PRP refers to the PAMR content and approach. During the ICR
mission the Minister of State for Coordination of Governmental Activities, Planning and Development
expressed his conviction that the success of the PRP would be closely dependent on the way local
communities are involved in its Program implemention . Being also well informed about the PAMR
experience, the Minister believed that the approach tested by the project was satisfactory enough to be
generalized, while taking into account the specificity cf each region.



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
gs.L      c   atorIMatrIx. *...r;, ..       -i  iroj edlui~~at tPSR        . li;-    gAr         t  tirjatd.:-;
- At least 200 vilages have prepared and  - At least 200 villages have prepared and  250 villages had prepared and implemented
Initated implementation of local development initiated implementation of local development Local Development Plans and as of
plans by 2001                          plans by 2001                         09/30/2001 758 micros-projects completed
in 214 villages.
- Quantity and quality of rural infrastructure  - Quantity and quality of rural infrastructure  Quantity and quality of rural infrastructure
significantly Improved in at least 75 percent  significantly improved in at least 75 percent  has been Improved in 187 villages out of 250
of villages                            of vilages                            targeted (72.2 percent).
214 villages out of 259 have demonstrated
- At least 75 percent of villages have  - At least 75 percent of villages have  capacity to implement micro-projects (82.6
demonsrated capacity to implement      demonstrated capacity to implement     ercent)
micro-projects under new decentralized  micro-projects under new decentralized  P
management approach                    management approach
At the end of the program 259 committees
At the end of the program:             At the end of the program:            have been trained in the management and
(1) At least 80 percent members of the  (i) At least 80 percent members of the  operaon of their committees. 226 (87.25
'Comit6s de Concertation wUll have     "Comit6s de Concertation' will have   percnt) hav sitted at least oe
completed and be using the skills acquired  completed and be using the skills acquired  villages have completed the implementation
from the literacy program             from the literacy program              of their micro-prjects.
(ii) At least 80 percent members of the  (Ii) At least 80 percent members of the  At the end of the program 216 literacy and
Comites de Concertation' will have    'Comit6s de Concertaton' will have     post-literacy courses have been organized,
completed and be using the knowledge   completed and be using the knowledge  benefiting 2,500 women and 2,200 men of
acquired from the post-literacy/technical  acquired from the post-literacy/technical  whom 95 percent have successfully passed
training,                              training,                             the tests. 78 technical training courses have
reached 1,600 farmers
Output Indicators:
|iZU^- ti. 2ndklcatr/Matrix     P. rrojeaied in last PSR, .2A.tualabst-Eimat                                     -
End of project
-14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
W~~l !C. B i t -so > S N9Bt ;7. t 71  ,            VW; T'
1. Works                      0.00          0.30          2.96          0.00         3.26
(0.00)        (0.24)        (2.28)       (0.00)       (2.52)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.10          0.10          0.00         0.20
(0.00)        (0.10)        (0.06)       (0.00)        (0.16)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          1.23          0.00         1.23
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.03)       (0.00)        (1.03)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.32          0.00         0.32
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.29)       (0.00)        (0.29)
Total                       0.00          0.40         4.61          0.00         5.01
(0.00)        (0.34)        (3.66)       (0.00)        (4.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expendltur:asoyJ. 
1. Works                      0.00          0.00          2.72         0.00         2.72
(0.00)        (0.00)       (2.15)        (0.00)       (2.15)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.10          0.10         0.00         0.20
(0.00)        (0.08)       (0.08)        (0.00)       (0.16)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          1.13         0.00         1.13
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.89)        (0.00)       (0.89)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.70         0.00         0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.50)        (0.00)       (0.50)
Total                       0.00         0.10          4.65         0.00         4.75
(0.00)        (0.08)       (3.62)        (0.00)       (3.70)
The bulk of procurement (civil works and training) was achieved through Commtnity-Based procurement
procedures based on Bank guidelines. Procurement for vehicles and equipment (computers) for the TSU
was carried out through IAPSO. Figures are still provisional as of September 5, 2002.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 15 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
-                          I             t~~~~~~~~~ti~~~nite'; ~~~~~~ Percentage o .Appr~aisal
-    rC 'omponent   ;.     - AppAt/sas Estimate _    |e                   timate
. :.                                              !.  I               OF. ; - IDA;' G:-;-
A. Capacity building in   0.82       0.00      0.00       0.92                         112.2   0.0    0.0
rural villages of the Borgou
B. Community-based Local  2.70       0.00      0.00       2.23      0.02               82.6    0.0    0.0
Development
C. Participatory          0.48       0.00      0.00       0.64      0.08               133.3   0.0    0.0
Management Technical
Support, and Monitoring
- 16 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Two socio-economic impact studies were carried out during the implementation of this project: one at the
Mid-term Review (January 2001), and the other just before the project closed in June 2002. The following
figures are extracted from the report on the second survey. This study estimated the overall Economic Rate
of Return for all activities supported by the project at 57 percent.
Table I: Financial benefits from the micro-projects
(Investments, expenses, benefits and values are expressecl in thousands of CFAF)
Initial  Number of days                    Value for
Investment   of labor per  Operational Annual one day of Profit per family
Activity             Project       year        costs    profit   labor        member
Farmer
Bee-keeping (1)              84           21            42        50      113       3.6      7.6
Vegetable cropping (1)       121          32            20        17      169       9.4      11.2
Manure pit (1)               640          160           24        0       1325      56.2     88.4
Public latrines (2)          2 000        500           0         432     143      _
Storage facility (2)         3 223        807           27        51      1312
Midwife (1)                  219          0             120       0       16         1.1     1.1
Seed producer (1)            51           13            17        16      38        3.2      2.5
Tree nursery (1)             87           17            112       242     222       3.0      14.8
Fish farming (1)             5            47            21        6       0          1.0     0.0
Large well (2)               3 200        800           365       76      508
Improved Cropping System (1)  98          24            223       256     218       2.0      14.5
Shea butter processing (1)   68           20            55        53      -14       0.7     -0.9
1 Per farmer; 2 per investment.
Table II. Economic benefits for micro-projects
Activity                      Number of activities
Realized   Functional  NPV          ERR (%)      C/B ratio
(OOOCFAF)
Bee keeping (1)                325       325          454          25           4
Vegetable cropping (1)         160        114         1 330        250          14
Manure pits (1)                10         10      _   5 051        324          26
Public latrines (2)           62          62          110          11           1
Storage facility (2)          44         44           9 136        59           5
Midwife (1)                   44         43           127          29           2
Seed producer (1)              101        101         225          258          15
Tree nursery (1)              36          36          1 638        235          20
Fish farming (1)               151        151         -29          5            1
Large well (2)                 16         13          2 368        19           2
Improved cropping system (1)  429         300         1 364        148          8
Shea butter processing (1)    228        228          -68                       0
Project (overall)                                     1 291       57           4.5
- 17 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count            Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
07/1997                      11    TTL (1); Op. Specialist (1);
Ecologist (1); Livestock specialist
(1), Agricultural Research
Specialist (1); Ag. Institutions
specialist (1); Rural sociologist
(1); Agricultural Operations
specialist (1); Ag. Services
specialist (1); Implementation
specialist (1); Financial analyst
(1).
09/1997                       8    TTL (1); Extension specialists
(2); Training spec.
(1);agriculture spec. (1);
Economist (1); Financial analyst
(1); Implementation spec (1);
Appraisal/Negotiation
05/1998                        7   TTL (1); Op. Specialist
(Gender) (1); Ag. Op.
Officer (1); Agricultural
Specialist (1); Extension
specialist (1);
Implementation specialist
(1);Financial Analyst (1)
Supervision
10/1999                        1   Operations analyst                   S              S
12/1999                        5   TTL (1); Gender Specialist (1);      S              S
Rural development (1);
Agricultural economist (1);
Disbursements (1)
06/2000                        3   TTL (1); Ag. Specialist (1);         HS            HS
Disbursements (1)
01/2001                        3   TTL (1); Agriculture Specialist      HS            HS
(1); Disbursement (1)
04/2002                        2   TTL (1); Disbursement (1)            HS             HS
ICR
07/2002                       2     TTL (I); Rural                      HS             HS
Development specialist (1)
-18 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                           99,474.11
Supervision                            100.38                  238,429.87
ICR                                         7                      30,000
Total
- 19 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
nl Macro policies                         O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                        O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
0 Physical                                * H   OSUOM       O N  O NA
M Financial                               * H   O SU O M    O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development               * H   0 SU O M    O N  0 NA
ZEnvironmental                            O H   OSUOM       S N  O NA
Social
J Poverty Reduction                 0 H  O SU O M    0 N   0 NA
ZGender                             O H  O SU * M    O N   O NA
MOther (Please specify)            O H   * SU O M    O N   O NA
Fulani minority (Herders)
2 Private sector development              * H   O SU O M    0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management                0 H   O SU O M    0 N   * NA
MOther (Please specify)                   O H   * SU O M    O N   O NA
Micro credit institutions
- 20 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           *HSOS OU OHTIU
M Supervision                                       *HS OS       0 U    O HU
? Overall                                           *HS OS       O u    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       *HS OS       0 U    0 IU
Z Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 IU
M Implementation agencyperformance                  *    HS O S  0 U    0 lfU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O IfU
-21 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
No                        Types/Titres                       Nombre       Editeur/producteur
1       Rapport financier                                        12               CAP
2       Rapport d'activites                                       9               CAP
3       Rapport de suivi des activites                            9               CAP
4       Rapport annuel                                            2               CAP
5       Rapport d'evaluation a mi-parcours                        I               CAP
6       Manuel - Techniques simplifiees de suivi de chantier      I               CAP
7       Manuel-Desinfection des puits                             1               CAP
8       Rapport de la Mission Conjointe d'Evaluation a Mi-parcours  1           BMICAP
9       Mission d'Evaluation a Mi-parcours - Impact economique et  1              CAP
social (S. Manikowski et al)
10     World Bank Supervision Reports                             5               BM
11      PAMR Irnpact sur les beneficiaires (S. Manikowski et al)  1               CAP
12      PAMR-B Rapport de fin d'execution du projet               1               CAP
- 22 -



, BURKIN :PA :VFASO',a
KPRNIN V ~        UR    NA                                                         -
"-'4        ~~NIGERI A  1- .waay.aa                                                            2-~
GHANA3                                        I.d"
T. ~  ~    ~     4                          '
*            NIGERIA 
I ~~~~  Porga                                     /  I                   -~ B RGO   PLO
RIJR  /   POR        R  G  A
Bi~" BORGLJ REGIO
-  ManIa  NAT~~~~~~~~~I~~g~~~t  Knuand   I  ~ ~ ~ ~   A  ID  O D
I     -~~~ARHROD
ID                                                    -         77  -. ~~~~~~~~~ -L9INTRATO ALARPR
<  "t                                                           REGI~ RRA  SP ORTL AIPOROGRA
C3j TREGON REPIOTAL
PAVEDN ROANDSRE
Z                     DjRaR Kanfang 4d00               4.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTERNATIONAL AIROUDRT E
At. .6 A,&g..8 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~        SATE ITE ADTON
)                                                               ---- NTTRNAT -NK
.3                  ssa-To~~~~~~~~~~,aR  Iobod,o20)0        ~  O   80   10
.1                                   Paaognaa~~~~~~~
P.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'--N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



