Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3098 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Borgou Region Pilot Rural Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 26, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3098 BEN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a Community Group (as hereinafter defined) to whom, 
or for whose benefit, a Grant (as hereinafter defined) is made, or proposed to be 
made;
(b)
"Borgou Region" means the "Département du Borgou" in the territory of the 
Borrower;
Page  2
(c)
"Community Group" means a village association or other legal entity;
(d)
"Borgou Steering Committee" means the multidisciplinary technical 
committee (comité de supervision) responsible for the definition of the main 
development policy orientation for the Borgou Region, and the provision of overall 
guidance to the District Approval Committees (as hereinafter defined) in line with 
policies established by the Borrower;
(e)
"District Approval Committee" means the multidisciplinary technical 
committee (comité d’approbation sous-préfectoral) responsible for, in each of the 
fourteen (14) districts (sous-préfectures) of the Borgou Region, the approval of 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined);
(f)
"Financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary for the purposes of carrying out a Subproject (as 
hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Grant" means a grant made, or proposed to be made, by the Borrower to 
finance a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part B of the Project;
(h)
"Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to in paragraph A.1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and setting out, inter alia, procedures and guidelines 
for the identification, selection and implementation of Subprojects (as hereinafter 
defined), as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Implementation Manual;
(i)
"MDR" means Ministère du Développement Rural, the Borrower’s Ministry 
responsible for rural development;
(j)
"Project Coordinator" means the Project Coordinator and head of TSU (as 
hereinafter defined) referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
"Subproject" means a specific activity financed, or proposed to be 
financed under Part B of the Project;
(m)
"TSU" means the Technical Support Unit within MDR responsible for the 
day-to-day management of the Project and overall monitoring of progress in the 
implementation of the Project; 
(n)
"Village Committee" means the committee, at the Borrower’s village level, 
responsible for the establishment of the development plan of its community and the 
approval of the Subprojects; and
(o)
"FCFA" means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, the currency of 
the Borrower. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower 
on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of a Beneficiary under a Grant to meet 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Subproject to be financed 
under Part B of the Project, and in respect of which withdrawal from the Credit 
Account is requested. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
FCFA a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, 
Page  3
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2008 and ending December 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2017 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
Page  4
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MDR with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by Said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
MDR has appointed the Project Coordinator, the monitoring and evaluation 
specialist, the administrative and financial manager, the accountant, the three (3) 
rural development specialists, the three (3) rural engineer specialists and the three 
(3) financial specialists referred to in paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the Implementation Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
(c)
the Borrower has established an internal accounting and financial system 
acceptable to the Association for the implementation of the Project. 
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère des Finances
B.P. 302
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFINANCES
5009 or 5289 MINFIN
Cotonou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Lucien Tonoukouin 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants 
1,700,000
80% of amounts
disbursed
(2)
Equipment, furniture,
  150,000
100% of foreign 
vehicles, office
expenditures and 80%
supplies and fuel
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services,
  700,000
100%
audits and training
(4)
Operating costs
  250,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
  200,000
TOTAL
3,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
Page  7
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of 
another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be 
"foreign expenditures"; and 
(c)
the term "Operating costs" means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of travel allowances, utilities, telephone, maintenance 
of office and vehicles, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and consultants’ 
services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each, for works and 
consultants’ services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $30,000 equivalent 
each, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the capacity of about 250 
village communities in the Borgou Region to better manage their socio-economic 
environment through sustainable development activities designed and implemented 
through a participatory approach; and (b) assess the planning and implementation 
capabilities of the Borrower and Beneficiaries before phased replication of the tested 
participatory approach in other parts of the Borrower’s territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Capacity Building 
1.
Enhancement of the organizational, managerial and project design, and 
preparation and implementation capacities with respect to village development plans of 
Village Committees in about 250 villages in the Borgou Region and improvement of 
literacy and technical capabilities of such Committees and those of Community Groups 
through the provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of a 
training program. 
2.
Carrying out a program of field trips and study tours, and improving the 
operation of local radio stations in Parakou and Banikoara, through the provision of 
training to their staff and acquisition of small equipment. 
3.
Improving the technical capabilities of Committee Groups of producers through 
the provision of technical advisory services regarding extension and adaptive 
research, and carrying out a program of agricultural fora to inform producers.
Part B:
Community-Initiated Local Development
Provision of Grants for the financing of community-initiated sustainable 
development activities including, inter alia, activities relating to water supply 
(well drilling and water works), feeder roads (construction of access roads to 
production sites and enclave villages), social services infrastructure (construction 
of health posts, classrooms and storage facilities) and natural resources management 
technologies.
Part C: 
Evaluation
Carrying out an evaluation of the results achieved in the utilization of the 
participatory approach in the activities carried out in support of the Beneficiaries 
and the assessment of the suitability of such participatory approach for replication 
in other parts of the Borrower’s territory.
Part D:
Institutional Management
Improving the operational and technical capacities of TSU for the implementation 
Page  8
of the Project through the provision of advisory services and training and acquisition 
of equipment, furniture and vehicles, in particular, in order to allow TSU to carry 
out the monitoring of the Project activities. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $97,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Community Participation 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Part C, goods and 
works required for Part B of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Association, as set forth in the Implementation Manual.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$30,000 or more and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
2.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  9
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under Parts A and B of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit and Part D of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A.2 and B of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) apply 
the criteria, policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the Implementation 
Manual; and (ii) not amend, or waive, or permit to be amended or waived, the 
Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of 
the Association, may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project.  
2.
The Borrower shall maintain TSU until the completion of the Project, with terms 
of reference acceptable to the Association. TSU shall consist of a Project 
Coordinator, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a financial and administrative 
manager, an accountant, three (3) rural development specialists, three (3) rural 
engineer specialists, three (3) financial specialists and adequate support staff, who 
shall all be employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. The Project Coordinator who shall head TSU, shall be responsible for 
the supervision and coordination of the day-to-day management of the Project.
3.
Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the 
concerned Borrower’s Ministries and agencies collaborate with MDR in compliance  with 
the provisions of the Implementation Manual, in particular, with respect to the 
appointment of individuals whose experience, positions and performance are 
satisfactory to the Association and who shall assist TSU in ensuring proper 
implementation of the Project; and (b) the District Approval Committees and the Borgou 
Steering Committee are maintained and that their composition continue to remain as set 
forth in the Implementation Manual.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
not later than June 30 of each year, commencing on June 30, 1999 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association, a joint annual review on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular the progress achieved by 
the Borrower during the previous year, having regard to the monitoring indicators 
referred to in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, shall furnish to 
the Association, for its comments, a report in such detail as  the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the progress of the Project; and
(d)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming identified in 
the implementation of the Project, or to implement such measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
5.
Midterm Review
(a)
On or about eighteen months after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall 
carry out jointly with the Association a midterm review of the progress made in 
carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as the Midterm Review).
The Midterm Review shall cover, amongst other things:
(i)
review of the Subprojects financed under the Project;
(ii)
progress made in the implementation of the Project and, in 
particular, the progress achieved by the Borrower having regard to 
the performance indicators referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of this 
Schedule 4;
(iii)
effectiveness of institutional arrangements, including the 
performance of TSU, and the soundness of decentralized processes 
established under the Project;
Page  11
(iv)
lessons learned during implementation of the Project so as to 
assess the degree of readiness for replication of the Project at 
the national level; and
(v)
quality of advisory services and contractors under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, 
thereafter, implement such action program. B.
Part B of the Project 
6.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the concerned 
District Approval Committee has determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Implementation Manual, that the 
Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in more detail in 
the Implementation Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be for any of the types of activities referred to in 
Part B of the Project;
(b)
the Subproject shall be initiated by a Beneficiary;
(c)
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and technically viable, 
and environmentally sound, all in accordance with the standards specified in the 
Implementation Manual; and
(d)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower relating to health, safety and 
environmental protection. 
7.
Procedures
(a)
Applications for Grants to finance Subprojects shall be prepared by 
Beneficiaries and submitted to the respective Village Committee, which shall, if 
approved by such Committee, refer them to the respective District Approval Committee 
for its approval; and
(b)
Where the respective District Approval Committee approves an application 
for a Grant, the Approval District Committee informs the respective Village Committee 
and refers such application to TSU for financing the approved application. 
8.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Financing Agreements, to be 
concluded between the Borrower and the Beneficiary, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
Implementation Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works sites, plants and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and documents;
Page  12
(e)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Subproject; and 
(f)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject upon failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under its Financing Agreement.  
9.
The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review, semiannual and 
annual progress reports on the status of the Project, including regular beneficiary 
assessment and beneficiary feedback reports and Subprojects completion reports.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of:  (i) 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project; and (ii) 
Grants for Subprojets, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of FCFA 120,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  13
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
