Report No. PID10809
Project Name                     Latin America-Integrated Silvopastoral ...
Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           VM - Natural Resources Management
Project ID                       6LGE72979
Borrower(s)                      CATIE
Implementing Agency
CATIE - Centro AGRONEMICO Tropical De
INVESTIGACIEN Y ENSEiA
Address: Apartado 7170, Turrialba, Costa Rica
Contact Person: Muhammad Ibrahim
Tel: 506-556 64 18
fax: 506-556 15 76
Email: mibrahim@catie.ac.cr
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 29, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         November 26, 2001
Projected Board Date             April 8, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
2. Main Sector Issues In The Region: About 38 percent (94 million out of
248 million hectares) of Central America's total land area is used as
permanent pasture, and this area has expanded over the last decade in the
three countries at a rate of between four and nine percent, mostly at the
expense of tropical forest. Thus, ranching-induced deforestation is one of
the main causes of loss of some unique plant and animal species in the
tropical rainforests of Central and South America. Despite significant
efforts to reduce destruction of tropical forests and protect the natural
habitats and wildlife populations in Latin America, the beginning of the
new century does not look more promising for the preservation of tropical
rainforest and biodiversity than the preceding years. Over the last
decade, natural forest areas in the three countries have been reduced
between 6 and 25 percent (Table 1). In the past, government-backed
conversion of forest to other land uses, such as large scale ranching, was
one of the leading causes of deforestation. Today poverty, joblessness and
inequitable land distribution is forcing many landless peasants to clear
the forest for subsistence farming. The decline in productivity and the
lack of appropriate technologies in the agricultural frontier force many
small farmers to sell cleared land to livestock farmers. Over the last
years considerable progress has been made in reforestation, in particular
in Costa Rica, providing an overall picture of increasing forest cover.
However, the contribution of such replacement plantation forest to
bio-diversity and even carbon sequestration and bio-diversity is less than
that of the primary forest. Reducing the pressure on primary forest
therefore remains important.Table 1.Changes in pasture land and forest in
Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Colombia (1989-1999).ItemColombiaCosta



RicaNicaraguaTotal Cropland (000 ha)5,4605301,270Total Permanent pasture
(000 ha)40,6002,3405,500t Change/10 years4.28.08.9Total Natural Forest
Area (000 ha)54,0601,4286,027t Change/10 years-6.4-25.7-17.lSource: WRI,
2000Classical approaches to conservation, attempting to preserve pristine
habitats within National Parks and other protected areas are necessary,
but insufficient in the face of growing pressure on land. Driven by
social and economic pressures and unsustainable land use patterns, local
settlers continue their expansion into the last remnants of native
forests. The silvopastoral technology proposed under the project could
reduce the pressure, and therefore complement the protected area
approach.
2. Objectives
The main development objective of this innovative pilot project is to
demonstrate and measure the improvements in eco-systems functioning,
global environmental benefits, and local socio-economic gains of the
introduction of silvopastoral systems in degraded pasture lands in
Colombia, Costa Rica and Nicaragua. Silvo-pastoral systems consist of
complex arrays of planted trees, shrubs and grass species, used for
mutiple purposes, such as cattle grazing and browsing, live fences and
windbreaks to reduce wind and water erosion, shade for crops and
livestock, climbers for vine crops, and construction and fuel wood. They
serve also as an effective "pump" by capturing mineral nutrients from
deeper soil layers to produce vegetation, which, in time, and in the form
of litter, is reverted back to minerals in top soil layers (see Annex 10
for a detailed description). More specifically, the project aims to
assess incentive systems for environmental services and and measure, at
farm and community level, the benefits provided by an integrated
ecosystems approach to the improvement of degraded pasture land in the
form of: (a) local environmental benefits through reduction in erosion and
improvement in soil and water quality with increased production, income
and employment in rural areas. The experience gained would be directly
relevant to an estimated 40 million hectare of degraded pasture land in
the three countries. Indirectly the project would be expected to reduce
pressure on the agricultural frontier;(b) global environmental benefits,
through improved biodiversity and carbon sequestration services,
protecting some of the world's most valuable eco-systems and reducing the
risk of climate change;(c) information on farmers reaction to the payment
of environmental services and experiences in the management of incentives
required to produce global environmental benefits; and (d) comprehensive
guidelines for sector and environmental policies in terms of land use,
environmental services and socio-economic development provided by the
introduction of silvopastoral systems to rehabilitate degraded pastures.
For GEF, this pilot activity would provide guidance for future funding, on
the definition of policy requirements for optimizing environmental
services in livestock production and mitigation measures in an area for
which operational programs have not yet been developed. The documentation
of experience gained, good practices, and dissemination of lessons learned
and know-how are also an integral outcome of the project. This would lead
to greater awareness of the potential gains to be made in terms of
environmental services provided by integrated ecosystem management.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
As an implementing agency of the GEF, and a committed lender in the
environment sector, the World Bank has an active GEF portfolio in Latin
- 2 -



America and the Caribbean. For this particular project, the Bank can add
value in several aspects:n First, it brings to the proposed project the
ability to serve as a source of knowledge for silvopastoral programs,
regionally and world wide and as a catalyst for protecting ecosystems
throughout Central America. For example, the project is likely to be
directly relevant to the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC)
initiative, spearheaded in part by the World Bank. This project is
supporting actions on the part of national ministries, non-governmental
organizations, the private sector, local groups, and indigenous
communities for the conservation and sustainable use of biological
diversity. n Second, beyond experience in the natural resource management
sector, the World Bank also brings to this project its experience in
social sectors, with farmers and indigenous communities. n Third, through
its direct involvement in the Livestock and Environment Initiative, the
Bank has a significant body of knowledge on the driving forces in the
livestock-deforestation dynamics and brings in the global experience of
different LEAD partners (i.e. FAO, CIRAD, DANIDA, DFID, French Cooperation
Ministry, GTZ, IFAD, ILRI, USAID and World Bank) on agriculture,
agro-biodiversity, livestock policy issues, natural resources management,
etc. n Finally, the Bank can contribute to this project with its initial
experience in payment for ecological services. Specifically in Costa Rica,
the Bank has been supporting the Ecomarkets Project and a number of other
GEF biodiversity projects. The Bank also brings the experience of the
Prototype Carbon Fund.The value added of global support with GEF resources
lies in the global significance of the ecosystems, represented in the MBC
(that spans from Mexico to Colombia) and the need to gain experience in
the mechanisms of funding for ecological services and biodiversity
conservation outside of national parks and biological reserves. GEF
resources are critical for supporting the global incremental costs and for
providing a platform for strengthening regional coordination in the
monitoring of the environmental services provided by silvopastoral systems.
4. Description
Ecosystems enhancement and Capacity building.
Ecosystem Enhancement. To establish demonstration sites totalling at
least 3,500 ha improved silvopastoral systems, which would provide a
variety on ecological services in an area of 35,000 ha.
Capacity building: (i) Technically assist stakeholders, strengthen local
organisations and (ii) produce and disseminate communications on
integrated ecosystem management and in the implementation of sustainable
livestock production systems.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Ecological Services.
Obtain improved information and understanding of the potential of
intensified silvopastoral systems in providing global ecological services
and local socio economic benefits.
Ecoservices payments.
Gain experience on beneficiaries response to incentives for farm's
investments in biodiversity conservation and land use changes to produce
global environmental benefits.
Policy formulation and Outreach. Prepare policy guidelines for
sustainable intensification of livestock production and specific
-3 -



recommendations for sector and environmental policies in terms incentive
regimes, land use and land tenure procedures and environmental services.
Project management.
Strengthen the administrative and organisation of the collaborating
institutions
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER 0
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY 3.8
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY 0.3
LOCAL FARMER ORGANIZATIONS 3
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED) 0.05
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF BORROWING COUNTRY 0.6
Total Project Cost 8.5
6. Implementation
Implementation period: 5 years Executing Agencies: Centro Agron6mico
Tropical de Investigaci6n y Ensenanza (CATIE), Costa Rica, with
subcontracts to the Centre For Research on Sustainable Agricultural
Production Systems (CIPAV) and Nitlapan, NicaraguaThe Centro Agron6mico
Tropical de Investigaci6n y Ensenanza (CATIE) in Turialba, Costa Rica is
an international, non-profit civil association, that conducts research,
education and outreach activities in agricultural sciences, forest
management and biodiversity conservation, agroforestry systems and
watersheds, socioeconomics and related subjects on natural resources
management. It operates throughout Latin America, with an emphasis on
Central America and the Caribbean. CATIE's mission is to alleviate poverty
and increase human well-being by applying research and teaching towards
the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources in Tropical
America. Due to its active research, outreach and training program and its
close relations to many research and academic institutions, CATIE is a
leader of natural resource management and conservation in the region.
CATIE has legal entity.The institutional mission of the Centre For
Research on Sustainable Agricultural Production Systems (CIPAV) in Cali,
Colombia is to contribute to sustainable development through research,
training, and communication related to production systems appropriate for
tropical agroecosystems. It is a NGO recognized for its scientific and
technological excellence, established in 1986 by a network of agricultural
enterprises and small farmer families. CIPAV has highly qualified
researchers who provide their knowledge for the solution of concrete
problems. It is permanently in contact with research centers, institutions
and companies that encourage rural sustainable development throughout
Colombia and various countries in Latin America, Asia, Africa, Europe and
the United States. CIPAV has legal entity. Nitlapan (which means, "time to
sow" in the indigenous Nahuatl language), is the Institute of Research and
Development of the University of Central America (UCA), a Jesuit
university located in Managua, Nicaragua. Over the past decade, Nitlapan
has developed an innovative, multi-faceted approach to reactivating the
economy and society of Nicaragua. Its focus is rural economic
development. Its principle tools are micro-finance, applied research and
development. Nitlapan has developed innovative approaches to diagnose and
address the vicious cycle of under-capitalization, environmental
- 4 -



degradation and lack of technical information in rural areas. In the
process, is succeeding in integrating practical strategies of
environmental recovery in its development programs. Nitlapan is highly
regarded both within Nicaragua and abroad. Its reputation as a
professional, ethical, apolitical and non-ideological organization has won
respect and trust from current and former administrations and credibility
along the political spectrum. Nitlapan plays a critical role in helping
rural families get back on their feet as well as in institutionalizing a
rural finance system that incorporates modern, ecologically sensitive
practices. Nitlapan has legal entity.Project partners and co
financers:LEAD (Livestock, Environment And Development) Initiative is an
inter-institutional initiative with the secretariat in FAO. This
initiative is supported by the World Bank (WB), the European Union (EU),
the MinistOre de la Cooperation (France), German Federal Ministry for
Economic Cooperation and Development via GTZ, the Department for
International Development (United Kingdom), the US Agency for
International Development, the Danish Agency for International Development
Agency(DANIDA), the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, the
Centro Agron6mico Tropical de Investigaci6n y Ensenanza (CATIE), the
Centre de Cooperation Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le
Developpement (CIRAD), The International Livestock Research Institute
(ILRI) and FAO. The work of the initiative targets at the protection and
enhancement of natural resources as affected by livestock production and
processing, while alleviating poverty. LEAD has identified, at a global
scale, the consequences of increased pressure on grazing and mixed farming
systems and the shift to industrial modes of production as the main areas
for its support. It highlights the close interaction between government
policies and the technology adopted at farm level, and seeks to
disseminate the large number of technologies, which are available to
mitigate the negative effects in all different production modes, provided
the appropriate policy framework is in place. The American Bird
Conservancy (ABC), based in Plains, Virginia is a not-for-profit
organization dedicated to the conservation of wild birds and their
habitats in the Americas. The fundamental role of ABC is to build
coalitions of conservation groups, scientists, and members of the public,
to tackle key bird priorities using the best resources available. ABC is a
leader in Partners in Flight (PIF). PIF is a multinational initiative to
integrate existing bird conservation needs and programs into a single,
comprehensive plan for protecting all birds in North America. A diverse
array of more than 200 non-profits, government agencies, forest product
companies, colleges, and universities participate in PIF. ABC's Important
Bird Areas program is a central aspect of PIF and involves hundreds of
volunteers and other conservation groups in a nation-wide effort to
identify and enhance protection for the most important sites for bird
conservation in the U.S. ABC's international program in Latin America aims
at demonstrating how current rates of habitat destruction can be reduced
while promoting the development of productive practices in rural areas
that are compatible with the maintenance of habitat diversity to sustain
biodiversity.Implementation ArrangementsThe inter-institutional
co-operation and organisation for the project would be as follows:n CATIE
would be the central implementing agency for the project, directly
responsible for the Costa Rican site, and subcontracting NITLAPAN and
CIPAV for the implementation of the project sites in Nicaragua and
Colombia respectively. CATIE would also act as the regional organisation
for certification of the payment for environmental services, and
- 5 -



compatibility of data and analyses. Under the supervision of CATIE, each
agency would be responsible for the local implementation, farmers exchange
and the management of the funds. This arrangement has been introduced
already under the preparatory phase (Project Development Facility, block
B) and has shown to be efficient.n LEAD provides support for the
consultation and dissemination of results and scientific backstopping. It
also provides technical and financial assistance.n ABC provides regional
technical assistance for the biodiversity component and regional
organisation for certification of biodiversity. ABC would provide a
common and consistent methodology for the monitoring and certification of
birds and biodiversity in the three countries.n The Steering Committees,
composed by representatives of the executing agencies, the GEF focal
points in each country (as representative of the respective Ministries of
the Environment), and the a representative of the Ministries of
Agriculture of each country. Agreements have been reached with each
country on the composition of their Steering Committee; andn The World
Bank would provide the technical and financial supervision of the
project.The implementation plan is illustrated in Table 3.Table
3.Implementation Schedule of the Project.Project
ActivitiesProject-monthsO          10          20         30
40        50          601. Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity building
Teach and technically assist stakeholders, strengthen local organisations
and produce communications on integrated ecosystem management and in the
implementation of sustainable livestock production
systems.                        2. Monitoring Environmental Services:
Obtain improved information and understanding of the potential of
intensified silvopastoral systems in providing global ecological services
and local socio economic benefits.                                       3.
Eco-services Payments: Gain experience on benefit sharing mechanisms at
farm and community level and beneficiaries response to incentives for land
use changes and biodiversity conservation to produce global environmental
benefits.                                     4. Policy formulation and
decision support: Assemble policy guidelines for sustainable
intensification of livestock production and specific recommendations for
sector and environmental policies in terms of land use and environmental
services.                                                                5.
Project Management.                                       Financial
Management:Financial Management SystemsA. Financial management. CATIE
would be the lead implementing agency, responsible for the management of
project funds and maintenance of project accounts. As such, CATIEwould
oversee the use of funds by Nitlapan and CIPAV. The Bank's assessment
concluded that CATIE's financial management system and arrangements with
Nitlapan and CIPAV are adequate for the purpose of implementing the
project. Details of the financial management and disbursement arrangements
are in Annex ll.B. Progress ReportingCATIE would produce Project
Management Reports (PMRs) on a six-monthly basis, on the basis of its own
work and the six-monthly reports of CIPAV and Nitlapan. These reports
would be prepared 45 days after the end of each semester. In addition,
annual financial statements (to be included in the audit report) would be
required. The fiscal year of the project would be from January 1 to
December 31.C. Annual AuditsIn addition to submission of six-monthly
reports, CATIE would contract an independent public accounting firm, prior
to the beginning of the fiscal year to be audited. The auditors would be
hired under a multi-year contract, according to terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, for the performance of annual project audits. The
- 6-



auditors would conduct interim audits through each year of project
implementation. A consolidated audited report for all project components
would be submitted to the Bank within 120 days of the close of the
calendar year. The terms of reference and the proposed short list of
public accounting firms have been submitted to the Bank, and the selected
firm is to be hired within 30 days of project effectiveness.A special
audit would be conducted annually on the farm-level certification of
ecological services.D. Special Account and Funds FlowProcedures for the
project's flow of funds would be implemented with due regard to
safeguarding project's resources and ensuring timely execution of
payments. Grant fundswould be disbursed to a Special Account in US$ to be
opened and maintained by CATIE in a Costa Rican commercial bank. Once per
month, and based on substantiated fund requirements, transferswould be
made to:i CATIE's operational account in colones for: (i) payments to
providers of goods and services; and (ii) payment to farmers for
environmental services.I Nitlapan's operational account in c6rdobas for:
(i) payments to providers of goods and services; and (ii) payment to
farmers for environmental services.I CIPAV's operational account in pesos
for: (i) payments to providers of goods and services; and (ii) payments to
farmers for environmental services.The Special Account is only to be used
for eligible expenditures under the grant (under no circumstances may
funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures
corresponding to the counterparts). Transfers from the Special Account to
other bank accounts would only be permitted to meet eligible expenditures
for a limited period of not more than 30 days.     CATIE's established
procedures for control of advanceswould apply to Nitlapan and CIPAV. With
this purpose, CATIE's software for bank accounts control ("CCB") would be
installed in Nicaragua and Colombia. Monthly documentation of expenditures
would be made electronically through CCB; failure to submit the CCB would
prevent further transfers. Additionally, hard copies of supporting
documents would be submitted to CATIE for review against the CCB.Payments
for "eco-services". Each participating farmer in the selected watersheds
would enter into a service-type contract with the relevant institution in
country. The contract would specify the conditions by which the ecosystem
services provided by the landowner would be certified and payments for
these services made on an annual basis. Each payment would be based on
the degree of improvement over the past year in eco-systems functioning as
measured by an index combining changes in vegetation cover, relative
abundance of plant and bird species and improvement in soil quality.
Details on the composition of the index are provided in Annex 7. The
total payment per farmer would not exceed US$20 per ha. per year. This
level of payment would be in line with those of similar Bank-funded
projects (e.g. the Eco-markets project in Costa Rica). In the case of
Costa Rica and Nicaragua, this contract would include a provision for a
small advancement (up to 15% of the expected payment). Annual payments
for environmental services upon successful certification would be net of
the advancement. In Costa Rica, advancements and annual payments would be
channeled through FONAFIFO, the National Forestry Financing Fund, that is
already paying the environmental services for the Ecomarkets Project, and
has a very good track record. In Nicaragua, advancements and annual
payments would be channeled through the Fondo de Desarrollo Local (FDL).
FDL has an excellent credit record, and has been assessed as being
acceptable to the Bank.    In Colombia, CIPAV would pay for the
eco-services to the farmers after the certification that environmental
services were generated is issued.Project Monitoring and Evaluation:CATIE
- 7 -



would have a co-ordinating role and would monitor project objectives,
outcomes, and activities using log frame indicators presented in Annex 1.
In each country the local project co-ordinator and financial project
manager would be responsible for constant monitoring and evaluation to
determine the success of project administration. Selected programs of
stakeholder consultation, training, and capacity building would include
evaluation sessions using instruments such as questionnaires, group
evaluation forms, and open discussions. Special reports would be
completed as necessary. The Steering Committee of each country (LEAD, ABC,
CATIE, CIPAV, NITLAPAN, Focal Points, representatives of the Ministry of
Agriculture) of the project would meet at least once a year and would
serve as an expert panel of advisors/evaluators. Monitoring results and
conclusions reached as a result of evaluation reports would be used to
recommend and implement changes in project management and for future
reference in the development of similar or related projects.
7. Sustainability
The rapidly progressing degradation of conventional pastures, combined
with the innovative character of the technology, and the highly skilled
institutions, such as CATIE and LEAD, and government bodies represented in
the Steering Committees to disseminate the findings throughout the region
and beyond, would be strong driving forces in the further dissemination of
the technology and provide a solid foundation for long-term sustainability
of project activities and outcomes. The pilot and innovative character of
this operation inevitably implies that some sustainability aspects would
need to be assessed during the implementation of the project. This is
implied in the pilot nature of the project design. Individual
sustainability aspects are provided below:n Technical sustainability: The
close participation of national and international experts and consultants
in the different areas of the project, especially in silvopastoral
systems would ensure state of the art technical design, resulting in
optimal resource conservation and sustainable use. Experience so far,
clearly indicates that silvopastures, once established, would be
sustainable for at least 20 years and continue providing the local and
global environmental impacts.n Environmental sustainability: Research on
silvopastoral systems indicates that Carbon would continue to be
sequestered in the soil and biomass as long as the systems are in place.
Moreover the silvopastoral systems would carry on providing other
environmental services such as providing habitats for animal species,
biological corridors, conservation of water and soil, etc. n Social
sustainability: Stakeholder involvement in all phases of project
implementation along with training in biodiversity conservation and
sustainable livestock production would be emphasized. The focus would be
on increasing awareness of farmers and community on the relationship
between global biodiversity conservation and carbon cycle and local
sustainable production. International conservation efforts have shown that
chances for long-term success increase relative to the amount of local
community involvement in decision-making processes combined with the
cultivation of a sense of stewardship. The five-year capacity building and
training component, the long-term presence of the local institutions and
the strength of the farmer to farmer program would sustain the goals of
the project in the long term and spread the technologies and environmental
benefits to other regions.Financial sustainability: The increased animal
productivity and higher financial returns would be important incentives
to fully sustain the silvopastoral systems established under the project.
- 8 -



The initial financial analysis shows moderate returns, which would be
adequate for maintaining the silvopastoral systems, once initial costs are
incurred. Moreover, it is highly likely that under conditions of high
population pressure (and therefore land prices) and good markets, in
particular for milk, the technology would be profitable. A major effort to
attract additional funding from other donors, the private sector and the
government concerned would be mounted at the mid-term evaluation and
efforts would be made to explore the establishment of an eco-services fund
in Nicaragua and Colombia, and augment the funding mechanism in place in
Costa Rica. Recent meetings (Bonn-, Morocco-Convention on Climate Change
Meeting), have made some progress in identifying ways to finance global
environment services also for land use and forestry areas, where it seems
that the general principle of "the provider gets" would prevail. The
project represents a novel approach on this "provider-gets-principle"
regarding payments for environmental services in ecosystems, linking
changes in land use to global environmental benefits. Institutional
sustainability: The project would be implemented by NGO's with already a
long term presence in the region. The increased technical capacity in
these organizations, resulting from the project, and the building of links
between them and other regional and global organizations through LEAD,
would ensure that the institutions involved in the project would come out
considerably strengthened in their operative capacity and be better
equipped to spread the technologies to other zones in their own countries
and also at regional level. The Steering Committees would be important
channels for internalizing project lessons learned into government
policies and programs.Of the risks identified in the table below, there
are two which require detailed explanation:1. The project incentives are
not sufficient to motivate private landowners to change to a more
sustainable production. This risk relates to the level of incentives
offered by the payment for eco-services. Reasonable incentives could
generate behavior changes on land use. Previous experiences and the
project financial analysis suggest that:n An incentive for investments
leading to environmental services, even at modest levels, is likely to
significantly change adoption behavior. n Net farm income would increase
in comparison to the situation of no-incentives.n Silvopastoral systems
favor smaller farmers because of their higher labor requirements compared
to conventional grazing. In regions where the opportunity costs of labor
are very low, the system might be particularly attractive for smallholder
farmers. 2. Deforestation increases as a result of the carbon incentive on
improved pastures and silvopastoral systems.There is the risk that farmers
response to the economic incentives, increases deforestation by clearing
additional land for silvopastoral systems. This would be one of the key
parameters to be tested in this project. Preliminary research data by
CATIE in three pilot farms in Costa Rica show that pasture intensification
leads to a decrease of unimproved pastures and a significant increase of
secondary forest. This evidences that intensification leads to abandonment
of conventional raising methods on native pastures and therefore
reforestation.Table 7. Land use changes, productivity and incremental
carbon in livestock farms in Costa RicaFarm lFarm 2Farm
3199620001996200019962000Vegetal coverNative pasture %492442233518Improved
pasture W 21611201OFodder bank t020000Secondary forest %11021018Stocking
rateO.671.340.561.240.521.25Milk,
l/yr.11,34023,7607,56014,0406,93012,95OIncremental C,
tonsl,9703,2101,7202,7401,5242,345Source: CATIE, 2000.For the
operationalisation of the compensation scheme it is important to address
- 9-



the "moral hazard" of farmers clearing forest for silvopastures to claim
compensation for environmental services. The following criteria for the
selection of the particular watersheds to further limit the possibility of
ranch encroachment in forest areas have been applied:     n Focus on  zones
where cattle production is one of the predominant economic activities and
which are distant of the forest frontier.n Focus on zones at some distance
of fragile and endangered ecosystems (corridors). In the case of Costa
Rica, the particular technology used in the selected watersheds of
Esparza, about 50 km away from the national park of Monteverde, would be
completely unsuitable for the montane climate of that park, and the
"ecological" distance would prevent the "moral hazard" effect there. n
Preference would be given to small or medium size farmers (in terms of
capital).n Focus on those areas, where there is a strong presence of an
organized group of farmers or community, and where the group has expressed
a strong will to participate, to use peer pressure.See Annex 8 for the
description and maps of the boundaries of the ecosystems in the target
regions in Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Colombia.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following significant lessons were learned from this broad variety of
projects:n Project execution should be entrusted to agile and efficient
institutions. The project would use three well recognized and highly
reputable NGOs in implementing this project, and not a public agency, to
avoid bottlenecks in terms of capacity of implementation and budgetary
authority. The implementation and administration responsibilities would be
with the NGO's, and no funds would be channeled through the central
government's budgetary system. However governments would be involved in
the implementation as they are part of the project's Steering Committees.n
Effective natural resources management requires an ecosystem approach. The
project seeks to achieve multiple objectives that can not be obtained with
a sectorial approach. The silvopastoral technology combines low external
input use, and major changes in the vegetative cover, land use and stock
management with farmer education and training, and therefore addresses the
entire eco-system.n Effective management of silvopastoral systems require
strong stakeholders participation. The establishment of silvopastoral
systems would only work if there is social consensus, involvement and
participation since the early stage of local stakeholders. Therefore the
project seeks to work in a participatory fashion, with exchange programs
between farmers. The participation strategies would accommodate local
biophysical and socioeconomic particularities, depending on the region and
zone. One of the most important lessons learned from activities associated
with the projects within the Biological Corridor includes the importance
of involving local populations and institutions (e.g., local government,
community and sectoral organizations, NGOs) in project design and
implementation in order to ensure long-term objectives. As such, the
project includes technical assistance for local NGOs and associations to
support ecosystems conservation activities carried out by small
landowners, rural women's organizations and young people groups.
Consultations have taken place to strengthen local participation in the
project.n Eco-services concerns need to be incorporated to broader
political and socio-economic frameworks. The project would assist in a
major effort to incorporate environmental service (provided by these
ecosystems) considerations into sectoral planning. n Better efficiency and
effectiveness during execution require an adequate monitoring and
evaluation system. The project would make efforts in the acquisition and
- 10 -



expansion of the knowledge base and development of methodologies for
monitoring and to construct appropriate indicators.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project would have highly beneficial impacts
upon the environment, supporting improved natural resource management and
biodiversity conservation. The project complies fully with the objectives
of OP 4.36 Forestry, namely, "to reduce deforestation, enhance the
environmental contribution of forested areas, promote afforestation,
reduce poverty, and encourage economic development."There is no major
adverse environmental impacts expected as a result of this project. Minor
environmental impacts might be expected from some on-the-ground
investments.The Category B is designed to be entirely positive from an
environmental standpoint, particularly by promoting conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity.Silvopastoral systems provide a deeply
rooting, perennial vegetation which is persistently growing and which have
a dense but uneven canopy. Silvopastoral systems are an alternative to
prevalent cattle production in Latin America and have the potential to
produce environmental services and improve people's livelihoods. The
project focuses in the implementation of silvopastoral systems in 6000 ha,
however once other parallel farm activities are in place (like biological
corridors, live fences, land set aside for conservation, etc.), the
environmental effects, such as the control of erosion, the increase in
bio-diversity would scale up to the entire farm area of 12,000 ha. n
Carbon sequestration: Silvopastoral systems are capable of fixing
significant amounts of carbon in the soil under the improved pastures and
in the standing tree biomass (wood) Fisher et al. (1994), identified a
substantial sink of carbon in pastures based on deep-rooted grasses which
have been introduced in the South American savannahs. Research by CIPAV
in Colombia has shown that there are higher carbon contents in soil under
silvopastoral systems (Ramirez, 1997). Research conducted by CATIE (2000)
in Panama and Costa Rica showed that silvopastoral systems can sequester
more carbon in the soil (due to the increased growth of the pasture in the
association with legume trees, they accumulate about 1.8 tons carbon per
ha per year and in addition, an important fraction of the carbon is
sequestered by trees in the form of wood. n Biodiversity conservation: In
recent years, ranchers have started to manage silvopastoral systems in
order to increase the productivity of their lands while promoting the
conservation of natural resources (Ibrahim & Schlonvoigt 1999).
Silvopastoral systems have shown to play a major role in the survival of
wildlife species by providing scarce resources and refuge (Harvey & Haber
1999); to have a higher propagation rate of native forest plants under
these scattered trees (Harvey & Haber 1999); to provide shade for grazing
animals, wind screens, wood for fencing, fuel, food, and shelter for wild
birds (Harvey & Haber 1999). Food availability for wild birds is high in
silvopastoral systems, and the complex structure of the vegetation
provides more adequate nesting substrate and better protection against
predators than other agroecosystems. In addition, several authors have
noted that both silvopastures and other agroforestry systems harbor a
larger and more complex assemblage of invertebrates (50-90 percent) than
monocultural pastures, which explains the diverse bird communities found
within (Dennis et al., 1996). It has been pointed out that bird frugivores
inhabiting secondary forests do not fly very far into abandoned pastures,
- 11 -



which results in seed dispersal restricted to an area of 9-80 m
surrounding scattered trees close to the forest edge. Recent expansion of
secondary forests within ranches is likely to enhance forest seed
dispersal into abandoned pastures, further increasing the connectivity
between different elements of the forested landscape (wind screens, living
fences, scattered trees, forest remnants, etc.).n Improve water
infiltration and used for watershed management: Water holding capacity
increases with the presence of trees, which results in better water
cycles, and consequently, in the conservation or improvement of water
sources. The presence of shrubs and trees shifts the rainwater flux from
superficial runoff, with considerable soil erosion, to more water
infiltration, greater soil retention and greater and more permanent
springs and water courses. n Soil retention (prevention of landslides): In
hilly areas, trees have an additional protective role in the ecosystem,
that of preventing landslides. Not only is the presence of trees essential
for soil protection on slopes, but also the variety of species is
important. Trees of different root depths are required for effective soil
anchorage, in particular in those events of torrential rains accompanying
tropical storms, which seem to become more frequent in recent years in
many parts of the world.n Improvement of soil productivity: increases
nutrient re-cycling across a deep portion of the soil profile occupied by
the root systems of a wide variety of plants associated of silvopastoral
systems. Depending on the species of trees being used, and on local
climate characteristics, trees extract water and nutrients from soil
horizons inaccessible to grasses, and deposit them on the ground with the
natural fall of foliage, twigs, and fruits. The biomass and amount of
nutrients released by pruning the trees of the agroforestry systems varies
depending on the kind of management in use. Nonetheless, it is known that
up to 18 tons of dry matter/ha/year can be deposited on the ground and
that the amount of nitrogen flowing through the system can reache values
of up to 380 kg/ha/year in agroforestry settings (Alpizar et al.1983).n
Economizing fossil fuels: Silvopastoral systems spare fossil fuels in
various ways: a) Shrub and tree legumes fix atmospheric nitrogen and thus
replace energetically (fossil fuel) costly inorganic nitrogen fertilizers
that otherwise would be applied to pastures. b) Silvopastoral systems
improve feed quality, quantity and seasonal distribution throughout the
year, and consequently there is less need for supplementation with
concentrates. In general terms, cereal-based concentrates coming from
intensive production are very costly from the point of view of fossil fuel
inputs. c) Life-fences and other trees present in forage banks and
pastures, are sources of firewood for rural or urban use, directly
replacing fossil fuel.n Reduce emissions: Indirect reduction of the
emission of greenhouse gases caused by deforestation and shifting
agriculture.n Other benefits of silvopastoral systems: The presence of
trees potentially brings additional benefits to farms:n Diversification of
farm products: Bee honey, fruits and wood (round wood, firewood & posts)
are additional products that can be marketed when silvopastoral systems
are established in farms. The economic value of these would vary depending
on their demand and the distance from markets.n Beautification of
landscape: A farm with trees is no only more beautiful but also more
appealing to potential agro-tourists.n Land rehabilitation: Under certain
circumstances, the present value of land can be substantially increased
when trees have been planted, and this can be in itself, the main
incentive for reforestation.What are the main features of the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and are they adequate?The project is
- 12 -



expected to have highly beneficial impacts upon the environment,
supporting improved natural resources management and biodiversity
conservation. Therefore, an EMP is not applicable in this
situation.Status of Environmental Assessment. With ecosystems functioning
as the main objective of the project, major attention is being paid to
the environmental assessment of the project. The Environmental Assessment
has been supported by the Livestock and Environment Toolbox of LEAD,
which enables, through an interactive decision making process, to assess
the impact of the different policy and technology options. The only
possible negative environmental effect of the project could be the "moral
hazard" problem of the proposed system of payments, which arguably could
encourage more, rather than less deforestation. However, past experience
in Costa Rica points to the contrary (Table 7). Moreover the financial
analysis (Annex 4) shows the rather modest returns of the technology, even
with a grant system. The procedures for the environmental impact
assessments have been developed by CATIE for carbon sequestration, by ABC
for bio-diversity and by CIPAV for water quality. They are described in
Annex 7 and would be spelled out in detail in the Operational Manual. How
have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental
screening and (b) draft EA report on the environmental impacts and
proposed environmental management plan? Describe mechanisms of
consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?The proposed
project would support the Environmental Services provided by silvopastoral
systems which benefits small- and medium-scale farmers and the rural
poor. Stakeholders have been consulted throughout the project
preparation and during the social assessment, a survey and interviews and
focus groups were used to discuss with the farmers environmental
implication of the actual production system and of the proposed production
system. All the farmers are really aware of the major environmental
problems of their actual grazing systems on degraded pasture-land and of
the environmental benefits of silvo-pastoral systems.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Paola Agostini
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: +3906 5705 4325
Fax: +3906 5705 4657
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 13 -



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending December 7, 2001
- 14 -



