Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21869-LAC
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF
SDR 3.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT(US $4.5 MILLION)
TO
CENTRO AGRONOMICO TROPICAL DE INVESTIGACION Y ENSE1RANZA
(CATIE)
FOR THE
INTEGRATED SILVOPASTORAL APPROACHES TO ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT
PROJECT
IN COLOMBIA, COSTA RICA, AND NICARAGUA
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Central American Department
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Costa Rican Colon
357.63 = USSI US Dollar
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC            American Bird Conservancy
ASOMSIF        Association of Nicaraguan Microfmance Organizations
BANCAFEE       Banco Cafetero
BID            Banco Interamericano para el Desarrollo
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CATIE          Centro Agron6mico Tropical De Investigaci6n y Ensefnanza
CBD            Convention on Biodiversity
CCAD           Central American Commission on Environment and Development
CDM            Clean Development Mechanism
CIAT           Centro lntemacional de Agricultura Tropical
CIPAV          Centre For Research on Sustainable Agricultural Production Systems
CIR.AD         Centre de Cooperation Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le Developpement
COLCIENCIAS Colombian Institute for Science and Technology
CREU           Colombian Certificates Of Reduction Of Green House Gases
DANIDA         International Development Agency of Denmark
EU             European Union
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FDL            Fund for Local Development
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GTZ            German Technical Cooperation Agency
IDR            Instituto de Desarrollo Rural
IFS            International Foundation for Science
TIRI           Intemational Livestock Research Institute
INBIO         Instituto Nacional de la Biodiversidad Costa Rica
LEAD-FAO       Livestock, Environment And Development Initiative
MAG-FOR        Ministerio AgropecuarioForestal de Nicaragua
MARENA         Ministerio del Ambiente y los Recursos Naturales de Nicaragua
MBC            Mesoamerican Biological Corridor
MINAE          Ministry of Enviromnent and Energy Costa Rica
MMA            Ministerio del Medio Ambiente de Colombia
MSP            Medium Size Project
NITLAPAN-
UCA            Institute of Research and Development of the University of Central America
OCIC           Oficina Costaricense de Implementacioa Conjunta
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PIF            Partners In Flight
PMR            Progress Management Reports
SIDA (ASDI)    Swedish International Development Agency
SIDE           Servicios lternacionales para el Desarrollo Empresarial
SOE            Statement Of Expenditure
UCA            University of Central America
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
UNEP           United Nations Environment Program
UNFCCC         United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
WB             World Bank
WWF            World Wildlife Fund
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Director    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:   John Redwood
Task Manager:     Paola Agostini
Co-Task Manager:       Comelis de Haan



LATIN AMERICA
INTEGRATED SILVOPASTORAL APPROACHES TO ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                        Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       13
3. Benefits and target population                                                      14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 24
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    25
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         26
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            26
2. Financial                                                                           27
3. Technical                                                                           30
4. Institutional                                                                       30
5. Environmental                                                                       31
6. Social                                                                              33
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  37



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  38
2. Critical risks                                                                  40
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  42
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         42
2. Other                                                                          n.a.
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       44
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      44
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       45
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 51
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      58
Annex 4: Incremental Cost, Financial, and Cost Effectiveness Analyses                 59
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                            76
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 77
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  90
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                91
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               97
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         101
Annex 11: Institutional Analysis                                                     107
Annex 12: Scientific Background to Environmental Benefits of Silvopastoral Systems    115
Annex 13: Payment Schemes for Environmental Services                                 125
Annex 14: Monitoring and Evaluation Plan                                              135
Annex 15: Country Specific Project Descriptions                                       149
Annex 16: Social Assessment                                                           159
Annex 17: Technical Menu                                                              168
Annex 18: STAP Reviewer Comments                                                      175
Annex 19: Focal Point Letters                                                         177
Annex 20: Maps                                                                        180
MAP(S)
Non-IBRD maps, P072979



LATIN AMERICA
Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSER
Date: April 5, 2002                              Team Leader: Paola Agostini
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo    Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project I[D: P072979                             Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s):
IFocall Area: B - Biodiversity                   Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
-billaclcl i5inancing Data
[ I Loan     [ ] Credit   1 J Grant    t J Guarantee    [Xl Other: GEF Grant
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): SDR 3.7 million equivalent (US $4.5 million)
r-fim¶ilil$g Plan (US$m):  Source                          Local        FrejFri        TotjW
BORROWER                                                      0.00           0.00          0.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                   3.80           0.70          4.50
LOCAL FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                    3.00           0.00          3.00
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS                             0.30           0.05          0.35
(UNIDENTIFIED)
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                          0.60           0.00          0.60
BORROWING COUNTRY
Total:                                                        7.70           0.75          8.45
Borrower/Recipient: CATIE
Responsible agency: CATIE - CENTRO AGRON(MICO TROPICAL DE INVESTIGACION Y ENSE1lA
Address: Apartado 7170, Turrialba, Costa Rica
Contact Person: Muhammad Ibrahim
Tel: 506-556 64 18           Fax: 506-556 15 76          Email: mibrahim@catie.ac.cr
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
-          2003       200Q       2005      2006      2007
Annual      1.90 J    1.70       1.60      1.60       1.65
Cumulative     1.90 l    3.60       5.20      6.80       8.45
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/01/2002  Expected closing date:  01/31/2008
OCS PAL)U:- Ho M.d 2H



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main development objective of this innovative pilot project is to demonstrate and measure the effects of
the introduction of payment incentives for environmental services to farmers on their adoption of integrated
silvopastoral farming systems in degraded pasture lands in Colombia, Costa Rica and Nicaragua and the
resulting improvements in eco-systems functioning, global environmental benefits, and local
socio-economic gains resulting from the provision of said services. The specific benefits sought by the
project would be:
(a)    incremental local environmental benefits, such as the reduction in erosion, improvement in soil and
water quality, increased production, income and employment in rural areas from degraded pasture land in
up-to six watersheds in three countries. The experience gained would be directly relevant to an estimated 40
million hectare of degraded pasture land in the three countries. Indirectly the project would be expected to
reduce pressure on the agricultural frontier;
(b)    incremental global environmental benefits, principally improved biodiversity and carbon
sequestration services, thus protecting some of the world's most valuable eco-systems and reducing the risk
of climate change;
(c)    experience on farmers' reactions to the payment of environmental services and experiences in the
management of payment incentive schemes required to produce global environmental benefits; and
(d)    guidelines for the sustainable financing mechanisms for the promotion of silvo-pastoral systems to
rehabilitate degraded pastures.
The project will be executed by a very well known intemational nonprofit civil association based in Costa
Rica that conducts research, education and outreach activities in agricultural sciences, agroforestry
systems, and natural resources management: Centro Agronomico Tropical de Investigacion y Ensenanza
(CATIE). Having a nonprofit association as an executing agency for a full size GEF has proved to be very
effective already in other projects in Latin America such as the Colombia Andes Project, the Costa Rica
Ecomarkets and others and is supported by GEF as a best practice executing arrangement. CATIE would
be the central implementing agency for the project, directly responsible for the Costa Rican site, and will
sign agreements with two local agencies for the implementation of the project sites in Nicaragua and
Colombia. The signing of said agreements is a condition of effectiveness. This arrangement has been
introduced already under the preparatory phase (Project Development Facility, Block B) and has shown to
be efficient.
For GEF, this pilot project would provide guidance on the definition of policy requirements for optimizing
environmental services in livestock production and for future funding of mitigation measures in a sector
(i.e. the livestock sector) for which operational programs have not yet been developed. The documentation
of experience gained, the good practices, know-how, and dissemination of lessons learned are an integral
outcome of the project. This would lead to greater awareness of the potential gains to be made in terms of
environmental services provided by integrated ecosystem management through the promotion of
silvopastoral systems.
I Silvo-pastoral systems consist of the provision of environmental services which consist of establishment and maintenance of
complex arrays of planted trees, shrubs and grass species, used for multiple purposes, such as cattle grazing and browsing, live
-2 -



fences and windbreaks to reduce wind and water erosion, shade for crops and livestock, climbers for vine crops, and
construction and fuel wood. They serve also as an effective "pump" by capturing mineral nutrients from deeper soil layers to
produce vegetation, which, in time, and in the form of litter, is reverted back to minerals in top soil layers (see Annex 16 for a
detailed description).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*      Key perforrnance indicators related to the project development objectives include:
*      The increase in area with improved eco-systems functioning of 12,000 ha. currently degraded
pasture land, as demonstrated by specific indicators for soil and water quality and bio-diversity;
*      The increase in numbers of livestock producers, community leaders, and policy decision makers at
the local, regional and national level that are familiar with the ecological and economic benefits of more
intensive silvopastoral systems in livestock production;
*      The extent of dissemination of improved monitoring methodologies developed for measuring
carbon sequestration, biodiversity conservation, water quality in watersheds and socio-economic aspects;
*      The degree of understanding of farmer reactions to incentive systems for global environmental
benefits; and
*      The availability of policy guidelines to promote silvopastoral systems and establish sustainable
benefits sharing mechanisms related to global and local environmental services provided by integrated
ecosystem management.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number:     Date of latest CAS discussion:
Nicaragua:   IDA/R98-32(IFC/R98-41)               04/09/1998
Costa Rica:  R-93-57                            04/15/1993
Colombia:    R99-201 Progress Report             11/18/1999
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
1. (a) Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goals Supported By The Project:
Colombia: The project is consistent with the World Bank's overall objective in the Country Assistance
Strategy for Colombia which is to achieve sustainable development with continual reduction of poverty and
improvement of social conditions in an environment of peace. The CAS recognizes Colombia's global
environmental importance and identifies environmental protection and conservation combined with
macroeconomic stability to be essential elements to ensure sustainable development. This project
contributes to the CAS's strategic focus on sustainable development to: (i) improve natural resource
management and strategic ecosystem conservation; (ii) strengthen the effectiveness of the decentralized
environmental management system and seek partnership opportunities with the private sector, NGOs and
academia; and (iii) promote employment opportunities for the disadvantaged through environmentally
sustainable projects.
-3 -



Costa Rica: The project is compatible with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Costa Rica,
which directly supports improved incentives for private sector-led growth, improved natural resource
management through the conservation of forest ecosystems, and poverty alleviation through targeting small
farmers and the rural poor for contracts for conservation easements, sustainable forest management, and
reforestation.
Nicaragua: The project is consistent with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Nicaragua,
which identifies the destruction of forests as an issue of major importance for the country, and gives top
priority to improving natural resource management.
1. (b) National Environmental Strategies Supported By The Project.
Colombia ratified the Convention of Biological Diversity (CDB) on November 3, 1994, and the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on March 22, 1995. The Colombian
National Policy for Biodiversity (1996) focuses on conservation, knowledge, and sustainable use. National
guidelines and strategies include sustainable renewable resource management plans, assessments of
economic potential to insure equitable use, protected areas, legislative and institutional strengthening,
technology transfer, biodiversity information systems, and community training and participation. The
project is also compatible with the recent National Strategy Study "Optimization of the Use of the Clean
Development Mechanism in Colombia", which assists the Government of Colombia to conduct an
assessment of the potential for cost-effective reduction of emissions and potential capture of greenhouse
gases; to evaluate the market for Colombian certificates of reduction of green house gases (CREUs); to
define the regulatory and institutional requirements to promote the development of a market for CREUs; to
support Colombia's positioning before the conference of parties to the Climate Change Convention; and to
identify an initial portfolio of projects that could be submitted to the carbon trade market. The sale of
CREUs from forestry programs and natural re-growth could also provide for the recovery of watersheds
and control of erosion and other tangible benefits associated with the protection of biodiversity resources.
Costa Rica ratified the CBD on August 26, 1994 and the UNFCCC on the same day. This project would
be closely linked to the Action Plan of the Costa Rican National Biodiversity Law of April 14, 1998 (No.
12635), which states that the sustainable use of biodiversity should preserve all development options for
future generations (including food security, ecosystem conservation, and improved living standards), foster
cultural diversity, enhance knowledge of biodiversity, and increase conservation activities, particularly of
rural, indigenous communities. Project activities also comply with the Forestry Law No. 7575, approved in
1996, which supports the conservation of forest ecosystems and provides incentives to individuals and
groups that implement conservation measures. The project is also directly compatible with current
activities of the Ministry of Environment and Energy (MINAE) and the National Biodiversity Institute
(Instituto Nacional de la Biodiversidad - InBio) at the national level -- and specifically in the project area
of Esparza, that support biodiversity conservation both inside and outside of the proposed project areas.
The project is also compatible with current activities on climate change in Costa Ri(  Costa Rica signed
the United Nation Framework on climate change (1992) Costa Rica has over 1.5 million ha degraded
pasture lands that contribute to emission of greenhouse gases (Veldkamp, 1993).
Nicaragua ratified the CBD on November 20, 1995, and the UNFCCC on October 31, 1995. Nationally
these conventions are reflected in the governments participation in the Central American Alliance for
Sustainable Development, under which it has adopted the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor as an
- 4-



instrument for planning and prioritizing investments. The Regulations for Protected Areas (issued by
Decree 14-99 on March 2, 1999) requires all protected areas to issue a management plan based on
community development, biodiversity value estimation, and environmental services valuation. The project
is consistent with the Environmental Services Office, created within the framework. of the Protected Areas,
to identify indicators and to value the environmental services of the protected areas and buffer zones. The
project is also consistent with the biodiversity and forest conservation policies stated in the General Law for
the Environment and Natural Resources (L. 217 from March 26, 1996), its regulation (Decree 9-96, of July
25, 1996), the Nicaraguan Strategy for Conservation and Sustainable Development, the Environmental
Action Plan and the Forestry Action Plan.
-5-



1. (c) GEF Operational Strategy/program Objective Addressed By The Project:
With its emphasis on integrated eco-systems management, seeking to reduce greenhouse gas emission and
improve land, water and biodiversity qualities of degraded pastures, the project fully conforms with the
requirements of OP 12 (integrated ecosystems management). The silvopastoral system would induce
integrated management of land, water and living resources that promotes conservation and sustainable use
in an equitable way. The multi-purpose farming practices applied to livestock production enterprises would
open new avenues for linking structures, processes, and functions of the ecosystems for sound agricultural
development and conservation. By working with local communities and creating employment, it would also
address the social issues, critical to the solving the ecological problems. This is the essence of ecosystems
management.
Specifically, the project is compatible with OP12 opportunities to achieve multiple focal area benefits,
because it would introduce:
*      Integrated approaches towards the rehabilitation of degraded ecosystems; aiming to optimize
ecosystem services including reducing emissions and improving storage of greenhouse gases at the
equivalent of about 26,000 ton per year, and restoring and improving biological diversity in countries
which have some of the greatest bird diversity;
*      An holistic approach to a geographical discrete eco-system, i.e. addressing comprehensively the
prevailing production systems, including pasture, food crop production, forestry and shifting cultivation, in
a small number of watersheds, which are delineated as discrete geographical units; and
Attention to all relevant environmental and social building blocks of the agricultural production systems, by
comprehensively improving the quality of agro-biological diversity, land, water and energy resources.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
About 38 percent (94 million out of 248 million hectares) of Central America's total land area is used as
permanent pasture, and this area has expanded over the last decade in the three countries at a rate of
between four and nine percent, mostly at the expense of tropical forest. Thus, ranching-induced
deforestation is one of the main causes of loss of some unique plant and animal species in the tropical
rainforests of Central and South America. Despite significant efforts to reduce destruction of tropical
forests and protect the natural habitats and wildlife populations in Latin America, the beginning of the new
century does not look more promising for the preservation of tropical rainforest and biodiversity than the
preceding years. Over the last decade, natural forest areas in the three countries have been reduced between
6 and 25 percent (Table 1).
In the past, government-backed conversion of forest to other land uses, such as large scale ranching, was
one of the leading causes of deforestation. Today poverty, joblessness and inequitable land distribution is
forcing many landless peasants to clear the forest for subsistence farming. The decline in productivity and
the lack of appropriate technologies in the agricultural frontier force many small farmers to sell cleared
land to livestock farmers. Over the last years considerable progress has been made in reforestation, in
particular in Costa Rica, providing an overall picture of increasing forest cover. However, the contribution
of such replacement plantation forest to bio-diversity and even carbon sequestration and biodiversity is less
than that of the primary forest. Reducing the pressure on primary forest therefore remains important.
- 6 -



Table 1.
Changes in pasture land and forest in Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Colombia (1989-1999).
Item                              Colombia              Costa Rica           Nicaragua
Total Cropland (000 ha)          5,460                  530                  1,270
Total Permanent pasture (000 ha)   40,600                2,340                5,500
% Change/10 years                  4.2                   8.0                  8.9
Total Natural Forest Area (000 ha)  54,060               1,428                6,027
% Change/10 years                 -6.4                  -25.7                -17.1
Source: WRI, 2000
Classical approaches to conservation, attempting to preserve pristine habitats within National Parks and
other protected areas are necessary, but insufficient in the face of growing pressure on land. Driven by
social and economic pressures and unsustainable land use patterns, local settlers continue their expansion
into the last remnants of native forests. The silvopastoral technology proposed under the project could
reduce the pressure, and therefore complement the protected area approach.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
(a)    Technological Choices in Controllng Livestock Induced Deforestation
Cattle production has been associated already for a long time with deforestation and subsequent
degradation of tropical soils. In most countries, in the past, the prevailing policy framework encouraged
deforestation for timber extraction and conversion of forest areas to pastures and crops. Land titles were
granted only after the forest was cleared. Furthermore, cattle production was encouraged by subsidized
credit, guaranteed prices and other incentives. However, the policy scenario has changed in the recent years
in two ways. On the one hand, subsidies for cattle production have largely been stopped, and resource
allocation is now more in line with market prices. As a result, pure, large scale, ranching became
financially less attractive, and deforestation is now more driven by a land use sequence of logging, slash
and burn of the remaining forest for food crop, and ranching when the soil fertility becomes too depleted
for crop production.
Strategic Choice
Continuing with the conventional production models of pasture technology based on high performance
grasses under mono-culture and high input levels of capital, machinery, and imported inputs such as
fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides, would mean a continuation of the downward cycle of environmental
degradation. These models degenerate after an initial period of high yields, as soil fertility gets depleted,
and grass cover diminishes, causing environmental degradation such as soil erosion, contamination of water
supplies, air pollution and loss of biodiversity and degradation of landscapes. Silvopastoral systems could
revert these trends and the project has therefore selected the silvopastoral technologies as the cornerstone of
- 7 -



its intervention. Silvopastoral systems are a type of replacement vegetation, which to a large extent mimics
forest ecosystems. As opposed to the pasture lands, silvopastoral systems are not seen only as a cattle
production system but as integrated farming system that has multiple functions to sustain productive
animals, improve soil quality, increase biodiversity and to provide economic sustenance for the family.
As described in Section 1, silvopastoral systems are multi-layer, multi-species and multi-purpose
vegetations, based on the production of abundant biomass and energy, diversity of plant species,
intercropping, hedges, living fences and biological corridors, efficient use of manure, diversity of habitats
and reduction in the use of pesticides and other toxic compounds.
Several silvo-pastoral systems have been recently developed for the humid tropics. These can be grouped in
three major categories (Murgueitio 1999):
*      Forest plantations with livestock grazing: In the tropical lowlands, some plantations of fine wood
have as the main associated cost the invasion by different grasses (both native and exotics). Recently, this
situation has been managed by introducing cattle, which has resulted in the livestock paying for much of the
management costs of the plantations (Londoiio 1996).
*      Live fencing, wind-protection shields, biological corridors and shade for animals: This system
utilizes fast growing planted trees and shrubs that not only provide an inexpensive alternative for fencing,
but also supplements the diet of the livestock. In some cases, the system develops into actual biological
corridors connecting remnants of the original forests through a network crossing the agricultural lands.
Naturally, the importance of living fences as corridors increases with size, structural complexity and plant
species diversity.
*      Intensive systems for cattle and other animal species: Intensive systems for cattle and other
livestock, planting through seed or vegetative material in the existing degraded pasture, mixtures of mostly
Nitrogen fixing trees, shrubs, grasses and legumes (reducing the amount of land required for ranching thus
possibly freeing some areas for natural forest regeneration or for agroforestry), as a diet supplement while
protecting the soil from compaction and erosion. There are two types:
a) High arboreal density silvopastoral systems, where a variety of different trees and shrubs (mostly
native) are planted in the degraded areas together with grasses and herbs, and used for grazing
afterwards.
b) Cut and carry systems, where grazing in open pasturelands is replaced by stables in which livestock
is fed with the foliage of different trees and shrubs specifically planted in areas formerly used for other
agricultural practices. This system is particularly successful in Central America for raising goats and
in Colombia for a variety of animals including cattle, horses, goats, sheep, water buffalo, rabbits,
guinea pigs, and poultry.
Silvopastoral systems provide a deeply rooting, perennial, continuously growing vegetation. In ecological
terms, silvopastoral systems are a superior alternative to prevalent pasture-only cattle production in Latin
America. Initial research in Costa Rica and Colombia shows that the mixed vegetation of silvopastoral
systems accumulates a substantial amount of carbon per ha, and has one of the highest bio-diversity
indexes for many animal classes, including birds (Annex 12). Detailed descriptions of the particular system
used in each individual site, is provided in Annex 16.
These technological packages have been developed and applied on a few farms in the region. Most of their
benefits to livestock production are documented. The project will contribute to refined testing of these
technologies, with particular focus on measuring the global environmental benefits generated by adoption
- 8 -



of these systems.
Socio-economic Issues Linked to Livestock Grazing:
Issue
While the socio-economic context varies widely among Latin American countries, the deforestation issue
can be taken, at least in part, as an institutional failure. Contrary to what happened in the past, where
deforestation was caused by the expansion of large ranches, most deforestation in Central America is now
linked to encroachment of smallholder food crop and cattle producers, who are escaping from resource
pressure and poverty elsewhere. The lack of economic opportunities in most rural areas is often
compounded by deep social crises characterized by violence and skewed distribution of resources. The
conventional, extensive, ranching systems require low labor inputs, which often still decrease further as
land degradation sets in. From this perspective, alternatives to extensive livestock production in Latin
America need to be urgently found. Such alternatives should, while generating employment and income to
enable people to improve their living conditions, also reduce negative impacts on nature and restore
impaired environmental services.
Strategic Choice
The proposed silvopastoral system would be one of the most promising holistic approaches to achieve this
win-win situation for socially and environmentally sustainable development, and is therefore the foundation
of this project. As shown by the financial analysis on Annex 4 (b), silvopastoral systems have greater
economic benefits, because of their increased productivity and labor requirements when compared to
monoculture pastures and conventional ranching.
Barriers To The Adoption Of Silvopastoral Systems
Silvopastoral systems offer greater socio-economic benefits in terms of income and employment generation,
opportunities for conservation and local and global environmental benefits, but also carry higher production
costs in labor for the establishment of the system and in capital for complementary investments for
additional cattle and agricultural equipment needed to utilize the increased biomass production efficiently.
The reluctance of most producers to convert their enterprises into silvopastoral systems is caused by limited
lack of financial incentives to compensate for the high initial investments, knowledge and policy
constraints. More specifically the key constraints are:
1.     Financial. Financial limitations during the initial stages of establishing silvopastures, namely the
costs of converting degraded grass monoculture into silvopastures, and the time lags before the systems
become productive, are important barriers to adoption of silvopastoral systems. Initial calculations show
that the financial rate of return for investments in silvopastoral systems varies between 4 and 14 percent
(see Annex 4(c)) depending on the model. Intensive ranching systems used for the final finishing seems to
be more attractive, but for smallholder milk-beef operations, the profitability is marginal. As the
calculations show, relatively small payments for environmental services would "tip the balance"
2.     Knowledge. There is a lack of awareness on the aggregate performance of silvopastural systems
under farmers who could potentially adopt them, as shown by the social assessment. Benefits, such as the
reduction in dependency on chemical fertilizers and pesticides, savings in water for irrigation, incomes from
harvesting fuel wood and timber, soil protection and enhanced fertility, are documented, but not well
known. To promote better awareness, innovative technology transfer approaches would be required. Unless
new approaches to technological transfer to promote the implementation of alternative systems are
-9-



developed, it is very unlikely that the expansion of silvopastoral systems would proceed at a rapid pace.
3.     Policy. There are number of policies at the national and local level, which might affect the adoption
of silvopastoral systems. They include taxation regimes, and the inequitable access to inputs and markets.
Subsidies on chemical inputs (pesticides and fertilizers) also favor traditional grass based monoculture.
One of the key policy challenges would be to eliminate incentives that promote such unsustainable practices
and adopt mechanisms that promote environmental friendly production. However, there is a lack of
knowledge of how these constraints affect decision making at the farn level, and what would be the most
appropriate funding mechanisms for environmental services.
Strategic Choice: Lifting the Barriers
The project would address the financial, knowledge and policy barriers in the following fashion:
Financial barriers. The financial barriers would be addressed in the following manner:
In recognition of the contribution to the conservation of bio-diversity and the mitigation of greenhouse gas
emissions made by the introduction of silvopastoral systems, farmers would be paid for their service in
providing these global environmental services. Based on the underlying principle that the farmer provides
global environmental services by changing land use on his/her ranch from mono-culture of native pastures
to more complex vegetation systems, the payment system would be based on changes in land use, as
measured by a land use index. These payments would be just enough to "tip the balance" of the financial
returns needed for a widespread adoption of silvopastoral technologies, and hence address also the financial
barriers associated with launching these new technologies. Thus, the basic principle of the payment system
would be that the service the fartner provides consists of making changes in the land use on his/her farm
that produce global environmental benefits.
Each farmer would enter into a service type contract with the relevant institution in each country (CATIE
through FONAFIFO in Costa Rica, NitlapAn in Nicaragua, and CIPAV in Colombia) that specifies the
conditions by which the ecosystem services provided by the landowner would be certified. As described in
Social Assessment (Annex 16), there are farmers operating: (1) on private land that are either with title or
holding land reform title; or (2) on public land, some of which are in the process of regularizing land
tenure. For the first case with private land, the contract would represent the owner's consent to carry out
specified activities in his land. For the second case with public land, consent from government to carry out
specified activities on the land is expressed through the respective focal point letter. No cases of a third
party exploiting or living in the land are expected in these watersheds, but in case of any unknown land
conflict at the time of the execution of the contract, the corresponding project implementation entity will
have the right to terminate from the contract with the farmer. Eligibility criteria for selecting a farmer and
sample contract would be part of the Operational Manual. The payment for the services would be made
annually and would be based on the changes in the land use system compared with the baseline situation
on that particular farm. Specifically, the annual payment would be proportional to the total increment in
environmental services as measured in relationship to a base line of year 0. The land use index is specific
for any particular land use system and is based on the relative contribution that particular land use system
makes to the provision of global environmental services. For example, the value of the index for degraded
pasture is 0, for silvopastoral system is 1.4 and for primary forest 2. Details on the composition of the land
use index are provided in Annex 7. No new contracts would be launched after the end of year 3 of the
project
To assess the degree of risk aversion and the sustainability of the technology without subsidy, each farmer
- 10-



would be able to choose among two payment options. One option is a contract with up to four years of
annual payments, with each payment made after certification of the land use change. The payment per
land use index unit would be US $ 50. For example, a farmer which would plant 2 ha of silvopastoral
systems (land use index of 1.3) in his or her degraded pasture, would earn for this environmental service 2
ha x 1.3 or 2.6 incremental points, or 2.6 x US $ 50 equals US $ 130 for the services provided. If, in the
second year, he/she would plant 1 ha additional improved pasture, at 0.8 point, he/she would earn an
additional US $ 40 per year.
Under the second option, the farmer would also receive an annual payment for the environmental services
provided, computed in the same way as the first option according to the index, but only during the two year
period after the establishment of improved land use systems. The amount to pay for each point in the index
would be based on the discounted total payment for services expected to be provided over the five year
period under this option, with a discount of 20 percent over the discounted total payment under option 1, to
account for the reduced risk to the farmer of adopting this second option. This means that the price per unit
under option 2 will be higher, but the total payment the farmer would receive would be lower. Specifically,
the second option would include an annual payment period for up to two years with a payment of US $ 72
per unit, which reflects a net reduction of twenty percent in the Net Present Value (NPV) of expected
earnings from environmental services. For both options, the amount to be paid for environmental services
would be computed on US$, although the actual payment will be in local currency at the prevailing
exchange rate.
Over the five year period, the total payment would not exceed US$4500 per farm in Costa Rica and
Nicaragua, up to US$ 6,000 per farm in Colombia, as establishment costs are higher there. There is no
advance payment. Such systems of payment for changes in land use would provide the farmer with the
option to have silvopastures in the entire farm, but also induce him to adopt other ecological sound
technologies, such as reduction of chemical inputs and the establishment of biological corridors.
During project implementation, a contingent valuation survey, or focus groups would be carried out in the
first year to assess farmers perceptions on the two payment options. This set-up will provide critical
information of the risk aversion of the farmers (the more risk averse would take the short term/high unit
payment scheme), and the two year option will provide insights into the sustainability of the technology
since for this option payments stop after the second year.
Knowledge The project would provide a significant amount of technical assistance to farmers, local
communities and decision makers on the implementation of silvopastoral systems. Successful livestock
production enterprises currently using silvopastoral systems would act as showcases to demonstrate the
multiple benefits of these systems. Innovative techniques of knowledge sharing would be utilized, i.e.
rancher to rancher extension and participatory communication approaches, to replicate the model and
transfer experiences to other farmers. CIPAV, one of the partners, has considerable experience in this area.
Policy While the above mentioned policy constraints would not constitute insurmountable barriers to the
implementation of the project, they would be critical constraints to a wider adoption, and need to be given
priority attention for post-project scaling up. One of the most important outcomes of the project, therefore,
would be a good understanding of decision making at farm level, and a targeted analysis of the main policy
constraints to scaling-up and replicating the pilot models. With the aim to ensure the long-term
sustainability of the project, the policy analysis and replication strategy would be developed and
disseminated through active dialogue and workshops with policy makers and other key stakeholders. A
strong socio-economic sub-component would lead to targeted policy recommendations on the replication
and scaling up of the project activities after project completion. In this context, there are two
sub-components:



The first sub-component would focus on an analysis fann-level socio-economic constraints under the
project, based on the monitoring of the project. Specifically, the monitoring sub-component would enable
the project:
*      To understand the importance of key factors of production (capital land tenure, market access,
hygienic standards, etc) in the adoption of the technology.
*      To assess conditions/factors leading to intensive or extensive production strategies, and to assess
the effect that the promotion of silvopastoral systems may have on the expansion of the agriculture frontier.
*      To assess the effects of adopting Silvopastoral systems on family income, labor composition and
availability, employment, and gender
*      To conduct comparative analysis between conventional livestock production systems and
silvopastoral systems, once information to adjust parameters associated with silvopastoral systems is
available. To do this, research using farm budgets on a sample of farms under silvopastoral systems and on
neighboring controls group in the three countries (approximately 20 farms per country) would be
conducted.
The second sub-component would focus on long-term sustainability, with emphasis on exploring
sustainable financing mechanisms. The policy sub-component would provide information on:
*      Alternatives for financing environmental services at the local/regional level. Examples may include
hydro-electric plants paying to maintain watersheds, or breweries paying for having access to good quality
water.
*      Means to redirect the application of taxes to those activities associated to livestock production that
generate negative extemalities, such as water pollution from intensive production,
*      The feasibility of tax reductions for farmers adopting silvopastoral systems
*      Regulations obliging the adoption of management techniques that are more environmentally
friendly. To strengthen the enforcement of existing or to-be-created regulations, it is proposed to require the
compliance of those regulations to obtain credit.
*      Certifications of livestock products as more environmentally friendly, and the certification of
livestock farms with silvopastoral systems for agro-ecotourism. In the first case, the Project could certify
that firms have adopted production techniques more environmentally friendly.
*      Policies for agro-ecotourism to increase the financial incentives for silvopastoral systems in Latin
America. The potential of silvopastoral systems to attract and maintain a diverse array of wildlife (in
particular bird) species can be an added value to the direct financial and social gains perceived by farmers.
The example set by coffee-growers in the Central Andes of Colombia can be replicated in livestock grazing
enterprises. Ranches with complex vegetation and a rich fauna may attract tourism and increase the income
of small farmers without compromising the productivity of the systems.
*      Support mechanisms for local institutions promoting silvopastoral systems and to identify
needs/weaknesses of those institutions to carry out those tasks.
*      Environmental education about silvopastoral systems in schools in the area of the Project.
*      Incorporation of silvopastoral systems in the curricula of educational institutions forming
technicians and professional in the livestock production.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
- 12 -



Indicative          Bank     % of      GEF      % of
Component               Sector         Costs    % of   financing  Bank    financing  GEF
(USIM)    Total   (USSM)  financing  (US$M)  financing
1. Ecosystems Enhancement'  Natural Resources    4.85     57.4    3.30      83.5      1.50    33.3
s Extension Services and   Management
Capacity Building.
Ecosystem Enhancement:
Strengthen local development
organizations to assist farmers
in establishing and
maintaining improved
silvopastoral systems.
Capacity building: To assist
stakeholders, strengthen local
organizations in the technical
and institutional aspects of
silvopastoral systems.
2. Monitoring and Evaluation  Natural Resources  0.95      11.2   0.05        1.3     0.90    20.0
of Ecological Services. To  Management
develop and implement an
improved monitoring system
to provide accurate
information and understanding
on the potential of intensified
silvopastoral systems in
providing global ecological
services and local socio
economic benefits
3. Ecoservices Payments. To  Other Environment    1.35     16.0    0.20       5.1     1.20    26.7
create and implement an
eco-servics payment
mechanism to provide
incentives for establishing and
maintaining improved
silvopastoral systems on farms.
The structure of the payment
mechanism is designed to gain
experience on beneficiaries
response to incentives for land
use changes that produce
global environmental benefits.
4. Policy Formulation and  Other Environment     0.30       3.6    0.10       2.5     0.20     4.4
Dissemination. With input
from socio-economic
assessments, develop a
replication strategy, including
exploration of potential
sustainable financing
mechanisms, to ensure the
long-term sustainability of the
project. As part of this
replication strategy, lessons
- 13 -



gained throughout project
implementation will be
disseminated to key
stakeholder groups.
5. Project Management.    Natural Resources   1.00     11.8    0.30      7.6     0.70    15.6
(i) Carrying out technial  Management
evaluations to determine if the
process which certifies the
changes in land use is being
carried out according to the
Operational Manual
guidelines; (ii) Strengthen the
administrative and
organization of the
collaborating institutions;
(iii) project audits.
Total Project Costs                   8.45    100.0    3.95    100.0     4.50   100.0
0.00      0.0   0.00       0.0     0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                   8.45    100.0    3.95    100.0     4.50   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
In the past, deforestation was largely driven by perverse export and credit subsidies, land titling and price
policies leading to horizontal expansion and encroachment of large scale ranching in primary forest. This
project would provide the basic knowledge, incentives and policy decision tools to intensify land use and
thus reduce pressure on the primary forest. It would focus on understanding the decision making at the
farm level, on the impact of local and national policies affecting the introduction of silvopastoral
systemsand the development of mechanisms for payment of global environmental benefits.
3. Benefits and target population:
Financial and Social Benefits
Based on the local and private benefits for the farmer, the introduction of the silvopastoral technology
would provide him or her only modest benefits, as shown in the models prepared for the financial analysis
summarized in table 5, and Annex 4. Some level of valuation of the global, public benefits would be
required to encourage wide-spread adoption. The models, although based on preliminary data, clearly
show the critical role in "tipping the balance" of the payment for the global environmental benefits that the
silvopastoral systems provide. The social benefits, in the form of increased employment generation are
significant, and their level also depend strongly on the model, and the country. It is most pronounced in
Nicaragua and Costa Rica. In Colombia, the main benefit of the introduction of the system is the reduction
in external inputs, hence the relatively modest increase in labor requirements.
Target Population
The direct beneficiaries include small- and medium-sized landowners (10-80 hectares farms), depending
mostly on livestock and food crop production, with an average annual income from the farm of about US $
3,000. More detailed socio-economic analysis is provided in Annex 15. In line with the Bank strategy in
Nicaragua, a particular focus would be on smallholders there. The beneficiaries include also rural
communities and non-government organizations involved in the project. The environmental benefits related
- 14-



to biodiversity conservation and reduction of greenhouse gases likewise accrue to the international
community. Finally the further development of the methodologies to measure carbon sequestration,
bio-diversity, and water quality and lessons learned on the cost-benefits of silvopastoral systems, and the
mechanisms of payment for ecological services would directly benefit a number of initiatives in other
countries in Latin America. Specifically, projects incorporating environmental service payments for forest
conservation are being prepared or implemented by the World Bank in four other countries in Latin
America (El Salvador, Guatemala, and Costa Rica). Furthermore, the project would play a key role,
through its link with the Virtual Center of the Livestock Environment and Development (LEAD-FAO)
initiative and through the highly respected regional research institute Centro Agron6mico Tropical de
Investigaci6n y Ensefianza (CATIE) (Annex 17), in disseminating these experiences world wide and
potentially make it a part of the global discussion on the complementarity of agricultural production and
eco-systems enhancement.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period:            5 years
Executing Agencies:               Centro Agron6mico Tropical de Investigaci6n y Ensefianza
(CATIE), Costa Rica, the Centre For Research on Sustainable
Agricultural Production Systems (CIPAV) and Nitlapan-UCA,
Nicaragua
The Centro Agron6mico Tropical de Investigaci6n v Ensenianza (CATIE) in Turialba, Costa Rica is an
international, non-profit civil association, that conducts research, education and outreach activities in
agricultural sciences, forest management and biodiversity conservation, agroforestry systems and
watersheds, socioeconomics and related subjects on natural resources management. It operates throughout
Latin America, with an emphasis on Central America and the Caribbean. CATIE's mission is to alleviate
poverty and increase human well-being by applying research and teaching towards the conservation and
sustainable use of natural resources in Tropical America. Due to its active research, outreach and training
program and its close relations to many research and academic institutions, CATIE is a leader of natural
resource management and conservation in the region. CATIE has legal personality.
The institutional mission of the Center For Research on Sustainable Agricultural Production Systems
(CIPAV) in Cali. Colombia is to contribute to sustainable development through research, training, and
communication related to production systems appropriate for tropical agroecosystems. It is a non-profit
NGO recognized for its scientific and technological excellence, established in 1986 by a network of
agricultural enterprises and small farmer families. CIPAV has highly qualified researchers who provide
their knowledge for the solution of concrete problems. It is permanently in contact with research centers,
institutions and companies that encourage rural sustainable development throughout Colombia and various
countries in Latin America, Asia, Africa, Europe and the United States. CIPAV has legal personality and
CATIE will sign a contract with CIPAV to enable CIPAV implement the project in Colombia as a
condition of effectiveness.
Nitlapan (which means, "time to soW' in the indigenous Nahuatl language), is the Institute of Research and
Development of the University of Central America  CA  a non-profit Jesuit university located in
Managua, Nicaragua. Over the past decade, Nitlapan has developed an innovative, multi-faceted approach
to reactivating the economy and society of Nicaragua. Its focus is rural economic development. Its
principle tools are micro-finance, applied research and development. Nitlapan has developed innovative
approaches to diagnose and address the vicious cycle of under-capitalization, environmental, degradation
- 15 -



and lack of technical information in rural areas. In the process, is succeeding in integrating practical
strategies of environmental recovery in its development programs. Nitlapan is highly regarded both within
Nicaragua and abroad. Its reputation as a professional, ethical, apolitical and non-ideological organization
has won respect and trust from current and former administrations and credibility along the political
spectrum. Nitlapan plays a critical role in helping rural families get back on their feet as well as in
institutionalizing a rural finance system that incorporates modem, ecologically sensitive practices. UCA
has legal personality and CATIE will sign a contract with UCA to enable UCA to implement the project in
Nicaragua as condition of effectiveness.
Project partners and co financers:
LEAD-FAO (Livestock. Environment And Development) Initiative is an inter-institutional initiative with
the secretariat in FAO. This initiative is supported by the World Bank (WB), the European Union (EU), the
Ministere de la Cooperation (France), German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and
Development via GTZ, the Department for International Development (United Kingdom), the US Agency
for International Development, the Danish Agency for International Development Agency(DANIIDA), the
Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, the Centro Agron6mico Tropical de l[nvestigaci6n y
Ensefianza (CATIE), the Centre de Cooperation Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le
Developpement (CIRAD), The International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) and FAO. The work of the
initiative targets at the protection and enhancement of natural resources as affected by livestock production
and processing, while alleviating poverty. LEAD-FAO has identified, at a global scale, the consequences of
increased.pressure on grazing and mixed farming systems and the shift to industrial modes of production as
the main areas for its support. It highlights the close interaction between government policies and the
technology adopted at farrn level, and seeks to disseminate the large number of technologies, which are
available to mitigate the negative effects in all different production modes, provided the appropriate policy
framework is in place. FAO will sign a contract with CATIE for the purpose of providing CATIE with
parallel co-financing of parts D.3 of the Project (i.e. silvopastoral systems subprojects and annual
workshops. Given the fact that this financing would not be needed until the end of the first year of Project
implementation, it was agreed during negotiations that if the FAO Grant Agreement does not become
effective by December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank may agree or the Recipient has not
established alternative financing for said Parts of the Project by said date, the Bank may exercise its
remedies under the Grant agreement.
Key Direct Contractors:
The American Bird Conservancy (ABC) will be directly contracted by CATIE as a consultant to design
and implement the bird monitoring activities of the project, as well as build awareness and understanding in
the local communities of the importance of biodiversity conservation and the related project objectives.
ABC, based in Plains, Virginia is a not-for-profit organization dedicated to the conservation of wild birds
and their habitats in the Americas. The fundamental role of ABC is to build coalitions of conservation
groups, scientists, and members of the public, to tackle key bird priorities using the best resources
available. ABC is a leader in Partners in Flight (PIF). PIF is a multinational initiative to integrate existing
bird conservation needs and programs into a single, comprehensive plan for protecting all birds in North
America. A diverse array of more than 200 non-profits, government agencies, forest product companies,
colleges, and universities participate in PIF. ABC's Important Bird Areas program is a central aspect of
PIF and involves hundreds of volunteers and other conservation groups in a nation-wide effort to identify
and ennance protection for the most important sites for bird conservation in the U.S. ABC's international
program in Latin America aims at demonstrating how current rates of habitat destruction can be reduced
while promoting the development of productive practices in rural areas that are compatible with the
maintenance of habitat diversity to sustain biodiversity.
- 16-



Implementation Arrangements
The inter-institutional co-operation and organization for the project would be as follows:
*      CATIE would be the central implementing agency for the project, directly responsible for the Costa
Rican site, and could sign agreements with NITLAPAN-UCA and CIPAV for the implementation of the
project sites in Nicaragua and Colombia respectively. The signing of said agreements is a condition of
effectiveness. CATIE would also act as the regional organization for certification of the payment for
environmental services, and compatibility of data and analyses. Under the supervision of CATIE, each
agency would be responsible for the local implementation, farmers exchange and the management of the
funds. This arrangement has been introduced already under the preparatory phase (Project Development
Facility, block B) and has shown to be efficient.
*      LEAD-FAO provides support for the consultation and dissemination of results and scientific
backstopping. It also provides technical and financial assistance.
*      ABC, as a direct contractor, would provide regional technical assistance for the biodiversity
component and regional organization for certification of biodiversity. ABC would provide a common and
consistent methodology for the monitoring and certification of birds and biodiversity in the three countries.
*      The Roundtable, composed of representatives of the executing agencies and key stakeholders,
including the GEF focal points in each country (as representative of the respective Ministries of the
Environment),the representative of the Ministries of Agriculture of each country, and possibly
representatives of UNDP and UNEP and other development agencies. Agreements have been reached with
each country on the composition of the Roundtables with voluntary members that would serve as advisors
to the project and would help in the dissemination of the results of the project into their institutions; and
*      The World Bank would provide the technical and financial supervision of the project.
The implementation plan is illustrated in Table 3.
- 17-



Table 3.
Implementation Schedule of the Project
Project Activities                         Project-months
0     10     20     30      40    50      60
1. Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity
Building. Establish improved ecosystems in
about 12,000 ha, teach and technically assist
stakeholders, strengthen local organizations and
produce   communications    on   integrated
ecosystem    management    and   in    the
implementation   of   sustainable  livestock
production systems.
2. Monitoring Environmental Services: Obtain
improved information and understanding of the
potential of intensified silvopastoral systems in
providing global ecological services and local
environmental and socio economic benefits.
3.  Eco-services   Payments:   Provision  of D
demand-driven environmental services. Gain
experience on benefit sharing mechanisms at farm
level and beneficiaries response to incentives foi
land use changes and biodiversity conservation to
produce global environmental benefits.
4. Policy formulation and dissemination support:
Assemble policy guidelines for sustainabl
intensification of livestock production and specific
recomrnendations for sector and environnental
policies in terms of land use and environmental
services.
5. Project Management.
Financial Management:
A.     Financial management arrangements
CATIE would be the lead implementing agency, responsible for the management of project funds
and maintenance of project accounts. As such, CATIE would oversee the use of funds by UCA and
CIPAV. The Bank's assessment concluded that CATIE's financial management system and
arrangements with UCA and CIPAV are adequate for the purpose of implementing the project.
Details of the financial management and disbursement arrangements are in Annex 6.
- 18-



B.     Financial Reporting
CATIE would produce Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) on a six-monthly basis, on the basis
of its own work and the monthly reports of CIPAV and Nitlapan-UCA. These reports would be
submitted to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each semester. In addition, annual
financial statements (to be included in the audit report) would be required. The fiscal year of the
project would be from January 1 to December 31.
C.     Annual Audits
Annual project financial statements would be audited in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference (TORs) both
acceptable to the Bank. The auditors would conduct at least one interim visit through each year of
project implementation. The annual audit report would be submitted to the Bank within 6 months
after the end of each calendar year. The firm selected from a short list approved by the Bank is to
be hired within the first quarter after project effectiveness.
D.     Special Account and Funds Flow
Procedures for the project's flow of funds would be implemented with due regard to safeguarding
project's resources and ensuring timely execution of payments. Grant funds would be disbursed to
a Special Account in US$ to be opened and maintained by CATIE in a Costa Rican commercial
bank. Once per month, and based on substantiated fund requirements, transfers would be made to:
* CATIE's operational account for: (i) payments to providers of goods and services; and (ii)
payments to FONAFIFO for environmental services.
* Nitlapan-UCA's operational account for: (i) payments to providers of goods and services; and
(ii) payments to farmers for environmental services.
* CIPAV's operational account for: (i) payments to providers of goods and services; and (ii)
payments to farmers for environmental services.
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the grant (under no
circumstances may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures
corresponding to the counterparts). Operational bank accounts could be maintained in US dollars
and/or local currency, as long as all payments are recorded in the CCB (defined below). Transfers
from the Special Account to other bank accounts would only be permitted to meet eligible
expenditures expected to be incurred during the thirty consecutive calendar days immediately after
each said transfer.
- 19 -



CATIE's established procedures for control of advances would apply to Nitlapan and CIPAV.
With this purpose, CATIE's software for bank accounts control ("CCB") has been installed in
Nicaragua and Colombia. Monthly documentation of expenditures would be made electronically
through CCB; failure to submit the CCB would prevent further transfers. Additionally, hard copies
of supporting documents would be submitted to CATIE for review against the CCB.
Payments for environmental services Each participating farmer in the selected watersheds would
enter into a service-type contract with the relevant institution in country. As described in Social
Assessment (Annex 16), there are farmers operating: (1) on private land that are either with title or
holding land reform title; or (2) on public land, some of which are in the process of regularizing
land tenure For the first case with private land, the contract would represent the owner's consent
to carry out specified activities in his land. For the second case with public land, consent from
government to carzy out specified activities on the land is expressed through the respective focal
point letter. No cases of a third party exploiting or living in the land are expected in these
watersheds, but in case of any unknown land conflict at the time of the execution of the contract,
the corresponding project implementing entity will have the right to terminate the contract with the
farmer. Eligibility criteria for selecting a farmer and sample contract would be part of the
Operational Manual. The cut off date for approving silvopastoral systems subprojects is June 30,
2005. The contract would specify the conditions by which the ecosystem services provided by the
landowner would be certified and payments for these services made on an annual basis. Each
payment would be based on the environmental services rendered in the past year as measured by a
land use index. Details on the composition of the index are provided in Annex 13. A detailed
description of each land use type would be provided in the Operational Manual. In Costa Rica,
annual payments would be channeled through FONAFIFO, the National Forestry Financing Fund,
that is already paying the environmental services for the Ecomarkets Project, and has a very good
track record. In Nicaragua and Colombia, Nitlapan-UCA and CIPAV would pay directly for the
eco-services. Individual contracts with farmers would not extend beyond the grant's closing date.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation:
CATIE would have a co-coordinating role and would monitor project objectives, outcomes, and
activities using log frame indicators presented in Annex 1. The local project co-coordinator and
financial project managers for CATIE, CIPAV, and UCA would be responsible for constant
monitoring and evaluation in their respective countries to determine the success of project
administration. Selected programs of stakeholder consultation, training, and capacity building
would include evaluation sessions using instruments such as questionnaires, group evaluation
forms, and open discussions. Special reports would be completed as necessary. There would be a
voluntary Roundtable in each country, with representatives of interested stakeholders, such as
Focal Points, Ministries of Agriculture and Environment, LEAD-FAO, ABC, CATIE, CIPAV,
NITLAPAN-UCA, and other NGOs and development agencies. The Roundtable in each country
would meet at least once a year to receive information about project results, and to serve in an
informal manner as an expert panel of advisors. Informal inputs and feedback from these
Roundtables would be used to identify possible changes in project management and for future
reference in the development of similar or related projects. The Monitoring and Evaluation plan
would be part of the Operation Manual.
- 20 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project would address one of the most important driving forces for land degradation in Latin America,
by introducing a technology which has been adopted on individual farms, but has not yet been introduced at
the watershed scale. Its support for performance based incentives for a variety of environmental services is
innovative, and could have relevance far beyond the particular eco-system and technology. It is
demonstrative and innovative in character. The rationale concerning key project features of project size,
focal area and funding mechanism are provided below.
A.     Medium Sized Grant. The first alternative consisted in the development of a Medium Size Project
(MSP). However, with the need to cover three countries, (see below), and the need to carefully monitor the
effect of the project on all components of the environment (carbon, bio-diversity and water quality), it was
decided that the available funds from a MSP would be insufficient to support the holistic eco-systems
approach as now proposed. A full GEF project is therefore proposed.
B.     Government execution. An alternative to the project design consisted of a project executed by the
Government of Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Colombia. However, it was considered preferable that the
executing agencies be independent of the central government budget, in view of the current financial
difficulties and the difficulties associated with routing resources through the government budget. The
Roundtables in each country would be a vehicle to disseminate to government information on project
implementation and results so that relevant government agencies can incorporate lessons learned from the
project into public policies and programs.
C.     Single Country. A project covering only one country was considered. However it was decided to
assign a strategic role to this initiative, requiring therefore that it deals with regional issues that could be
representative of pasture /forest interface of the entire Latin America. Moreover, the current choice of three
countries, cover a wide variety of eco-systems, degrees of degradations, and socio-economic conditions
(population density, production intensification), thereby enhancing the possibilities of extrapolating the
results to a wide set of conditions in the region. Moreover, the three national implementing agencies would
compliment each other in skills, with CATIE 's unique skill in scientific monitoring of carbon and
socio-economics, CEPAV and its specialized experience in silvopastoral systems for watershed management
and water quality monitoring, and NITLAPAN-UCA and its experience in participatory approaches and
technology transfer. The project's design provides a strong synergy and cross support of one agency to the
other two in its own specialized field.
D.     Climate Change or Biodiversity-only as focal areas. Consideration was also given to a simpler
thematic focus restricted to either carbon sequestration or to biodiversity. However, the nature of the
project and the related natural resources management issues really called for shared synergies between the
three GEF focal areas and land degradation. OP. 12 was chosen because it responded very well to
stakeholders' interest in addressing holistically multiple convention objectives in accordance with national
priorities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned). (see table below)
a.     Overall
The project is complementary with on-going World Bank-implemented projects targeted towards poverty
- 21 -



alleviation, natural resources management and biodiversity conservation within the Mesoamerican
Biological Corridor, including the Rural Poverty and Natural Resources project and the Atlantic
Mesoamerican Biological Corridor in Panama, the Rural Municipalities project and the Atlantic
Mesoamerican Corridor in Nicaragua, the Rural Land Management project and the Biodiversity in
Priority Areas project in Honduras, and the Promotion of Biodiversity Conservation within Coffee
Landscapes project in El Salvador, among several other projects in the region. This project supports the
continued evolution of projects aimed at the sustainable use of biodiversity conservation in the region.
b.     Regional World Bank Projects Focusing On Environmental Service Payments
There are several World Bank efforts in the field of Payments for Environmental Services in the Latin
American and Caribbean region: The current GEF/World Bank work on environmental service payments
includes:
(1)    In Guatemala, a natural resource management project, with a component on environmental services
(with special emphasis on watershed protection) is under preparation.
(2)    In Costa Rica, the Ecomarkets Project currently starting implementation plans to use payments to
obtain a variety of environmental services, including watershed protection for hydrological benefits and
carbon sequestration. The Costa Rican government already has a program of payments for environmental
services -- the Environment Services Payment (ESP) program -- under which landowners can receive
payments for maintaining or replanting forest areas.
(3)    In Colombia, the watershed protection component of the Natural Resource Management project
currently nearing the end of its implementation used a subsidy scheme to induce farmers to reforest, with
the aim of generating hydrological benefits (securing water supplies to municipal water systems and other
downstream water users).
Additional information is provided in Table 4 and Annex 4 and 8. While this silvopastoral project
complements active projects within the region by utilizing some aspects of payment for environmental
services, many of the projects focus on different technologies and production systems. This is the first
project within the GEF/World Bank portfolio which emphasizes rehabilitation of degraded ecosystems and
the use of silvopastoral technologies. Second, this project focuses on multiple ecological services, while
most other projects focus on one (i.e. biodiversity or climate change). Combined, this project would
supplement existing operations with valuable lessons which are transferable to the rest of the Bank and
GEF portfolio.
c.     Related Projects of other development agencies
The project complements a number of development agencies financed activities focused on biodiversity
conservation and poverty alleviation in the three countries, including:
For Costa Rica:
*      the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (UNDP/GEF), which is helping Costa Rica to
formulate the strategies and actions necessary for the protection and sustainable use of Costa Rica's
biodiversity in accordance with articles 6 & 8 of the CBD, as well as prepare a plan for their
implementation.
- 22 -



*      Talamanca-Caribe Biological Corridor UNDP-MSP, which is focused on the conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity in the Talamanca-Caribbean Biological Corridor, an area encompassing five
of the twelve life zones of Costa Rica. It will accomplish this through (i) the protection, preservation and
restoration of globally significant ecosystems in the corridor; (ii) adopting and applying improved,
biodiversity friendly sustainable forest management practices; (iii) development, management and
marketing of local and regional sustainable ecotourism products while increasing tourism-based incomes;
and (iv) strengthening local and state run organizations/offices through the development of a
co-managament model for the protected areas and corridor project.
*      Conservation of Biodiversity and Sustainable Development in La Amistad and La Osa
Conservation Areas Project, which aims to strengthen the National System of Conservation Areas
(SINAC), in relation to biodiversity conservatoin activities in the La Amistad and Osa Conservation Areas.
Management and administrative capacities will be strengthened, biodiversity resources will be identified in
greater detail with focus on endemic species and economic potentials, sustainable economic alternatives
will be identified, developed and funded on a pilot scale, and revenue-generation and cost-recovery
mechanisms will be established for the two protected areas with the aim of returning income to their
management and local stakeholders (UNDP).
*      A project in Canas to study the effect of different tree cover on farm productivity and conservation
of biodversity at a patch. Farm and landscape levels. This project is funded by INCO (EU) for US 1 million
dollars and have duration of 3 years (completion date in2004). It will develop methods and models for
studying farm productivity and biodiversity.
The COSEFORMA project (funded by GTZ) in San Carlos. This project finalized last year. Our project
will learn from Coseforma's experiences through the following: 1. COSEFORMA has developed
management paractices that will be used to encourage good regrowths of trees which will support increase
in Carbon sequestered and conservation of biodiversity. 2. Policy analysis for promoting reforestation and
secondary forest. developed by COSEFORMA will be adapted and refined for the promotion of
silvopastoril system in the GEF 1 project.
For Nicaragua:
*      National Biodiversity Strategy, Action Plan and Report to the CBD (UNDP), which is supporting
the Government of Nicaragua in the formulation of a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan to
ensure the most effective use of the country's natural resources.
For Colombia:
*      National Biodiversity Strategy, Action Plan and the First National Report to the CBD (lUNEP)
*      Conservation of Biodiversity in the Choco Region (UNDP-GEF) which takes an ecosystem
approach to biodiversity conservation along the Pacific coast of Colombia and Panama, operates as two
nationally executed projects, mutually complementary but administratively and operationally independent.
The principal objectives, of both the Colombia and Panama components, are the incorporation of
biodiversity concerns into existing national development plans, the provision of scientific information for
planning, land-use and the establishment of appropriate legal and framework, along with the identification
of alternative production methods and uses for the sustainable use of biological resources.
*      Biodiversity Conservation in the Macarena Management Reserve (UNDP-GEF ), which will
promote the conservation of biodiversity within the Macarena Management Reserve by strengthening the
protection of critical core zones, promoting sustainable land-use practices in surrounding areas, and
strengthening conservation management capacities of stakeholders. PDF B will carry out stakeholder
- 23 -



consultations and formulate a full-scale project document.
*      Biodiversity Conservation in the Paramo and Montane Forest Ecosystems of the Colombian Massif
(UNDP-GEF) , which will aim at establishing a network of corridors and protected areas and the
incorporation of biodiversity management principles into land-use planning and sectoral development in the
massif.
Regional UNDP projects:
At a regional scale, the project complements the UNDP/UNEP/GEF/CCAD/GTZ/DANIDA regional
program to consolidate the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor (MBC). This includes:
*      Central American Fund for Environment and Development (UNDP): Account for the Global
Environment, with the main objective to ensure the long-term financing of global relevance in the Central
American sub-region. This will be accomplished by a) establishing an account to provide funding in
perpetuity for projectsin the 3 relevant focal areasof GEF (biodiversity, climate change and int'l waters) b)
contributing to the establishment and operations of FOCADES as the framework under which global &
regional environmental and sustainable development initiative will be supported; c) actively promoting the
participation of national and regional level organizations and d) establishing transparent administrative and
operational procedures. The project will be implemented in two phases.
*      Establishment of a Programme for the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor, a a joint initiative of
UNDP and UNEP within a region of rich biodiversity, crossing a diverse landscape of approximately
768,990 square kilometers, and containing 8% of the world's biodiversity. This project builds upon all
regional and in-country initatives to collaboratively form conservation and sustainable use programmes and
harmonization of regional policies. The countries involved are: Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Hlonduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, and Panama
*      Mesoamerican Regional System of Protected Areas, Buffer Zones and Biological Corridors
(Mesoamerican Biological Corridor) (UNDP) to identify a ranked selection of key areas of high biological
diversity based on biodiversity value and degree of threat; an outline of a regional protected area, buffer
zone and biological corridor system, current conservation and/or sustainable use programmes and
proposals; gaps in protection in terms of habitats and ecosystems ; technical and institutional capacities,
infrastructure, supportive policies; incentives and regulations including the corresponding remedial action
programmes
The project will invite representatives of UNDP, UNEP and other development agencies to participate in
the informal Roundtable Groups in each country to discuss project implementation and to ensure
complementarity and consistency with other agencies programs.
- 24 -



l  |                        [    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Natural Resources (IBRD LOAN)     Colombia Natural Resources        S            S
Management (Loan No. 3692)
Rural Development (IBRD LIL)      Colombia Peasant Enterprise       S            S
Zones for Peace Project/LIL
(Loan No. 4363)
Environment and Biodiversity ( IBRD  Colombia Conservation and      S            S
LIL)                              Sustainable Use of Biodiversity
in Sierra Nevada de Santa
Marta (Bank LIL )
Environment and Biodiversity (MSP  Colombia Sustainable use of      S            S
GEF)                              Biodiversity in the Western
Slope of the Serrania del
Baudo" (Medium-sized Project
under implementation).
Environment and Biodiversity (GEF)  Colombia Biodiversity           S            S
Conservation in the Andes
Environment and Biodiversity (MSP  Colombia Conservation of         S             S
GEF)                              Mataven Forest (Etnollano)
(Medium size GEF project
under implementation)
Environment (GEF)                 Costa Rica Biodiversity          HS            HS
Resources Development
(INBIO)
Environment (IDF)                 Costa Rica Certified Tradable    HS            HS
Offsets
Environment (GEF+ IBRD LOAN)      Costa Rica Ecomarkets             S             S
Environment (GEF MSP)             Costa Rica Sustainable Cacao      S             S
Biodiversity (GEF)                Atlantic Biological Corridor      S             S
Forestry (IDA Credit)              Sustainable Forestry Investment  S             S
Promotion
Climate Change (GEF MSP)          Renewable Energy and Forest       U             S
Conservation: Coffee and
Allspice
Agriculture Extension (IDA        Agriculture Technology            S             S
Credit-APC)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The following significant lessons were learned from this broad variety of projects:
*      .Project execution should be entrusted to agile and efficient institutions. The project would use
three well recognized and highly reputable NGOs in implementing this project, and not a public agency, to
- 25 -



avoid bottlenecks in terms of capacity of implementation and budgetary authority. The implementation and
administration responsibilities would be with the NGO's, and no funds would be channeled through the
central government's budgetary system. However governments would voluntarily participate as members of
the project's Roundtables in each country.
*      Effective natural resources management requires an ecosystem approach. The project seeks to
achieve multiple objectives that can not be obtained with a sectoral approach. The silvopastoral technology
combines low external input use, and major changes in the vegetative cover, land use and stock
management, and therefore addresses the entire eco-system. It order to achieve this complex objective it
needs to be complemented with farmer education and training
*      Effective management of silvopastoral systems require strong stakeholders participation. The
establishment of silvopastoral systems would only work if there is social consensus, involvement and
participation from the early stage of project implementation. Therefore the project seeks to work in a
participatory fashion, with exchange programs between farmers. The participation strategies would
accommodate local biophysical and socioeconomic particularities, depending on the region and zone. One
of the most important lessons learned from activities associated with the projects within the Biological
Corridor includes the importance of involving local populations and institutions (e.g., local government,
community and sectoral organizations, NGOs) in project design and implementation in order to ensure
long-term objectives. As such, the project includes technical assistance for local NGOs and associations to
support ecosystems conservation activities carried out by small landowners, rural women's organizations
and young people groups. Consultations have taken place to strengthen local participation in the project.
*      Eco-services concerns need to be incorporated into broader political and socio-economic
frameworks. The development of sustainable financing systems is critical for further expansion of the
silvopastoral system. The project would assist in a major effort to incorporate environmental service
(provided by these ecosystems) considerations into sectoral planning, and develop sustainable systems for
the promotion of these systems, through exploring the possibilities of tapping into* local, national and
international environmental funding sources.
*      Better efficiency and effectiveness during execution require an adequate monitoring and evaluation
system. The project would make efforts in the acquisition and expansion of the knowledge base and
development of methodologies for monitoring, and construction of appropriate indicators.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The central governments of the three countries concerned have shown a high level of commitment in their
endorsement of the project. This was achieved through a close involvement of the GEF focal points in an
early stage of the project identification (see below). The three executing agencies have committed their
support in a number of ways: participation in all preparation missions for the project, dedication of staff to
prepare and coordinate all aspects of the project, identification of the project as their priority, and
co-financing of the project. The countries endorsed the project in: Colombia, Ministerio del Medio
Ambiente, MMA: November 22, 2000; Costa Rica, FUNDECOOPERACION para el Desarrollo
Sostenible: January 25, 2001 and Nicaragua, Ministerio del Ambiente y los Recursos Naturales
MARENA: November 30, 2000. Very detailed letters of support were obtained from the Ministry of
Environment in Colombia in April 2001, and from FUNDECOOPERATION and the Ministry of
Environment in Nicaragua in December 2001, which reinforces the support for and interest in the activities
of the project from these government. The three governments, through the focal point letters, have given
consent to carry out silvopastoral activities in public lands. Moreover, all key stakeholders have indicated
their willingness to participate in their respective Roundtables.
- 26 -



5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
As an implementing agency of the GEF, and a committed lender in the environment sector, the World Bank
has an active GEF portfolio in Latin America and the Caribbean. For this particular project, the Bank can
add value in several aspects:
First, it brings to the proposed project the ability to serve as a source of knowledge for
silvopastoral programs, regionally and world wide and as a catalyst for protecting ecosystems throughout
Central America. For example, the project is likely to be directly relevant to the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor (MBC) initiative, spearheaded in part by the World Bank. This project is supporting actions on
the part of national ministries, non-governmental organizations, the private sector, local groups, and
indigenous communities for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.
*      Second, beyond experience in the natural resource management sector, the World Bank also brings
to this project its experience in social sectors, with farmers and indigenous communities.
*      Tllird, through its direct involvement in the Livestock and Environment Initiative, the Bank has a
significant body of knowledge on the driving forces in the livestock-deforestation dynamics and brings in
the global experience of different LEAD-FAO partners (i.e. FAO, CIRAD, DANIDA, DFID, French
Cooperation Ministry, GTZ, IFAD, ILRI, USAID and World Bank) on agriculture, agro-biodiversity,
livestock policy issues, natural resources management, etc.
*      Finally, the Bank can contribute to this project with its initial experience in payment for ecological
services. Specifically in Costa Rica, the Bank has been supporting the Ecomarkets Project and a number
of other GEF biodiversity projects. The Bank also brings the experience of the Prototype Carbon Fund.
The value added of global support with GEF resources lies in the global significance of the ecosystems,
represented in the MBC (that spans from Mexico to Colombia) and the need to gain experience in the
mechanisms of funding for ecological services and biodiversity conservation outside of national parks and
biological reserves. GEF resources are critical for supporting the global incremental costs and for
providing a platform for strengthening regional coordination in the monitoring of the environmental services
provided by silvopastoral systems.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
0 Other (specify)
Economic: (supported by Annex 4a)
Incremental Costs
To calculate the incremental costs of the project, an estimate of the baseline expenditure was made to
establish the current and planned amount of funding for sustainable use of natural resources in the selected
sites in Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Colombia region as well as for national level planning, during the life of
the project. The difference between the cost of the baseline scenario (US$ 9.7 million) and the cost of the
GEF alternative (US$ 18.2 million) is estimated at US$ 8.5 million. This represents the incremental cost of
achieving global environmental benefits through establishing new silvopastoral systems, monitoring
- 27 -



environmental benefits, financing the payment for eco-services generated, strengthening policy and legal
frameworks for natural resources, and increasing project management capacity. LEAD-FAO and the local
organizations have committed to mobilizing about US$ 1.0 million toward the GEF alternative (excluding
the inputs in the project preparation). These would cover monitoring vegetation changes, financing
payments for eco-services generated and strengthening the policy framework, in the form of staff
redeployed to this project. Beneficiary contribution would be US $ 3.0 million. The GEF Grant
contribution would be US$ 4.5 million (see Annex 4a for the detailed Incremental Cost Analysis).
The benefits achieved under the baseline scenario would be mainly at the local level and would include:
improved production, increased information on production systems, further development of environmental
impact monitoring systems, stakeholder training and increased awareness of environmental management
issues. The baseline scenario does not provide technical or financial support for activities leading to
intensification of production objectives that provide additional environmental services by supporting
improved silvopastoral systems. The scope of the baseline is, thus limited and would not perrnit the design
or implementation of a comprehensive integrated ecosystem strategy.
Benefits achieved by the alternative would result in changes in ecosystem and natural resource management
patterns and in the generation of global benefits, particularly by developing altematives to increase carbon
sequestration, biodiversity conservation, and water quality of global value. The project could potentially
increase the likelihood of survival for threatened or endangered species, protect endemic species habitat,
promote restoration of biodiversity, improve water quality and watershed management and contribute to the
reduction of emissions and in turn increase carbon sequestration. The emphasis on intensive local
participation and the positive economic impacts of implementing silvopastoral technologies would produce
a positive impact on the livelihood of farmers that would help ensure long-term sustainability of project
activities. Support to decision makers on policy formulation would allow the implementation of long-term
strategies of biodiversity conservation, carbon sequestration and sustainable production at national,
regional and global levels
. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPWV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Financial Analysis (see Annex 4b )
Io assess the financial viability and social benefits of the project, the Intemal Rate of Retum (IRR), the
Nlet Present Value (NPV) and the increased labor demands were estimated for the most likely farm models
in the three countries. As shown in Table 5 below, the analyses of financial returns provided by the
introduction of the technology, show a marginal profitability for almost all models. The financial analyses
also showed that in the absence of payment for global environmental benefits, the IRR were lower than the
opportunity cost of capital in all cases. The initial investment and labor costs in the technology, with the
delay in the results, are the main causes of this result. However, only modest payments for the global
environmrental benefits are required to tip the balance to financial viability. These models would be further
refined over the life of the project.
- 28 -



1able 5
Esdmntead I  mmuDgniflle retnrns and employment generation impacts by the project.
Farm model            Farm size      Increased labor   IRR (%), without     IRR (%), with
requirements (%  payment for          payment for
increase over    environmental services  environmental
base)                                  services.
Colombia
Extensive, beef,      Medium (50 - 80        12                  8                    15
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ h a)
Semi-intensive, beef,  Small (15 - 30       13                 13                    15
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ h a )           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Intensive beef       Small (10 -            8                   13                   19
20 ha)__            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Costa Rica
Dual-purpose: milk/beef Small (30 - 40 ha)   34                  7                    16
Nicaragua           _
Dual-purpose: milk/beef Small (10 - 30       86                  7                    12
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ h a )_                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Dual-purpose: milk/beef Medium (30 -         59                  9                    14
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 6 0   h a )_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Dual-purpose:         Large (> 60)         106                  8                    14
milk/beef                            I                I                    I                     I
The preliminary analysis also points to significant social benefits of employment generation, as the labor
requirement increases from 2.4 to 3.5 person/year. This might be one of the major incentives for
smallholders where the opportunity costs of labor are very low, and where the additional labor can be
supplied by the family. In that case the additional family income is about US $ 4,000 per year.
Cost effectiveness analysis (see Annex 4c):
Given the difficulty in quantifying and valuing the environmental services generated by the proposed
project, a financial and economic cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out. In this analysis, the cost per
unit of benefit generated by the program are compared with the discounted costs per unit of benefit of an
alternative investment, which would lead to similar environmental benefits. This alternative is a reforested
previously degraded pasture with native species, for which the land would be purchased. It is assumed that
there would be a reduced bio-diversity effect in the reforested area but increased carbon-sequestration.
Results show that the cost per ton of carbon of the alternative are on average 5 times higher in Colombia
and Costa Rica, due to higher cost of land, while in Nicaragua the cost are very similar. Given that
silvopastoral systems provide also social and economic benefit, that are not provided by the alternative, we
can confidently say that the silvopastoral system is the preferred option.
- 29-



Table 6
Key cost effectiveness parazheters of alternative investment: the case of reconverting degraded
pastures into reforested area with native species (US$/ ha).
Item                          Colombia          Costa Rica             Nicaragua
Year 1           Year 1                  Year I
Land value                    2,300              2,000                  275.0
Establishment costs            489.6             320.0                   205.0
Total                         2,789.6           2,320                   480.0
Table 6a
Cost ton of Carbon (including value of land)
Item                          Colombia           Costa Rica            Nicaragua _      _=
Cost ton of Carbon in Reforested  26.2           22.9                   5.14
area (discount rate = 12)
Cost ton of carbon in silvopastoral 5            5                      5
system (Payment for
Environmental Services)
Table 6b
Cost ton of Carbon (excluding value of land)
Item                          Colombia           Costa Rica            Nicaragua
Cost ton of Carbon in Reforested  8.5            5.4                    3.2
area (discount rate = 12)
Cost ton of carbon in silvopastoral 5            S                      S
system (Payment for
Environmental Services)
Fiscal Impact:
There is no government counterpart contribution to the GEF resources, the counterpart contribution is
entirely funded by the farmers, the implementing agencies and the LEAD-FAO initiative. At the initial
stage of the project, there are thus no extra government expenditure incurred. Moreover, since farm sales
are subject to 10 % sales tax, there would a net positive fiscal impact. However, depending on the results,
and following the Mid-term evaluation of the project, active funding would be sought for alternative
financing mechanisms to ensure the sustainability of the eco-services payment system. While the emphasis
in the search for additional funding would be sought from international donors and private industries, with
the aim of each government to establish an Eco-services fund, either through special taxes, such as already
practiced in Costa Rica, or through direct budgetary contributions.
- 30 -



3. Technical:
(See Annexes 6,7,10):
Several technical studies have been carried out by LEAD-FAO and the executing agencies. These are:
1.     Technical, economic and management issues of carbon sequestration through pasture
intensification.
2.     Economic returns to carbon sequestration on pastures.
3.    Intensification of pasture-cattle production in the tropics: carbon sequestration and other benefits.
4.    Intensification of cattle production in Central America: Economic and environmental benefits
5.     Fostering improved pasture/silvopastoral technologies for carbon sequestration: a strategy for
developing economically sound and environmentally    friendly cattle production systems in
Costa Rica.
6.     Carbon sequestration: an environmental opportunity for cattle production in Colombia.
7.     Environmental and social adjustment of the cattle farming sector in Colombia.
8.     Program for technical re-conversion of cattle ranching and carbon fixing in Nicaragua.
9.     Management of trees in pastures for sustaining agricultural productivity and conserving regional
biodiversity.
10.    Wild birds in Latin America pasturelands
11.    Biological diversity in cattle farming systems in Colombia.
12.    Biological monitoring
13.    Biological indicators of freshwater quality in cattle farming areas
14.    Technological menus for silvopastoral systems
15.    Comparative financial analysis of silvopastoral systems
16.   Institutional arrangements
17.    Summary of Environmental Legislation in Colombia, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica.
The results of these studies have been used in the design of the project. They are included in the project file
(Annex 14).
4. Institutional:
(See Annexes 11, 6).
For information on the institutional arrangements, see section C.4 above. Details of the financial
management and disbursement arrangements are in Annex 6.
4.1 Executing agencies:
See Section C.4.
4.2 Project management:
See Section C.4.
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Section C.4.
4.4 Financial management issues:
See Section C.4.A.
- 31 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project would have highly beneficial impacts upon the environment, supporting improved natural
resource management and biodiversity conservation. The project complies fully with the objectives of OP
4.36 Forestry, namely, "to reduce deforestation, enhance the environmental contribution of forested areas,
promote afforestation, reduce poverty, and encourage economic development."
There is no major adverse environmental impacts expected as a result of this project. A full enviornmental
assessment was not required. The analysis of the positve impact on the environment has been supported by
LEAD and is decribed in Annex 12. Minor environmental impacts might be expected from  some
on-the-ground investments see Annex 14.
The Category B is designed to be entirely positive from an environmental standpoint, particularly by
promoting conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.
T'he Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet was sent to the Infoshop January 8, 2002.
Main Environmental Benefits (see Annex 12)
Silvopastoral systems provide a deeply rooting, perennial vegetation which is persistently'growing and
which have a dense but uneven canopy. Silvopastoral systems are an altemative to prevalent cattle
produw.tion in Latin America and have the potential to produce environmental services and improve people's
livelihoods. The.project focuses in the implementation of silvopastoral systems in 350/) ha, however once
other [parallel farm activities are in place (like biological corridors, live fences, land set aside for
conservation, etc.), the environmental effects, such as the control of erosion, the increase in bio-diversity
woulo scale up to the entire farm area of 12,000 ha.
*      Carbon sequestration: Silvopastoral systems are capable of fixing significant amounts of carbon
in the soil under the improved pastures and in the standing tree biomass (wood) Fisher et al. (1994),
identified a substantial sink of carbon in pastures based on deep-rooted grasses which have been introduced
in the South American savannahs. Research by CIPAV in Colombia has shown that there are higher
carbon contents in soil under silvopastoral systems (Ramirez, 1997). Research conducted by CATIE
(2000) in Panama and Costa Rica showed that silvopastoral systems can sequester more carbon in the soil
(due to the increased growth of the pasture in the association with legume trees, they accumulate about 1.8
tons carbon per ha per year and in addition, an important fraction of the carbon is sequiestered by trees in
the foim of wood.
*      Biodiversity conservation: In recent years, ranchers have started to manage silvopastoral systems
in order to increase the productivity of their lands while promoting the conservation of natural resources
(Ibralim & Schlonvoigt 1999). Silvopastoral systems have shown to play a major role in the survival of
wildlife species by providing scarce resources and refuge (Harvey & Haber 1999); to have a higher
propagation rate of native forest plants under these scattered trees (Harvey & Haber 1999); to provide
shade for grazing animals, wind screens, wood for fencing, fuel, food, and shelter for wild birds (Harvey &
Haber 1999). Food availability for wild birds is high in silvopastoral systems, and the complex structure of
the vegetation provides more adequate nesting substrate and better protection against predators than other
agroecosystems. In addition, several authors have noted that both silvopastures and other agroforestry
systems harbor a larger and more complex assemblage of invertebrates (50-90 percent) than monocultural
- 32 -



pastures, which explains the diverse bird communities found within (Dennis et al., 1996). It has been
pointed out that bird frugivores inhabiting secondary forests do not fly very far into abandoned pastures,
which results in seed dispersal restricted to an area of 9-80 m surrounding scattered trees close to the forest
edge. Recent expansion of secondary forests within ranches is likely to enhance forest seed dispersal into
abandoned pastures, further increasing the connectivity between different elements of the forested
landscape (wind screens, living fences, scattered trees, forest remnants, etc.).
*      Improve water infiltration and used for watershed management:  Water holding capacity
increases with the presence of trees, which results in better water cycles, and consequently, in the
conservation or improvement of water sources. The presence of shrubs and trees shifts the rainwater flux
from superficial runoff, with considerable soil erosion, to more water infiltration, greater soil retention and
greater and more permanent springs and water courses.
*      Soil retention (prevention of landslides): In hilly areas, trees have an additional protective role in
the ecosystem, that of preventing landslides. Not only is the presence of trees essential for soil protection on
slopes, but also the variety of species is important. Trees of different root depths are required for effective
soil anchorage, in particular in those events of torrential rains accompanying tropical storms, which seem
to become more frequent in recent years in many parts of the world.
*      Improvement of soil productivity: increases nutrient re-cycling across a deep portion of the soil
profile occupied by the root systems of a wide variety of plants associated of silvopastoral systems.
Depending on the species of trees being used, and on local climate characteristics, trees extract water and
nutrients from soil horizons inaccessible to grasses, and deposit them on the ground with the natural fall of
foliage, twigs, and fruits. The biomass and amount of nutrients released by pruning the trees of the
agroforestry systems varies depending on the kind of management in use. Nonetheless, it is known that up
to 18 tons of dry matter/ha/year can be deposited on the ground and that the amount of nitrogen flowing
through the system can reach values of up to 380 kg/ha/year in agroforestry settings (Alpizar et al. 1983).
*      Economizing fossil fuels: Silvopastoral systems spare fossil fuels in various ways: a) Shrub and
tree legumes fix atmospheric nitrogen and thus replace energetically (fossil fuel) costly inorganic nitrogen
fertilizers that otherwise would be applied to pastures. b) Silvopastoral systems improve feed quality,
quantity and seasonal distribution throughout the year, and consequently there is less need for
supplementation with concentrates. In general terms, cereal-based concentrates comning from intensive
production are very costly from the point of view of fossil fuel inputs. c) Life-fences and other trees present
in forage banks and pastures, are sources of firewood for rural or urban use, directly replacing fossil fuel.
*      Reduce emissions: Indirect reduction of the emission of greenhouse gases caused by deforestation
and shifting agriculture.
*      Other benefits of silvopastoral systems: The presence of trees potentially brings additional benefits
to farms:
*      Diversification offarm products: Bee honey, fruits and wood (round wood, firewood & posts) are
additional products that can be marketed when silvopastoral systems are established in farms. The
economic value of these would vary depending on their demand and the distance from markets.
*      Beautification of landscape: A farm with trees is no only more beautiful but also more appealing
to potential agro-tourists.
*      Land rehabilitation: Under certain circumstances, the present value of land can be substantially
increased when trees have been planted, and this can be in itself, the main incentive for reforestation.
- 33 -



Status of Environmental Assessment.
With ecosystems functioning as the main objective of the project, major attention is being paid to the
environmental assessment of the project. The Environmental Assessment has been supported by the
Livestock and Environment Toolbox of LEAD, which enables, through an interactive decision making
process, to assess the impact of the different policy and technology options. The only possible negative
environmental effect of the project could be the "moral hazard" problem of the proposed system of
payments, which arguably could encourage more, rather than less deforestation. However, past experience
in Costa Rica points to the contrary (Table 7). Moreover the financial analysis (Annex 4) shows the rather
modest returns of the technology, even with a grant system. The procedures for the environmental impact
assessments have been developed by CATIE for carbon sequestration, by ABC for bio-diversity and by
CIPAV for water quality. They are described in Annex 19 and would be spelled out in detail in the
Operational Manual.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project is expected to have highly beneficial impacts upon the environment, supporting improved
natural resources management and biodiversity conservation. Therefore, an EMP is not applicable in this
situation.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not applicable.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The proposed project would support the Environmental Services provided by silvopastoral systems which
benefits small- and medium-scale farmers and the rural poor. Stakeholders have been consulted throughout
the project preparation and during the social assessment, a survey and interviews and focus groups were
used to discuss with the farmers environmental implication of the actual production system and of the
proposed production system. All the farmers are really aware of the major environmental problems of their
actual grazing systems on degraded pasture-land and of the environmental benefits of silvo-pastoral
systems.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The procedures for the environnmental impact assessments have been developed by CATIE for carbon
sequestration and land use, by ABC for bio-diversity and by CIPAV for water quality. They are described
in Annex 13 and would be spelled out in detail in the Operational Manual.
The focus of the environmental monitoring would be on measuring global environmental benefits such as
carbon sequestration, and biodiversity; local environmental benefits such as  water  quality;
socio-economic benefits, and land use change.
The indicators in the logframe reflect the environmental impact assessment concerns.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
See Annex 16.
- 34 -



During 2000, a series of preliminary stakeholder analysis and rapid social surveys were made in each
country and meetings were held with the farmers groups and community to discuss the problems and to
evaluate the potential benefits of the project. Local partners also held a series of meetings with other
research organizations and local researchers to get them involved in the development of the methodology
and analysis of carbon sequestration and biodiversity. Moreover a consultation meetings were held with
local environmental organizations and local governments and NGOs. Finally, a major social assessment
was carried out as part of the project preparation and appraisal (Patrick Dumazert : Regional
Silvo-Pastoral Project- Social Assessment -Oct. 2001). The results of these meetings and consultations
were included in the preparation of the project document, and are provided in Annex 18. The results of
these assessments are:
*      There is already a high level of awareness under the ranchers in the selected watersheds regarding
the effects of ranching on the environment, and the need for more attention to the soil erosion and
bio-diversity
*      While access to funds to initiate the investments was noted by several as a critical factor, it should
not be considered as the main tool for promoting technical changes, rather as a complementary tool for
those, producers that are interested in the production of environmental services
*      The area does not include indigenous people.
*      There will be no physical or economic resettlement.
*      The project has a clearly defined participatory focus.
*      The project's local activities are being designed through a participatory approach that aims at
involving key stakeholders at a local level as main   promoters of silvopastoral systems and
environmental services.
The social organization in the selected watersheds is as follows:
Colombia: The farmers in the region of Quindio and Cauca valley are members in five different farmer
organizations. The "Cooperativa de Ganaderos del Centro del Valle", "Cooperativa de Ganaderos del
Quindio' Cooperativa de Ganaderos de Barragan y Santa Lucia", "Cooperativa de Ganaderos de
Versalles" and "Cooperativa de Ganaderos de Risaralda". CIPAV works with these five organizations in
other projects and activities and would carry on supporting them for this project.
Costa Rica: The livestock farmers in both areas identified for this study are well organized and have a keen
interest in improving their production systems to benefit from increased productivity and environmental
services. In Esparza,. more than 65% of the farmers are registered with the "Centro Cantonal Agricola
"which provides services and technical assistance to farmers. CATIE would work closely with this
organization.
Nicaragua: Farmers of the MatiguAs - Rio Blanco zone are small and medium size individual producers,
with no formal organization. The national farmer organization "Uni6n de Agricultores y Ganaderos" has
little influence in the region. A very strong non formal network of farmers for exchange and co-operation
exists in the zone. NITLAPAN-UCA has facilitated the transit from the informal co-operation network to
established technical co-operation groups to promote the technical change and to respond to the demands
and needs. These groups have become the local partners of NITLAPAN-UCA for hiring technical services:
problem identification, areas for training, exchange among farmers, and, although still incipient, the
development of initiatives for economic co-operation or local business more stable and more suitable for the
demands of the community. NITLAPAN-UCA would continue supporting these groups in this project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
- 35-



Public Involvement During Preparation
This project is being prepared under a strong participatory approach. See Annex 14.The different
stakeholders have been actively involved. The project preparation planning process included a number of
stakeholder activities that were carried out starting from 1999.
*      In May 1999, LEAD-FAO, CATIE and Servicios Internacionales para el Desarrollo Empresarial
(SIDE), organized a seminar in Costa Rica aimed at entrepreneurs and the scientific community. The
seminar "Livestock Intensification in Central America: Environmental and Economical Benefits" focused
on sharing information and identify strategies and policies for the development of a sustainable livestock
production including the market of environmental services.
*      On March 13, 2000, a workshop was organized in Plains VA, USA on Bird Conservation In
Livestock Grazing Systems. This workshop, which included livestock grazing technicians and ranchers
with experience in silvopastoral systems, and biologists with experience in community ecology, confirmed
the feasibility of changing extensive grazing systems into alternative silvopastures, and provided the
ecological basis for establishing a monitoring framework.
*      Two workshops were held to specifically elaborate the project documentation. The first, to develop
the concepts was held in workshop in Costa Rica from July 10-14, 2000. This involved the GEF focal
points and the proposed implementing agencies of the three countries selected for this project
(NITLAPAN-UC.A, CATIE and CIPAV), FAO/LEAD and WB staff, and a representative of the American
Bird Conservancy (ABC). In a participatory fashion, details on the project were discussed and agreed upon,
including the environmental impacts of the proposed technology, criteria for selection of the sites,
methodologies for measuring and certifying the two ecological services, socio economic evaluation, criteria
and payment levels for the two main ecological services, funding of the initial on-farm investments,
administrat,on of the project, management of the financial mechanisms to pay for the eco-Services, and
detailed budgets and timetable. As an indicator of government commitment to contribute to and learn from
the project, each of the three governments agreed to voluntarily participate in their country's respective
Roundtables during this initial workshop.  Subsequent to this wor'-shop, a series of meetings and
consultations with the governments took place throughout project preparation. The second workshop, held
in Rome from November 13-15, 2000 with the implementing agencies, LEAD-FAO and ABC' assessed
requirements in the light of the shift from a medium to a regular size project, revise, implementation
arrangements, finalized the budgets and integrated the analysis of water quality in the project.
During the social assessment a survey and many interviews and focus groups were carried out in the three
countries, to discuss and agree with the farmers on the project objectives and components, and to find out
with them the best implementation mechanisms
*      An electronic-conference was organized by LEAD-FAO in October/November 2001 to discuss
with the scientific community, NGOs, Policy makers, the potential of Silvo-pastoral systems to generate
environmental benefits. The conference attracted a very wide participation.
Public Involvement During Implementation
Public involvement throughout . the project was ensured by stakeholder participation, information
dissemination and consultation during the preparation. The executing agencies would be responsible for
ensuring public involvement, dissemination and consultation in each country. The regional and global
information dissemination and consultation would be the responsibility of CATIE, through the use of
LEAD-FAO's Spanish Speaking Platform and the Virtual Research and Development Centre.
- 36 -



Stakeholder participation: The project would be implemented in close consultation with all stakeholders.
The participation strategy includes workshops and meetings at different stages of the project, with the local
farmer's organizations, agricultural and environmental scientists and government environmental
organizations. At early stages of the project these workshops would be orientated to involve community
participation and to increase environmental awareness Further into implementation, local institutions in
collaboration with farmer organizations, would hold regular meetings to evaluate the environmental and
socio-economic impacts of the project. A series of training courses for farmers would also be carried out
locally to introduce farmers to the new production technologies and research methodologies.
Regional Consultation:
During implementation, a regional workshop with all stakeholders and beneficiaries, including members of
the three Roundtables, would be organized once a year to exchange information and experiences among
those involved in the field work. Each research organization should host a workshop for a total of three
workshops during the project's cycle. An open consultation would be carried out by the means of an
electronic conference on carbon sequestration by the LEAD-FAQ's Virtual Research and Development
Center. Papers from leading scientists on carbon sequestration research would be invited to cover the
scientific, environmental and socio economical aspects of the project. For transparency in the project
proposal, the LEAD-FAO's Virtual Research and Development Center would provide the means for
electronic data sharing and public access to the project results in the Internet (WEB and FTP).
Information Dissemination: Information from this project would be widely available. The results would be
published in a series of publications targeted to several audiences including: manuals for farmers, and
peer-reviewed scientific journals; reports and extension materials for different end users, including policy
makers. The LEAD-FAO's Spanish Speaking Platform would facilitate the information sharing through its
network of institutions in the region. Together with the Virtual Research and Development Center would
provide the means for conventional and electronic publications and would incorporate the results of the
project within the Livestock and Environment Toolbox (an electronic decision support tool for policy
makers). LEAD-FAO would also include the results of this project within its "Livestock-Environment in
the Policy Dialogue" program which aims to the creation of a core group of specialists to mainstream
livestock and environment policies, the organization of training/workshops for policy makers and the
participation in policy formulation missions in developing countries. Moreover, the Roundtables would be
important channels for internalizing project lessons learned into government policies and programs.
CATIE would contribute to the dissemination of the project's results with its active outreach and training
programs and its close relations to many research and academnic institutions in the region. The CATLE
educational program began in Turrialba in 1946. Consequently, its postgraduate educational experience
spans more than 50 years. CATIE's has Master and Doctorate programs and organizes training events
corresponding to three structures: courses workshops, seminars and technical meeting. Project findings
would be incorporated into its educational programs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During implementation, a regional workshop with all stakeholders and beneficiaries, including the Steering
Committees, would be organized once a year to exchange information and experiences among those
involved in the field work. Each research organization should host a workshop for a total of three
workshops during the project's cycle. An open consultation would be carried out by the means of an
electronic conference on carbon sequestration by the LEAD's Virtual Research and Development Centre.
- 37 -



Papers from leading scientists on carbon sequestration research would be invited to cover the scientific,
environmental and socio economical aspects of the project. For transparency in the project proposal, the
LEAD's Virtual Research and Development Centre would provide the means for electronic data sharing
and public access to the project results in the Internet (WEB and FTP).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The structure of the project with the three NGOs as executive agencias in the three countries, will ensure
the achievement of social development objectives through high decentralization and high presence at the
local level.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Component # 4 of the project will monitor closely economic and social results of the project with particular
attention between poverty and economics development, and gender issues.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes @ No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     O Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 O Yes @ No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  O Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         OYes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             OYes @ No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes @ No
Projects in Disputed Areas (O 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes ( No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project is benign on the environmental point of view. Preliminary research data by CATIE in three
pilot farms in Costa Rica show that pasture intensification leads to a decrease of unimproved pastures and
a significant increase of secondary forest. This evidences that intensification leads to abandonment of
conventional raising methods on native pastures and therefore reforestation.
For the operationalisation of the compensation scheme it is important to address the "moral hazard" of
farmers clearing forest for silvopastures to claim compensation for environmental services.
- 38 -



F. Su$     abWne ity and Risks
1. Snstainabiity:
The rapidly progressing degradation of conventional pastures, combined with the innovative character of
the technology, and the highly skilled institutions, such as CATIE and LEAD-FAO, and government bodies
represented in the Roundtables to disseminate the findings throughout the region and beyond, would be
strong driving forces in the further dissemination of the technology and provide a solid foundation for
long-tern sustainability of project activities and outcomes. The pilot and innovative character of this
project  inevitably implies that some sustainability aspects would need to be assessed during the
implementation of the project. This is implied in the pilot nature of the project design. Individual
sustainability aspects are provided below:
o      Technical sustainability: The close participation of national and international experts and
consultants in the different areas of the project, especially in silvopastoral systems would ensure
state-of-the-art technical design, resulting in optimal resource conservation and sustainable use. Experience
so far clearly indicates that silvopastures, once established, would be sustainable for at least 20 years and
continue providing the local and global environmental impacts.
o      Environmental sustainability: Research on silvopastoral systems indicates that Carbon would
continue to be sequestered in the soil and biomass as long as the systems are in place. Moreover the
silvopastoral systems would carry on providing other environmental services such as providing habitats for
animal species, biological corridors, conservation of water and soil, etc.
o      Social sustainability: Stakeholder involvement in all phases of project implementation along with
training in biodiversity conservation and sustainable livestock production would be emphasized. The focus
would be on increasing awareness of farmers and community on the relationship between global
biodiversity conservation and carbon cycle and local sustainable production. Interhational conservation
efforts have shown that chances for long-term success increase relative to the amount of local community
involvement in decision-making processes combined with the cultivation of a sense of stewardship. The
five-year capacity building and training component, the long-term presence of the local institutions and the
strength of the farmer to farmer program would sustain the goals of the project over the long term and
spread the technologies and environmental benefits.
Financial sustainability: The increased animal productivity and higher financial returns would be
important incentives to sustain the silvopastoral systems established under the project. The initial
financial analysis shows moderate retums, which would be adequate for maintaining the silvopastoral
systems, once initial costs are incurred. Moreover, it is highly likely that under conditions of high
population pressure (and therefore land prices) and good market conditions, in particular for milk, the
technology would be profitable. A major effort to attract additional funding from other donors, the
private sector, and government would be mounted at the mid-term evaluation and efforts would be
made to explore the establishment of an eco-services fund in Nicaragua and Colombia, and augment
the fumding mechanism in place in Costa Rica.
Recent meetings (Bonn-, Morocco-Convention on Climate Change Meeting), have made some progress
in identifying ways to finance global environment services also for land use and forestry areas, where it
seems that the general principle of "the provider gets" would prevail. The project represents a novel
approach on this "provider-gets-principle" regarding payments for environmental services in
ecosystems, linking changes in land use to global environmental benefits.
- 39-



Institutional sustainability: The project would be implemented by NGOs with already a long term presence
in the region. The increased technical capacity in these organizations, resulting from the project, and the
building of links between them and other regional and global organizations through LEAD-FAO, would
ensure that the institutions involved in the project would come out considerably strengthened in their
operative capacity and be better equipped to spread the technologies to other zones in their own countries
and also at the regional level. The Roundtables would be important channels for internalizing project
lessons learned into government policies and programs.
Risk Assessment
Of the risks identified in Table 8 below, there are two which require detailed explanation:
1.     The project incentives are not sufficient to motivate private landowners to change to a more
sustainable production.
This risk relate.s to the level of incentives offered by the payment for eco-services. Reasonable incentives
could generate behavior changes on land use. Previous experiences and the project financial analysis
suggest tbat:
*      An ince.:ntive for inlvestments leading to environmental services, even at modest levels, is likely to
significantly change adoption behavior.
*      Net fartn income would increase in comparison to the situation of no-incentives.
*      Silvop,storal systems favor smaller farmers because of their higher labor requirements compared
to conventional grazing. In regions where the opportunity costs of labor are very low, the system might be
particularly attactive for smallholder farmers.
2.     Deforestation increases as a result of the carbon incentive on improved pastures and
silvopastoral systems.
There is the risk that farmers response to the economic incentives, increases deforestation by clearing
additional land for silvopastoral systems. This would be one of the key parameters to be tested in this
project. Preliminary research data by CATIE in three pilot farms in Costa Rica show that pasture
intensification lead to a decrease of unimproved pastures and a significant increase of secondary forest (see
Table 7) This evidences that intensification leads to abandonment of conventional raising methods on
native pastures and therefore reforestation.
-40-



Table 7. Land use changes, productivity and incremental carbon in livestock farms in Costa Rica
Farm 1                Farm 2                 Farm 3
1996       2000      1996       2000        1996       2000
Vegetal cover
Native pasture %                49         24        42          23         35          18
Improved pasture %               2         16         1          12          0          10
Fodder bank %                    0          2         0          0           0          0
Secondary forest %               1         10         2          10          1          8
Stocking rate                   0.67       1.34     0.56        1.24       0.52        1.25
Milk, 1/yr.                    11,340     23,760    7,560      14,040      6,930      12,950
Incremental C, tons            1,970      3,210     1,720      2,740       1,524      2,345
Source: CATIE, 2000.
For the implementation of the compensation scheme it is important to address the "moral hazard" of
farmers clearing forest for silvopastures to claim compensation for environmental services. The following
criteria for the selection of the particular watersheds to further limit the possibility of ranch encroachment
in forest areas have been applied:
*      Focus on zones where cattle production is one of the predominant economic activities and which
are distant of the forest frontier.
*      Focus on zones at some distance of fragile and endangered ecosystems (corridors). In the case of
Costa Rica, the particular technology used in the selected watersheds of Esparza, about 50 km away from
the national park of Monteverde, would be completely unsuitable for the montane climate of that park, and
the "ecological" distance would prevent the "moral hazard" effect there.
*      Preference would be given to small or medium size farmers (in terms of capital).
*      Focu!s on those areas, where there is a strong presence of an organized group of farmers or
community, and where the group has expressed a strong will to participate, to use peer pressure.
See Annex 20 for the description and maps of the boundaries of the ecosystems in the target regions in
Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Colombia.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth columnn of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment and legal            M         As a demonstration project, the relevance of this
framework for internalizing the cost of              risk is limited. Moreover, the project would
environmental services does not result.              target policy makers and decision makers so that
they can take informed decisions.
Regulations within Kyoto Protocol do not   M         The project x5ould focus on the entire gamma of
permit financing of carbon forestry                  services, and not on carbon-sequestration only.
programs.                                            It's main contribution would be a better
understanding of the management of such
programs. There is the assumption that payment
systems for global environment services would
-41 -



be developed over the medium term. Moreover,
the project focus on policy and linkage with
local organizations and local governments would
allow that, during the duration of the project,
funding strategies to insure the long-term
success of this program be investigated,
developed, and applied.
Environmental Service incentives are not   S        The project would take into consideration
sufficient to motivate private landowners           previous experience that suggests that:
to establish and manage silvopastoral               * An incentive for investments leading to
ecosystems.                                         environmental services, even at modest levels, is
likely to significantly change adoption behavior.
* Net farm income would increase in
comparison to the situation without incentives.
* Silvopastoral systems favor smaller farmers
because of their higher labor requirements
compared to conventional grazing. In situations
where opportunities for alternative employment
are limited, the overall returns for those small
farners are higher.
Deforestation increases as a result of the  M       *The analytical evidence is that intensification
environmental services payment (moral               leads to abandonment of traditional raising
hazard)                                             methods on native pastures and therefore leads
to reforestation.
* Limiting the eligibility of the project to zones
where cattle production is one of the
predominant economic activity and outside of
the forest frontier, and with the presence of
degraded pastures.
* Education and communication campaigns
would be part of the project.
This is a three country project: it is     S         The project has been structured to allow a
possible that the conditions in one country          country to drop out if necessary
may make it difficult to calry out their
obligations.
From Components to Outputs
Production systems are not compatible      M         Careful attention would be paid to specific field
with biodiversity                                   site selection.
Willingness of producers to participate is  M        Project looks at alternative forms of income
low                                                  See above
Field work is not possible due to security  M        Focusing activities in area with low violence
conditions
Decision makers are not interested in the  S         Project would target decision makers
information
Political commitment to Environmental      S         Communication and Education Campaign to
Services program is not maintained                   garnish long-term commitment.
Project is not successfully implemented    S         Selection of very motivated Team and efficient
and flexible structure
-42 -



|Overall RiskRating                  I        S        l
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
S
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Working with livestock projects is a controversial activity for the World Bank, that has a possible
reputational risk associated to it, even if this project has been considered to have a positive impact on the
environment.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Conditions of Negotiation Conditions of Effectiveness  Conditions of
Disbursement
Procurement            * Satisfactory Procurement
Plan (General Procurement
Plan for the project life and
detailed Plan for the first
year)               __                             _  _  __   _  _
Legal Agreements between                               Signed
CATIE with respectively
CIPAV and UCA
Legal Agreement between                                                       Signed
CATIE and FONAFEFO, fo
those Grant proceeds
allocated to finance the
carrying out of Silvopastoral
Systems Subprojects in
Costa Rica
Operational Manual'                                   Approved
Environmental services                                                        Signed
contracts with farmers
With regard to the agreement between FAO and CATIE regarding FAO parallel co-financing of
silvopastoral systems subprojects and annual dissemination workshops (please see Parts C and D.3 of the
Project), given the fact that this financing would not be needed until the end of the first year of Project
implementation, it was agreed during negotiations that if the FAO Grant Agreement does not become
effective by December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank may agree or the Recipient has not
established alternative financing for said Parts of the Project by said date, the Bank may exercise its
remedies under the Grant agreement.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
-43-



3 The Operations Manual will include: (i) the criteria for selecting Eligible Farmers; (ii) the procedures and
criteria for approving Silvopastoral Systems Subprojects; (iii) the cut-off date for approving Silvopastoral Systems
Subprojects; (iv) the payment options under ES Contracts; (v) the land use index; (vi) the guidelines and
procedures for the carrying out of the certification of changes in land use as a result of the carrying out of
Silvopastoral Systems Subprojects; (vii) the terms and conditions of an ES Contract; (viii) the procedures and
methods for the procurement of goods and consultants' services under the Project; (ix) the annual plan for the year
2002 (including the Monitoring and Evalaution Plan and other project activities to be carried out by CATIE,
CIPAV and UCA during 2002).
- 44 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
n 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
D 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Paola Agostini                    John Redwood                      D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 45-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators                        _         Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:    Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Continuing reduction of  Healthy and sustainable  ESW in the forestry/pasture
poverty, and improvement  managed forest/pasture  sector
of natural resource     ecosystems.
management.
GEF Operational Program:
The Project is aimed at                         Regional monitoring and
catalyzing widespread                           evaluation reports and
adoption of silvopastoral                       targeted research reports.
ecosystem management
interventions that integrate
ecological, economic, and
social goals to achieve
multiple and cross-cutting
local, national and global
benefits.
Global Objective:       Outcome / Impact         Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
To obtain local         Sustainable silvopastoral  * LEAD-FAO Annual      * Macroeconomic
environmental benefits  systems established in three  Reports               stability
through reduction in erosion Latin American countries  * ABC Annual Reports  * Sufficient political will
and improvement in soil and and improved water quality  on bio-diversity    exists for recognition
water quality while at the  in six watersheds in Latin  conservation        and marketization of
same time increasing    America.                  * CIPAV Annual Reports    environmental services
production, income and                              on water quality        provided by
employment in rural areas                         * CATIE Annual Reports    silvopastoral
on carbon sequestration  ecosystems.
* Nitlapan-UCA Annual   * Violence, security
Reports                 conditions under control
* Satellite Images from   in the regions of the
LEAD-FAO                project
To provide global       Improved habitat for
environmental benefits,  diverse types of
through improved        bio-diversity provided and
biodiversity and carbon  stable carbon sequestered in
sequestration services.  the soil and in commercial
wood under silvopastoral
systems in six watersheds in
three countries.
-46 -



To gain initial experience in Improved resource
the management of        monitoring methodologies
incentives required to   developed for measuring
produce global           carbon sequestration,
environmental benefits.  biodiversity conservation
developed and sustainable
funding mechanism
established which provide
appropriate incentives to
induce farmers to provide
global environmental
benefits
Increased awareness of the
potential in environmental
services provided by
integrated ecosystem
management and experience
gained for future
development of the
integrated ecosystem
management approaches to
restore degraded pasture.
To develop               Guidance for future
recommendations for sector funding, lessons for
and environmental policies  replication/best practice,
in terms of land use,    and policy requirements for
environmental services and  environmental services in
socioeconomic development livestock production
provided by the introduction defined.
of silvopastoral systems to
rehabilitate degraded
pastures.
'Output from each        Output Indicators:       Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1.1 Increase in area with  1.1.1 About 4000 ha   . Technical Report        0   Government
improved ecosystems      silvopastoral systems,   * Farm Management Plan      commitment and legal
functioning of 12,000 ha.  established, improving the  * Farms Registration into  framework for
currently degraded pasture  ecosystem in at least 12,000 the Program         internalizing the cost of
land, as demonstrated by  ha to demonstrate the   * Satellite Images          environmental services
specific indicators for soil  benefits of silvopastures for * CATIE and LEAD-FAO  maintained.
and water quality and    carbon sequestration and  reports
bio-diversity            biodiversity in three    * Survey of producers    * Intermitinainl regulations
countries.               Annual reportpermit financing of
* External project audit    carbon sequestration in
1.1.2 Increased biodiversity * Semi annual supervision  land use and forestry
conservation (at least 50  reports                   programs.
- 47 -



bird species/production  Monthly disbursement
system):                 reports                  * Environmental Service
1.1.3 Increased carbon                              incentives are sufficient
sequestration (about                                 to motivate landowners
25,000 ton carbon                                    to establish and
sequestered per year).                               sustainable manage
1.1.4 Increased water                               silvopastoral
quality in watersheds                                ecosystems.
(reduction on Biochemical
Oxygen Demand (BOD)                                * Deforestation would not
and suspended total solids                           increase due to
(mg/l).                                              payments for
1.1.5 Increased                                      establishment of
socioeconomic impact:                                silvopastoral systems.
* Farm income to increase
by 10 percent per year
2. TIhe extent of        2.1 Methodologies to assess
dissemination of improved  biodiversity, carbon
monitoring methodologies  sequestration, water quality
developed for measuring  on farm, watershed and
carbon sequestration,    community level and socio-
biodiversity conservation,  economic impact developed
water quality in watersheds and tested .
and socioeconomic aspects; 2.2 Monitoring systems for
hiodiversity conservation,
carbon sequestration, water
quality using biological
indicators and
socio-economic impact
established (monitoring
systems in 3 countries).
3.Understanding of farmer  3.1 Eco-Services payment
reacg ions to incentive  systems implemented in
systems for global       each of the target countries
environmental benefits   3.2 Certification of
obtained                 ecological services
conferred (results of
monitoring analyzed at farm
and landscape level, and
environmental services paid
to the farmers).
3.3 Farmers and community
reaction to environmental
services incentives and
change of attitude and
perception to local and
global environment
measured (measured by
- 48 -



changes on land use, in
particular in area set aside
for forest regeneration).
4. The availability of  4.1 Socioeconomic data
policy guidelines to promote available on key factors
silvopastoral systems and  affecting farmer adoption of
establish sustainable   silvopastoral systems
benefits sharing        4.2 Altemative sources of
mechanisms related to   funding for payment for
global and local        eco-services , and
environmental services  alternative measures to
provided by integrated  promote silvopastoral
ecosystem management    systems identified and
secured.
4.3. Specific
recommendations for best
ranching practices and land
use that improve habitat
heterogeneity to sustain
higher biodiversity, and
increase ranch yield
disseminated among
minimum 1200 farmers
12 NGO's and/or
community-based groups,
policy-makers and regional
networks.
Project Components I    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                       Outputs)
1. Ecosystems                     4.84          CATIE, CIPAV and          * Production systems
Enhancement' s Extension                        Nitlapan-UCA reports,       compatible with
Services and Capacity                           supported by LEAD-FAO       biodiversity are
Building.                                       on GIS and ABC on           feasible.
Extension Services and                          bio-diversity.            * Willingness of
Capacity Building.                                                          producers to participate
Ecosystem Enhancement:                                                    0 Field work possible due
Strengthen local                                                            to security conditions
development organizations
to assist farmers in
establishing and maintaining
improved silvopastoral
systems.
Capacity building: To assist
stakeholders, strengthen
local organizations in the
technical and institutional
aspects of silvopastoral
-49-



systems.
2. Monitoring and                  0.93            * Technical reports         Decision makers
Evaluation of Ecological                           * Articles Published   interested in the information
Services.                                          * -Statistical Reports
To develop and implement
an improved monitoring
system to provide accurate
information and
understanding on the
potential of intensified
silvopastoral systems in
providing global ecological
services and local socio
economic benefits
3. EcoseriAces Payments.           1.41           Contracts for payment of  Government commitment to
To create and implermient an                      eco-services established  program maintained
eco-servics payment
mechanism to provide
incentives for establishing
and maintaining improved
silvopasto;al systems on
farms. The structure of the
payment n:sechanism is
designed i , gain experience
on beneficiaries response to
incentives iJor land use
changes that produce global
environmc;atal benefits.
4. Policy Iormulation and          0.29            * Policy guidelines     *   Decision makers
Dissemination.                                       officially published  interested in integrating
With input from                                   0 Financial report on   environmental services into
socio-econ-Jmic                                      Eco-services payment  their sectorial plans
assessments, develop a                               system                *   Decision makers
replication strategy,                              * Technical reports on  access and digest
including exploration of                             environmental services  information presented
potential sustainable                                                      *    Sectoral agencies
financing rnechanisms, to                                                  amenable to change
ensure the long-term                                                       Government willing to
sustainability of the project.                                             participate
As part of 4his replication
strategy, lessons gained
throughout project
implementation will be
disseminated to kley
stakeholder groups.
5. Project Management.             0.97            * Annual and quarterly  Project successfully
(i) Carrying out technical                           reports              implemented
evaluations to determine if                        * Procurement records
- 50 -



the process which certifies                         * Evaluation reports
the changes in land use is                          0 Copies of contracts
being carried out according                         0 Bank supervision
to the Operational Manual                             reports
guidelines; (ii) Strengthen                         * Field management
the administrative and                                reports
organization of the
collaborating institutions;
(iii) project audits.
- 51 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
By Component:
Project Component I - US$4.80 million
Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity Building
Under this component, the program would strengthen local organizations to train and assist farmers in the
introduction of silvopastoral systems, and, more generally, support them in management of sustainable
livestock production systems and integrated eco-systems. A series of activities at different levels would be
carried out in each of the three countries, targeted to a wide range of stakeholders. These would include:
*      Appointment of consultants, experts and support staff for community training and transfer of
technology in each country, and procurement of field and laboratory equipment. A total of 7.5 staff-month
of international consultants and 200 staff months of local consultants are envisaged over the five year
period;
*,     Development of community training programs for target groups in the selected watershed areas.
This would include in each country the organization of workshops and demonstrations for 10 to 20 farmers
(a total on 2100-4000 farmers-days of training, depending on the counEry) and short workshops for the
detailed planning of the silvopastoral technology, with follow up activiities for groups of 6 - 8 farmers
(involving from 1400 to 2200 farmer-days, depending on the country). Additionally one-day workshops
would be carried out with local communities to increase awareness and awareness of the importance of
biodiversity. Once local capacity is established, horizontal transfer of knowledge among stakeholders would
feature prominently: A total of 70- 250 one-day farmer to farmer exchange field trips would be conducted
also in each country.
*      Organization of the silvopastoral inputs. The project would assist communities and individual
farmers in the production of the inputs (seed and seedlings, mainly) needed to establish the silvopastoral
systems. The actual production would be the responsibility of these private operators.
*      Strengthening national and local organizations: In each countty, nine workshops and seminars
involving organizations would be carried out for institutional capacity building in sustainable livestock
production.
* .    Preparation of education and extension material: A series of communication material would be
produced in each country for training and information exchange to reinforce the community and individual
farmers training programs.
Project Component 2 - US$1.00 million
Monitoring Environmental Services
Under this component, a monitoring system that monitors changes in land use, carbon sequestration,
biodiversity, and water quality would be prepared and implemented to provide accurate inforrnation and
understanding of the potential of intensified silvopastoral systems in providing global ecological services
and local socio economic benefits. The key elements would be the monitoring of bird populations as
indicator for bio-diversity, soil organic matter to measure carbon sequestration and aquatic fauia as an
indicator for water quality. These indicators would be related to changes in land use, which would be the
-52 -



main proxy for overall eco-systems functioning. Socio-economic impacts of the intensified silvopastoral
systems would be measured as another key elements of this component. A full description is provided
under Annex 14 (monitoring and evaluation plan).
Design of the methodologies and prepare the guidelines for measuring each of the ecological services,
would be carried out by CATIE for carbon sequestration derived from land use changes, by CIPAV for
water quality and by CATIE through a contract with ABC, for bird populations.
To implement the methodology, the project would fund the acquisition of equipment for monitoring, hiring
of consultants and support staff to conduct monitoring activities, and workshops to review the methodology
and guidelines, to ensure that they are consistently applied and of high quality work. In each of the
participating watersheds, a detailed monitoring operation would include in-depth sampling on ten percent of
the participating farms to provide the basic parameters on carbon sequestration and bio-diversity. Water
quality would be measured in Colombia only. The data originating from these sample farms would be
linked with the data from the measurement of land use changes on all farms, to be allow the establishment
of clear relation ships between land use changes and the provision of local and global environmental
benefits. For the development of the methodology and its actual implementation, a total of about 110
staff-months of consultants and their support staff would be required.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.40 million
Eco-services Payment
The objective of this component would be to gain experience on beneficiaries' response to farm's
investments in biodiversity conservation and carbon sequestration to produce global environmental benefits.
The eco-services payment mechanism would provide incentives for land use changes that lead to improved
biodiversity and carbon sequestration (measured under Component 2) on 300 small and medium size
livestock farms in the target sites in the three countries. No payment for improved water quality is
envisaged, as this is not a global environmental good. The payments for eco-services wouid be conducted
as follows:
Each farmer would enter into a service type contract with the relevant institution in each country (CATIE
through FONAFIFO in Costa Rica, Nitlapan in Nicaragua, and CIPAV in Colombia) that specifies the
conditions .by which the ecosystem services provided by the landowner would be certified.
As described in Social Assessment (Annex 16), there are farmers operating: (1) on private land that are
either with title or holding land reform title; or (2) on public land, some of which are in the process of
regularizing land tenure For the first case with private land, the contract would represent the owner's
consent to carry out specified activities in his land. For the second case with public land, consent from
government to carry out specified activities on the land is expressed through the respective focal point
letter. No cases of a third party exploiting or living in the land are expected in these watersheds, but in
case of any unknown land conflict at the time of the execution of the contract, the corresponding project
implementation entity will have the right to terminate from the contract with the farmer.
Eligibility criteria for selecting a farmer and sample contract would be part of the Operational Manual. The
cut-off date for approving silvopastoral systems subprojects is June 30, 2005. The payment for the services
would be made annually and would be based on the changes in the land use system compared with the
baseline situation on that particular farm. Specifically, the annual payment would be proportional to the
total increment in environmental services as measured in relationship to a base line of year 0. The land use
index is specific for any particular land use system and is based on the relative contribution that particular
- 53 -



land use system makes to the provision of global environmental services. For example, the value of the
index for degraded pasture is 0, for silvopastoral system is 1.4 and for primary forest 2. Details on the
composition of the land use index are provided in Anlex 7. No new contracts would be launched after the
end of year 3 of the project, the models of the contract between the agencies concemed and farmers will be
provided in the Operation Manual, to be approved by the Bank as a Condition of Effectiveness.
To assess the degree of risk aversion and the sustainability of the technology without subsidy, each farmer
would be able to choose among two payment options. One option is a contract with up to four years of
annual payments, with each payment made after certification of the land use change. The payment per land
use index unit would be US $ 50. For example, a farmer which would plant 2 ha of silvopastoral
systems (land use index of 1.3) in his or her degraded pasture, would earn for this environmental service 2
ha x 1.3 or 2.6 incremental points, or 2.6 x US $ 50 equals US $ 130 for the services provided. If, in the
second year, he/she would plant 1 ha additional improved pasture, at 0.8 point, he/she would earn an
additional US $ 40 per year.
fJnder the second option, the farmer would also receive an annual payment for the environmental services
provided, computed in the same way as the first option according to the index, but only during the two year
period after the establishment of improved land use systems. The amount to pay for each point in the index
would be based on the discounted total payment for services expected to be provided over the five year
period under this option, with a discount of 20 percent over the discounted total payment under option 1, to
account for the reduced risk to the farmer of adopting this second option. This means that the price per unit
under option 2 would be higher, but the total payment the farmer would receive would be lower.
Specifically, the second option would include an annual payment period for up to two years with a payment
of US $ 72 per unit, which reflects a net reduction of twenty percent in the Net Present Value (NPV) of
expected earnings from environmental services. For both options, the amount to be paid for environmental
services would be computed on US$, although the actual payment will be in local currency at the prevailing
exchange rate.
Over the five year period, the total payment would not exceed US$4500 per farm in Costa Rica and
Nicaragua, up to US$ 6,000 per farm in Colombia, as establishment costs are higher there. There is no
advance payment. Such systems of payment for changes in land use would provide the farmer with the
option to have silvopastures in the entire farm, but also induce him to adopt other ecological sound
technologies, such as reduction of chemical inputs and the establishment of biological corridors.
A special independent assessment of the certification of land use changes on the farm, would be conducted
bi-annually, as part of project supervision , no contract with a farmer will extend beyond the grant's
closing date.
Project Component 4 - US$0.30 million
Policy formulation and dissemination
Under this component, policy guidelines for the sustainable intensification of livestock production and
specific recommendations for sector and environmental policies in terms of land use and environmental
services would be formulated if recommended by the socio-economic assessment. Moreover, the
identification of instruments to ensure the sustainability of the mechanism to pay for environmental services
would be inc,uded under this component. To achieve this, there would be a strong socio-economic
monitoring sub-component, leading to targeted policy recommendations on the replication and scaling up of
the project activities after completion.
-54 -



The Socioeconomic Monitoring would cover a sample of the farmers covered under the project, but also
include a control groups (approximately 20 farms in each country) to assess eventual differences. The.
socioeconomic studies would focus on:
o      Farmers perception of the payment schemes. Contingent Valuation assessments (or focus groups)
would be conducted at the beginning, the middle and the end of the project to assess farmers perceptions on
the two payment options. This set-up will provide critical information of the risk aversion of the farmers
(the more risk averse would take the short term/high unit payment scheme), and the two year option will
provide insights into the sustainability of the technology since for this option payments stop after the
second year.
o      Access to capital and land tenure in the Project's area of intervention, and the degree such access
affects the adoption of silvo-pastoral (SPS) technologies.
O      Farmers adoption patterns of SPS technologies, and conditions/factors leading to intensive or
extensive production strategies, and the effect that the promotion of SPS may have on the expansion of the
agriculture frontier.
0      Barriers to markets, such as lack of roads to transport production, or condition related with
hygiene of livestock products (particularly milk).
e      Effects of adopting SPS on family income, labor composition and availability, employment, and
gender.
o      Comparative economic analysis between conventional livestock production systems and
Silvopastoral systems, once information to adjust parameters associated with these systems is available.
To promote the long-term sustainability of the scheme for the payment of the environmental services, the
policy analysis, based on input from the socio-economic monitoring activities, would focus on:
0      Alternatives for financing environmental services at the local/regional level. Examples may include
hydre-electric plants paying to maintain watersheds, or breweries paying for having access to good quality
water.
o      Means to redirect the application of taxes to those activities associated to livestock production that
generate negative externalities, such as water pollution from intensive production,
*      The feasibility of tax reductions for farmers adopting silvopastoral systems
e      Regulations obliging the adoption of management techniques that are more environmentally
friendly. To strengthen the enforcement of existing or to-be-created regulations, it is proposed to require the
compliance of those regulations to obtain credit.
o      Certifications of livestock products as more environmentally friendly, and the certification of
livestock farms with silvopastoral systems for agro-ecotourism. In the first case, the Project could certify
that firms have adopted production techniques more environmentally friendly.
*      Policies for agro-ecotourism to increase the financial incentives for silvopastoral systems in Latin
America. The potential of silvopastoral systems to attract and maintain a diverse array of wildlife (in
particular bird) species can be an added value to the direct financial and social gains perceived by farmers.
The example set by coffee-growers in the Central Andes of Colombia can be replicated in livestock grazing
enterprises. Ranches with complex vegetation and a rich fauna may attract tourism and increase the income
of small farmers without compromising the productivity of the systems.
*      Support mechanisms for local institutions promoting silvopastoral systems and to identify
needs/weaknesses of those institutions to carry out those tasks.
*      Environmental education about silvopastoral systems in schools in the area of the Project.
O      Incorporation of silvopastoral systems in the curricula of educational institutions forming
technicians and professional in the livestock production.
- 55-



The project would coordinate with the other stakeholders through the informal establishment of
Roundtables in each country, where members participate voluntarily and whose make role is an advisory
role, and disseminating role of the results of the project into their respective institutions.
*      In Colombia, it has been agreed that CIPAV would be the coordinator of the Roundtable. Other
members would be the Director of Ecosystem Unit, MMA, and representatives of the regional development
organization of Quindio. The representative of the committee of the Minister de Agricultura would be the
director of the Sustainable Production Unit.
*      In Costa Rica,  the ministries of Environment and Agriculture have agreed to nominate their
representatives. A representative of FONAFIFO would be a member of the Roundtable as well.
*      In Nicaragua, the Ministiy of Environment would be represented by the director of the
Biodiversity Department. The representative of the Minister of Agriculture would be the Director of
Forestry. It would also include local representatives of MAG-FOR and MARENA.
Dissemination activities would include:
*      The organization of workshops for policy formulation to ensure widespread ownership by all
stakeholders concerned A total of iwo major policy consultations per country are envisaged to present the
results to a wide audience of decision mnakers. These meetings would be under the aegis of the Project's
Roundtables.
*      The organization of a serie; of presentations to international organizations and private operators to
ensure continued funding. These presentations would be organized after the mid-term evaluation of the
project, to be able to show practical results on the ground of this innovative technology. The presentations
would be in combination with the policy formulation meetings described above. Replenishment would be
sought from a variety of sources, inoluding revenues from a fossil fuel sales tax, such as already practiced
in Costa Rica, sales of Certified Tradeable Offsets (CTOs) to countries under the Joint Implementation
program, and payments from private sector operators, such as power companies and other polluting
industries.
*      Two electronic conferences, organized by CATIE, that target a global audience of policy makers
and researchers, with dissemination of material and models on the Internet through LEAD-FAO's Virtual
Research and Development Center.
*      One video per country would be produced to disseminate the results of this pilot activity to a
broader audience.
Project Component 5 - US$1.00 million
Project management
The project would be realized over a period of 5 years. It is proposed to entrust overall implementation to
CATIE in Costa Rica, with local implementation carried out by UCA-Nitlapan in Nicaragua, CATIE for
the sites in Costa Rica and CIPAV in Colombia.
*      Incremental expenses related to management of the project alternative would include financing the
costs of a project co-coordinator, financial project manager and support staff for each of the three
participating organizations, which would direct, coordinate and monitor project activities. This would
- 56 -



include the preparation of project accounts in each country, and organizations of mid-term and final project
evaluations, and the bi-annual technical evaluations to determine if the process which certifies the changes
in land use as a result of the carrying out of said subprojects is being carried out in accordance with the
guidelines and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual (see component 3)
It would also include the financing of audits to satisfy GEF-WB project requirements. For example,
CATIE would be required to have the project's records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. In addition, CATIE would be required to furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning said records and accounts, and the audit thereof, as the Bank may from
time to time reasonably request.
Development objective.
The main development objective of this innovative pilot project is to demonstrate and measure the effects of
the introduction of payment incentives for environmental services to farmers on their adoption of integrated
silvopastoral farming systems in degraded pasture lands in Colombia, Costa Rica and Nicaragua and the
resulting improvements in eco-systems functioning, global environmental benefits, and local
socio-economic gains resulting from the provision of said services. The specific benefits sought by the
project would be:
a)     Improved eco-systems functioning, as manifested by reduction in erosion, improvement in soil and
water quality, increased production, income and employment in rural areas from degraded pasture land in
up-to six watersheds in three countries. The experience gained would be directly relevant to an estimated 40
million hectare of degraded pasture land in the three countries. Indirectly the project woiild be expected to
reduce pressure on the agricultural frontier;
b)     Incremental global environmental benefits, principally improved biodiversity and carbon
sequestration services, thus protecting some of the world's most valuable eco-systems and.reducing the risk
of climate change;
c)     Experience with farmers reactions to the payment of environmental services and experiences in the
management of payment incentive schemes required to produce global environmental benefits; and
d)     Guidelines for the sustainable financing mechanisms for the promotion of silvopastoral systems to
rehabilitate degraded pastures.
For GEF, this pilot activity would provide guidance on the definition of policy requirements for optimizing
environmental services in livestock production and for future funding of mitigation measures in a sector
(i.e. the livestock sector) for which operational programs have not yet been developed. The documentation
and dissemination of the experiences, good practices, and know-how gained are an integral outcome of the
project. This would lead to greater awareness of the potential gains to be made in terms of environmental
services provided by integrated ecosystem management through the promotion of silvopastoral systems.
* Silvopastoral systems consist of the provision of environmental services which consist of establishment and
maintenance of complex arrays of planted trees, shrubs and grass species, used for multiple purposes, such as cattle
- 57-



grazing and browsing, live fences and windbreaks to reduce wind and water erosion, shade for crops and livestock,
climbers for vine crops, and construction and fuel wood. They serve also as an effective "pump" by capturing
mnineral nutrients from deeper soil layers to produce vegetation, which, in time, and in the form of litter, is reverted
back to minerals in top soil layers (see Annex 16 for a detailed description).
- 58 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
1. Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity Building           4.40          0.40         4.80
11. Monitoring Environmental Services                     0.80         0.15          0.95
III. Eco-services Payments                                1.40         0.00          1.40
IV. Policy formulation and dissemination                  0.20          0.10         0.30
V. Project Management                                     0.90          0.10         1.00
Total Baseline Cost                                       7.70          0.75         8.45
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs               7.70         0.75         8.45
Total Financing Required               7.70         0.75         8.45
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                       0.10          0.20         0.30
Eco-services Payments                                       1.40          0.00         1.40
Services                                                    0.20          0.00         0.20
Consultants and Training                                    2.00          0.40         2.40
On-farm investment                                          3.00          0.00         3.00
Operational Costs                                           0.80          0.00         0.80
Contingencies                                               0.20          0.15         0.35
Total Project Costs      7.70           0.75         8.45
Total Financing Required      7.70           0.75         8.45
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 8.45 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 53.25% of total
project cost net of taxes.
- 59 -



Annex 4
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Incremental Cost, Financial, and Cost Effectiveness Analyses
Annex 4a: Incremental Cost Analysis
This project complements existing activities described in the section on the current situation (baseline
course of action) and adds new activities (alternative course of action) to the baseline that are required to
achieve global environment benefits. Under the baseline scenario, conventional systems would dominate
.he landscape. These conventional production systems have led to significant land degradation in the three
countries, which is not conducive to promoting biodiversity conservation nor sequestering carbon nor
preserving water quality.
B3aseline Scenario
A number of activities in the three selected projects areas would be carried out by the local executing
organizations and other organizations that provide a foundation of environmental research and
nanagement, determining the current course of action in the zones chosen for the project. On-going and
;uture activities related to sustainable livestock production are separated into key areas relevant to the
4)roject. In the next five years (2001-2006) the following activities are planned in the project areas:
Colombia:
Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity Building: Four projects would focus on training,
'iomnmunications on integrated ecosystem management and in the implementation of sustainable livestock
"roduction systems. The "Re-conversion of cattle farming in the high Andes region in the Cauca valley"
!)roject would be implemented by CIPAV and would emphasize the implementation of silvopastoral and
.tgroforestry systems in regions between 1800 and 3000 meters of altitude (while the GEF alternative would
work between 950 and 1,500 meters). This project is funded by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fondo
D)RI-IICA, programa Valle en Paz. A second project "Environmental re-conversion of cattle farming in
she Garrapatas river canyon in the Serrania de Los Paraguas - Valle del Cauca - Choc6" would focus
;)n milk processing and commercialization and training. The third project "Strengthening the Natural,
?eserves of the Civil Society" would strengthen local organizations and support environmental awareness
.umong stakeholders for conservation. This program is financed by World Wildlife Fund, Ecofondo,
l{olland and the Private Reserves. The project "Support to the Private Reserves of the Cauca valley"
;unded by Ecofondo, Red Nacional de Reservas de la Sociedad Civil and private farms, and implemented
by CIPAV, focuses on training, the creation of enviromnental awareness and the development of
sustainable production systems for agricultural production (not environmental considerations, such as
provided by the GEF alternative, where intensification would be achieved through silvopastoral systems).
't'he GEF alternative project would train the farmers in the production aspects of implementing a
.ilvopastoral system and on the environmental services provided by these. The baseline costs for these
activities are calculated as US$1,070,000.
2. Monitoring Environmental Services: 'T'here. would be three research projects that would collect key
information on the biodiversity of the region, including birds, and on the biological diversity of different
agro-ecosysteras. Funded by GEF and the Ministry of the Environment, the project "Andean biodiversity "
would collect information and provide training in conservation and use of the biodiversity, and would
- 60 -



provide common monitoring indicators. The "Departmental systems of protected areas in the Valle del
Cauca, Quindio and Risaralda" is a project that seeks to attain biological information on the biodiversity
of the region. The last project is financed by ABC and it is for monitoring birds in agro-ecosystems. The
GEF project would focus on monitoring three environmental services provided by silvopastoral systems,
using the methodology developed by IavH and the information collected in the region. The baseline costs
for these activities are calculated as US$900,000.
3. Eco-services Fund: No projects would be developed for benefit sharing mechanisms in the region.
4. Policy formulation and dissemination: Parallel activities in policy formulation would be carried out.
The MMvIA/World Bank "Natural Resources" Project would develop policy for Sustainable Resources
Management. The projects "Departmental systems ofprotected areas in the Valle del Cauca, Quindio and
Risaralda"and "Strengthening the Natural Reserves of the Civil Society" have an important component in
the development for regional policies for conservation. The MMA "Andean Biodiversity "Project has an
important component related to co-ordination of sectorial policies for conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity. The GEF project would focus on the development of policy instruments for the payment of
environmental services in silvopastoral systems. Policy analysis and recommendations would promote
expanded or long-term environemental services payments to cattle producers only to the extent that thoese
payments do not compete with the scarce funds available for natural forest conservation. The baseline
costs for these activities are calculated as US$ 1,164,000.
Costa Rica:
1. Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity Building: Four projects are related to the implementation of
sustainable livestock production systems in the regions of La Fortuna and Esparza. These are; "Evaluation
of multi-strata silvopastoral systems for recovery of degraded pasture lands in the Pacific region of
Costa Rica" funded by AVINA, CATIE and Hacienda Pacificam. This is a research project to select native
multi-purpose tree species for silvopastoral systems and evaluation of tree-pasture-animal interactions.
Based on the results of this research the GEF would finance the implementation of this system. The project
"Land-use changes and carbon flows in Central America" which seeks to quantify carbon flows and
modeling of carbon sequestration in forest ecosystems, would be funded by FINIDA (it does not include
silvopastoral systems like the GEF alternative would do). "Evaluation of the contribution of trees in the
economic sustainability of livestockfarms in San Carlos" is a research program to determnine the income
generated from sale of timber and the income generated from.carbon sequestered by trees in livestock
farms, and it would be a base for socio-economic monitoring in the alternative. "Trees out of the Forest
TROF'(FAO, EU) is a study which would contribute to the inventory of trees in different agricultural
ecosystems. The baseline costs for these activities are calculated as US$2,400,000. The baseline focus is
on research projects for silvopastoral intensification, while the GEF alternative would  focus on
implementing silvopastoral systems for environmental services.
2. Monitoring Environmental Services: CATIE would implement five projects to monitor environmental
impacts of livestock farms. These projects are: "Analysis of the impact in the adoption of improved
pastures on land use changes in Costa Rica"(particularly looking at the variation in soil fertility and
productivity, and socio-economic results), funded by CATIE and UCR; "Monitoring carbon flows under
different vegetation in livestockfarms" funded by CATIE, is a research project to develop a methodology;
"TROPILECHE project: Evaluation of environmental impacts in improved pasture ecosystems"
(traditional environmental assessment) supported by ILRI and CIAT; "Validation of timber based
agroforestry systems in livestock farms in the pacific region of Costa Rica" (validation of research on
performance of different trees) fumded by CAC; and "Quantification of degraded pasture lands in Costa
- 61 -



Rica and their potential for improvement" financed by CATIE and MAG. The baseline costs for these
activities are calculated as US$625,000. The Baseline would focus on research and methodology to
monitor enviromnental impacts (and carbon sequestration), while the GEF altemative would implement
these methodology and would focus on monitoring three environmental services provided in silvopastoral
systems.
3. Eco-services Fund: Under the Baseline Scenario, the Govermment of Costa Rica-including MINAE,
FONAFIFO, SINAC, and the Costa Rican Office for Joint Implementation (OCIC)- is mobilizing
resources directed to the conservation and sustainable management of forest ecosystems. Over the next five
years, it is expected that the sum of disbursements for environmental service contracts through the ESP
program in priority biodiversity areas would total approximately US$27.5 mnillion. The GEF Ecomarkets
project would support the conservation and sustainable management of forest ecosystems throughout Costa
Rica through explicitly targeting resources for conservation easements in buffer zones of protected areas
within the MBC/CR, including forests with high biodiversity values, forests which are important for
watershed protection, and other priority areas. This program does not cover silvopastoral systems. The
GEF alternative would focus on payments for environmental services provided by silvopastoral systems,
and therefore complement the proposed project.
4. Policy formulation and disseminationt: CATIE would finance the project "Land use changes and
carb'jn flows in Central America: options for carbon managem:ent" which aims to assess and model the
carbon stocks and flows in selected cases of different land-use s,ystems in Central America, to integrate the
infor.natior. on carbon stocks and flows at the landscape and regional scale, to analyze the possible
confiicts between what is globally optimal (in terms of mitigation of climate change) and what is locally
desirable (in terms of other goals for forest management) at four different levels: a) landowner, b) local
community, c) country, d) global and to incorporate the po?icy -makers in an interactive process of
assessment, valuation and definition of optimal forest policies irL relation to climate change at national and
regional scales. Supported by FINIDA, the project "Developi.ig of an expert system on the status of
pasture degradation in areas with different biophysical and socio-economic conditions in the Pacific
regions" would assess land use changes and pasture degradation and the socio-economic conditions leading
to pasture degradation and would identify policies for recovery of degraded lands (decision- tree-model).
The GEF altemative would look into silvopastoral systems, and would focus on policy instruments for
environmental services payments in silvopastoral systems. The baseline costs for these activities are
calculated as US$500,000
Nicaragua:
I.Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity Building: Activities for capacity building in sustainable
production systems would continue in the Rio Blanco region. These activities include workshops, seminars,
publications and farmer to farmer exchanges. NITLAPAN-UCA would develop the projects "Financial
Services for Local Development" (Rural Credit), "Legal Services for Rural Development" (Land Tenure
Issues) and "Research on local demand and supply of agronomic technology" (Applied Research) that all
contain a capacity building component related to silvopastoral systems. Other projects in the region by
other organizations have strong capacity building components, that would serve as a base for the
silvopastoral component: "Credit, legal services, health and nutrition" (3asic grain production) by the
Catholic Church and "Training and livestock re-stocking "(Increase the number of livestock) imnplemnented
by the Instituto de Desarrollo Rural and funded by the Taiwan government, would conduct workshops for
farmers and would produce manual for technical training. The MAG-FOR World Bank "Forestry
project" and "Agriculture Technology" Project would promote reforestation and agriculture
intensification. Baseline costs for all of these activities are calculated as US$1,596,000. The baseline would
- 62 -



focus on more conventional technologies for agriculture intensification (i.e. with agrochemicals, fertilizers,
electric fences) and reforestation for production, while the proposed alternative would focus on
silvopastoral intensification, combining production and conservation objectives.
2. Monitoring Environmental Services: N/A.
3. Eco-services Contracts: N/A
4. Policy formulation and decision support: . The MAG-FOR - World Bank "Forestry " and "Agriculture
Technology" Projects would promote policies for reforestation and agriculture intensification. The project
"Credit, legal services, health and nutrition" implemented by the Catholic Church would focus on
policies related to conventional extensive livestock systems, while the proposed GEF alternative would
focus on the policy instruments for environmental services payments in silvopastoral systems. The baseline
costs for these activities are calculated as US$500,000.
Summary Baseline Costs and Benefits
Baseline Costs. Total expenditures under the baseline Scenario are estimated at US$ 9,674,500 million
(including baseline project management equal to US$ 919,500), including co-financing from the three executing
agencies, the three Governments, International Donors and local NGOs.
Baseline Benefits. Benefits achieved by the baseline would be mainly at the local level and would include
improved production, increased information on production systems, environmental impact monitoring
systems, stakeholder training and increased awareness of environmental management. The baseline
scenario does not provide technical nor financial support or training for activities leading to intensification
for environmental objectives, and providing environmental services provided by silvopastoral systems. The
scope of the baseline is thus limited and it would not permiit design or implementation of a comprehensive
integrated ecosystem strategy. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario would result in limited carbon
sequestration and protection of biodiversity, and limited capacity to sustainable natural resources
management.. The efforts of international and national NGOs would result in a marginal increase in
environmental awareness, and activities of development agencies would result in a limited increase in
sustainable natural resource management. International donors have invested resources in eco-services
initiatives in short-term, and these activities, however, are unlikely to ensure carbon sequestration or
protection of globally significant biological resources, due to lack of an explicit focus on values of
environmental services in silvopastoral systems, as well as institutional, financial, legal and, socioeconomic
constraints to implement them.
Alternative Scenario
The GEF Alternative - total cost of which would be $18,124,500, would build on the baseline scenario and
would support a number of incremental activities needed to achieve global environmental objectives in the
key project areas:
1. Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity building
2. Monitoring Environmental Services
3. Eco-Services Fund
4. Policyformulation and dissemination
The GEF Alternative would enable activities that are not included in the Baseline, including technical
assistance on integrated ecosystem management, the implementation of sustainable silvopastoral systems,
and environmental services provided by silvopastoral systems; data collection in three countries of the
- 63 -



region, especially on environmental services under intensive silvopastoral systems (carbon storage, birds
populations, biodiversity, and water quality); development and implementation of a mechanism to pay for
the generation of eco-services, that would provide experience on benefit sharing mechanisms at farm and
community level and beneficiaries response to incentives for biodiversity conservation and carbon
sequestration that would produce global environmental benefits. It would furthermore provide policy
guidelines for payments of environmental services under silvopastoral systems and specific
recommendations would be provided for sector and environmental policies in terms of land use and
environmental services. Furthermore, the experience of benefit sharing mechanism would be disseminated
through a website and a Spanish speaking platform under the coordination of LEAD-FAO.
Costs. The total cost of the GEF Alternative is estimated at US$ 18,124,500 million, detailed as follows:
1. Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity building US$ 9.866 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 1.5 million
); 2. Monitoring Environmental Services - US$ 2,475 million (GEFfinancing - US$0. 9 million); 3.
Eco-Services Payment $ 1.4 million (GEFfinancing - US$1.2 million); 4. Policy formulation and
dissemination - US$ 2,.464 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 0.2 million); and, (e) Project Management -
US$ 1,9195 million (GEFfinancing - US$ 0.7 million).
Benefits. These activities would result in changes in the ecosystem and natural resources management
pattems and in the generation of global benefits, particularly by the development of altematives to increase
carbon sequestration, conservation of biodiversity, and water quality of a global value. The project would
increase the likelihood of endangered species suirvival, protect endemic species habitat, promote restoration
of biodiversity, improve water quality and watershed management, and it would contribute with reductions
on the emissions and sequestration of carbon. The strong local participation and the positive economic
impacts of the implemented silvopastoral techlnologies would produce a positive impact on the livelihood of
farmers that would ensure long-term sustainability of the project activities. The policy formulation and
dissemination activities would allow the implementation of long-term strategies of biodiversity
conservation, carbon sequestration and sustains-ble production at regional and global levels.
Incremental Costs. The difference between the costs of the Baseline Scenario (US$ 9.674 million) and the
GEF Alternative (US$ 18.124 m) is estimated at US$ 8.45 million. Co-financing of US$ 3.95 million of
this increment has been mobilized as follows: US$350,000 from LEAD-FAO, US $ 3,000,000 from the
beneficiaries and US$600,000 from NITLAPAN-UCA, CATIE and CIPAV. The funding from
LEAD-FAO would cover mainly the policy component and the regional co-ordination of the activities,
consultation and dissemination of results through its Spanish speaking platform on livestock-environmental
issues. It would also provide scientific backstopping through internationally leading scientists in the fields
of carbon sequestration and related modeling, pasture improvement and environmental economics. The
local contribution consists of training, extension, communications and local organization, as well as
institutional support. The requested GEF contribution is US$ 4.5 million. GEF funding is sought for the
incremental costs of removing barriers to the adoption of integrated ecosystem management approach:
creation of a financial mechanism for the establishment of silvopastoral systems, monitoring of
environmental services, capacity building, policy formulation, and project management.
This is summarized in the following table:
- 64 -



Baseline      GEF                Increment US$
US$      Alternative
Actinty__________________________     Total       Total       GEF       Others      Total
A ctivity__                          _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __          _ _ _ _ _
Ecosystems Enhancement and Capacity   5,066,000   9,866,000  1,500,000  3,300,000    4,800,000
Building
Monitoring Environmental Services     1,525,000   2,475,000    900,00C    50,000       950,000
Eco-services Payment              1_400_000                  1,200,0001  200,000     1,400,000
Policy formulation and dissemination  2,164,000   2,464000    200,000     100,000      300,000
Project Management                     919,500    1,919,500    700,000   300,000     1,000,000
Total                                 9,674,500  18,124,500  4,500,000  3,950,000    8,450,000
- 65 -



Summary of Local Benefits of the Baseline vs Global Benefits of the Alternative                             |
Component                Cost Category   US$        Domestic Benefit   Global Benefit
million
Ecosystem Enhancement'   Baseline        5.066      Intensification of
Extension Services and                              agriculture activities
Capacity Building                                   and increased
production
With GEF        9.866                          Intensification with silvopastoral systems for
Alternative                                    increased environmental conservation and
global benefits (carbon sequestration,
biodiversity)
Incremenlal     4.8
Monitoring               Baseline        1.525      Data for conventional
environmental
assessment;
methodology for
carbon sequestration
and land use change.
With GEF        2.475                          MONITORING OF ENVIRONMENTAL
Alternative                                    SERVICES (CARBON SEQUESTRATION,
BIODVERSrTY, WATER)
_I -remenial    0.95
Eco-Services Payment     Baseline
With GEF        1.4                            Breaking one of the most important barrier
Alternative                                    for the establishment of silvopastoral
systems that would help to sequester carbon
and conserve biodiversity.
L.oremental     1.4
Policy Formulation       Baseline        2.164      Agriculture
_______________        ________                   production  policies   ________________________________c e
With GEF        2.464                          Increased capacity to integrate eco-services
Altemative                                     concerns (provided by silvopastoral
ecosystems) into sectoral policies;
Increased public awareness of the
importance of conservation of globally
significant biodiversity, carbon
sequestration, and ecosystem management.
_ cremental      0.30
Project Management       Baseline        0.915      Not applicable
With GEF         1.919                         Not applicable
____________________   Alternative
______ _____ __ !Incremental  1.00
TOTAL                    Baseline        9.674      _
With GEF         18.124
Alternative
____________________  Incremental      8.45       _
- 66 -



Annex 4b: Financial Analysis
Financial Analysis of Investing in Silvo-Pastoral Systems
The proposed project aims to improve ecosystem functioning of degraded pasture lands in Colombia, Costa
Rica, and Nicaragua by promoting the adoption of silvo-pastoral management systems (SPS) in livestock
farms located in those countries. The financial analysis aims to clarify whether investments in silvopastoral
systems are financially viable and to ascertain the impact of payments for environmental services. This was
done by conducting a benefit-cost analysis for seven different models of representative farms with different
livestock production systems in Colombia, Costa Rica, and Nicaragua.
Model          Livestock Production System       Farm size (range)
Colombia
COLl           Extensive, beef                   Medium (50 ha- 80 ha)
COL2           Semi-intensive, beef              Small (15 ha - 30 ha)
COL3           Intensive (Quindio model), beef   Small (10 ha - 20 ha)
Costa Rica
CR1           Dual-purpose: milk/beef            Small (30 ha - 40 ha)
Nicaragua
NICI           Dual-purpose: milk/beef           Small (10 ha - 30 ha)
NIC2          Dual-purpose: milk/beef            Medium (30 ha - 60 ha)
NIC3           Dual-purpose: milk/beef           Large (> 60 ha)
Steps for Developing the Models
For each model, the following steps were carried out: (1) estimation of the production parameters of the
cash flow; (2) computation of necessary investments to adopt silvo-pastoral management systems for a
portion of the farm area (varying from 8.2% to 23.3% of the land), and estimation of the farm cash flow
after establishment of SPS; (3) estimation of the incremental provision in environmental services in the
farm (based on the land use change index), and calculation of revenues from them; (4) creation of cash
flows over a 15-year period; and (5) estimation of expected net present values (NPV) considering the
situation with SPS (with the project) versus the situation with conventional livestock production (without
the project), in order to obtain the incremental net benefits due to the adoption of SPS.
Model's Main Assumptions. The following main assumnptions were made in developing the models: (1)
production levels in the situation "without project" remain constant along the life of the project; (2)
livestock productivity and production in the situation "with project" increase as a result of improved feed
supply by incorporating silvopastoral systems in the farm; (3) in most models there is no increase in the
number of animals in the situation "with project" (surplus animals are sold at the end of each year); and (4)
increases in production are related to investments made over the initial years.
Payment for Environmental Services. The project considers the implementation of a payment system for
the environmental services (carbon sequestration and biodiversity) generated by adopting the silvopastoral
systems. In the proposed system, payments would be made proportional to the increments in carbon
sequestration and biodiversity at the farm level, on a yearly bases for a four-year period. The quantification
and valuation of carbon sequestration and biodiversity are difficult both in theory and practice. Adding to
the challenge is the fact that the payment system is based on marginal increments in the provision of those
services. To address these limitations in the models the relationships between bio-diversity and carbon
- 67-



sequestration and the main land use patterns were defined in order to estimate the revenues generated by the
provision of those services in the farm, and consolidated into one land use index. Primary and secondary
forests are valued at 1, for both carbon sequestration and bio-diversity. A value of 1 for carbon
sequestration was given to improved pasture with high trees and shrubs density (i.e silvopastoral systems),
which equals an incremental carbon sequestration of ten tons Carbon per ha and per year. An equal value
of $ 50 was allocated to bio-diversity. These prices are based on similar operations in Central America
(i.e., ECO-MARKETS in Costa Rica). The same prices are used in all models.
Investments in silvopastoral systems
In the models, the farmer invests in the adoption of SPS during the first four years of the project. The size
of the investment for the establishment of SPS depends on (1) the technical options proposed in the menu
for each type of farm and (2) the size of the land to be transformed into silvopastoral systems. Accordingly,
investments in silvopastoral systems vary for each farm depending on those parameters. In the scenarios
modeled, the investment allows for (a) increases in productivity in the farm without decreasing the number
of animals, (b) transformation of at least 8% of the area of the farm, and (c) abandonment of land for
natural regeneration in most of the cases. The largest portion of the investment (> 70%) is assumed to
occur during the first year of the project. The highest cost of investment per ha transformed with
silvopastoral systems is shown by Colombia, indicating that the technical options for farms in that country
translate inlto higher costs than the ones proposed for the other countries.
Models            Total Investment in SPS  Investment in SPS/ha  Cost SPS/area farm
(US$)                  (US$)               (US$)
Colombia
COLI                    2,729.04                909.68               38.98
COL2                    4,703.82               1,567.94              235.19
COL3     _              3,937.32               1,124.94              262.48
Costa Rica
CR1                     2,602.16                551.70               86.73
Nicaragua
NICi                    2,089.31                557.14               97.50
NIC2                    3,194.57                532.43                70.99
NIC3                    4,582.50                458.25               65.46
Total investment in SPS incurred in the farm during the first four years of the project. The monetary
figure includes only the external inputs associated with adopting the SPS menu.
Cost per ha transformed with SPS (Total investment in SPS/total number of ha transformed with SPS).
Cost of SPS per ha (Total investment in SPS/total area of farm).
Modeled Land Use Changes
In the scenarios modeled, the adoption of silvopastoral systems allows to (1) intensify livestock production
per unit of area and (2) to liberate areas not suitable for production and dedicate them to natural
regeneration in most of the farms. The percentage of the land in the farms placed under silvopastoral
systems depends on the size of the farm and the costs of the technical options propose in the silvopastoral
systems menu for the farm.
- 68 -



Models                  Percentage area farm       Percentage area farm dedicated to
with SPS                   natural regeneration
Colombia
COLI                            8.2                            1.6
COL2                           20.0                            5.0
COL3                           23.3                            0.0
Costa Rica
CR1                            19.1                            6.6
Nicaragua
NIC1                           18.7                            8.7
NIC2                           17.7                            14.5
NIC3                           13.7                            10.0
Increases in Production
Under the models' assumptions, the production level in the farm at the end of project increases as follow:
Models               Increase in milk production (it)  Increase in number animals sold
Colombia
COLl                                                     _ 2.0 (+ 20.75%)
COL2                                                        12.0 (+ 18.1%)
COL3                                                            0.Oc
Costa Rica       _
CR1                         300 (+ 37.5%)                    1.3 (+33.3%)
Nicaragua
NICI                         400 (+ 66.6%)                   1.0 (+ 33.3%)
NIC2                         500 (+ 71.4%)                  2.3 (+ 53.4%/6)
NIC3                        450 (+ 64.3%)                    1.0 (+ II.1%)
Represents the increase in the liters of milk sold at the end of the project in relation to the liters of milk
sold in the "without" situation.
b
Represents the increase in the number of animals sold at the end of the project in relation to the number of
animals sold in the "without" situation.
Production levels in this type of farms are high in the "without" situation, so adoption of sivopastoral
systems does not increase production. However, in the "without" situation, production requires application
of high levels of fertilizer (which can have negative environmental impacts). The environmental "gains" for
the adoption of silvopastoral systems is the elimination of fertilizer and pesticide use in those portions of
the farm with silvopastoral systems.
Labor
In general, the adoption of silvopastoral systems increases the number of day-work needed for operating the
farm. Increases in labor are related to (1) management of the fodder bank (2) maintenance of additional
living fences, and (3) management of the animals. However, management of the fodder bank is the category
that adds the most to increases in labor, since one ha of fodder bank requires some 40 additional days of
work per year (excluding cutting the forage). Therefore, increases in labor are closely related to the size of
the fodder bank established in the farm. In the scenarios modeled, the estimated percentages of annual
increase in labor requirements on farms with SPS are as follows: CR1 34.4%; NICI 85.8%; NIC2 58.8%;
- 69-



and NIC3 106.2%. In the cases of Colombia, the labor requirements in the existing production systems in
the farm are low. For COL1, it is estimated that the adoption of the silvopastoral system would increase the
annual number of days of work (or workdays) for operating the farm by 12.1%. In the cases of the other
two models, a permanent worker is in charge of managing the farm. It is estimated, however, that operating
the farm with silvopastoral systems would require 45.0 additional workdays for model COL2 and 22.0
additional workdays for model COL3.
Operating Expenses
Operating expenses, which include input and labor expenses, vary considerably among the modeled
scenarios and depend on (1) the existing livestock production system in the farm, and (2) the amount of
labor for operating the farm under silvopastoral systems, particularly the labor cost associated with
management of the fodder bank. Model COLI exhibits the lowest increase in operating expenses because
savings in the application of agrochemicals compensate for increases in other operating categories brought
about by adopting silvopastoral systems. Unlike the other models, operating costs in model COL3 decrease
because the adoption of silvopastoral systems eliminates the use of fertilizer (urea) and pesticides in those
ha with silvopastoral systems in the farm.
Models                Operating costs       Operating costs   Percentage change
without SPS             with SPS
(US$)                 (US$)
Colombia     _._.-
COLI                    2,083.93              2,127.40                4- 2.1%
COL2                    2,602.78              3,260.30               + 25.2%
COL3                    5,286.48              4,742.95               - 10.3%
Costa Rica
CR1                      1,031.07              1,267.54              + 22.9%
Nicaragua     _
NICI                     280.46                491.92                + 75.4%
NIC2                     626.58                949.73                + 51.6%
NIC3                     1,319.79              1,957.41              + 48.3%
Model Results
In all models, investments in adopting silvopastoral systems are financially profitable. The results indicate
that financial feasibility is directly related to: (a) the improvement in the productive and reproductive
parameters of the livestock herd obtained by the adoption of the silvopastoral systems and (b) income from
environmental services. Therefore, the financial indicators (NPV and IRR) are very sensitive to changes in
those parameters and to changes in the market conditions for livestock products. All models result in IRR
lower than the opportunity cost of capital and in negative NPVs if payment for environmental services is
not applied.
- 70 -



Models         Discount    IRRa without payment for    IRRa with payment for
rate        environmental services    environmental services
Colombia
COLI             14%                8%                         15%
COL2             14%                13%                        15%
COL3             14%                13%                        19%
Costa Rica
CR1              12%                7%                         16%
Nicaragua
NIC1             10%                 7%                        12%
NIC2             10%                 9%                        14%
NIC3             10%                 8%                        14%
The internal rate of return (IRR) is the maximum interest a project can pay for the resources used. If the
IRR is lower than the opportunity cost of capital (represented by the discount rate), the investment is not
profitable and results in negative NPVs.
Models         Discount    NPVa without payment for   NPVa with payment for
Rate        environmental services    environmental services
Colombia
COLl             14%              - 712.61                     95.61
COL2             14%              - 321.69                    516.48
COL3             14%               -273.89                    615.07
Costa Rica
CR1              12%              -1,133.14                   741.98
Nicaragua
NICI             10%               -534.12                    261.00
NIC2             10%               -93.93                    2,038.06
NIC3             10%               -922.76                    1,864.86
The net present value (NPV) is the discounted incremental net benefit of the cash flow.
Payment for Environmental Services
The total revenue from environmental services (ES) for the entire payment period shows a marked variation
from model to model. Given that payment for ES is proportional to the amount of land intervened, those
models that allow for land use changes in larger areas representing more complex types .of vegetation
generate higher revenues from ES.
- 71 -



Models              Total revenue for the farm a        Total revenue/ha
US$                             US$
Colombia
COLI                        1,286.5                          18.38
COL2                        1,314.0                          65.70
COL3                        1,413.5                          94.23
Costa Rica
CR1                         2,864.0                          95.46
Nicaragua
NICI                        1,126.0                          56.3
NIC2                        2,992.4                          66.47
NIC3                        3,916.0                          48.95
Farm's total revenue for the entire payment period (4 years).
Total revenue per ha for the entire payment period (4 years).
- 72 -



Annex 4c: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Summary of Benefits and Costs
The proposed project aims to improve ecosystem functioning of degraded pasture lands in Colombia, Costa
Rica, and Nicaragua by promoting the adoption of silvo-pastoral management systems silvopastoral
systems) in livestock farms located in those countries. The project directly supports the development of
markets and the provision of environmental services supplied by farmers adopting silvopastoral systems.
As such, the project provides market-based incentives by financially compensating farm owners for the
provision of environmental services relating to carbon sequestration and biodiversity generated in their
holdings.
Benefits. By promoting the adoption of silvopastoral systems, the proposed project expects to increase the
provision of two environmental services:
i) Carbon sequestration: the adoption of silvopastoral systems would revert the deforestation process in
private lands and would mitigate greenhouse gas emissions by using fast-growing grass species that are
efficient in storing carbon, by incrementing tree cover in pasture lands, and by dedicating areas in the farm
to forest regeneration.
ii) Biodiversity: incorporating silvopastoral systems in the farm would add structural and functional
complexity to the landscape. This, in turn, would create habitats and provide connectivity favoring
increases in biodiversity.
The quantification and valuation of these environmental services is difficult both in theory and practice.
Nevertheless, of the two services, carbon sequestration is more approachable to be measured. Moreover,
increases in biodiversity are likely to be closely related with carbon sequestration. Thus, carbon is used as
the indicator for the overall global environmental benefits derived for implementing the project. For these
reasons, a financial cost-effectiveness analysis is used to assess whether project benefits (measured in terms
of carbon sequestration) are being achieved at least cost.
Costs. For the analysis, the cost associated with the project is the proposed amount to be paid per ton of
carbon sequestered. In this case, the amount would be US$ 5.0 per ton of carbon.
Cost-effectiveness Indicator: Forest Plantation with Native Species
The establishment of a forest plantation with native species, for which land would be purchased, is used as
the cost-effectiveness indicator in the analysis. Establishing a forest plantation is chosen as the most
appropriate alternative investment option to the proposed project since this alternative yields similar
environmental benefits. To facilitate comparison, figures are presented on per ha bases.
Costs.  For each country, investment and maintenance costs for the forest plantation were collected.
These included: (1) two alternatives on land compensation, one where the public sector would be expected
to buy land to set aside for regeneration, and land price would have to eb included, and one other where the
farmer considers the alternatives of set-aside for regeneration or the introduction of silvo-pastoral systems,
and the land price would not be incremental, and therefore not included, (2) establishment costs, including
land preparation and fire prevention measures, (3) fencing, and (4) maintenance costs, including labor and
materials.
Colombia
Establishment and maintenance costs for the forest plantation are presented in the following table:
- 73 -



Costs      Forest Plantation
S$/ha
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5      Year 6   Year 7-25
Land value    2,300.0
Establishme    626.0
nt costs
Fencing        286.0
aitenance       0.0        267.0      145.0       78.0       86.0        58.0       31.0
co sts__       _ _ _ _ ___            _ _ _ _ __                                   _ _ _ _ _
Total         3,212.0      267.0      145.0       78.0       86.0        58.0       31.0a
U S $/ha_     _  _  _    _ _ __       _ _  _   _ _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _ _   _  _
Maintenance costs decrease gradually to reach equilibrium at the 7th. year in US $31.0/ha/year.
The estimated annual average timber growth for the forest plantation is 12.5 m3/ha. The estimated annual
amount of carbon accumulated in trees and soil in the forest plantation is 5.5 ton/ha/year. It is estimated
that at the average time the native species reach maturity (25 years), the total amount of carbon sequestered
is 132 ton/ha.
Costa Rica
Establishment and maintenance costs for the forest plantation are presented in the following table.
Costs      Forest Plantation
US$Pha
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3     Year 4      Year 5     Year 6    Year 7-25
Land value    2,000.0                   _         _
Establishme    342.0
nt costs
Fencing        112.0
Maintenance    141.0       229.0       147.0      82.0       33.0        79.0       33.0
costs
Total         2,595.0      229.0       147.0      82.0       33.0        79.0       33.0
US$/ha                I_I                                            I
Maintenance costs decrease gradually to reach equilibrium at the 7th year in US$ 33.0/ha/year.
The estimated annual average timber growth for the reforestation area is 12.5 m3/ha. The estimated annual
amuunt of carbon accumulated in trees and soil in the forest plantation is 5.5 ton/ha/year. It is estimated
that at the average time the native species reach maturity (25 years), the total amount of carbon sequestered
is 132 ton/ha.
Nicaragua
Establishment and maintenance costs of the forest plantation are presented in the following table:
- 74 -



Costs      Forest Plantation
US$/ha
Year 1      Year 2     Year 3    Year 4     Year 5     Year 6    Year 7-25
Land value     275.0
Establishme    147.0
nt costs
Fencing        85.0
Maintenance    42.0        78.0       42.0       26.0       10.0      31.0        10.0
costs
Total          549.0       78.0       42.0       26.0       10.0      31.0       10.08
Maintenance costs decrease gradually to reach equilibrium at the 7th year in US$ 10.0/ha/year.
The estimated annual average timber growth for the forest plantation is 12.5 m3/ha. The estimated annual
amount of carbon accumulated in trees and soil in the forest plantation is 5.5 ton/ha/year. It is estimated
that at the average time the native species reach maturity (25 years), the total amount of carbon sequestered
is 132 ton/ha.
Results of the cost-effectiveness analysis
The discounted costs of the indicator are used to calculate the cost per ton of carbon sequestered by the
altemative. A time horizon of 25 years is used, which corresponds to the estimated average time to reach
maturity of the native species. For Colombia and Costa Rica, the results indicate that the cost per ton of
carbon accumulated by the altemative is between four and five times (under all considered discount rates)
the price the project would pay per ton of carbon sequestered of the land price is included, and sligihtly
above the costs of carbon sequestered through silvopastoral systems, if the land price is not included. . In
the case of Nicaragua, only under discount rates below 12 percent the alternative is more expensive for
generating the service. The difference in the cost per ton of carbon among the countries resides in the cost
of land and in the cost of labor. In Nicaragua, both costs are significantly lower than in the other two
countries. This explains why that country shows the lowest cost per ton of carbon accumulated by the
altemative. In the case that the land price is not included, the natural regeneration is more favorable in
Nicaragua. However, in any case the social benefits of silvopastoral systems are significant higher than the
ones of a forest regeneration, which is very important for Nicaragua. ).
Discount rate        Colombia             Costa Rica            Nicaragua
Cost ton of C (US$)   Cost ton of C (US$)  Cost ton of C (US$)
8                 27.05                23.32                 5.53
9                 26.62                22.85                 5.40
10                26.24                22.43                  5.27
11                25.88                22.03                  5.16
12                25.54                21.65                  5.06
13                25.21                21.32                  4.96
14               24.89                 20.98                 4.87
- 75-



Key cost effectiveness parameters of alternative investment: the case of reconverting degraded
pastures into reforested area with native species (US$1 ha).
Item                                 Colombia             Costa Rica              Nicaragua
Year 1                Year 1                 Year 1
Land value                             2,300                 2,000                   275.0
Establishment costs                    489.6                 320.0                   205.0
Total                                 2,789.6                2,320                   480.0
Cost ton of Carbon ,'including value of land)
Item                                 Colombia              Costa Rica              Nicaragua
Cost ton of Carbor, in Reforested       26.2                  22.9                    5.14
area (discount rate =- 12)
Cost ton of carbon ini silvopastoral     5                     5                       5
system (Payment fov Environmental
Services)
Cost ton of Carbon (excluding value of land)
Item                                -Colombia              Costa Rica              Nicaragua
Cost ton of Carbon it Reforested        8.5                    5.4                    3.2
area (discount rate = 12)                         .
Cost ton of carbon ii! silvopastoral     5                     5                       5
system (Payment fol IEnvironmental
Services)
7 This includes the basic investment package of "green" investments only, and assumes modest increases in
productivity. Beneficiaries likely to make more investments, including the purchase of additional stock and farm
equipment to capture l.igher level of profits.
- 76 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Project Components by Year - Investment /Recurrent Costs
(US $000)
2002       2003       2004      2005       2006          Total
Total Investment   1,612.50   1,422.80   1,472.60  1,434.90   1,494.40       7,437.20
Costs__                                       _ _
Total Recurrent     218.30    203.50     205.20     201.20     198.20        1,026.40
lc osts           I_I_I                    _     I_I_I
Total Project Costs  1,830.80  1,626.30  1,677.70  1,636.10   1,692.60       8,463.60
Financing Available
(US $000)
Year        GEF      NITLAPAN      CIPAV       LEAD     BENEVICIA     TOTAL
RIES
2002       1,045.60     40.00       40.,00     65.00       600.00     1,790.80
2003       840.60       40.20       40.20       65.00      600.00     1,586.00
2004       866.60       40.40       40-40      90.00       600.00     1,637.40
2005       874.60       40.60       40.60      40.00       600.00     1,595.60
2006       880.60       40.60       40,60       90.00      600.00     1,652.00
TOTAL         4,507.90     201.90      201.90      350.00     3,000.00    8,261.70
- 77 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Procurement
All procurement would be done in accordance with the Bank' guidelines on procurement of goods, and
using standard contract documents acceptable to the Bank (Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999 and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999) and the provisions
stipulated in the Grant Agreement.
Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
The GEF executing agency would be CATIE. However, CIPAV and NITAPLAN would carry out
procurement activities within their respective national components under CATIE's supervision. A
procuretrent capacity assessment was conducted by the Project Team's Procurement Specialist and
was cleared by the RPA on November 1, 2001. The "Overall Procurement Risk" was assessed as
"LOW'.    CATIE's administrative and financial system  and practices, including procurement
procedures, internal controls, record keeping and file management are sound and consistent with Bank
standards applicable to the procurement activities anticipated. Identical administrative and reporting
arrangements were agreed upon for each NGO vis-a-vis CATIE. These arrangements are deemed
adequate to meet Bank fiduciary requirements. CATIE would sign agreements acceptable to the Bank
with both NGOs to define the scope and objectives of their respective components, roles and
responsibilities, and the flow of funds. The following arrangements were agreed upon with the three
executing agencies for project implementation and supervision and will be finalized by project
effectiveress:
* CAT'IE would designated a full-time administrator for the project who would be responsible for all
procurement activities within the Costa Rican Component and for exercising close supervision and
quality control of the activities carried out in Nicaragua and Colombia, respectively.
*  The administrator would develop an acceptable format for shopping and a standard contract for
individual consulting services which would be included in the implementation manual and would be
used consistently in all three components.
* CIPAV and NITAPLAN would each designate a staff who would be responsible for managing
procurement processes, maintaining separate files, and serving as the administrator's main counterpart.
* The administrator would be responsible for training his counterparts on applicable policies and
procedures and would visit them periodically to review procurement and contract administration
processes and provide technical assistance, as needed. Counterpart staff would travel to CATlE's
offices for an initial period of on-the-job training in CATIE to facilitate team building and ensure
consistency in the approaches followed in each component throughout the project.
Procurement of Technical Services
The proposed project would finance several small contracts for various technical services such as
laboratory analysis, GIS-related services, field data collection and measurements costing US$40,000 in
aggregate. These contracts would be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
- 78-



basis of quotations obtained from a minimum of three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation.
Procurement of Goods
The project would finance the purchase of vehicles, laboratory equipment, GPS equipment, computers,
software, and miscellaneous field equipment estimated to cost a total amount of US$300,000
equivalent. All such packages are estimated to cost less than US$50,000 and would be procured
following shopping procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Consultant Services
Direct Contracting with ABC
The project would finance a contract with the firm ABC for the total amount of US$201,000 to provide
regional technical assistance for the biodiversity component and to develop a common, consistent
methodology for monitoring and certification of birds in the three countries. ABC would be selected on
a sole source basis because of the uniqueness of its qualifications and experience for the project. This
uniqueness is justified by ABC's focus on monitoring of birds as indicator species for protection and
restoration of habitat in the Americas which is the principal biodiversity measure for the project. In
addition, Project implementation activities require an extensive country-by-country database which was
developed by and is proprietary to ABC, and includes the institutional analysis of local potential
partners, most of whom participate in large NGO networks led by ABC or of which ABC is an active
member.
Consulting Firms
Audit services would be procured following Least Cost Selection procedures, in accordance with
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. No additional contracts with consulting firmns are
anticipated. However, such contracts, if any, would be procured following QCBS procedures in
accordance with Section II of the Consultant Guidelines.
Individual Consultants
The three executing entities have substantial technical experience in the areas addressed by the Project.
In some cases, they even developed methodologies which are unique in their application to silvopastoral
ecosystem management. As an example, CIPAV developed and successfully tested an innovative
technique for monitoring water quality based on "macroinvertebrates indicators" which is specifically
designed for these projects and is not used by other organizations. Each entity has a cadre of in-house
experts who have experience in managing multidisciplinary teams. However, permanent staff is
insufficient to carry out all planned scientific and policy tasks with exclusive dedication to the Project.
Consequently, the Project would finance the services of qualified professionals in the various relevant
disciplines, who would provide specialized advisory services and perform specific tasks required to
complement the work carried out by in-house teams. It was determined that outsourcing complete
activities (i.e. assignments involving multidisciplinary expertise, coordination, adrministration, and
collective responsibilities) to private firms or NGOs would not be efficient and may complicate
coordination and responsibilities because the approaches tested by each executing entity are important
aspects of project design.
- 79 -



Operating costs
Operating Costs would include expenditures incurred for incremental recurrent costs associated with
the implementation of the project, such as: (i) operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel and
spare parts; (ii) equipment and computer maintenance; (iii) office supplies; (iv) rent for office facilities;
(v) utilities; and (vi) travel and per diem costs for technical staff carrying out training, supervisory and
quality control activities.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB          Other'       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Goods                           0.00           0.00          300          0.00        300
(0.00)         (0.00)       (300.0)       (0.00)     (300.0)
2. Technical Services              0.00           0.00          0.55        0.145        200
(0.00)         (0.00)        (55.0)      (0.00)      (55.0)
3. Consulting Services             0.00           0.00          1,985        210        2,195
(including audits)                (0.00)          (0.00)       (1,985)      (0.00)     (1,985)
5. Training                        0.00           0.00          205          0.00        205
(0.00)         (0.00)        (205)        (0.00)     (205)
6. Ecoservices Payments            0.00           0.00          1,400        360        1,400
(0.00)         (0.00)       (1,040)       (0.00)     (1,040)
7. On-Farm Invesments              0.00           0.00          0.00        3,000       3,000
8. Operating Costs                 0.00           0.00          800           85         800
(0.00)         (0.00)        (715)        (0.00)     (715)
9. Unallocated                     0.00           0.00          0.00         150         350
._________________ L  (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (200)
Total                                                                                8,450
(4,500)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Other (Specify). All costs include
contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 80 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost'
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.21    0.00     0.23
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.21)  (0.00)  (0.21)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.77    0.18     1.95
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.77)  (0.00)   (1.77)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    1.98    0.18     2.18
I (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.98)  (0.00)   (1.98)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Other (Specify).
- 81 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods                        < 50                  Shopping              First contract
3. ServicesTechnical             AD              Lump sum fixed price       First contract
contracts
4. Consulting Services          201                  Sole source                Yes
ABC (NGO)
5. Other firms (if any)         > 50                   QCBS                     All
> 50                   QCBS                    None
6. Individuals                  > 50            Chapter V of Consultant         All
Guidelines
< 50            Chapter V of Consultant  TORs and Terms of
Guidelines             employment
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procuremnent supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement supervision would be performed by a Procurement Specialist (PS) or Procurement accredited
Staff (PAS) and would include a review of: (i) the PCUs capacity; (ii) the procurement plan for the project,
including a timetable for procurement actions anticipated during the next 12 months; (iii) the PCU's
monitoring system; and (iv) complete records for one in every twenty contracts (for goods, technical and
consulting services, respectively). In addition the PS or PAS would perform selected physical inspections of
the goods received, and meet with selected suppliers, whenever possible.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 82 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Implementing Entities
The Centro Agron6mico Tropical de Investigaci6n y Ensenianza (CATIE) in Costa Rica would be the lead
implementing entity. The co-executors are: Nitlapan-UCA in Nicaragua and the Centro para la
Investigaci6n en Sistemas Sostenibles de Producci6n Agropecuario (CIPAV) in Cali, Colombia. The three
are non-profit, non-governmental institutions.
All three entities have organizational arrangements that would allow them to properly implement and
control project activities. Their organizational charts clearly separate the technical/operational functions
from the departments of administration and finance.
Staffing
CATIE's Department of Administration and Finance would be the direct responsible for carrying out
financial management activities with respect to the project. Despite lacking specific involvement with
Bank-related projects, the Department possesses ample experience in managing funds granted by
international agencies, in addition to its own core accounts.
Key financial management staff are: the Director of Administration and Finance, the Controller, the
General Accountant, the Agreements Officer, and the Budget Officer.
In the case of Nitlapan, the Director of Administration and Finance, the Chief Accountant and the two
Accounting Assistants would be CATIE's counterparts in terms of financial management. In a similar
fashion, CIPAV's Administrative Assistant and Accounting Consultant would perforrn project financial
management activities in Cali, under the supervision of CATIE.
Funds Flow
Procedures for the project's flow of funds would be implemented with due regard to safeguarding project's
resources and ensuring timely execution of payments.
Grant funds would be disbursed to a Special Account in US$ to be opened and maintained by CATIE in a
Costa Rican commercial bank. Once per month, and based on substantiated fund requirements, transfers
would be made to:
§      CATIE's operational account for: (i) payments to providers of goods and services; and (ii)
payments to FONAFIFO for environmental services.
§      Nitlapan-UCA's operational account for: (i) payments to providers of goods and services; and (ii)
payments to farmers for environmental services.
§      CIPAV's operational account for: (i) payments to providers of goods and services; and (ii).
payments to farmers for environmental services.
- 83-



Providers
CATIE           01 in CR
lo Operational
Account
Eco-services
payments to
FONAFIFO
CATIE                 Nitlapdn         0 Providers
M~~Ntlapaln             D   n NI
Specil           I' OperationalinN
AccountAcon
(U SD)                Account          , Eco-services
payments in NI
Providers
in CO
Operational
Account             Eco-services
l payments in CO
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the grant (under no circumstances
may fumds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures corresponding to the
counterparts). Operational bar.! accounts could be maintained in US dollars and/or local currency, as long
as all payments are recorded in the CCB (defined below). Transfers from the Special Account to other bank
accounts would only be permitied to meet eligible expenditures expected to be incurred during the thirty
consecutive calendar days imroediately after each said transfer.
CATIE's established procedures for control of advances would apply to Nitlapan and CIPAV. With this
purpose, CATIE's software for bank accounts control ("CCB") has been installed in Nicaragua and
Colombia. Monthly documentation of expenditures would be made electronically through CCB; failure to
submit the CCB would prevent further transfers. Additionally, hard copies of supporting documents would
be submitted to CATIE for review against the CCB.
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the grant (under no circumstances
may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures corresponding to the
counterparts). Operational bank accounts could be maintained in US dollars and/or local currency, as long
as all payments are recorded in the CCB (defined below). Transfers from the Special Account to other bank
accounts would only be permitted to meet eligible expenditures.
CATIE's established procedures for control of advances would apply to Nitlapan and CIPAV. With this
purpose, CATIE's software for bank accounts control ("CCB") has been installed in Nicaragua and
Colombia. Monthly documentation of expenditures would be made electronically through CCB; failure to
submit the CCB would prevent further transfers. Additionally, hard copies of supporting documents would
be submitted to CATIE for review against the CCB.
Payments for environmental services Each participating farmer in the selected watersheds would enter into
a service-type contract w 'th the relevant institution in country. The contract would specify the conditions
by which the ecosystem services provided by the landowner would be certified and payments for these
services made on an annual basis. Each payment would be based on the environmental services rendered in
the past year as measured by a land use index. Details on the composition of the index are provided in
- 84 -



Annex 13. Detailed description of each land use type, acceptable to the Bank would be part of the
Operations Manual. In Costa Rica, annual payments would be channeled through FONAFIFO, the
National Forestry Financing Fund, that is already paying the environmental services for the Ecomarkets
Project, and has a very good track record. In Nicaragua and Colombia, Nitlapan-UCA and CIPAV would
pay directly for the eco-services. Individual contracts with farmers will not extend beyond the grant's
closing date.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Administrative procedures would be in place to ensure that financial transactions are made with
consideration to safeguarding project assets and ensuring proper entry in the accounting/monitoring
systems. The project accounting system would have the capacity to record assets, liabilities and financial
transactions of the project, and produce financial statements useful to project management and meeting
Bank's fiduciary requirements.
Segregation of duties. Each executing entity would channel financial transactions through the established
organizational structure and procedures, which support an adequate segregation of budgeting, procurement,
payment and recording activities. As mentioned before, CATIE would supervise use of funds by Nitlapan
and CIPAV.
Budgeting. CATIE's budgets derive from the Annual Operational Plan and the Institutional Development
Plan. Separate budgets for international agreements and core activities are prepared in accordance with
well-established procedures and a detailed schedule. The process begins around May and concludes with
the Board of Directors' approval by October.
The Budget Programs comprise information on general plans and budgets, which are further segregated by
cost center (e.g., each international Agreement), and specific types of expenditure/income. Figures are
entered in the Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Financiera (SIIP) for subsequent monthly monitoring.
For the GEF grant, the legal agreement and cost tables would provide the basic framework for project
budgeting. Nitlapan and CIPAV would provide inputs to CATIE for the annual budget preparation.
Payments and operation of bank accounts. Before payments for acquisition of goods and services can be
made, a purchase order or contract must exist. After the vouchers received are matched with the purchase
order and evidence of receipt of goods or services, the payments are processed. Only certain Directors have
authorized signatories in bank accounts.
All payments must be entered in the accounting system and bank account reconciliations are timely
prepared. The bank reconciliations for the project accounts in Nicaragua and Colombia would be submitted
to CATIE in addition to the CCB data.
Accounting. Accounting and budgetary records would be maintained in accordance with CATIE's
procedures and integrated financial information system (SIEF), which allows for separate accounting
controls on externally-funded projects. SHF permits tracking of lines of expenditure, cost centers and
activities.
For the project, a separate cost centers would be maintained in accordance with the project countries and
components.
Both Nitlapan and CIPAV have accounting systems that can track separately expenditures for different
cost centers. Accordingly, the project's accounts would be assigned unique cost centers en each of the two
institutions for their internal monitoring purposes. However, CATIE would maintain the "official" project
accounts: through the CCB system explained previously, all financial transactions for the grant would be
automatically consolidated on a monthly basis by CATIE; additionally, Nitlapan and CIPAV would submit
information to CATIE on counterpart-financed payments.
- 85-



Original supporting documentation would be filed by CATIE until at least one year after the Bank receives
the audit report covering the last disbursement to the project.
Policies and procedures. A comprehensive list of rules, norms and manuals has been prepared by CATIE.
Among them: Financial Management, Accounting, Human Resources, Grants, Consulting Services,
Procurement, Internal Audit, etc. Nitlapan, and to a lesser extent CIPAV, also has a set of written
procedures, particularly in administrative and accounting matters.
Specific aspects of the grant's financial management coordination procedures between CATIE and the two
co-executors would be documented in a concise financial management section of the Operational Manual.
Safeguard over assets. Assets acquired by the project would be in the custody of the respective
implementing entity. CATIE would maintain a record of said assets properly reconciled with the respective
accounting balances. Physical inventories would be performed at least annually by the three entities, but
CATIE can perform independent physical inventories in Managua and Cali.
2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit
As is the case with current projects managed by CATIE, the grant's execution would be subject ;.o review
by CATIE's lnIternal Audit Department, including activities in Nicaragua and Colombia.
The Internal Audit Department reports directly to CATIE's Board of Directors. Its activities are guided by
Annual Work Programs that are monitored regularly. CATIE's operational units are required to provide
feedback on e fch Internal Audit report and actions agreed are subsequently followed-up. An annual
summary rep 'rt of internal audit activities is submitted to the Board for approval.
External Autlit
Audit compliance. No audit compliance issues relevant to the proposed project have been identified.
CATIE is a nan-governmental entity that is audited annually by qualified independent firms.
Audit arrangements. Annual project financial statements would be audited in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference
(TORs) both acceptable to the Bank The audit opinions would cover the project financial statenients, the
Special Acco:nt Statement and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) submitted during the year in support of
grant withdra;wval applications.
A memorandum on internal controls ("management letter") specific to the project would be part of the
annual audit report. CATIE would prepare, if needed, an action plan to address any issues and
recommendations contained in the audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities would be
communicated to the Bank.
- 86-



The table below summarizes audit requirements:
Audit Report                                Due Date
Project financial statements  6 months after the end of the reporting period (coincides with CY)
SOE                        same as above
Special Account            same as above
Reporting and Monitoring
CATIE prepares a monthly set of financial statements that include comprehensive data by funds, cost
centers, activities, etc. For Bank monitoring purposes, the following financial monitoring reports (FMRs)
would be prepared:
Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, in which expenditures would be shown by CATIE's lines of
expenditure ("rubros").
Uses of Funds by country and subcomponent, including a comparison with budgeted figures.
Physical/financial progress and procurement report.
Each FMR would cover six months and would be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the end
of the reporting semester. FMRs would not be used for disbursement purposes.
The annual financial statements would include the statement of sources and uses of funds mentioned above,
plus the Special Account Statement and the Summary of SOEs submitted in support of withdrawal
applications during the year. The figures among the three statements should be consistent; any difference
must be properly reconciliated and explained.
Information Systems
CATIE's SIIF is an integrated financial management software adequate for keeping the project's
budgeting, treasury and accounting records, among other modules. The original software was developed by
Price Waterhouse and financed by USAID. Maintenance and upgrades have been performed by CATIE's
Department of Information Technology.
Strengths and Weaknesses
In general, the three implementing entities have sound financial management systems to undertake their
operations. Although these systems are suitable for project implementation, some specific steps still need to
be taken before the project becomes effective. The Action Plan (below) addresses these issues.
- 87 -



Financial Management Action Plan
Action                 Responsible Entity          Completion Date
1. Operate CCB system in    CATIE/Nitlapan/CIPAV       Effectiveness
Nicaragua and Colombia
2. Prepare concise financial  CATIE                     Effectiveness
management section of the
operational manual
3. Prepare the project's cost  CATIE                    Effectiveness
center chart of accounts and
enter it in SIIF
4. Agree on the fonnat for the  CATIE/WB                Negotiations
project's FMRs
5. Prepare financing plan for  CATlIE/Nitlapdn/CIPAV   Before negotiations (*)/
counterpart resources                                  Before commencement of each
implementation year
6. Submit audit TORs and    CATIE                       Completed
audit firm selection (or short
list) for approval
(*) Activities I thru 5 would be included in the Operation Manual which would be a condition of effectiveness.
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01 "Standard" wording. The annual audit reports would be furnished to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of each financial year.
Section 4.02 The FMRs would cover six-month periods, the first one would be due 45 days after the end of
the semester in which effectiveness occurs.
Supervision Plan
A financial management specialist must review the annual audit reports and should perform one
supervision mission per year.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The proposed grant would be disbursed over an implementation period of about five years; the loan closing
date would be July 31, 2007. Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the World
Bank's Disbursement Handbook (i.e., "transaction-based" disbursement procedures).
- 88 -



Allocation of other (specify) proceeds (Table C)
Expenditure Category                Amount in US$        Financing
Percentage
1. EcoServices Payments                                     100
l.a Costa Rica                          240,000
l.b Colombia                            400,000
l.c Nicaragua                           400,000
2. Goods                                                    100
2.a Costa Rica                           83,000
2.b Colombia                            45,000
2.c Nicaragua                            83,000
3. Technical Services                                       100
3.a Costa Rica                           27,000
3.b Colombia                             34,000
3.c Nicaragua                           427,000
4. Consultants                                              100
4.a Costa Rica                     1_138000
4.b Colombia                            425,000
4.c Nicaragua                           377,000
5. Training                                                 100
5.a Costa Rica                           97,000
5.b Colombia                            111,000
5.c Nicaragua                            50,000
6.Operating Costs m   b                                     100
6.a Costan tica                         426,000
6.b Colombia                            170,000
6.c Nicaragua                           146,000
7. Audits                                15,000             100
8. Unallocated                          200,000             N/A
Total Project Costs                    4,500,000
The taxes related to the cited expenditures may be fdanced by the grant as long as the entities maintain
their legal not-for-profit status.
Operating costs must be incremental and could include office supplies, utilities, salaries, rent and
maintenance of facilities, vehicles andtor equipment, and other small expenditures. Supporting records hay
include wage and salary records/timnesheets, purchase orders, suppliers' invoices and statements, evidence
of payment, and the basis for any cost allocations.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, CATIE would establish, maintain and operate a
Special Account to be opened in US Dollars in a commercial banlc
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the grant (under no circumstances
may funds in thie Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures corresponding to the
counterparts). Operational bank accounts could be maintained in US dollars and/or local currency, as long
as all payments are recorded in the CCB (defined below). Transfers from the Special Account to other bank
accounts would only be permitted to meet eligible expenditures expected to be incurred during the thirty
- 89 -



consecutive calendar days immediately after each said transfer.
Total advances to the Special Account at any given time would not exceed the "authorized allocation" of
$300,000.
For replenishment of the advance, CATIE would prepare monthly (in any case, no more than quarterly)
requests for reimbursement of expenditures made. CATIE's Department of Administration and Finance
would be in charge of compiling the data by disbursement category for the applications.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Grant withdrawal applications can be supported by SOEs for
expenditures relating to contracts that are not subject to the Bank's prior review (see Table B above).
Reimbursement of other expenditures would require submittal to the Bank of full supporting
documentation.
Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by CATIE, Nitlap6n and CIPAV at least until one year
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last grant withdrawal was made.
Such documents must be available to review by the external auditors and Bank staff.
Other procedures. Upon request from CATIE and subject to the Bank's approval, payments may be
made: (i) directly to a third party (supplier or consultant) for goods, works, and services; (ii) to a
procurement agent; or (iii) to a commercial bank for expenditures against a World Bank Special
Conmmitment covering a commercial bank's letter of credit.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Special account:
- 90 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      13                           15
First Bank mission (identification)             04/01/2000                   05/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     12/02/2001                   12/03/2001
Negotiations                                    02/05/2002                   02/11/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/01/2002
Prepared by:
Paola Agostini and Cornelis de Haan
Preparation assistance:
Reynaldo F. Pastor, Theresa Bradley, Monica Rojas de Arnez, Enzo de Laurentiis, Jeannette Ramirez,
Andrea Semaan,
Muhammad Ibrahim (CATIE), Pedro Sanchez (GEF STAP Reviewer).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Paola Agostini                    Environmental economist
Cornelis de Haan                  Livestock specialist
Theresa Bradley                   Economist
Reynaldo F. Pastor                 Sr. Legal Counsel
Juan Carlos Alvarez               Legal
Gonzalo Castro                    Biodiversity
Norman Piccioni                   Agricultural Economist/Peer reviewer
Monica Rojas de Arnez             Disbursements
Enzo de Laurentiis                Procurement
Teresa Roncal                     Procurement
Jeannette Ramirez                 Operations Analyst
Andrea Semaan                     Program Assistant
Diana Rebolledo                   Procurement
Manuel Vargas                     Financial Management
Juan Pablo Ruiz                   Natural Resources
Kenneth Chomitz                   EconomistlPeer reviewer
- 91 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LATIN AMERICA. Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   General Procurement Plan
*   Detailed first year Procurement Plan
*   Format for Financial Management Reports
*   Audit Terms of Reference
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Ken Chomitz - Comments as Peer Reviewer - 2001 - Regional Silvo-Pastoral GEF
*   Enzo de Laurentiis - Procurement Capacity Assessment - 2001 - Regional Silvo-Pastoral GEF
*   Norman Piccioni - Comments as Peer Reviewer - 2001 - Regional Silvo-Pastoral GEF
*   Manuel Vargas - Financial Management Capacity Assessment - 2001 Regional Silvo-Pastoral GEF
C. Other
Botero Javier 2001: Menu Technico- Regional Silvopastoral GEF- CATIE, Costa Rica.
Chipley Robert 2001: Monitoring Biodiversity - Regional Silvopastoral GEF- ABC, Washington DC.
CATlE -2001 Socio Economic Survey - Regional Silvopastoral GEF- CATIE, Costa Rica.
CATEE 2001 Subsidiary Agreement with CIPAV and NITLAPAN-UCA for Block B Funds - Regional
Silvopastoral GEF, Costa Rica.
CATIE 2001 Review of Environmental Legislation in Colombia, Nicaragua and Costa Rica
Dumazert Patrick 2001: Social Assessment - Regional Silvopastoral GEF- CATIE, Costa Rica.
GEF 2001 - Approval Memo of the Project - Regional Silvopastoral GEF.
Gobbi Jose 2001: Financial and Cost Effectiveness Analysis Regional Silvopastoral GEF- CATIE, Costa
Rica.
Ibrahim Muhammad 2001: Monitoring Carbon - Regional Silvopastoral GEF- CATIE, Costa Rica.
LEAD-FAO 2001 - Electronic Conference on Environmental Services Provided by Silvopastoral Systems-
Rome.
Murgueitio Enrique 2001: Monitoring Water Quality - Regional Silvopastoral GEF- CIPAV, Colombia.
World Bank - 2001 Complementarities among GEF Projects in the Colombia-Andes and Map. Washington
DC.
World Bank - 2001 Minutes of Brainstorming PCD Meeting -- Regional Silvopastoral GEE
- 92 -



World Bank - 2001 Minutes of PCD Meeting - - Regional Silvopastoral GEF
World Bank - 2001 Aid-Memoire Pre-appraisal Mission- - Regional Silvopastoral GEF
World Bank - 2001 Block B Document and Legal Agreement -- Regional Silvopastoral GEF
World Bank- 2001 - Cost Tab -- Regional Silvopastoral GEF
World Bank - 2001 - Minutes of Decision Meeting - Regional Silvopastoral GEF
World Bank - 2002 - Appraisal Aide Memoire - Regional Silvopastoral GEF
World Bank - 2002 Minutes of Negotiation - Regional Silvopastoral GEF
Literature:
Avellaneda Mario 1989. Estudio preliminar del impacto de la colonizaci6n sobre los sistemas de la Reserva
Nacional La Macarena y determinaci6n del estado actual del sistema natural en las areas perturbadas. En:
La Macarena. Reserva Biol6gica de la Humanidad. Universidad Nacional de Colombia. Centro Editorial.
BogotA, Colombia pp 28-113.
Beinroth, F. H.; Vasquez, M. A.; Snyder, V. A.; Reich, P.F. and Perez, L. R. 1996. Factors controllings
carbon sequestration in tropical soils. A case study of Puerto Rico. University of Puerto Rico. Mayaguez
Campus.32 pp.
Boscolo, M. and Buongiomo, J. 1997. Managing a tropical rainforest for timber, carbon storage and tree
diversity. Commonwealth Forestry Review 76(4):246-254.
Bouman, B.A.; A. Nieuwenhuyse and M. Ibrahim. Pasture degradation and its restoration by legumes in
humid tropical Costa Rica. Wageningen Agricultural University, REPOSA; DLO-Research Center or
Agrobiology and Soil fertility; and The Tropical Agriculture Research and Graduate Education Center
(CATIE). Costa Rica.
Bouman, Bas; Hans Jansen; Rob Schipper; Andre Nieuwenhuyse; Huib Hengsdjik and Johan Bouman. A,
methodology for integrated biophysical and economic land use analysis at different scales. Wageningen
Agricultural University, REPOSA and DLO-Research Center or Agrobiology and Soil fertility. July, 1998.
The Netherlands.
Browder, J.O. (1988) The social costs of rain forest destruction. A critique and economic analysis of the
"hamburger debate". Interciencia 13: 115-120.
Brown, S., Sathaye, J., Cannel, M. and Kauppi, P. E. 1996. Mitigation of cabon emissions to the
atmosphere by forest management. Commonwealth Forestry Review 75(1): 80-91.
Brown, S., Sathaye, J., Cannell, M.G.R. and Kauppi, P. 1996. Management of forests for mitigation of
greenhouse gas emissions. In: Climate Change 1995, Impacts Adapatations and Mitigations of Climate
Change: Scientific Technical Analyses. IPCC 1995 Assessment. Chapter 24. Working group II. Pp.
773-797.
- 93-



Campillo (1987) La estructura de la tenencia de la tierra y la pobreza rural en America Latina. pp
348-358. EN: Seminario Internacional De Economia Campesina Y Pobreza Rural. Ministerio de
Agricultura de Colombia, Fondo de Desarrollo Rural Integrado. (Compilador: J Bustamante). Bogota.
Campos, J.J. and Ortiz, R. 1999. Capacidad y riesgos de actividades forestales en el almacenamiento de
carbono y conservaci6n de biodiversidad en fincas privadas del area central de Costa Rica. In: Actas IV
Semana Cientifica del CATIE. CATIE, Turrialba, Costa Rica. 6-9 de abril, 1999. Pp. 291-294.
Cardenas, G. 1998. Comparaci6n de la estructura y composici6n de la avifauna en agroecosistemas del
Valle del Cauca. Giovanny Cardenas, Tesis de Grado en Biologia, Universidad del Valle.
Chapman, H.d. and P.f. Pratt. 1961. Methods of analysis for soils plants and water. University of
California. Div. of Agricultural Sciences. p. 56-65.
Corrales, L. 1998. Estimaci6n de los beneficios ambientales por no emisi6n y fijaci6n de carbono (masa
aerea) por acciones de ordenamiento forestal en el Area Propuesta del Corredor Biol6gico Mesoamericano.
Resumen Regional. PROARCA-CAPAS. 31 p.
Corsetti G, Tommasoli M y Viezzoli M. 1987. Migrantes y colonos de la sierra en la selva tropical
colombiana. Comitato Intemazionale per lo Sviluppo dei Popoli. Bulzoni Editore. Italia. 320 p.
De Haan, C., H.Steinfeld and H. Blackburn. Livestock and the Environment, Finding the Balance.
Faeth, P., Cort, C. and Livemash R. 1994. Evaluating the carbon sequestration benefits of forestry projects
in developing countries. World Resources Institute. Washington D.C. 76 pp.
Fajardo, D., Mondrag6n, H. & 0. Moreno. 1997. Colonizaci6n Y Estrategias De Desarrollo. 169 p.1ICA,
Bogoti.
FAO (1988). Potentials for Agriculture and Rural Development in Latin America and the Caribbean, Anex
II: Rural poverty. Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Rome.
Feath, P., Cort, C., and Livemash, R. 1997. Evaluating the carbon sequestration benefits of forestry
projects in developing countries. World Resources Institute.
Fisher, M.J.; Rao. I.M.; Ayarza. M.A., Lascano. C.E. Sanz. J.I., Thomas. R.J.; and Vera.R.R 1994.
Carbon storaged by introduced deep-rooted grasses in the South American savannas. Nature Vol 371. 15
septiembre. P 236-238.
Galvez A, Jaramillo M F, Molina E J y Murgueitio E. 1995. Propuesta metodol6gica de evaluaci6n
intergral del manejo de potreros en zonas montafiosas de bosque de niebla. Sistemas pecuarios sostenibles
para las montafias tropicales. CIPAV, CENDI. Cali, Colombia. pp 51-75.
G6mez, L. J. 1993. Producci6n Pecuaria. Elementos Bioecol6gicos, Hist6ricos Y Econ6micos. Facultad de
Ciencias Humanas. Universidad Nacional sede Medellin, Colombia, 285 p.
Greenberg, R., P. Bichier & J. Sterling. 1997. Acacia, Cattle, and migratory birds in southeastern Mexico.
Biological Conservation 80:235-247.
- 94 -



Heath, J. & H. Binswanger. 1995. Natural resource degradation effects of poverty and population growth
are largely policy induced: the case of Colombia. Environment and Development Economics. Vol 1 No. 1.
Heikinheimo, P. and Kanninen.M. 1995. The Finnish Research Programme on Climate Change SILMU. In:
Zwerver, S., van Rompaey, R.S.A.R. , Kok, N.T.J. and Berk, M.M. (Eds.), Evaluation and Policy
Implications. (Studies in Environmental Science 65B). Elsevier Science, B.V. Pp 1419-1422.
Hernandez M., Argel P., Ibrahim MA and Mannetje LT. 1995. Pasture production, diet selection and
liveweight gains of cattle grazing Brachiaria brizantha with or without Arachis pintoi at two different
stocking rates in the Atlantic Zone of Costa Rica. Tropical Grasslands (Australia) 29, 134 -41
Ibrahim M. and Schlonvoigt A. 1999 Silvopastoral Systems for degraded lands in the humid tropics.
Enviromentally Friendly Silvopastoral Altenatives for optimising productivity of livesock frarms:
CATIE'S Experience. Actas de la IV Semana Cientifica.
Ibrahim, M. et. al. 2000. Agroforesteria y Sistemas de Producci6n Animal en America Central. En:
Pomareda C. y Henning Steinfeld. Intensificaci6n de la Ganaderia en Centroamerica: Beneficios
Econ6micos y Ambientales. CATIE - FAO - SIDE. San Jose, Costa Rica.
Kaimowitz, D. (1996) Livestock and Deforestation. Central America in the 1980s and 1990s: A Policy
Perspective. CIFOR Special Publication. Center for International Forestry Research, Bangor, Indonesia.
Mohren, G.M.J. and C.G.M. Klein Goldewijk. 1990. C02 storage in forests. Rapport nr. 613, Research
Institute for Forestry and Urban Ecology, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
Morthorst, P. E. 1993. The cost fo C02 reduction in Denmark, methodology and results. Riso National
Laboratory. Report UNEP Greenhouse Gas. 55pp.
Murgueitio, E and Rosales, M. 1998. Ten years of participatory research to solve the environmental and
social crisis of livestock production in the tropics. In: Livestock and the Environment. Proceedings of the
Intemational conference "Livestock and the Environment". The Netherlands, 16 - 20 June 1997. Food and
Agriculture Organization - FAO, Intemational Agricultural Centre - IAC and the World Bank. pp. 279 -
280.
Murgueitio, E. & Z. Calle. 1998. Diversidad biol6gica en sistemas de ganaderia bovina en Colombia. En:
Conferencia electr6nica de la FAO sobre Agroforesteria para la producci6n animal en Latinoamerica.
Murgueitio-R., E. 1998. Reconversion Ambiental Y Social De La Ganaderia Bovina En Colombia. In:
Consulta de Expertos en Politicas de Producci6n Animal y Manejo de Recursos Naturales. FAO, IDRC y
Ministerio de Agricultura de Brasil. Brasilia 18-20 mayo de 1998.
Murgueitio-R., E. 1999. Sistemas Agroforestales para la Producci6n Ganadera en Colombia. Seminario
Intensificaci6n de la ganaderia en Centroamerica, beneficios econ6micos y ambientales FAO- CATIE
-SIDE- Turrialba, Costa Rica mayo 24-26 1999.
Myers, N. (1981). The Sinking Ark. Pergamon Press, Oxford, UEK.
Nabuurs, G.J. and G.M.J. Mohren. 1993. Carbon fixation through forestation activities: A study of the
carbon sequestering potential of selected forest types Commisioned by the foundation Face. Institute for
Forestry and Nature Research, The Netherlands. 205 p.
- 95 -



Naranjo, L. G. 1992. Estructura de la avifauna en un area ganadera en el Valle del Cauca, Colombia.
Caldasia 17:55-66.
Nepstad, D.; Carvalho, C.R. Davidson, E.A.; Jipp, P.H.; Lefebvre. P.A.; Negreiros, G.H; Silva, E.D.;
Stone, T.A.; Trumbore. S.E. ; Vieira. S. 1994.The role of deep roots in the hydrological and carbon cycles
of Amazonian forest and pastures. Nature. Vol. 373. December 15. P 667-669.
Paredes, F. 2000. Desarrollo de Actividades Turisticas en Haciendas Ganaderas. (ch 6) en Pomareda y H.
Steinfeld Opocit.
Pomareda B., Carlos.y Javier Botero.Generaci6n de ingresos por la venta del servicio de secuestro de
carbono en fincas ganaderas de triple prop6sito. Servicios Internacionales para el Desanollo Empresarial
(SIDE S.A.). December, 1998. Costa Rica.
Pomareda, C. 1999. Carbon Sequestration in Pastures: Technical Economic and Management
Considerations. Paper prepared for the FAO/World Bank Initiative on Livestock and th., Environment.
Rome
Pomaieda, C. 1999. Prospects for carbon sequestration through pasture intensification: :tate of the art in
resear!;h and a proposal. Project proposal submitted to The World Bank and FAO, San *ose, Costa Rica.
30 pp.
PomF;eda, C. and H. Steinfeld. 2000. Intensificaci6n de la Ganaderia en Centroamrric:: Beneficios
Econcrmicos y Ambientales. CATIE/FAO/SIDE, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Prest-:n T R y Murgueitio E (1992) Strategy For Sustainable Livestock Production In T Ie Tropics.
CIPA 1, SAREC, Cali, Colombia, p. 89.
Rami ez, G. H. 1997. Evaluaci6n de dos sistemas silvopastoriles integrados por Cynodon Plectostachyus,
Leucaena leucocephala y Prosopis juliflora. In: Proceedings V Seminario-Taller Internaional Sistemas
Sostenibles de Producci6n Agropecuaria y Primer Seminario Internacional Palmas en Sistemas de
Producci6n Agroipecuaria para el Tr6pico. Cali, 31st July to 3rd of August 1997. Funda.;i6n CIPAV.
Rosales, M. and Gill, M. 1997. Tree mixtures within integrated farming systems. Livestock Research for
Rural Development, Volume 9, Number 4.
Saun.lers D A y Hobbs R J (1991) The role of corridors in conservation: what do we know and where do
we go? En: Saunders D A y Hobbs R J (eds) The role of corridors. Surrey Beaty & Sons.
Segura, O., Kaimowitz, D. and Rodriquez, J. (Eds.). 1997. Politicas Forestales en Centroam6rica: Analisis
de las restricciones para el desarrollo del sector forestal. Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in
Agriculture, Central American Commission of Forests and Protected Areas (CCAB/AP) and Agricultural
Frontier Program (PFA). San Salvador. 335 p.
Shuttleworth, W. .. and Nobre, C.A. 1992. Wise forest management and its linkages to c; :mate change. In:
Wise management of tropical forest 1992. Proceedings of the Oxford Conference on tropical forest 1992.
pp. 77-87.
Steinfeld, H.; Haan, C.; Blackburn, H. 1998. Livestock-enviroment interactions. Issues and options. Report
- 96 -



of a study sponsored by the Conmision of the European Communities, The World Bank and the
goverments of Demark, France, Germany, The Netherlands, United Kingdom and United States of
America. 55 pp.
Stotz, D. F., J. W. Fitzpatrick, T. A. Parker & D. K. Moskovits. 1996. Neotropical Birds, Ecology and
Conservation. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Unruh, J.; Houghton, R.; and Lefebvre, P. 1993. Carbon storage in agroforestry: an estimate for
sub-Saharan Africa. Climate Research 3: 39-52.
Veldkamp, E. 1994. Organic carbon turnover in three tropical soils under pasture after deforestation. Soil
science of America Journal 58: 175-180.
Veldkamp, E. Soil organic carbon dynamics in pastures established after deforestation in the humid tropics
of Costa Rica. Wageningen Agricultural University. June, 1993. The Netherlands.
Veldkamp, E., 1993. Soil organic carbon dynamics in pastures established after deforestation in the humid
tropics of Costa Rica. Tesis Ph.D., Universidad de Wageningen, NL
Woomer, P. L. and Palm, C. A. 1998. An approach to estimating system carbon stocks in tropical forest
and associated land uses. Commonwealth Forestry Review 77 (3): 181-190.
*Including electronic files
- 97 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Colombia
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USs Millions                              disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frn Rev d
P057692        2002 2nd Magdalena Medio Project (LIL)                  5.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       4.00      0.00       0.00
P057369        2002 CO Judicial Resolution Improvement Prd.            5.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       4.80     -0.20       0.00
P065937        2002 CO WATER SECTOR REF ASSISTANCE PROJECT            40.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      40.00      3.33       0.00
P041642        2002 CO PRODUCTIVE PARTNERSHIPS                        32.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      32.00      0.00       0.00
P073572        2002 CO Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan             400.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     240.00   -160.00       0.00
P040109        2001 CO PUBLIC FINANC. MANAGEMENT PROJECT 1            35.47      0.00                 0.00       0.00      34.75     -0.72       0.00
P063317        2001 GEF CO-HIGH ANDES                                  0.00       0.00                15.00       0.00      14.03      2.23       0.00
P069964        2001 CO- Human CapItal Prot.- Cash Trarsters           150.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     146.00     -4.00       0.00
P057326        2000 SIERRA NEVADA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT               5.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00       4.15     -0.65       0.00
P065263        2000 EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY                               225.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      44.96      17.46      0.00
P068762        2000 CO- COMMUNITY WORKS (MANOS A LA OBRA)             100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      91.93     38.93       0.00
P044140        2000 CARTAGENA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE                  85.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      68.75      34.93      0.00
P050578        2000 ENVIRO                                             20.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      18.54      6.77       0.00
P050576        1999 CO- RURAL EDUCATION                                5.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       2.17      2.17       0.00
P006891        1998 CO- YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                             40.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      22.35      18.00      4.23
P053243        1998 CO- ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                             5.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00       2.38       2.38      0.00
PC46112        1998 PEASANT ENTERPRISE ZONES (LIL)                     7.20       0.00                 0.00       0.00       3.27       3.02      0.64
P006861        1998 Co- PASTO EDUCATION                               75.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      57.32      37.82      0.00
P0(40102       1997 CO URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                            12.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00       4.10       4.10      0.00
PG06884        1997 REG.REF.TA                                         15.00      0.00                 0.00       5.50       2.71       8.21      0.00
Po06887        1996 FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT                     249.30      0.00                 0.00       0.00       0.94       0.94      0.94
PL06894        1996 POWER MARKET DEVELOPMENT & ENERGY (TA)            145.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      34.96      34.60      0.00
P039291        1996 SANTAFE I (Water/Supply)                           20.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00       1.34       1.34      0.51
P'06880        1995 URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA (TAL)                         36.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00       9.94       9.94     -8.16
AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO
Total:     1712.47       0.00               15.00        5.50      885.39     60.40       0.16
- 98 -



LATIN AMERICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1969/85/88/93/95   CF del Valle                  0.00   0.00     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2001               CHMC                          0.00   10.63    0.00   0.00     0.00   2.14     0.00    0.00
1974/01            Cementos Caribe              4.05    10.00   0.00    12.95   4.05   10.00     0.00   12.95
1963/90            Coltejer                     6.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.02    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/99            Corfinsura                   25.00    1.49  23.51    0.00    0.00    1.49    23.51   0.00
1987               PRODESAL                      0.00   0.59     0.00   0.00    0.00    0.59     0.00   0.00
1977/89/92/94/96   Promigas                      5.63   0.00    0.00    10.42   5.63    0.00    0.00   10.42
0/94/95            Promisan                      0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.20     0.00    0.00
1996               Proyectos                     0.00    5.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Surenting                    0.00    5.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50     0.00   0.00
2001               Tolcemento                    3.33    0.00    0.00   10.67    0.00   0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       44.03   33.01   23.51    34.04   15.70   21.92  .23.51   23.37
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001               CCGF                            0.00      0.00    19.00     0.00
2001               CHMC                          100.00     10.00    19.38      0.00
2002              Inversura                        0.00      0.00    15.00      0.00
2002               Proteccion                      0.00      0.00    10.00      0.00
2002               SIG                            25.00     50.00     0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      125.00    60.00     63.38     0.00
_ 99 -



Costa Rica
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                     disbursements'
Project ID   FY  Purpose                                 IBRD       IDA       SF      GEF    Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Revd
P073892      2002 CR-Health Sector Strengthening & Modemi    17.00    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    17.00     0.00     0.00
P061314      2000 GEF CR-ECOMARKETS                          0.00     0.00     0.00      8.00     0.00     7.11     2.95     0.00
P052009      2000 ECOMARKETS                                32.63     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    30.30     9.27     0.00
P039876      1998 BIODIVERSITY                               0.00     0.00     0.00      7.00     0.00     2.09     3.97     0.00
P006954      1994 CR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                  22.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     1.23     1.23      1.23
P006941      1993 WATER SUPPLY                              26.00     0.00     0.00      0.00    10.00     2.28    12.28     2.28
Total:     97.63     0.00      0.00  15.00      10.00     60.00    29.70     3.50
LATIN AMERICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                   lFC
FY Approval            Company                            Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001                   Aeropuerto IJS                     35.00     0.00      0.00     85.00    15.36      0.00      0.00    37.31
1998                   CIMA Costa                         0.00      1.20      0.00      0.00     0.00      1.20      0.00     0.00
1994                   HIDROZARCAS                         1.28     0.00      0.65      0.00     1.28      0.00      0.65     0.00
1993/01                INTERFIN                           15.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     7.02      0.00      0.00     0.00
1999                   Superunidos                       27.88      0.00     10.00     0.00     14.88      0.00     10.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:            79.16      1.20     10.65     85.00     38.54      1.20     10.65    37.31
Approvals Pending Comnnitment
FY Approval           Company                                Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Comnmitment:             0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
- 100-



Nicaragua
02-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements
Pojed ID      FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA       SF        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P055823       2001 SECOND RURAL MUNICIPAL DEV. PROJECT                0.00     28.70      0.00       0.00      0.00      22.40     -0.42       0.00
P064906       2001 Nl- Poverty Red.&Local Dev. FISE                   0.00     60.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      59.08     24.41       0.00
P064916       2001 Natural Disaster Vulnerability Reduction           0.00     13.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      12.29     -1.00       0.00
P068673        2001 Road Rehabilitation and Maintenanca III           0.00     75.00       0.00      0.00      0.00      70.70     -3.09       0.00
P070016        2001 CompetitIveness LIL                               0.00      5.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       4.47      0.26       0.00
P064915        2000 AG TECHN & RURAL EDU (APL)                        0.00     23.63       0.00      0.00      0.00      15.86      4.04       0.00
P056087        2000 Pension and Financial Market Reform TA            0.00      8.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       4.09     -2.39      -0.18
P055853        2000 NI -TELECOMMUNICATION REFORM                      0.00     15.90       0.00      0.00      0.00       3.50      1.69       0.00
P049298        2000 NI ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TAC                        0.00     20.90       0.00      0.00      0.00       9.81     -9.45       0.00
P050613        2000 Nl/SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT                 0.00     52.50      0.00       0.00      0.00      28.61    -21.12       0.00
P040197        1999 NI- FISE III                                      0.00     45.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       5.61      7.30       0.00
P052080        1999 FORESTRY                                          0.00      9.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       3.36      2.43       0.00
P053705        1998 TRANSPORT II                                      0.00     47.40       0.00      0.00       0.00      8.23      2.93       0.00
P035753        1998 NVHEALTH SECT II                                  0.00     24.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      9.64      4.50       0.00
P041790        1997 GEF NI-Atlantic Biological Corridor               0.00      0.00       0.00      7.10       0.00      3.76      6.30       4.42
Total:       0.00     428.53       0.00     7.10        0.00     261.41     16.39       4.23
LATIN AMERICA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                   Disbursed
IFC                                        IFC
FY Approval               Company                                 Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic      Loan     Equity      Quasi      Partic
2001                      BANEXPO                                  5.00       0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00       0.00
2000                      Finarca                                  1.60       0.60       0.00       0.00       1.60       0.00       0.00       0.00
1998                      Frutan                                   2.00       1.00       0.00       0.00       1.00      0.64        0.00       0.00
1998                      La Colonia                               3.63      0.00        0.50       0.00       1.63      0.00        0.50       0.00
1999                      SEF Dicegsa                              0.83      0.00        0.00       0.00       0.83      0.00        0.00       0.00
Total Portfolio:                13.06       1.60        0.50       0.00       5.06       0.64       0.50       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval              Company                                      Loan       Equity        Quasi        Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
- 101 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Colombia
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America   middle-
Colombia   & Carlb.  Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     42 3       516    2.046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 2,020     3,680     1,140
GNt (Atlas method, USS bIltlons)                    85 3     1.895    2.327
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (9)                                       1.9       1.6       1.0
Labor force (%)                                      2.7       2 3       13     GNI                             Gross
per                           pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest Year avallable,A 994-00)                            capita       '             enrollment
Poverty (96 of population below national povet^l hne)  55
Urban population I9% of total Prirnuatfon)            74        75       42
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                      70        70       69
Infant moNtalily (per 1,000 live births)              23        30       32
Child malnutrition (9 of children under 5)             8         9       11           Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X ofpc-oulation)  91        85       80
Illiteracv (f6 otpopulafion aqe 15+)                   8        12       15
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-aqe ppipulation)  113     113      114
Male                                               113         .      116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             112         .      114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1990     1990      1999     2000
,                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~EconomIc ratios'
GDP LUS$ btflions)                         33 4     40.3      84.8      81 3
Gross domestic Investment/GDP               19.1    18 5      12 5      12,2
Exports of aoods and serv,cesIGDP           162     20.6      18.6     21 9                     Trade
Gross domestic savinoas/GDP                19.7     24.2      12.5      13.7
Gross national savings/GDP                  196     21.6      10 6      11 9
Current account balance/GDP                 0.3      1 3       -0 2     -0.2     Domestic
iiterest pavments/GDP                       0.9      39        28        2 5     savings                    Investment
Total debt'GDP                             20.8     42.8      40 7      44.3     s
1 otal debt servicelexports                 15.1    40.9      43.5      47,9
Present value of debtlGDP                     ,               39 7
Peasent value of debt/exports                                221 8
Indebtedness
19I0-:iO  1990-00   1999      2000   2000-04
leverage annual growth)
GDP                                  'i     3.0     .4.i       2 8       47         -    Colombfa
GOP per caDita                      1i       1.1    -5.7       1 0       2.9          -   Lower-middle-lncome group
Exports of goods and services       7:5     53       4.7       53        44
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP It%)
'% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                19 9     16 7      13 8      13 8     20 -
Industry                                   32 5     37 9      28 1      305      .       _
Manufacturing                             239      20 6      13 7     138      -20'      =
Services                                   47 6     45 4      581       557     40      e0
Pnvate consumption                         70 2     66 4      64 4      68 1    -o0
General govemment consumption               10 1     9 4      23 1      182               '    GDI     -_-GDP
Imports of goods and services              15 6     14 8      186       20.4
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averaeg annual growth)
Agnculture                                  2 9      -2 2      0.2       5.2    30
Industrv                                    50       17        -90       38      ts
Manufacturinq                              35      -2 3     -10 2      93          ='
Services                                    3.1      4 3       -1 1      19      o                 97  -.,s 9900
Private consumption                         26       2 6       -4 5      65     -l        
General government consumption              4 2      9 5       3 9     -14 5    -30
Gross domestic investment                   1 4      2.1     -38 3      152               -Exports     -Imports
Imports of coods and services               0.4      94       -22 3      58 
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The dlamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its Income-aroup average. If data are missinga the diamond will
be incomplete.
-102-



Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prces                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% chanqe)                                                                    s0-
Consumer prices                           26.4     32.4       9.2      8.8    40
Implicit GDP deflator                     27.6     28.6      10.2     10.7    3 -
20
Govemment finance                                                             10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            0
Current revenue                              ..    15.8      12.7     12.1           95    9G    97   93    99
Current budget balance                       ..     6.8      -4.9     -5.3           -  GDP deflator "c"-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                     ..      3.9      -7.5     -6.1
TRADE
(US$ mnillions)                           1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                       4,255   7,139    11,569   13,115    20,000
Coffee                                  2,361   1,415     1,324    1,069
Petroleum                                 101    1.951    3,757    4,569    15,000
Manufactures                              973    1,759    3,947    5,190
Total imports (cif)                       4,663   5,589    10,659   11,538                       4f            i
Food                                     296      245     1,426    1,428 
Fuel and eneri.y                          564     330       252      234
Capital goods                           1,616   2,034     3,651    3,414     3
94  95   99   97  99   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                7      61       194      243
Import price index (1995=100)                5      56       161      201                * Exports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  126      110      121      121
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(U.JS$ millions)                          1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             5,747   8,687    13,866   15,608    0
Imports of goods and services             5,597   7,089    13,408   14.301    -99 
Resource balance                           150    1,597      457     1.307
Net income                                -211   -2,080    -1,422   -2,429
Net current transfers                      166    1,026      785      990    -3
Current account balance                    105     544       -i80      i32    A
Financing items (net)                     -430      53       502      -737 
Changes in net reserves                    325     -597      -322     869     _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      ..       ..     8,103    9,006
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)           47.3   502.3    1,756.6  2,087.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      6,940  17,222    34,538   35,968
IBRD                                     991    3,859     1,960    1,920
IDA                                       21      15         8        7     |                        F:8
Total debt service                         951    3,889     6,611    7.888 88                              4252
IBRD                                     144     751       390      370
IDA                                        0        1        1        1                                   E: 1'470
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            8       35       103       ..
Official creditors                       280      -40      970      275
Private creditors                        531     -155     2,502     -415    |
Foreign direct investment                157     500      1,109    2,247
Portfolio equity                           0        0       25       17              F: 22,883
Worid Bank program
Commitments                              351      536      591      350      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                            218     213       511      265     B - IDA   D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                      66     435       271      244      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                152     -221      241       21
Interest payments                         79      318       121     127
Net transfers                             73     -539       120     -105
Development Economics                                                                                          9/7/01
- 103-



Costa Rica
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Costa  America    middle-
Rica   & Carib.  Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      3.7       516      647                 Life expectancy
GNI Der capita (Atlas method, USSJ                 3.970     3A680     4,620
GNI (Atlas method, US$ bilhons)                     14,5     1.895     2,986
Average annual ilrowth, 1994-00
Population (9)                                       1.9       1.6       1.3
Labor force (%)                                      2 4       2 3       2.0     GNI                            Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                            capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population balownatlonal poverty l/ne)
Urban booulation (96 of total population)             48        75       76
Life exDectancv at birth (years)                      77        70       8 69
Infant tnortalitv (per 1,000 live births)             12        30       28
Child malnutrition (96 of children under Sl            5         9        .           Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (IX o looulaton)   98        85       87
Illiteracy (9 of population aqe 15+)                   4        12        10          _
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age Population)  104     113       107             Costa Rlra
Mala                                               104          .      106             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                             103        ..       105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TREt4DS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratIos'
GDP (US$ billioons)                          4.8     5.7      15.7      15-9
Gross domestic investment/GDP              26.6     27.3      17.1      17.1
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP           2.5     34.6      51.7      483                     Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                  16 2    20.5      22 8      19 3
Gross national savlnqs/GDP                  122      17.1     11.8      12.1
Curreni account baiance/GDP                13,7    A10.2      .4.4      -4,8     Domestic
Interest oavmentslC-DP                       3.5     2.9       1.3       1.3                  ;  % 0        Investment
Total debtvGDP                              56.8    81.1      26.9      28.2     savings
Total debt serviceleroorts                 28.5     21.7       6 3       7 4
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       .      26.0
Present value of deetVexports        :        ..       .      47,6
Indebtedness
1980400  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(averape annual ar.- wth)
GDP          *                      3.0      5.3   . 8.4       1.7       3.3        -     Costa Rica
GDP per capita                      0 3      3 2  . 6.5        0 0       1 6              Upper-middle-lncoma group
Exports of goods anl services      681      11.0    21.4       0.5       4.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(I6 of GDP)                                                                      40
Aqriculture                                 20 2     17 9      10 4      9.4
Industry                                   30 6     291       35 0      31 2     20
Manufacturing                             21.1     21 9      28.8     24.4
Services                                   49.3     53 0      54.6      59 4      o
Private consumption                         65.5    61 3      64.6      674      .20
General government consumption              18.2    18.2      12.6      13.4              -GDI         -0-GDP
Imports of goods and services              36.8     41 4      46.0      46 1
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(averaqe annual qrowth)
Agriculture                                  31      41        4.8       0 4       T0
Industrv                                    2.8      6.2      19 3      -1 8     20 --
Manufacturing                              30       67       24 5      -29
Services                                     33      47        4.4       43
Private consumption                         3.6      5 0       2.1       1.3     o      95   9ea   97   g
General governmert consumotion               1.1     1 9       1.9       2 0     10
Gross domestic investment                   4 6      4.7     -11.5      -9 3            -Exports          Impwrts
Imports of goods and services               6 8      8 9       1.9      -5 0
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its Income-aroup average. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete
- 104 -



Costa Rica
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1980     1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      25
Consumer prices                             18.1     19.0      10.0     11.0    20
Implicit GDP deflator                       18.8     18.6      14.1      7.1       7
Govemment finance                                                                5
(% of GDP, includes current,grants)                                              0
Current revenue                               ..      ..       12.1     12.6            95    96    97   99     99
Current budget balance                        ..      ..       -1.3     -1.4           -    GDP deflator  O   CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..      ..       -2.7     -3.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        1,000    1,354     6,611    5,850    7,500
Coffee                                     248     245        289      274
Bananas                                    208     315        629      546 8    ,o,0
Manufactures                               345     490      5,058    4,443
Total imports (cif)                        1,486    1,918     6,362    6,380           _
Food                                       196     329        771      808     2,500
Fuel and energy                            264     216        320      472
Capital goods                              284     468      1,131    1076
94,  9s   96   97   99   99  0o
Export price index (1995=100)                  .       ..       95       88
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                    ..      ..       105       111    IMExports                 Imports
Termm of trade (1995=100)                      ..      ..       90        79
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              1,225    1,975     8,271    7,700     0
Imports of goods and services              1,688   2,362      7,243    7,327                                       co
Resource balance                            -463    -386      1,028     373
Net income                                  -216    -253     -1822    -1,227
Net current transfers                        20       56       102       96      3
Current account balance                     -880    -583      -892     -758
Financing items (net)                       622      278      1,172     604      ;
Changes in net reserves                      38      306      -480       154     _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     -149       52      1,243    1,090
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             8.6     91.5     286.8    308.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       2,744    3,488     4,211    4,467
IBRD                                      178      409       149       121                    A: 121 13:2'
IDA                                         5        4         2        2              G: 956
Total debt service                          354      451       538       594
IBRD                                       21       79        47       45                                    D: 1,183
IDA                                         0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             0      110        23         0
Official creditors                        178       78       -117     -61
Prvate creditors                          195     -136       277      209                                  E 614
Foreign direct investment                  53      159       614      392
Portfolio equity                            0        0        85      -46            F: 1,591
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                56       60         0        33     A - lBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              29        5        12        6      B- IDA   D - Other muitilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        7       45        34       33      C - IMF                    G - Short-temr|
Net flows                                  23      -40       -23       -27
Interest payments                          15       33        13        12
Net transfers                               8      -74       -36       -39
Development Economics                                     - 105 -                                                 9/17/01



Nicaragua
Latin
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America      Low-
Nicaragua   a Carib.  income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       5 0       516     2.459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$)                    420     3,680      420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      2.0     1,895     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populatlon 1%)                                        2.6       1.6       1 9
Labor force (Xi                                       3 7       2 3       24      GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994.00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population f% of total population)               56        75       32
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                       69        70       59
Infant mortalitv (per 1000 live births)                34        30       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             12         9                    Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (96 of populaton)   79        85       76
Illiteracy (% of populatlon age 15+)                   31        12       38             -    Nicaragua
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  102       113       96
Male                                                101                102               -   Low-income group
Female                                              103                 86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
ODP (US$ b/illons)                           2,1       10       2 2       2,4
Gross domestic InvestmentUGDP               16 8     19.3      4i3.3     34 0                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           24 2     24 9      34 6      35 9
Gross domestc savingas/GDP                   -2 3     -2 1     -14 1    -12 7
Gross national savIngslGDP                   -8 1     -4,3    -11,2      12.31
Current account balancelGDP                 -23 5    -55.1     402      -30 5     Domestic                   Investmert
Interest oavmentslGDP                        1 9      0 5       3.6       2 5     savings
Total debtlGDP                             102,1   1,060 8    }38.7     310.7
Total debt servicelexports                  22 5      .39      15 0      13 1
Present vatue of debUGDP                                      250.5
Present value of debtIexports                                 447.2
Indebtedness
198040   1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual 9rowth)
GDP                                  ' 19    3.S       74       4 3       41 tlNicaragua
GDP ver cadita                     -4 5      0.7      4.6       1.7       1 6                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and serviCes       *3,9     8.0      2.4      11.5         5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aariculture                                 23.2     31 1      31 6      32 3
Industry                                    314      213       22 9      22 6     40 -9
Manufacturinq                              25 6     16.9      14 8      14 4     20 -
Services                                    45 4     47.6      45.5      45.1 o
Private consumPtion                         82 5     58 6      95 2      93 9     .20                          95
General govemment consumption               19 7     43 5      18.9      18 9               .    GDI     -O-GDP
Imports of goods and services               43 3     46 3      91 9      82 7
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growfth)
Aanculture                                  -2 2      5 7       7 5       8 4     45 .
Industrv                                    -2 3      4 2      11.6       2.6    30-
Manufacturino                              -3 2      1.8       3 7      2 0 J
Services                                     -15      1 8       4.2       27 7    S
Private consumption                         -3 6      5 8      18 8      -3 0            95   9,6   97   98    99
General government consumption               3 4      -1.8     11 3       20 0    15
Gross domestc investment                    -4 8     11 8      39 8     -10 9               -Exports          Imports
Imports of goods and services               -3 2      10 7     35 6      4 5
Note, 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its income-qrouP average, If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete
-106-



Nicaragua
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices1980                                1990      1999     2000      Inflation (%)
(% chanqe)                                                                     15-
Consumer prices                            35.3  7,485.2      11.2     11.6    10
ImplicitGDPdeflator                        37.0  5,018.1      11.2     11.6
Govemment flnance
1% of GDP, includes currentqrants)                                              0
Current revenue                              ..       ..      25.8     24.8            95   98    97    98    99
Current budget balance                       ..       ..       5.5      4.0              -GDP deflator  O    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..     -12.3    -14.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         445     331       613      726     2000
Coffee                                    166       71       135      171
Shrimp and lobster                         27        9        84      112
Manufactures                               89       69       274      313
Total imports (cif)                         881     638      1,862    1,800    1,00
Food                                      215      129       439      419      500
Fuel and energy                           174      123       181      291
Capital goods                             110      197       596      444       o
94   99   9o   97  99   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                82      81        83       74
Import price index (1995=100)                61      79        109      110                r Exports     Ulmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                   134      103       76        67
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1980    1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               492     390       908     1.043     0
Imports of goods and services               924     725      1,861    1,784
Resource balance                           -432     -335      -952     -741    -1s
Net Income                                  -70     -222      -237     -310
Net current transfers 2                    J                  335       320 7   30
Current account balance                    -503     -556      489      -731    45
Financing Items (net)                       496     358       819       733
Changes in net reserves                       6      198       70        -2    40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       75      166      510       567
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)         1.94E-9     0.2      11.8     12.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Composttion of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      2,190   10,708     7,493    7,447
IBRD                                       93     239         9        5                G 910A: 5 B:654
IDA                                        43      60       598      654                               C: 169
Total debt service                          15        16       186      183         F:424
IBRD                                       15       1         11       6
IDA                                         1       0         5        6                                    D: t433
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            48     241       310       320
Official creditors                        257     552       223       165
Private creditors                         -26      21        81        6
Foreign direct investment                   0       0       143       176
Portfolio equity                            0       0         0         0             E: 3,852
World Bank program
Commitments                                57       0        91        53     A- IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              31       0        120       87     B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        4        1         7        6     Cc - IMF                  G - Short-term
Net flows                                  27       -1       114       81
Interest payments                          11       1         9         5
Net transfers                              16      -2        104       76
Development Economics                                                                                           9/21/01



Additional Annex 11 :Institutional Analysis
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
A.     Project implementing agencies
COLOMBIA - CENTRE FOR RESEARCH ON SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS
(CIPAV)
CIPAV is a non-profit organization recognized for its scientific and technological excellence, made up of a
network of agricultural enterprises and a group of small farmer families, associated with qualified
researchers who provide their knowledge for the solution of concrete problems. It is permanently in contact
with several groups, research centers, institutions and companies that encourage rural sustainable
development throughout Colombia and various countries in Latin America, Asia, Africa, Europe and the
I Jnited States. CIPAV's institutional mission is to contribute to sustainable development through research,
training, and communication related to production systems appropriate for tropical agro-ecosystems.
The objectives of the organization are (i) To design, investIgate and validate agricultural systems, which
contribute to sustainable rural development: (ii) To train small farmers, agricultural entrepreneurs,
technicians and professionals; and (iii) To disseminate the results of the research on appropriate
technoiogies to farmers, institutions and organizations.
Work areas
Research, design and validation of technology
CIPAV's early work focused on validation of technologies developed in countries like Mexico, Dominican
Republic, Cuba, Australia, India and Bangladesh, related to the use of sugar cane and by-products of the
sugar and panela (brown sugar loaf) industries, harvest residues, non conventional protein sources and
organic wastes, and the direct transfer to small and medium-sized farmers, and agro-industries in the
Cauca Valley. With farmers collaborating as co-researchers or associate researchers, CIPAV has
developed sustainable agricultural production systems upon this basis.
This approach was broadened to include the design of new technologies that fit the specific environmental,
social and economic conditions of small and medium farmers. Basic, applied and participatory researches
are increasingly important for the institution. Based on technologies appropriate for the tropical resources,
C:IPAV contributes to the generation of systems suitable to the potentialities and social and environmental
needs of these countzies.
Traning
In order to disseminate the ideas and principles related to sustainable agricultural systems, CIPAV has
developed different types of training activities that include tutorships, research scholarships, thesis,
courses, seminars, workshops, teleconferences and others. The work with small farmer communities
involves a training process through a diagnosis of the social, economic and environmental reality of the
- 108-



zone; the analysis of farming systems, agricultural topics, conservation, human and animal nutrition, and
the conception and elaboration of projects. The traditional empirical understanding is combined with
modem scientific and technological knowledge in the identification of the opportunities offered by the local
resources. Non-formal training processes have evolved into the current communication models between
small farmers, with the participation of leaders (women, men, adults and youngsters) who disseminate the
ideas and technological innovations in a suitable language.
In 1992, an agreement between the Javeriana University, CIPAV and the Mayor Campesino Institute
enabled the creation of an MSc program on Sustainable Development of Agricultural Systems In the
country and abroad, CIPAV contributes to several initiatives of undergraduate and postgraduate
professional training, oriented towards rural development and sustainable production systems.
Communication
The training and communication tasks of CIPAV are strengthened through international seminars and
workshops, important opportunities for the exchange of knowledge with other researchers. A large
number of publications are aimed at different publics; these include scientific articles in international
indexed joumals, books, manuals, booklets and CD-ROMs, as well as videos and TV programs.
Electronic media are an important part of our communication strategy. Livestock Research for Rural
Development, an electronic journal that serves as a means of communication between researchers of the
tropical and subtropical countries, completed ten years of continuous publication in 1998. LRRD was the
first specialized electronic publication in the world. CIPAV has its own Internet web-site and collaborates
with FAO through electronic teleconferences for Latin America and the rest of the world.
Scientific bases of farming systems promoted by CIPAV
CIPAV's experience in different ecosystems can be summarized in a strategy for sustainable agricultural
production in the tropics, based on the following principles:
*      Closing the nutrient cycles within farming systems. Conservation and efficient recycling of organic
matter are strongly emphasized as a way to stimulate the biological activity of the soil.
*      Promotion of perennial mixed farming rather than short cycle crops and homogeneous plantations.
Trees, especially nitrogen fixing species, are included in all production subsystems, from horticulture to
livestock production.
*      Increase biomass production. A portion of pastures is replaced with crops for human nutrition and
highly productive forage species. Harvest residues are used to protect soils against superficial runoff and
to enhance their structure.
*      Encouragement of biodiversity within farming systems. Structural and taxonomic diversity within
agricultural systems are encouraged in order to increase the combined production of crops and stimulate
biological control of plagues. Planting herbaceous plants, shrubs and trees in multiple layers contributes to
efficient nutrient cycling and soil stability while providing support for several bird and arthropod species.
*      Reduction of the use of external supplies, such as pesticides, fertilizers and commercial animal
feedstuffs. These are slowly replaced by local or regional resources, thus decreasing production costs and
environmental impact.
*      Elimination of common practice of burning vegetation (crops, pastures, and harvest residues), thus
enabling the use of biomass in the maintenance of soil coverage, and avoiding carbon emissions to the
atmosphere.
- 109-



*      Promotion of efficient use, recycling and decontamination of water through biological methods.
Aquatic plants cultivated in small channels are used to remove organic pollutants, as part of a system that
generates useful by-products such as green manure, high fertility mud and animal feed.
*      Decreasing the cost of agricultural activities and the dependence on loans, and take advantage of
household, local or regional manual labor.
*      Reduction of the size of the area required for productive activities. Through efficient agricultural
production within smaller areas, fragile lands can be used for conservation or restoration of natural
ecosystems.
*      Promotion of the use of renewable energy sources such as biogas, animal draught and firewood,
and reduce dependence on fossil fuels.
*      Integration of plant and livestock production through forage crops and use of manure.
*      Strengthening of family-level food security and the sale of healthy products in local markets.
The participatory application of these principles in farms and small farmer communities contributes to the
recovery of traditional knowledge and the enhancement of life quality through a healthy and balanced diet.
At the same time, permanent learning is encouraged and profits increased through products that have a
higher value in the market. Indirect effects include a reduction in youth rnigration to the cities or toward
illegal activities, a reduction of pressure on forests and facilitation of the ecological recovery of degraded
areas. In farms and medium or big agricultural or agroindustrial enterprises, these principles can favor the
efficient use of the available resources and thus decrease production costs significantly, improve the quality
of products for sale and generate rural jobs.
Components of systems encouraged by CIPAV
*      Sugar cane: whole cane, tops, bagasse, juice
*      Industrial sub-products: sugar mill molasses, cachaza (first froth on sugar cane juice when boiled)
and panela molasses, palm oil products, liquor   industry yeast, concentrated residues from the
liquor industry (vinaza)
*      Harvest residues: amonification and hydrolysis of fibrous residues (sugar cane, rice, beans),
by-products of cotton oil extraction.
*      Silvopastoral systems: Live fencing, wind-protection shields, biological corridors and shade for
animals; Managed succession within silvopastoral       systems; Intensive systems for cattle and
other animal species: High arboreal density silvopastoral systems; Cut and carry systems.
*      Non conventional protein sources: forage trees and shrubs: Gliricidia sepium, Trichanthera
gigantea, Morus spp, Alocasia macrorhiza,        Boehmeria nivea, Malvaviscus pendulflorus,
Erythrina edulis, Tithonia diversifolia, Erythrina fusca, Erythrina poeppigiana, and aquatic
plants: Azolla spp, Lemna minor, Salvinia natans, Pistia stratoides, Eichornia crassipes.
*      Nitrogen-rich supplements for ruminants: multi-nutritional blocks, organic residues, and liquid
urea and molasses mixtures.
*      Use of biodiversity: orchards for human and animal food security in small farms (up to 35 species
interacting in the place).
Integrated production systems
*      Dual-purpose bovine livestock.
*      Restricted suckling in bovine cattle.
*      Animal draught with female bovines and buffaloes.
*      Rotational pasturing of pregnant sows.
*      Continuous-flow plastic biodigesters.
- 110-



*      Biological systems for productive decontamination of water.
*      Productive reforestation with forage and woody species.
*      Weed control through pasturing of African sheep controlled by shepherd dogs.
*      Recycling of animal manure through biodigestion, vermiculture, compostage and irrigation.
*      Minimal tilling, green manure and coverage for soil protection.
*      Multiple-layer agroforestry systems.
*      Pigs (breeding, raising and fattening) and poultry for small farming systems.
*      Vegetation recovery: management of succession, agroforestry systems, free-ranging pigs as a tool
for reforestation.
Achievements
*      More than 10,000 people - small farmers, entrepreneurs, students, professionals, technicians,
indigenous people and researchers from over 30  countries- have seen the results of our work in
the field. Between 1997 and 1998, 1458 people participated in both national and international training
events sponsored or co-coordinated by CIPAV.
*      In 1998 the Productive Decontamination System developed by CIPAV was recognized by the
United Nations and FAO as a technological innovation  for developing countries.
*      Integrated systems developed by CIPAV produce up to ten times more meat and milk per area unit
than extensive livestock traditional systems, with environmental benefits such as conservation of soil, water
and a considerable portion of the biological diversity.
*      CIPAV's research has contributed to the knowledge on more than ten tree and shrub forage species
that allow the diversification and improvement of  tropical livestock systems.
*      Intensive systems designed by CIPAV enable landowners to set aside fragile or marginal lands for
nature conservation or ecological restoration.
*      CIPAV's main asset is its human team, a research group associated with entrepreneurs and small
farmers consolidated and recognized at a national  and global level.
Awards
*      National Ecology Award - Planeta Azul 1995.
*      Colciencias (Colombian Institute for Science and Technology) Certification as a Scientific
Excellence Centre 1996, 1998.
*      Certified by Colciencias as A category Scientific Excellence Centre 1999.
*      Environmental Grant by Andina de Herramientas S.A. and Cooper Tools 2000.
*      Admitted as Member Organization of the Intemational Foundation for Science 2000.
COSTA RICA - CENTRO AGRONOMICO TROPICAL DE INVESTIGACI6N Y ENSENANZA
(CATIE)
CATIE is an international, non-profit civil association that conducts research, education and outreach
activities in agricultural sciences, forest management and biodiversity conservation, agroforestry systems
and watersheds, socioeconomics and related subjects on natural resources management throughout Latin
America, with an emphasis on Central America and the Caribbean. CATlE's mission is to alleviate poverty
and increase human well-being by applying research and teaching towards the conservation and sustainable
use of natural resources in Tropical America. Due to its active research, outreach and training program and
its close relations to many research and academic institutions, CATIE is a leader of natural resource
management and conservation in the region.
In the field of livestock, CATIE has a silvopastoral systems unit, focusing on the development of
- 111 -



environmental friendly livestock production systems for the Latin American region. The main priority of
this unit is the recovery of degraded pasturelands. CATIE has conducted novel research in selecting
multi-purpose trees and improved grasses for improving the productivity of livestock production systems.
Over the past years, research in silvopastoral systems have been focused on the contribution of pastures
and trees to increasing productivity and income of farms, and providing additional benefits including
sequestration of carbon in silvopastoral systems, soil improvement and conservation of biodiversity. Most
of the research is done through Ph.D. and MSc students from CATIE's postgraduate school. A
socio-economic evaluation on these systems is being conducted to determine how carbon benefits would
offset capital investment for establishing these systems and how they would contribute to adoption of
improved technologies.
The technical co-coordinator of the project (CATIE) would be an expert in silvopastoral systems and
livestock production systems, with a long experience in the region. He would be assisted by an experienced
socio-economist. A technical advisory committee (and technical co-coordinator) would participate in the
design, co-ordination and implementation of all projects activities, including training and outreach events.
NICARAGUA-NITLAPAN-UCA
T'he Organization, Activities & Current Situation
Nitlapin (which means, 'time to sow" in the indigenous Nahuatl language), is the Institute of Research and
Development of the Uiiiversity of Central America (UCA), a Jesuit non-profit university located in
Managua, Nicaragua. Over the past decade, Nitlapan has developed an innovative, multi faceted approach
to reactivating the ecoromy and society of Nicaragua. Its focus is rural economic development. Its
p)rinciple tools are micro -finance, applied research, and development. Nitlapan has prepared approaches to
diagnose and address the vicious cycle of undercapitalization, environmental degradation and lack of
technical information in rural areas. In the process, it is succeeding in integrating practical strategies of
environmental recovery in its development programs.
Nitlapan is highly regarded both within Nicaragua and abroad. Its reputation as a professional, ethical,
apolitical and non-ideological organization has won respect and trust from current and former
administrations and credibility along the political spectrum. Grant and investments have come from donors
in the United States and Europe, including the McArthur and Ford foundations, Oxfam and Intermon.
Nitlapan plays a critical role in helping rural families get back on their feet as well as in institutionalising a
rural finance system thal incorporates modern, ecologically sensitive practices.
NITLAPAN-UCA Strategies
Nitlapan's pursues its rural development mission through three main activities:
*      Applied Research is Nitlapan-UCA's original focus, from which its other programs have emerged.
Among the country's most respected analysts of the needs of the country's rural populace, its studies have
focused on identifying the opportunities and constraints facing landless peasants, co-operatives, and
smallholders (small ranch owners). This research has led to new approaches to some of Nicaragua's major
socio-economic challenges-helping farmers gain land titles, diversifying agricultural production in an
ecologically sustainable way, promoting reforestation, and improving rural access to financial services (a
particular need since the dismantling of the state development bank last year). In recent years, its applied
research programs have deepened the country's understanding of the rural sector by sponsoring seminars
and publishing articles on subjects as diverse as the Nicaraguan coffee industry, effective reforestation,
basic grains production, demand for and provision of savings and other financial services to build
- 112-



self-sufficiency.
*      The Development Program has a three-fold focus: (i) "Trees are Precious" (Los Arboles Valen)
uses credit and technical assistance to teach smallholders to plant trees for diversification, income and
ecological sustainability. (ii) "Capitalization Programs" assist smallholders to build equity in their land by
obtaining land titles, diversifying production and planting "living fences" to reduce erosion; and (iii) an
extension service which provides a range of advice and technical assistance to smallholders in commercial
forestry and crop diversification, legal issues, and income-supplementing activities, such as handicrafts and
furniture production.
*      The Fund for Local Development (FDL) is Nitlapan's micro-finance arm, and the leading
micro-lender in Nicaragua. It fills the void created by the absence of conventional rural finance in the
country (see below).
Research and development activities
NITLAPAN-UCA has employed five technical workers who are directly involved in conducting applied
research to improve farm productivity and livelihood of livestock farmers. Mr. Carlos Barrios who holds an
MSc in the field of Agroforestry and has more than 10 years research experience in the evaluation of farm
productivity would be responsible to co-ordinate the activities in workpackage 2. Carlos barrios has been
involved in designing novel methodologies for financing rural credits for livestock farms which are
currently being used by rural banks in Nicaragua. He is also involved in research focused on the integration
of multi-purpose trees in silvopastoral systems to increase fodder supply in the dry season and the
evaluation of timber trees in silvopastoral systems.
Some current research projects in agroforestry include
*      Utilization of fodder trees and shrubs for feeding cattle during the dry season
*      Quantification of fruit and litter production of fodder trees in pastures during the dry season
*      Ecological factors that affect survival and growth of timber species in silvopastoral systems in
different ecological zones of Nicaragua.
*      Carbon sequestration in pasture/silvopastoral systems
*      Integration of commercial timber species in pastures.
*      Developing credit systems for farmers to promote of adoption of silvopastoral technologies
B. Project partners
Livestock, Environment And Development (LEAD-FAO) Initiative
The LEAD-FAO (Livestock, Environment And Development) Initiative is an inter-institutional project with
the secretariat in the Food and Agriculture Organization, FAO. This initiative is supported by the World
Bank (WB), the European Union (EU), the Ministere de la Cooperation (France), German Federal Ministry
for Economic Cooperation and Development via GTZ (Germany), the Department for International
Development (United Kingdom), the US Agency for International Development (USA), the Danish Institute
for Development Assistance (DANIDA, Denmark), the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation
(Switzerland), the Centro Agron6mico Tropical de Investigacion y Ensefianza (CATIE), the Centre de
Cooperation Intemationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le Developpement (CIRAD), The International
- 113-



Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) and FAO.
The work of the initiative targets at the protection and enhancement of natural resources as affected by
livestock production and processing while alleviating poverty. LEAD-FAO has identified, at a global scale,
the consequences of increased pressure on grazing and mixed farming systems and the dangers of the shift
to industrial modes of production. It highlighted the close interaction between government policies and the
environmental impact of livestock production, and showed the large number of technologies, which are
available to mitigate the negative effects in all different production modes, provided the appropriate policy
framework is in place. Subsequently, the initiative mobilized funding for critical follow-up needs. In
particular:
*      To improve communication and enhance the relevance of research and development issues
regarding livestock-environment interactions, by establishing a Virtual Centre f§)r Research and
Development in Livestock Fnvironment Interaction. This Virtual Centre promotez multidisciplinary
researc~i and development activities and increases awareness among key stakeholders of the complex
interact.ons of human needs, animal production and the sustainability of global natwal resources. The
Virtual Centre operates both globally (based at FAO, Rome) and through French- and Spanish speaking
language platform, hosted by partner institutions(CIRAD and CATIE, respectively).
*      To conduct a series of pilot research and development projects i7l key areas of
livestock-environment interactions, most notably in livestock-wildlife integration, livestock-asX ociated
deforestation and the establishment of area-wide integration of specialized crop and livestock activities.
*      To develop specific tools to facilitate decision-making on livestock-environment issues, designed to
adapt itzneral principles of improved management of livestock environment interact,ns to the special
regionai needs and conditions.
*      To facilitate the policy dialogue at country level and to provide assistance in liolicy fonrmulation
and incorporating novel concepts at various decision-making levels for the "mainstreaminig" of
livestocic-environment issues within the context of overall economic and social development.
C. Key Direct Contractors
AMERICAN BIRD CONSERVANCY (ABC)
American Bird Conservancy (ABC) is a not-for-profit Organization dedicated to the conservation of wild
birds and their habitats in the Americas. The fundamental role of ABC is to build coalitions of conservation
groups, scientists, and members of the public, to tackle key bird priorities using the best resources
available. ABC has offices in Washington D.C. and The Plains, Virginia, and staff in Colorado, Montana,
and Oregon.
ABC is a leader in Partners in Flight (PIEF). PIF is a multinational initiative to integrate existing bird
conservation needs and programs into a single, comprehensive plan for protecting all birds in North
America. A diverse array of more than 200 non-profits, government agencies, forest product companies,
colleges, and universities participate in PIF. ABC's Important Bird Areas program is a central aspect of
PIF and involves hundreds of volunteers and other conservation groups in a nation-wide effort to identify
and enhance protection for the most important sites for bird conservation in the U.S.
ABC's Policy Council, composed of 75 groups, complements the PIF network. The goal of the Policy
Council is to draw everyone interested in and working on policy issues affecting bird conservation together
to implement collaborative strategies. The Policy Council meets regularly and ABC publishes a newsletter
-114-



Bird Calls which contains updates on key policy issues affecting birds.
ABC's International Program provides north - south links among conservation groups throughout the
Western Hemisphere through the Conservation Counterparts program and annually supports more than a
dozen field projects in Latin America and the Caribbean.
ABC's new program on Climate Change is investigating how bird distributions may be altered as Earth
warms. The program is supported by the Environmental Protection Agency which would use the
information to help plan a response to the problem.
ABC's Cats Indoors! Campaign seeks to inform cat owners, decision makers, and the general public that
free-roaming cats are a significant threat to birds and other wildlife, pose a threat to humans, and often live
short, painful lives. The campaign is working to secure the humane removal of free-roaming cats from
sensitive wildlife areas, and to persuade cat owners to keep their cats indoors. ABC together with The
Humane Society of the United States and the American Humane Association, developed a brochure,
education kit, and poster for use by more than 1000 groups across the country participating in the
campaign.
ABC is a membership organization and derives support from individual memberships, foundations,
corporations, organizations, and government sources. Members receive ABC's quarterly magazine, Bird
Conservation and the Policy Council newsletter, Bird Calls, which is produced three times a year. ABC is
also the sponsor of the revolutionary new field guide, All the Birds of North America.
- 115-



Additional Annex 12: Scientific Background to Environmental Benefits of Silvopastoral
Systems
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Project Rationale
Throughout Latin America, landscape transformation is dominated by the establishment of open rangeland
for livestock production, irrespective of the characteristics of soils, climate regimes, and topography.
Pasturelands occupy the largest proportion of the agricultural lands in the region, and to a large extent,
their profitability is insufficient to sustain human populations. At the same time, the environmental impacts
resulting from this indiscriminate form of land use are damaging, and responsible for many of the current
threats to biodiversity conservation in the Neotropics. From this standpoint, it is urgent to find alternatives
to livestock production in Latin America that, while helping people to improve their living conditions,
reduce negative impacts on nature and even restore to some extent unpaired environmental services. The
development of alternative technologies is promising in this respect. Multi-purpose farming and
agroforestry practices applied to livestock production enterprises open new avenues for linking sound
agricultural development and conservation.  The aim of the project would be to make a significant
contribution to demonstrating the benefits from adoption of these silvopastoral technologies.
The project objectives are also very complementary to the classical approaches to !conservation.
Preservation of pristine habitats within National Parks and other protected -areas are necessary, but
insufficient in the face of growing pressure on land. Driven by social and economic pressures and
unsustainable land use patterns, local settlers continue their expansion into the last remnants of native
forests. The silvopastoral technology proposed under the project could reduce the pressure, and therefore
c;omplement the protected area approach.
Cattle production and the environment
Cattle production in Latin America has been associated with deforestation. For example, about 38 percent
(94 million out of 248 million hectares) of Central America's total land area is used as permanent pasture.
Land used for extensive grazing has increased continuously over the past decades and most of this increase
has been at the expense of forest. Tropical forests still cover almost 70 million ha (FAO, 1999) and contain
a large fraction of the world's biodiversity, as many animal and plant species are unique to this area.
Ranching-induced deforestation is one of the main causes of loss of some unique plant and animal species
in the tropical rainforests of Central America and South America. In the past, government-backed
conversion of forest to other land uses as large scale ranching was one of the leading causes of
deforestation. Today poverty, joblessness and inequitable land distribution is forcing many landless
peasants to clear the forest for subsistence farming. The decline in productivity and the lack of appropriate
technologies in the agricultural frontier force many small farmers to sell the cleared land to livestock
farmers.
While there is rapid deforestation (17 million ha/year globally, FAO 1994), ruminant livestock production
has expanded with only modest productivity growth. The prevailing grazing systems are mainly based on
native grassland, with no or only limited integration with crops. These systems often do not involve
external inputs. In the humid areas, forest and savannah clearing to establish pastures causes soil nutrients
to leach out rapidly. Weeds displace grasses, and artificial pastures can only be sustained for a period of up
to ten years. In Central America, large pasture areas have now been abandoned because of degradation.
Natural regeneration of forests is quite difficult; especially where cleared areas are large. Traditional
- 116-



livestock systems are often marginal in an economic sense and follow land use practices that are not
considered sustainable in the long term. In particular this applies to cattle production in tropical hillsides
and areas of forest margins. It is estimated that more than 40% of tropical pastures are in an advanced
stage of degradation.
Livestock grazing systems occupy a significant proportion of the agricultural lands throughout much of
Latin America. Ranching includes a variety of systems established in different types of soil, vegetation and
climate. Since landscape transformation caused by livestock grazing encompasses such a wide variety of
practices, its environmental impacts can also be widely diverse (Murgueitio 1999). It is important to
recognize that impacts are both direct and indirect, and that associated processes cause many of the
environmental problems adding their effects to those caused by the conversion to pastureland itself. The
intensity of direct impacts depends both on the type of grazing system, as well as on the characteristics of
local ecosystems. These differences have not been fully evaluated, so the general picture of wholesale
destruction of natural biota is a composite of many local, specific impacts.
Apart from deforestation and fragmentation of habitats, the conventional cattle production system in the
region has been associated with other environmental impacts such as erosion, soil compaction, losses of
genetic diversity, demand for wood and water and soil contamination. Finally, livestock and other sources
of deforestation also results in one fourth of global C02 emissions to the atmosphere, contributing to
climate change, and to biodiversity losses in natural forests. Increasing isolation of the remnants of natural
forest amid a homogeneous cultural landscape further increases the negative effects of the dominant forms
of livestock grazing the Neotropics. Socially, conventional cattle raising has also been associated with an
unfair distribution of resources (land, wealth and knowledge) and lack of opportunity for the rural sector.
Cattle production in the tropics is facing new challenges especially the balance between food supply and
conservation goals. This requires a new policy framework with an understanding of human and
environment needs.
Socio-economic problems linked to livestock grazing
Many Latin American countries in which most deforested lands -are converted to pastures, experience deep
social crises characterized by violence, unfair distribution of resources, and lack of opportunities for the
rural sector. The diversity of situations, involved citizens, and environmental impacts of ranching must be
recognized in order to transform the current systems into activities compatible with socio-economic
development and the protection of nature. In Latin America, cattle raising can be divided in two broad
classes (i) systems in which the cattle business constitute the main economic activity; and (ii) those in
which land speculation is the basis of the economic enterprise.
The urgent need to transform tropical cattle raising is evident. Political change in agrarian structures is
required as well as technological alternatives for those truly interested in cattle as a means of production.
Researchers, decision -makers, technicians and farmers must admit that a higher biological potential exists
and that it can be reached if nature is wisely managed understanding the limits of each ecosystem, and if
cattle raising is integrated with other production systems. Many of these systems require technological and
entrepreneurial change in order to reduce negative impacts on soil, water and native vegetation. Alternative
systems for raising cattle must be intensified through the intelligent use of local resources (natural and
human) adapted to each agro-ecosystem. In this context, environmental services include attractive
conditions for ecotourism, watershed protection for the production of more and cleaner water, conservation
of forests and biodiversity, habitats for wildlife and carbon sequestration. A range of environmentally
beneficial cattle production systems are emerging as a synthesis based on both old, proven ideas and a new
understanding of natural nutrient cycles and ecosystems. Recent research has shown that local and global
- 117-



environmental services can be provided by silvopastoral systems.
Alternative grazing regimes in Latin America
Several systems of alternative ranching have been recently developed in the Neotropics. These systems,
which represent a substantial part of the ongoing transformation of the land-use patterns in the region, can
be grouped in three major categories (Murgueitio 1999):
*      Forest plantations with livestock grazing: In the tropical lowlands, some plantations of fine wood
have as the main associated cost the invasion by different grasses (both native and exotics). Recently, this
situation has been managed by introducing cattle, which has resulted in the livestock paying for much of the
management costs of the plantations (Londofno 1996).
*      Live fencing, wind-protection shields, biological corridors and shade for animals: This system,
widely used in some countries of tropical America, utilizes fast growing trees and shrubs that not only
provide an inexpensive alternative for fencing, but also supplements the diet of the livestock. In some cases,
the system develops into actual biological corridors connecting remnants of the origmal forests through a
network crossing the agricultural lands. Naturally, the importance of living fences as corridors increases
with size, structural complexity and plant species diversity.
*      Intensive systems for cattle and other animal species: Intensive systems for cattle and other
livestock (reducing the amount of land required for ranching thus freeing some areas for natural forest
regeneration or for agroforestry), are perhaps the most promising alternatives to extensive grazing. Because
of environmental problems and increased production- costs, intensive grazing is now approached in 2
radically different way using high densities of tree and shrubs used by livestock as a diet supplement while
protecting the soil from compaction an erosion. There are two types:
a) High arboreal density silvopastoral systems: Because of environmental problems and increased
production costs, intensive grazing is now approached in a radically different way using high
densities of trees and shrubs used by livestock as a diet supplement while protecting the soil from
packing and erosion.
b) Cut and carry systems: Replace grazing in open pasturelands with stables in which livestock is fed
with the foliage of different trees and shrubs specifically planted in areas formerly used for other
agricultural practices. This system is particularly successful in Central America for raising goat
(Benavides 1994), and in Colombia for a variety of animals including cattle, horses, goats, sheep,
water buffalo, rabbits, guinea pigs, and poultry.
Environmental services of silvopastoral systems
Silvopastoral systems are a type of replacement vegetation, which to a large extent mimics forest
ecosystems. They provide a deeply rooting, perennial vegetation which is persistently growing and which
have a dense but uneven canopy. Silvopastoral systems are an alternative to prevalent cattle production in
Latin America and have the potential to produce environmental services and improve people's livelihoods.
Carbon sequestration
Between 1850 and 1985, land use in Latin America generated an emission of carbon to the atmosphere of
ca. 30 Pg (Houghton et a., 1991). rhis emission has been related to the increase of land covered by
pastures. According to Veldkamp (1993), low production pasturelands on the Atlantic slope of Costa Rica
caused a net loss of organic carbon from the soil ranging between 1.5 Mg/ha and 21. Mg/ha.
- 118-



However, silvopastoral systems are capable of fixing significant amounts of carbon in the soil under the
improved pastures and in the standing tree biomass (wood). Fisher et al. (1994), identified a substantial
sink of carbon in pastures based on deep-rooted grasses which have been introduced in the South American
savannahs. According to the authors, deep-rooted grasses in this part of the world have the potential to
sequester as much as 100-507 Mt organic carbon per year deep in the soil. In this study, the authors
measured soil carbon including fine roots, in improved savannahs of the perennial grasses Andropogon
gayanus and Brachiaria humidicola associated with the legumes Stylosanthes capitata and Arachis pintoi
respectively, B. humidicola alone and they compared them with savannah in Colombia. Results showed
that all the grass-based pastures made a striking contribution to soil carbon compared to the native
savannah, especially when grown with a legume (legumes contributed with 20% to root biomass and
increased substantially carbon sequestration). Compared with the savannah, the grass-based pastures
sequester most of the carbon in the deeper part of the soil profile (this is between 40 and 100 cm depth).
This carbon should therefore be less prone to oxidation, and hence loss. The rooting depth of different
species and their combinations is therefore a major factor to take into account for estimations of carbon
sequestration. The study of Fisher et al. (1994) showed that in all cases, carbon soil contents were lower in
the layer between 20 and 40 cm depth than deeper in the soil. This trend was also evidenced by Beinroth et
al. (1996). In their study of factors determining carbon sequestration in tropical soils, they found that for
all soils, organic carbon content decreased at depths between 20 and 50 cm and increased below that layer.
Research by CIPAV in Colombia has shown that there are higher carbon contents in soil under
silvopastoral systems (Ramirez, 1997). Research conducted by CATIE (2000) in Panama and Costa Rica
showed that silvopastoral systems can sequester more carbon in the soil (due to the increased growth of the
pasture in the association with legume trees) and in addition, an important fraction of the carbon is
sequestered by trees in the form of wood.
- 119-



Table annex 12.1: Carbon dynamics in a grass monoculture an silvopastoral systems in acid soils,
Panama
System                                            1994               1996          1998
Tons Carbon/ha
Brachiaria humidicola (improved pasture)
Soil                                              28.3                48.1          65.2
B.humidicola/Acacia mangium (Silvopastoral system)
Soil                                              29.9                53.2          71.9
Trees (only trunk hard wood)                      0                  6             13.6
Total                                             29.9               59.2          85.5
Source: CATIE, 2000
Biodiversity conservation
Forest comversion into pastures threatens the survival of many species, and therefore is considered as a
priority subject for conservationists (Serrao & Toledo 1990; Szott et al., 2000). When pastures are used
for a short period (< 5 years) and then abandoned, forest regeneration is very rapid as compared to those
situations in which pastures have been used for more than 12 years. Boundaries between degraded pastures
and both second growth and primary forests are often very sharp, resulting in biodiversity losses (Wiens
1992). In recent years, ranchers have started to manage silvopastoral systems in order to increase the
productivity of their lands while promoting the conservation of natural resources (Ibrahim & Schlonvoigt
1999). In Central America, isolated trees are .a common feature within silvopasture. Recent studies indicate
that these trees play a major role in the survival of wildlife species by providing scarce resources and
refuge (Harvey & Haber 1999).
It has also been shown that seed drop under trees within pastures is larger than in open grasslands, and that
there is a higher propagation rate of native forest plants under these scattered trees (Harvey & Haber
1999). In Monteverde (Costa Rica), 190 forest plant species were found within 240 ha of pastures used for
dairy production. These trees and shrubs are mainly used as shade for grazing animals, wind screens, and
to provide wood for fencing, fuel, food, and shelter for wild birds (Harvey & Haber 1999). In the Pacific
lowlands of Costa Rica, traditional silvopastoral systems contain a variety of trees that provide fodder for
the livestock during the dry season in addition to timber for fuel and fencing. Farmers promote the growth
of these trees to diversify their income sources (Beer et al. 2000). Many Costa Rican ranchers are using
fruiting trees to attract charismatic bird species aiming to develop the ecotourism potential of their lands.
Living fences and wind screens are man made habitats modified over time by the driving forces of plant
succession. Species composition depends on local ecological conditions, and the original preferences of the
farmers, and not necessarily on the nature of the forest seed bank. Connectivity provided by a series of
living fences affects the movement of wild animals between natural habitats, and facilitates seed dispersal
(Burel 1996). Therefore, this kind of fencing can actually serve as a biological corridor in agricultural
landscapes characterized by the fragmentation of the natural habitats. In some ranches small patches of
native forest are left untouched to act as wind shields, to protect watersheds, or to be used as.sources of
tirmber for fencing (Guindon 1996, Harvey & Haber 1999). In Monteverde (Costa Rica), 25% of the
estimated 400 species of birds have been found within wind shields placed in pastures of dairy farms. Birds
were the most important agents of seed dispersal, especially when the wind screens were connected with the
native forests. Undoubtedly, silvopastoral systems provide significant support to the conservation of forest
- 120 -



plants and wildlife within this agricultural landscape (Harvey & Haber 1999).
Food availability for wild birds is high in silvopastoral systems, and the complex structure of the vegetation
provides more adequate nesting substrate and better protection against predators than other
agro-ecosystems. In addition, several authors have noted that both silvopastures and other agroforestry
systems harbour a larger and more complex assemblage of invertebrates (50-90%) than mono-cultural
pastures, which explains the diverse bird communities found within (Dennis et al., 1996). It has been
pointed out that bird frugivores inhabiting secondary forests do not fly very far into abandoned pastures,
which results in seed dispersal restricted to an area of 9-80 m surrounding scattered trees close to the forest
edge. Recent expansion of secondary forests within ranches is likely to enhance forest seed dispersal into
abandoned pastures, further increasing the connectivity between different elements of the forested
landscape (wind screens, living fences, scattered trees, forest remnants, etc.). At the regional level,
silvopastoral systems may play an important role in the implementation of the Mesoamerican Biological
Corridor, given the vast coverage of pasturelands in Central America. It is expected that these corridors
would provide adequate habitat for wildlife while facilitating seed dispersal and the regeneration of the
native vegetation (Saunders & Hobbs 1991).
Wild birds in Latin American pasturelands
Because the original plant cover throughout most of the Neotropics was dominated by different kinds of
forests, habitat transformation into open grasslands undoubtedly had a tremendous impact on local biota. In
those areas of Latin America where human settlements have been transforming the landscape for centuries,
the few remaining patches of forest have an impoverished biota as compared to those in more remote areas
much of the original fauna and flora persists thanks in part to the connectivity provided by a more
heterogeneous landscape.
Judging from very raw estimates of bird species richness in the region, a negligible proportion of the
original avifauna can survive in degraded agricultural systems (Stotz et al., 1996). However, depending on
the original habitat considered, agro-ecosystems can support a substantial proportion of the original
avifauna. This is particularly striking for grasslands (campo, low seasonally wet, southern temperate and
northern temperate), where more than one fourth of the local avifaunas regularly use the agro-ecosystems.
The proportion of migratory species using agro-ecosystems is somewhat larger, perhaps as a consequence
of their less specific habitat requirements. This is particularly striking for those species that occupy open
habitats during their breeding season, and so are able to use man-made habitats during non breeding
seasons. The proportion of breeding birds of natural grasslands using agricultural landscapes represented
by Nearctic migrants, ranges from 64 to 100% (based on statistics from Stotz et al., 1996). Local
variation of bird diversity in agricultural landscapes may depend on the particular type of agricultural
practice on a given area, as has been widely demonstrated for shade coffee plantations in different parts of
the Neotropics. This a factor that deserves attention when evaluating the potential of other land-use
patterns in the region, as is the case for livestock grazing.
In an open range pastureland in the Cauca River Valley of Colombia, Naranjo (1992) found that of 141
species of birds occurring in the region where the study site was located, 42 were counted during censuses
in pastureland, and only 14 regularly used this habitat. However, Cardenas (1998) found that silvopastoral
systems in another locality of the same valley support a significantly larger number of bird species than
open pastureland with very low densities of trees and shrubs. Eighty-nine out of 135 bird species used the
agro-ecosystems and of these, 51 were found breeding within these habitats.
- 121 -



Table annex 12.2: Richness and diversity of birds in different agro-ecological systems in the Cauca
Valle
System                 _             Species                          Diversity Index
Fruit crops                          57                               3.21
Silvopastoral systems                46                               3.07
Improved pastures                     3                                2.98
Dry forest                           33                                2.86
Organic sugarcane production         33                                2.43
Bamboo forest                        29                                2.73
Conventional sugarcane production    19                               1.53
Source: Cardenas, 1999.
In addition, recent information on neotropical migrants using silvopastures suggest that these systems have
a high potential for bird conservation: Greenberg et al. (1997) discovered that managed patches of Acacia
pennatula in southeastern Mexico supported both the highest density and diversity of migratory birds
compared to other habitats in the region, and also, the highest numbers of rnore than one half of the
common migralory species. In general terms, monocultural pasturelands harbour a lower species diversity
than silvopastu:es, second growth, and primary forests. In the Brazilian Amazon, it has been found that
activity of frugivorous birds is more intense (movement between habitats) between secondary forests and
multi-layered pastures, as compared to that between the forest and active monocultural pastures of
Brachiaria brizantha. The presence of scattered trees within the pastures was responsible for 70% of the
observed movements between the patches of secondary forest and the pastures (da Silva et al., 1996).
Table annex 12.3: Movements by frugivorous birds between a secondary forest and pastures in
Amazonian Brazil.
Movements jI um secondary forest to       Rainy Season                Dry Season
Multi-species grass lands 1               263                          113
Pasture monoculture2                       15                         6
1 includes grasses, shrubs, and low density trees
2 Brachiara brizantha
Source: Adapted from da Silva et al, 1996.
Habitat Connectivity and Biodiversity (birds)
Despite the fact that in the three countries considered in the proposal there are a number of protected areas,
the lack of connectivity among them precludes full protection of species that require large areas to maintain
viable populations. Open grasslands separating protected areas and unprotected remnants of natural forests
act as a barrier for many species and the interruption of gene flow among relict populations severely impair
the chances of the survival in the long term. In this respect, the creation of complex agricultural mosaics
provides an opportunity to connect landscape elements in such a way as to facilitate the movements of
native birds to and from the remnant patches of natural habitats.
Among all the wild species native to tropical forests, some bird taxa are particularly sensitive to habitat
- 122-



fragmentation and lack of connectivity. Species with large home ranges such as raptors and large
frugivores are good examples of these limitations, and therefore their protection indirectly benefits a large
number of other taxa, including plants, invertebrates and other vertebrates. The concept of "umbrella"
species is widely used nowadays in planning conservation projects, and any improvement in the conditions
for the survival of these organisms would undoubtedly result in the maintenance of overall species richness,
genetic diversity, and ecological functions at the landscape scale.
In addition to the importance of land use practices which promote habitat connectivity for native tropical
birds and other organisms, the design of conservation projects in productive systems also result in benefits
for non resident species. Migratory birds nesting in North America spend a substantial part of their life
cycles in the Neotropics and in many cases have habitat requirements similar to those of native species. It
has been demonstrated that the maintenance of heterogeneous habitats in Latin America is of the utmost
importance for migratory birds, which depend on tree and shrub cover as a refuge and mainly as foraging
substrate. Along the Central American flyway as well as in the northern Andes, the replacement of natural
forests by homogeneous agricultural landscapes is considered one of the major threats to many North
American birds. For this reason, the implementation of silvopastoral systems in Nicaragua, Costa Rica and
Colombia would add to other ongoing efforts to protect these birds.
In the following paragraphs, a summary of the bird conservation scenario at each of the areas included in
this proposal is presented.
Nicaragua
According to the most recent checklist of Nicaraguan birds (Martinez-Sinchez 2000), 544 species have
been recorded in the country. Even though no geo-political endemics occur in Nicaragua, the avifauna of
the country includes many species with relatively small geographic ranges and therefore highly vulnerable
to the destruction and fragmentation of their natural habitats. These include two globally threatened
species, the Keel-billed Motmot (Electron carinatum) and the Neotropical migrant Golden-cheeked
Warbler (Dendroica chrysoparia) (Collar et al. 1992).
Because of the long history of habitat transforrnation for agricultural purposes, the area where this project
would operate in Nicaragua does not harbor many species sensitive to deforestation. However, the area is
part of the buffer zone of the Natural Reserve Cerro Musun and very close to one of the priority areas for
bird conservation in the country according to The Nature Conservancy Wings of the Americas Program:
this hot spot, located at ca. 1215' N and 8515' W, is considered important for the conservation of 6 bird
species of special concern, including birds with large home ranges such as the Crested Eagle (Morphnus
guianensis), and Central American specialties such as the Snowcap (Microchera albocoronata). The
improvement op arboreal cover in the region would expand suitable habitat for some of these species and
facilitate gene flow among remnants of natural vegetation.
Costa Rica
Among Central American countries, Costa Rica is considered particularly rich in terms of bird diversity.
More than 840 species have been recorded to date (Stiles and Skutch 1989), including 200 Neotropical
migrants and 7 endemic species. Thanks to the number of National Parks and Reserves in the country,
many of these species have some protection; the IUCN Red Data Book (Collar et al. 1992) lists four
threatened species for Costa Rica, including the Bare-necked Umbrella bird (Cephalopterus glabricollis).
Many forest species recorded in Costa Rica are altitudinal migrants, thus requiring a range of habitat types
during their annual cycle. For this reason, habitat connectivity is extremely important for their
- 123 -



conservation, as well as for the maintenance of the ecological processes of which they are part. The
increase of heterogeneity in agricultural landscapes at both sites included in this proposal would play a
major role in this respect. On the one hand, the proximity of the sites to conservation areas such as La
Fortuna Region, the Monteverde Reserve Complex, and the Alberto Brenes Biological Reserve would help
the chances of survival of several species occurring in these protected areas. In addition, two of the areas
considered to be a priority for bird conservation in the country according to The Nature Conservancy
Wings of the Americas Program are in close proximity to the proposed sites (10 30' N and 84 45', 10 15'
N and 84 5'). With enhanced protection measures, these areas can protect at least 52 species of
conservation concern including the Great Currasow (Crax rubra) and the Three-wattled Umbrella bird (
Procnias tricarunculata).
Colombia
One of the features that distinguish Colombia as a megadiverse country is its worldwide famous bird fauna:
about 1800 species have been recorded to date, including more than 150 Neotropical migrants. The Andean
.egion harbors a substantial part of this richness, despite the severe habitat degradation and wholesale
.ieforestation prevalent in many areas. However, many species are considered as; globally threatened or at
:east, highly vulnerable: according to Collar et al. (1992), 55 species are th1eatened to some degree,
including 30 of the 65 geo-political endemics.
The foothills of the Central Andes, where this project would operate, are one of Yr e most severely degraded
regions in .the country from a conservation point of view. Most of the protectei areas in the region are at
nigher elevations, and the few remnants of natural habitats in the foothills are (nostly unconnected. It is
.herefore urgent to implement some actions to restore habitat heterogeneity anr. connectivity in order to
increase the chances of survival of species requiring large home ranges. The prop-.sed sites lie at the core of
many of the areas considered as a priority for bird conservation in Colombia- for instance, one of such
areas included in TNC's Wings for the Americas Program, if protected, would h.-lp to preserve 37 species
of concern, including endemics such as the Cauca Guan (Penelope perspicax), `.e Chestnut Wood-quail (
Odontophorus hyperythrus), and the Red-bellied Grackle (Hypopyrrhus pyrohypjgaster).
Other environmental benefits
There are many other potential enviromnental benefits of silvopastoral systems:
*      They can improve water infiltration and be used for watershed management. Water holding
capacity increases with the presence of trees, which results in better water cycles, and consequently, in the
conservation or improvement of water sources. Although it may even be better precipitation, area-wide,
with the presence of forest cover, the presence of shrubs and trees shifts the rainwater flux from superficial
tunoff, with considerable soil erosion, to more water infiltration, greater soil retention and greater and more
permanent springs and water courses.
*      Soil retention (prevention of landslides). In hilly areas, trees have an additional protective role in
the ecosystem, that of preventing landslides. Not only is the presence of trees essential for soil protection on
slopes, but also the variety of species is important. Trees of different root depths are required for effective
soil anchorage, in particular in those events of torrential rains accompanying tropical storms, which seem
to become more frequent in recent years in many parts of the world.
*      Improvement of soil productivity: increases nutrient re-cycling across a deep portion of the soil
- 124 -



profile occupied by the root systems of a wide variety of plants associated of silvopastoral systems.
Depending on the species of trees being used, and on local mil characteristics, trees extract water and
nutrients from soil horizons inaccessible to grasses, and deposit them on the ground with the natural fall of
foliage, twigs, and fruits. The biomass and amount of nutrients released by pruning the trees of the
agroforestry systems varies depending on the kind of management in use. Nonetheless, it is known that up
to 18 tons of dry matter/ha/year can be deposited on the ground and that the amount of nitrogen flowing
through the system reaches values of up to 380 kg/ha/year in agroforestry settings (Alpizar et al. 1983).
*      Sparing fossil fuels. Silvopastoral systems spare fossil fuels in various ways: a) Shrub and tree
legumes fix atmospheric nitrogen and thus replace energetically (fossil fuel) costly inorganic nitrogen
fertilizers that otherwise would be applied to pastures. b) Silvopastoral systems improve feed quality,
quantity and seasonal distribution throughout the year, and consequently there is less need for
supplementation with concentrates. In general terms, cereal-based concentrates coming from intensive
production are very costly from the point of view of fossil fuel inputs. c) Life-fences and other trees present
in forage banks and pastures, are sources of firewood for rural or urban use, directly replacing fossil fuel.
*      Reduce emissions: Indirect reduction of the emission of greenhouse gases caused by deforestation
and shifting agriculture.
*      Other benefits of silvopastoral systems. The presence of trees potentially brings additional benefits
to farms:
*      Diversification of farm products. Bee honey, fruits and wood (round wood, firewood & posts) are
additional products that can be marketed when silvopastoral systems are established in farms. The
economic value of these would vary depending on their demand and the distance from markets.
*      Beautification of landscape. A farm with trees is no only more beautiful but also more appealing to
potential agro-tourists.
*      Land rehabilitation. Under certain circumstances, the present value of land can be substantially
increased when trees have been planted, and this can be in itself, the main incentive for reforestation.
- 125-



Additional Annex 13: Payment Schemes for Environmental Services
LATIN AMERICA. Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
The underlying principle of the proposed payment system is that the farmer provides environmental
services by changing land use on his/her ranch from mono-culture of native pastures to more complex
vegetation systems. Thus, changes in land use patterns are an indicator of the volumne of environmental
services provided. Using land use changes as the key criterion for the level of payment has the following
advantages:
*      With modern GIS technology, it is relatively low cost to measure. Measuring vegetation (bio-mass
and species) composition would be more costly;
*      It is easy to explain to farmers, who can very well relate to changes in land; and
*      It is measuring the actual services provided by the farmer, which makes them eligible under Bank
regulations, and not the outputs, which cannot be paid under the Bank regulation. .
There are 22 forms of land use in the selected sites in the three countries, ranging from the degraded natural
pastures to secondary forest. All land use forms are given points according to their capacity to sequester
carbon and to sustain biodiversity. The highest score is assigned to the primary forest (the land use formn
that provides the highest environmental services) and no points are given to degraded pastures (as this is the
undesirable land use that the project is focusing on).
To test the hypothesis that the farmers will continue to adoption of silvopastoral systems after payment for
environmental services would stop, it is proposed to introduce one system, which would command a higher
payment per point, but only over the initial 2 years of the installation. This would (a) provide information
on farmers risk assessment of the scheme (the more risk averse would take the short term/high unit payment
scheme) and the sustainability of the technology, without the payment for the services, two of the key
questions asked. Examples of the two schemes are provided below.
Other details:
*      Farmers will have the option of opting for either payment scheme.
*      The price per unit of environmental services will be the same in the three countries, although it will
vary between the two payment systems.
*      The maximum amount to pay for environmental services at the farm level along the entire payment
period will US$ 4,500 for Costa Rica y Nicaragua, and US$ 6,000 for Colombia, as input prices are higher
there.
*      The payment will be proportional to the total increment in environmental services as measured in
relationship to a base line of year 0. It will be annual. Thus, the farmer will receive an annual payment
calculated in relation to the amount of services generated in relationship to the base line established at year
0.
*   - The amount to be paid for environmental services will be computed on US$, although the actual
payment will be in local currency (to convert to local currency, the exchange rate from the previous month
will be used)
As described in Social Assessment (Annex 16), there are farmers operating: (1) on private land that are
either with title or holding land reform title; or (2) on public land, some of which are in the process of
regularizing land tenure For the first case with private land, the contract would represent the owner's
consent to carry out specified activities in his land. For the second case with public land, consent. from
-126-



government to carry out specified activities on the land is expressed through the respective focal point
letter. No cases of a third party exploiting or living in the land are expected in these watersheds, but in
case of any unknown land conflict at the time of the execution of the contract, the corresponding project
implementing unit will have the right to terminate the contract with the farmer. Eligibility criteria for
selecting a farmer and sample contract would be part of the Operational Manual. The cut-off date for
approving silvopastoral systems subprojects is June 30, 2005.
The land use index to be employed as a base for calculating the payment for ES is presented in the table
below. The index was developed by a panel of experts during appraisal.
Carbon sequestration component
The different land use forms are ranked according to their capacity to sequester stable carbon in the soil
and in hard wood through the years.
Land use
Crops (annual, grains and tubers)                 0
atural pasture without trees                      0
Natural pasture + low tree density (less than 30 trees/ha)  0.3
Perennial crops (plantain, coffee without shade)  0.4
Fruit crops (monocrop)                           0.4
Fruit crops (diverse)                            0.4
Improved pastures without trees                  0.5
Living fences                                    0.5
Wind breaks                                      0.5
Riparian Forest                                  0.5
Fodder bank                                      0.6
Natural pasture + high tree density (more than 3  0.6
trees/ha)
Wire Fences with trees                           0.6
Improved pastures + low tree density (less than 3  0.7
trees/ha)                                       .   -
Commercial tree plantation                       0.7
Fodder bank (diverse)                            0.7
Guadua (bamboo) forest                           0.8
Shaded coffee                                    0.8
Scrub habitats (tacotales)                       0.8
Improved pasture + high tree density (more than 3  1
trees/ha)
Secondary Forest                                  I
Primary Forest                                    1
Recent studies indicate that secondary forest can fix an average of 10 tons of carbon per year in wood and
in the soil. As secondary forest has a value of 1 in the index above, therefore 0. 1 corresponds to 1 ton of
carbon. These studies also indicate that improved pastures fixes one half the amount of carbon that
secondary forest does.
- 127 -



Biodiversity component
Biodiversity is affected by multiple factors including number of plant species, spatial arrangement,
stratification, plot size, fruit production, etc. but it is closely related to the diversity and complexity of the
plant species in a given form of land use. Values for biodiversity are assigned according to natural
biodiversity (plants, birds, small mammals and insects) that a particular land use can sustain. Higher values
are given to land use forms that have the greater potential to maintain the original biodiversity of the region.
Land use
Crops (annual, grains and tubers)            0
Natural pasture without trees                0
Improved pastures without trees              0
Perennial crops (plantain, coffee without shade)  0.2
Natural pasture + low tree density (less than 30  0.3  Multiple species (5 or more): 0.1 increment
trees/ha)
Fruit crops (monocrop)                       0.3            Citric: are only valued at 0.1
Improved pastures + low tree density (less than  0.3  Multiples species (5 or more): 0.1 increment
30 trees/ha)
Living fences                                0.4             Multi strata: 0.2 increment
Fodder bank                                  0.4
Natural pasture + high tree density (more than  0.3   Multiples species (S or more): 0.1 increment
30 tiees/ha)
Fruit crops (diverse)                        0.4     _
Wind breaks                                  0.4      Multiple species (5 or more): 0.1 increment;
_______________________________________ ___________       Connectivity: 0.1 increment
Wire Fences with trees                       0.4      Multiples species (5 or more): 0.1 increment
Commercial tree plantation                   0.4       With understory: 0.2 increment, Species
Enrichment: 0.3 Increment
Guadua (bamboo) forest                       0.5        Riparian Guadua forest with associated
_ ______________________________       __________          vegetation: 0. 1 increment
Fodder bank (diverse)                        0.6
Shaded coffee                                0.6      Shade from different species: 0.1 increment
Improved pasture + high tree density (more than  0.6  Multiples species (5 or more): 0.1 increment
30 trees/ha)
Scrub habitats (tacotales)                   0.5          Species Enrichment: 0.1 Increment
Riparian Forest                              0.8
Secondary Forest                             0.9            Larger than 10 m2 basal area
Primary Forest                                1
Land Use Index
The land use index would be applied to all land use forms existing in the farm at the beginning of the
project and annually throughout the life of the project. The index would be the base for the payment to
generate or increase environmental services in the farm.
- 128 -



Already on the basis of one single index for all years.
Land Use                                                          Index
Crops (annual, grains and tubers)                                 0
Natural pasture without trees                                      0
Improved pastures without trees                                   0.5
Natural pasture + low tree density (less than 30 trees/ha)        0.6
Perennial crops (plantain, coffee without shade)                  0.6
Fruit crops (monocrop)                                            0.7
Fruit crops (diverse)                                             0.8
Living fences                                                     0.9
Wind breaks                                                       0.9
Fodder bank                                                        1
Natural pasture + high tree density (more than 30 trees/ha)       0.9
Improved pastures + low tree density (less than 30 trees/ha)       1
Wire Fences with trees                                             I
Commercial tree plantation                                        1.1
Fodder bank (diverse)                                             1.3
Riparian Forest                                                   1.3
Guadua (bamboo) forest                                            1.3
Shaded coffee                                                     1.4
Scrub habitats (tacotales)                                        1.3
Improved pasture + high tree density (more than 30 trees/ha)      1.6
Secondary Forest                                                  1.9
Primary Forest                                                     2
Payment Scheme I
The farmer will receive an annual payment for ES, computed according to the index, along the payment
period (4 years). The amount to pay for each point in the index will be US$ 50,00.
Below are presented two possible cases of investment paths on silvopastoral systems. The cases are
presented to illustrate how payments for environmental services are calculated under Payment Scheme I,
when land use changes are done at once or spread over time. In Case 1, all investments related to
silvopastoral systems are incurred at the beginning of the project (Year 0). In Case 2, investments are
spread along two years (Year 0 and Year 1). Both cases refer to a farm with a surface equal to 20 ha.
To facilitate computations, this accounting convention is followed:
*      The baseline to measure increments in environmental services is established at Year 0.
*      It is assumed that every transaction falls at the end of the accounting period. This implies that
investments in silvopastoral systems incurred at Year 0 are paid at Year 1. Therefore, the payment for
environmetal services associated with land use changes for investments in silvopastoral systems incurred in
Year 0 is computed according to the corresponding value in the index under Year 1.
-129 -



Case 1. Land use changes only at the beginning of the payment period
All investments related to land use changes are performed at Year 0. The following table describes the
changes in land use in the farm along the payment period.
Land Use Type                       Year 0     Year I   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
(Baseline)
Natural pastures with low tree density  17.5     10       10       10       10
Natural pastures with high tree density  0       5        5        5        5
Crops (annual, grains, tubers)       2.5        2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5
Fodder bank                           0         0.75     0.75     0.75     0.75
Scrub habitat                         0         1.75     1.75     1.75     1.75
Total area (ha)                      20.0        20       20       20       20
Wire fences with trees (Im)          0.0        1.85     1.85     1.85     1.85
The following table indicates the total number of points for the farm per year. The total amount of points
per year for the farm is computed multiplying the area under each land use with its corresponding score
from the index.
Land Use Type                            Year 1      Year 2     Year 3    Year 4
Natural pastures with low tree             0            0         0         0
Natural pastures with higr tree density   4.5          4.5        4.5      4.5
Crops (annual, grains, tubers)             0           0          0         0
Fodder bank                               0.75        0.75       0.75      0.75
Scrub habitat                            2.275        2.275      2.275    2.275
Wire fences with trees (aki)              1.85        1.85       1.85      1.85
Total points for the farm                8.875        8.875      8.875    8.875
From the previous table, multiply total points for the farm per year by US$ 50,00.
Land Use Type                            Year 1      Year 2     Year 3    Year 4
Total points for the farm (TP)           8.875        8.875      8.875    8.875
Income from ES (TP * US$ 50,0)           443.75      443.75     443.75    443.75
The net present value (at a 12% discount rate) for the payment for ES is: US$ 1,347.82.
Case 2. Land use changes along the payment period
Investments related to land use changes are incurred at Year 0 and Year 1. The changes with respect to
Case 1 are: (a) at Year 0, 3 ha of natural pastures with low tree density are transformed to natural pastures
with high tree density, and (b) at Year 1, another two ha are transformed to natural pastures with high tree
density. The following table describes the changes in land use in the farm along the payment period.
-130 -



Land Use Type                           Year 0   Year 1   Year 2  Year 3  Year 4
(Baseline)
Natural pastures with low tree density   17.5      12       10      10      10
Natural pastures with high tree density (Yea  0     3       3       3        3
Natural pastures with high tree density (Yea  -     -       2       2        2
1)I
Crops (annual, grains, tubers)           2.5       2.5     2.5     2.5      2.5
Fodder bank                               0       0.75     0.75    0.75    0.75
Scrub habitat                             0        1.75    1.75    1.75    1.75
Total area (ha)                          20.0      20       20      20      20
Wire fences with trees (kIn)             0.0       1.85    1.85    1.85     1.85
The following table indicates the total number of points for the farm per year. The total amount of points
per year for the farm is computed multiplying the area under each land use with its corresponding score
from the index.
Land Use Type                            Year I      Year 2     Year 3   Year 4
Natural pastures with low tree density     0           0          0         0
Natural pastures with high tree density (Year  2.7    2.7        2.7       2.7
0)
Natural pastures with high tree density (Yea  -        1.8       1.8       1.8
1)
Crops (annual, grains, tubers)             0           0          0         0
Fodder bank                               0.75        0.75       0.75     0.75
Scrub habitat                            2.275       2.275      2.275     2.275
Wire fences with trees (kIn)              1.85        1.85       1.85      1.85
Total points for the farm                7.575       9.375      9.375     9.375
From the previous table, multiply total annual points for the farm by US$ 50.00.
Land Use Type                            Year I      Year 2     Year 3    Year4
Total points for the farm (TP)           7.575       9.375      9.375     9.375
Income from ES (TP * US$ 50,0)          378.75       468.75     468.75    468.75
The net present value (at a 12% discount rate) for the payment for ES is: US$ 1,343.40.
- 131 -



Payment Scheme II
The farmer will receive an annual payment for ES, computed according to the index, during a two-year
period. The discounted total payment for the services expected to being provided over the four-year period
under this option will be, on average, 20 percent less than the discounted total payment under option 1, to
account for the reduced risk to the farmer of adopting this second option.
Procedure for computing payment scheme II
*      Compute the net present value of payments for services expected to be provided for each land use
type over the four-year period under the PSI. To do this, a 12% discount rate (average real discount rate
arnong the three countries) is used. The computation is made for the first four years of the index since there
are four annual payments under PSI.
*      Calculate the net present value corresponding to 80% of the original net present value under PSI.
This is done by multiplying the previously obtained net present value by 0.80.
*      Compute the net present value of the points from the index corresponding to each land use type
over the two-year period. To do this, a 12% discount rate (average real discount rate among the three
countritcs) is used.
*      Calculate the price for each land use type, which multiplied by the net present value of the points
fiom the index over the two-year period results in an income equal to 80% of the original net present value
under FSI.
*      Take the mean of the prices obtained in the previous step to obtain the price that gives, on average,
an income for environmental services that is 20% less than under payment scheme 1.
Under rhis procedure, the price per point to be applied for payment scheme I is about US$ 72.00.
The samue two cases presented in the previous section (used to illustrate Payment Scheme I) are presented
below as examples for computing revenues from ES under Payment Scheme II. In Case 1, all investments
are made at Year 0, whereas in Case 2, investments are made at Year 0 and Year 1.
Case 1. Land Use Changes Only at the Beginning of the Payment Period
All invtstments related to land use changes are performed at Year 0. The following table describes the
changes in land use in the farm along the two-year payment period.
Land Use Type                              Year 0        Year 1         Year 2
(Baseline)
Natural pastures with low tree density       17.5          10             10
Natural pastures with high tree density       0             5             5
Crops (annual, grains, tubers)               2.5           2.5           2.5
Fodder bank                                   0           0.75           0.75
Scrub habitat                                 0            1.75          1.75
Total area (ha)                             20.0           20            20
Wire fences with trees (kcm)                 0.0           1.85          1.85
The following table indicates the total number of points for the farm per year. The total amount of points
per year for the farm is computed multiplying the area under each land use with its corresponding score
- 132 -



from the index.
Land Use Type                                Year 1                Year 2
Natural pastures with low tree                  0                     0
Natural pastures with high tree density        4.5                   4.5
Crops (annual, grains, tubers)                  0                     0
Fodder bank                                   0.75                  0.75
Scrub habitat                                 2.275                 2.275
Wire fences with trees (km)                    1.85                  1.85
Total points for the farm                     8.875                 8.875
From the previous table, multiply total points for the farm per year by US$ 72,00.
Land Use Type                                Year 1                Year 2
Total points for the farm (TP)                8.875                 8.875
Income from ES (TP * US$ 72,0)                639.0.                639.0
The net present value (at a 12% discount rate) for the payment for ES for this case under Payment Scheme
II is US$ 1,079.94. This amounts to 80% of the net present value of benefits from ES if the farmer would
have opted for PSI. [Eighty percent of the net present value under Payment Scheme I equals US$ 1,078.26
(US$ 1,347.82 * 0.80)].
Case 2. Land Use Changes Along the Payment Period
Investments related to land use changes are incurred at Year 0 and Year 1. The changes with respect to
Case 1 are: (a) at Year 0, 3 ha of natural pastures with low tree density are transformed to natural pastures
with high tree density, and (b) at Year 1, another two ha are transformed to natural pastures with high tree
density. The following table describes the changes in land use in the farm along the two-year payment
period.
Land Use Type                                    Year 0      Year 1      Year 2
(Baseline)
Natural pastures with low tree density            17.5         12          10
Natural pastures with high tree density (Year 0)   0           3           3
Natural pastures with high tree density (Year 1)    -          -           2
Crops (annual, grains, tubers)                     2.5        2.5         2.5
Fodder bank                                        0          0.75        0.75
Scrub habitat                                      0          1.75        1.75
Total area (ha)                                   20.0         20          20
Wire fences with trees (kIn)                      0.0         1.85        1.85
The following table indicates the total number of points for the farm per year. The total amount of points
per year for the farm is computed multiplying the area under each land use with its corresponding score
from the index.
- 133 -



Land Use Type                                         Year 1          Year 2
Natural pastures with low tree density                  0               0
Natural pastures with high tree density (Year 0)       2.7             2.7
Natural pastures with high tree density (Year 1)  _      _1.8
Crops (annual, grains, tubers)                          0               0
Fodder bank                                            0.75            0.75
Scrub habitat                                         2.275            2.275
Wire fences with trees (1am)                           1.85            1.85
Total points for the farm                              7.575           9.375
From the previous table, multiply total annual points for the farm * US$ 72.00.
Land Use Type                                         Year I          Year 2
rotal points for the farm (TP)                        7.57S           9.375
Income from ES (TP * US$ 72,0)                         545.4           675.0
The net present value (at a 12% discount rate) for the payment for ES for this case under Payment Scheme
I] is US$ 1,025.07. This amounts to 76.3% of the net present value of benefits from ES if the farmer would
have opted for PSI. [Eighty percent of the net present value under Paym..ent Scheme I equals US$ 1,074.72
(US$ 1,343.4 * 0.80)].
lI.    Farm Contracts
As described in Social Assessment (Annex 16), there are farmers operating: (1) on private land that are
either with title or holding land reform title; or (2) on public land, some of which are in the process of
regularizing land tenure For the first case with private land, the contract would represent the owner's
consent to carry out specified activities in his land. For the second case with public land, consent from
government to carry out specified activities on the land is expressed through the respective focal point
letter. No cases of a third party exploiting or living in the land are expected in these watersheds, but in
case of any unknown land conflict at the time of the execution of the project the corresponding project
implementing entity will have the right to terminate the contract with the farmer. Eligibility criteria for
selecting a farmer and sample contract would be part of the Operational Manual. The cut-off date for
approving silvopastoral systems subprojects is June 30, 2005.
A contract will be signed between the farmer and the corresponding project implementing entity. The
contract will define the rights and duties of each party. Among others, the contract will include:
*      Banning of burning in pastures and other land use types existing in the farm, except those areas
devoted to food security. In the latter, burning will be prohibited after year 3.
*      If elimination of primary or secondary forest in the farm is verified, the participation of the farmer
in the Project will be canceled and the contract will be terminated.
*      If a natural disaster will occur, the contract will be terminated.
*      The management plan and its execution are part of the contract. The annual plan of operation may
be subjected to change with prior approval of the corresponding implementation entity
*      The corresponding project implementation entity agrees to pay for the environmental services
provided in the farm.
*      The Project will make available technical assistance.
- 134-



*      The management plan may contemplate timber extraction, but if this is the case, the extraction
must be in the management plan.
*      The maximum amount to pay for environmental services at the farm level along the entire payment
period will US$ 4,500 for Costa Rica and Nicaragua, and US$ 6,000 for Colombia.
*      The contract must include a clause indicating the farmers' commitment to decrease the use of
agrochemicals.
*      Under the payment scheme I, the length of the contract will be four (4) years. For payment scheme
II, it will be two (2) years.
*      If there is a change in land tenure, the new owner may continue with the contract with the prior
approval of the corresponding Project implementation entity
*      The corresponding Project implementation entity will terminate the contract if conflicts on land
tenure arise.
No new contracts will be signed after the end of year 3.
The amount to be paid for providing environmental services will be computed in US$. Although the actual
payment will be in local currency (to convert to local currency, the applicable exchange rate from the
previous month will be used).on the value date of the transaction, i.e. payment date, will be used).
- 135 -



Additional Annex 14: Monitoring and evaluation plan
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Monitoring of biological and socio economical trends would be assured by the monitoring programs
included in the baseline course of action as well as by the methods that would be established by the
alternative. Monitoring results and conclusions reached as a result of evaluation reports would be used to
recommend and implement changes in project management and for future reference in the development of
similar or related projects.
The focus would be on measuring global environmental benefits such as carbon sequestration, and
biodiversity; local environmental benefits such as water quality; socio-economic benefits, and land use
change. Project evaluation would also be done (achievement of project objective).
A. Methodology for monitoring incremental Carbon in different land use systems of livestock farms
Introduction
Silvopastoral systems are known to enhance carbon sequestration which can result in environmental
benefits for farmers. The GEF silvopastoral project would be involved in payments for environmental
services and this document describes a methodology for classification of land use systems and carbon
sequestration on livestock farms.
Creation of Data base offarms selected:
A data base would be created for each farm selected which include biophysical and socio-economic data:
1.     Land use system (traditional and improved pastures, silvopastoral systems secondary and primary
forest
2.     Geographic distribution of systems (GPS)
3.     Soil conditions and topography: type, fertility, physical aspects, slope
4.     Management: fire, grazing etc.
5.     Socio-economic data
Classification of Land Use Systems
The three pilot areas selected for the project are Esparza in Costa Rica; Matiguas (Rio Paiwas and Bulbul)
in Nicaragua; and Quindio in Colombia. The most recent Ortho rectified aerial photographs (scale 1: 6000)
of each pilot area would be printed and used to delimit the farm area and to establish the data base of land
use systems at a farm level. Also, in each map, rivers, roads and conservation sites would be marked out.
A field survey staff would be contracted to delimit the farm boundaries in the pilot area using photographic
images, and in consultation with experts of the area and with farmers and through "ground thruthing". A
map would be developed for each farm selected which has the pasture divisions and a land use
classification. The methodologies develop by FAO and TROF (Trees Outside The Forest) Project would be
adapted for the classification of land use systems at the farm level. The vegetation categories would be
established based on photo-interpretation and field sampling to determine land use systems in each pilot
area. Biophysical data influencing carbon sequestration would be collected for each farm including:
topography, soils, management (fertilization, rotaton and burning etc), age of establishment, species etc.
Vegetation categories that would be considered are:
Primary forest (dense and moderately dense primary forest);
Recently closed secondary forest (10 -15 years). Secondary forest in areas of abandon land and
- 136 -



with a cover of >70%;
-      Recently moderately closed secondary forest. Secondary forest in areas of abandon land with a
cover of 40 - 69%;
-      Advanced closed secondary forest Secondary forest in areas of abandon land (15 -30 years) and
with cover > 75%;
-      Advance moderately closed secondary forest. Secondary forest in areas of abandon land (15 -30
years) with cover of 60 - 69%;
-      Forest plantations (according to age and species)
-      Tacotales: natural vegetation with woody perennials dominating that are generally 0.5 - 5 m;
-      Riparian forest (kin);
-      Living fences (kcm);
-      Annual and perennial crops (maize, beans, sugar cane, coffee, citrus, etc;)
-      Types of pastures
Natural pastures
Improved pastures (with and without fertlisation)
Natural pastures with different tree densities;
Improved pastures with different tree densities;
Mixed pastures (natural + improved pastures)
Tree-Pasture Alley system;
Fodder banks
The following criteria would be used for classification of different pastures:
Tree densities:
Threc categories of pastures with dispersed trees would be established based on the tree cover observed in
each lot or polygon of pastures identified on the aerial photographs and though "ground thruthing". The
categories are: Low tree density: pasture with tree cover less than 5%; moderate tree density: pasture with
tree cover of 5 to 20%; and high tree density: pasture with tree cover of 20 to 40%.
Pasture Degradation
Pasture degradation is an important factor affecting carbon sequestration and pastures would be classified
according to the degree of degradation. Three factors would be used to determine the degree of pasture
degradation:
1)     Cover of desirable species: predominance of desirable grasses and trees with respect to weeds
2)     Soil cover: percentage of soil covered
3)     Erosive process:
a)     without erosion (1)
b)     sheet erosion (areas indicating loss of top soil, 2)
c)     severe erosion (areas with steps or rills, 3)
d)     very severe erosion (areas with gullies, 4)
A ranking system was developed for each of the criteria used for degradation (table 1, 2).
- 137-



Table 1. Assignation of values for the classification of cover of desirable species, soil cover and erosive
processes
Cover of desirable species    Soil cover, %                  Erosive process
> 90                           70- 90                        40 -70 < 40> 9070- 9040
-70 < 401234
10                            7                              4110741201471
Table 2. Degree of degradation o pastures (calculated from table 1
Corresponding value         Degree of degradation       Code
> 36                     _Without                        1
28- 36                     Light                         2
20 - 27                     Moderate                     3
16 ---20                   Stvere                       4
< 16                        V!ery severe                 5
The field data collected for categories of vegetation would be digitized on the aerial photographs in the
computer and a data base would be developed for each farm. Geographical orientation of each plot in each
farm would be digitized in the data base. The baseline data of carbon in different land use systems would
be established for each farm. The mehodology for quantifying carbon is described below.
Baseline and incremental carbon n different land use systems
Thte baseline data for carbon in e;1-ch farm would be established. For monitoring of incremental carbon,
plots reprusenting land use systems lescribed above would be delimited. A pre-sample would be conducted
to determine variation in carbon stWA,k and to determine the number of plots for each vegetation class that
would be required for sampling to provide a good estimate of incremental carbon in different land use
systems. 10 to 15% of farms inscriled in the program would be selected to monitor changes in carbon in
time and to develop equations and indicators to estimate incremental carbon. The criteria for selecting
farms would include:
1.     Representative of livestock p,roduction systems in the area
2.     land use: pasture, silvopastoral systems and forest systems
3.     Farmers are willing to collaborate in the establishment of permanent plots
4.     Access to farns
On each farm, carbon would be moniitored in the different land use systems (about 6 plots/system) and the
data would be used to estimate irncremental carbon in the rest of farms inscribed in the project using
indicators developed from sampling plots. In table 3 is a list of indicators and methodology that would be
used for monitoring carbon in each of the land use system that are common in livestock farms.
- 138 -



Table 3. Indicators and methodology for monitoring carbon in different systems.
SYSTEM                   INDICATOR                  METHODOLOGY
Pasture (according to     Dry matter production     BOTANAL, dry weight rank method, root
degradation)                                        coring
botanical composition
grass cover
pasture management
root biomass and density
Trees dispersed in pastures  Growth                 Measurement of diameter at breast height and
(according to degradation)                         total height, develop equations to predict carbon
Volume
Tree density              Inventory
Roots                     Root coring
Secondary forest (according  Aerial biomass         harvest and weigh biomass of each component,
to age and cover)                                   age, root coring, establish equations
Density of species
Roots
Plantation (according to age, Growth                Measurement in diameter at breast height, total
species and cover)                                  height, root coring, establish equations
Volume
Roots
Trees: living fence post,  Growth                   Measurement of diameter at breast height and
borderlines, riparian forest                        total height
I__________                yield, density/km
Carbon estimated for different land use would be entered in the GIS data base and in data base developed
for each farm with the objective of calculating incremental carbon.
Methodology for estimating carbon
In each farm selected permanent plots would be established for different land use systems (using GPS) to
first establish data on baseline carbon of each farm and then to monitor annual changes in incremental
carbon.
The estimations of carbon would be carried out for the following sources: above ground biomass
(TIMBER) and soil (different depths).
CARBONINABOVE GROUND BIOMASS
In order to monitor carbon sequestered by trees, temporary plots would be established which have a
circular shape and it varies according to the productions systems (Table 4). In the case of line planting,
linear plots would be established.
- 139-



Table 4: Plot size for monitoring carbon in different production systems.
System                         Plot size
RADIUS (m)AREA (m2)LENGTH (m)
Silvopastoral  system  (dispersed 15706.9
trees)
Plantations                     10314.2
Secondary forest and fodder banks  578.5
Trees in line planting          30
Fuente: Adaptado de MacDiken 1997.
In each farm of the fifteen farms selected, a plot would be established for each of the systems identified to
monitor carbon.
Localization ofplots.
In the first sampling date, a representative area in each farm would be selected using sampling techniques
developed by CATIE and adapted from methodologies developed by TROF and Winrock. The coordinates
of each plot would be determined using a GPS and entered in the data base. From the central point, a
measuring tape (MO would be extended to mark the radius of the plots. Once the plot size has been
established, data would be collected on abundance and dynamics of trees, diameter at breast heiglt, total
height etc.
Diameter would be measured with a breast height measuring tape and height with a graduated measuring
rod. Height would also be calculated using the following equation (in absence f rod):
Where;
Ht:    Total height (m)
Dh:    Horizontal distance (m)
Ms:     Highest point of the tree (m)
Mi:    Lowest point of the tree (tree base) (m)
The volume of timber and or biomass would be estimated based on allometric equations developed for each
species. In case that these equations do not exist for a given species, sampling would be carried out to
develop the equations.
Constructing allometric equations.
An alometric equation for each or a group of species would be constructed in the absence of secondary
information. The population of a given species would be divided in 4 to 5 diameter classes (depending on
the variability) and 4 to 5 individuals of each diameter class would be selected to take data on diameter at
breast height, total height, crown area, and commercial volume. Plants would then be harvested to quantify
Dry matter biomass: trunk, branches and leaves)
Carbon content of biomass.
For each of the important species, a sample of wood would be taken to determine the carbon content using
calometric method developed by Eduarte y Segura 1999. Total carbon would be estimated based on
volume, density and carbon content.
- 140-



Soil carbon
Soil carbon would be determined at different depths using a soil auger. The depths are: 0 -20, 20-40 and
40 - 100 cm. Samples collected would be air dried and analyzed in the laboratory for carbon using method
of Waildey-Black.
equation:
%COS = %MOS x 0.58
Where;
%COS:         % organic soil carbon
°/MOS:        % soil organic matter
0.58:         constant (% de COS en MOS).
Bulk density would be measured for each depth and would be used to estimate carbon:
Pss
Vc
Where;
DA:    Bulk density (g cm-3)
SS:    dry weight of soil (g)
Vc:    Volume of cylinder (cm3)
CA =PmxDAx%COS
where;
CA     :      stored carbon; (t ha-1)
Pm      :     soil depth (cm)
DA     :      apparent density (g cm-3)
%COS:         soil organic carbon, (%)
Sampling frequency
Temporary plots established on farms would be monitored once per year during the 5 year duration of the
project.
Impact of Project on Carbon Sequestration
GIS maps of each pilot area would be obtained and changes in land use systems would be digitized on
maps. Carbon sequestered in each system would also be entered so as to produce maps that describes the
effects of changes in pasture/silvopastoral land use systems on carbon sequestration. The C02 fix model
would be adapted to model the effect of land use changes on carbon sequestration in different ecosystems.
B. Biodiversity Monitoring in the Target Areas
Because of the complexity and high costs of monitoring all of the biodiversity components at the pilot
project sites in the three countries, this project would concentrate on two specific indicators: changes in
vegetation, and bird species diversity and abundance. In order to document the changes in vegetation cover
- 141 -



during the implementation of the project, an assessment and description of the major habitats present at
each region would be made. In addition, to evaluate the impact of habitat changes resulting from the
project on the local biota, monitoring would be conducted of the composition and abundances of birds as
indicators of the taxonomic component of biodiversity. The reason for choosing birds as an indicator is
justified by the following criteria:
*      Bird communities are sensitive indicators of habitat type and condition.  Therefore careful
ornithological surveys can provide quick, practical assessments of the ecological characteristics and
conservation status of many terrestrial communities in the tropical Americas" (Stotz, Fitzpatrick, Parker,
Moskovits, 1996).
*      Birds are well-known organisms, and therefore the uncertainty of taxonomic identification is
eliminated almost completely. Identification of birds at the species level is possible in the field, and an
examination of how representative is the recorded avifauna is possible by comparison with existing
databases and literature sources.
*      Because of the wide range of ecological functions performed by birds, this group provides an
insight into the ecological dynamics of the agroecosystems. A healthy community of birds indicates that
ecological processes such as pollination, seed dispersal and trophic relations are maintained within the
spatial scale chosen for the project.
e      Standardized field procedures for monitoring bird populations and communities are available, and
therefore the information gathered during the project would be comparable with similar studies for other
segions arid/or extrapolated for similar geographic and physiographic settings.
HEabitat-descriptions
The major components of the landscape would be identified, geo-referenced, and described. The
descriptions would include:
A general -tloristic assessment at each sampling plot for carbon sequestration. A circular plot would be set
(radius according to production system -- see carbon monitoring), and all plants with a DBH equal to or
larger than 2cm would be counted and identified at least at the generic level. A standard vegetation profile
for each landscape unit would be produced, determining the different vegetation strata and relative covers
of each plant identified in the previous exercise. Based on the numbers of individual plants, and their
projected perpendicular cover, relative frequencies, and abundance would be estimated to determine
dominance and specific associations. Tree and shrub diversity would be estimated based on the abundance
of each species using the Shannon-Wiener index.
Each habitat thus characterized would be assigned a specific graphic code to be used in a layer of the GIS
built for each region. Initial area of each habitat would be estimated, and the spatial relationships among
every pair of habitats would be established. This information would be the baseline to evaluate the changes
in vegetation cover during the implementation of the project. New measurements would be taken once every
year, and the dates and locations of all major land management procedures would be duly recorded. As
part of the silvopasture project, farmers would be encouraged to increase connectivity between habitats,
and to adopt best management practices that favor biodiversity as recommended by the implementing
agencies and the researchers carrying out biodiversity monitoring.
Bird Monitoring
Given the small size of the farms chosen for the pilot projects in the three countries, and limited resources
available to conduct the monitoring, it would be very unlikely to establish an adequate number of sampling
plots for each representative habitat within the agricultural landscape at every farm. For this reason, and
aiming to assess the impact of the proposed land conversion on the local biota, it was agreed by all partners
- 142 -



to carry out the initial assessment of the indicator group (birds) and monitoring changes in composition and
abundances of individual species at the landscape level. Monitoring in all three countries would be
conducted by a local biodiversity organization with support and coordination from an international
conservation organization and in cooperation and partnership with the in-country agricultural partners.
The local biodiversity organizations would also participate in project workshops as appropriate and would
assist with outreach efforts to local communities. The international conservation organization would
provide partners with a monitoring manual to ensure consistency in monitoring and methods and reporting.
The baseline study would be conducted on establish plots for about 10% of the farms in the project The
plots selected where a change in the next 5 years would be expected. Criteria for plot selection would
include choosing adequate examples of all the major habitats, favoring those of larger size where possible,
including natural pastures with high densities of trees, living fences, windbreaks, tacotales of 1-5 years,
secondary forests, etc.
As a first step, a general survey of land use and habitats on each farm, and their placement in relation to
one another, would be conducted. Depending on size, shape and type of habitat, either fixed monitoring
points or transects within each study plot would be established and the baseline study would be conducted
in the first few months thereafter.
For each plot, a monitoring schedule, including frequency of visits to the plots, which would depend on
costs associated with the logistics. Each season (wet, dry, migration, wintering, major breeding) must be
covered adequately and observations must be made between 6-10 a.m., when birds are most active. Most of
the fund for monitoring will be spent on year 1, 3 and 5.
Baseline and monitoring would record observations on the entire avifauna of the farm as feasible, since
there is a dynamic relationship between habitat types and changes in the avifauna in one may be reflected in
another. Analysis of the monitoring data would include not only increase in bird populations of the various
species, but whether target species (rare species and forest species) have benefited. Other groups (dung
beetles, small mammals, herptiles) would be monitored if other funds become available. Insofar as
possible, monitoring would include looking at the biodiversity changes in birds within the entire watershed,
and analyze which changes in which habitat types have most affected them.
C. Biological Monitoring of Aquatic Environments in Pasture-Dominated Watersheds
This subcomponent of the monitoring plan has the following aims:
1.     To establish and test a methodology for the biomonitoring of aquatic ecosystems sensible
to the transformations done in the livestock systems.
2.     To provide quantitative and qualitative information about the effect of the intensified
silvopastoral systems on the biotic and abiotic aspects of aquatic environments.
3.     To train members of the community in the evaluation of aquatic environments using
biological methods.
Biological monitoring of water quality or biomonitoring was proposed at the beginning of last centuiy by
Kolwitz & Marsson and has been used throughout the world to determine organisms, groups of organisms,
biotic and pollution indexes useful in the evaluation of aquatic environments. Among the aquatic
organisms, benthic macroinvertebraes are the most commonly used to assess water quality. They are
currently used in United States, Canada, Europe, Australia and Japan, among other countries, as indicators
- 143 -



of the status of aquatic environments and in the assessment of the effect of human activities in rural and
urban areas.
Due to the natural distribution of benthic macroinvertebrates, the particular conditions of each region and
the nature of human factors that affect the aquatic environments, the indicators should be identified,
developed and validated for each region and human activity that affect directly of indirectly the water
bodies.
This part of the project would identify the indexes and metrics in the aquatic biota most sensible to
livestock activities that can hence, be used as indicators of their effects on the aquatic environments. They
would also be tested in their capacity to detect an improvement of livestock management practices, mainly
through an increase of intensive silvopastoral systems. To achieve this aim watercourses that drain these
areas would be monitored periodically during the project.
An intensive monitoring activity would be carried out ir. south-western Colombia where the project is
implemented (evaluation of 10 watersheds of the project anJ 5 control watersheds -5 watersheds in a
pastureland landscape not transformed with the project)-Total: J S watersheds).
The reasons for the selection of this region are:
1) There are two environmental public institutions in the zone wvlling to collaborate with the proposal in the
monitoring of water environrments. 2) There are previous inve ,tories of the regional aquatic biota. 3) The
team in charge of the research is based in the region.
The indicators identified in Colombia would be then tested --.ad validated in Costa Rica and Nicaragua,
where workshop would be held in year 1, 3 ,5.
Methodology
The work would be carried out in La Vieja river basin in south-western Colombia. Several watersheds
would be selected in this basin in order to evaluate the effect of the increase in tree cover on the water
environment.
After a selection of the streams to be monitored, a study would be done in order to assess the status of those
environments in their biotic and abiotic aspects.
Such assessment would include a revision of cartographic information regarding geology, slope, hydrology
and land use. Furthermore, all other sources of information about the region would be consulted.
This information would be complemented with field visits in which additional data about the aquatic habitat
would be collected in a format that include the following aspects:
-      Origin of the water course (spring, wetland, etc.)
-      Sources of water pollution in the catchment area.
-      Erosion in the area (severe, moderated or no evident).
-      Predominant surrounding vegetation.
-      Presence of urban developments, roads or other civil works.
All this information would be analyzed to select the water bodies in which the evaluation would be carried
out. Once the streams are selected, the information would be complemented with a first sampling event
including land use, aquatic macroinvertebrates, water quality parameters and instream habitat evaluation.
All the information collected would be processed and reported as the base line of the study.
The aquatic environment and the land use would be monitored twice per year including the following
information:
- 144-



Land Use Characterization
Land use/cover would be assessed at two landscape scales: For the entire subcatchment and for a 40 m
buffer strip (20 m on each side of the stream). In the first case all the area upstream the sampling reach
would be considered and in the smaller scale the buffer strip considered would extend up to 0.5 km
upstream from the sampling reach. Apart from the predominant pasture areas, the remaining land use
features would be recorded (perennial agriculture, transitory agriculture, agroforestry systems, forests,
pastures, and others). Data would be collected from databases available, aerial photographs and direct
measurements on the field, and merged in the GIS program ARC/INFO to yield the land use cover
percentage for each catchment area. Exact location of each catchment in altitude, longitude and latitude,
and evidence of erosion and non-point source pollution would also be recorded.
For all the watersheds surveyed a characterization of the type and status of riparian vegetation would be
done (following Barbour et al 1999). This information would also be merged in the GIS program to
estimate the riparian vegetation cover and to measure the influences of this vegetation on physical habitat
and biota found in the streams.
In each stream a 100m reach would be selected to measure water quality, habitat characteristics and biota
twice in a year period. The measurements done during the first six months of the study would be considered
as the base line.
Instream Features
The following parameters would be measured to characterize the stream physical habitat:
Average width, average depth; surface velocity at thalweg (m sec-i) and water flow (litres sec-1); instream
aquatic vegetation type and large woody debris abundance; inorganic and organic substrate components;
percentage of habitat types, percentage of embeddedness, percentage of sinuosity and channel flow and
bank status. The methods and type of data sheets used for collecting this information are based in Balfour
et al (1999) and Gordon et al (1992).
Water quality parameters
The parameters to measure would be temperature, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, pH, turbidity, ammonia,
total phosphate, total suspended solids, Biochemical Oxygen Demand, alkalinity, total coliforms and faecal
colifornes. Dissolved oxygen would be measured directly in the field using the Winkler modified method.
Conductivity, pH and temperature would be also measured in the field using a portable equipment and the
remaining parameters would be analyzed in a laboratory according to the Standard Methods (American
Public Health Association, 1985).
Macroinvertebrates
Aquatic macroinvertebrate samples would be collected from each reach using a 5OOjm mesh D frame net.
A total of 20 kicks or jabs would be taken from all major habitat types in the reach in proportion to their
representation of surface area.
Habitats can be either riffles, runs, snags, vegetated banks, submerged woody debris, submerged and
overhanging macrophytes, banks or depositional areas. All macroinvertebrates obtained would be preserved
in 95% alcohol for further processing. In the laboratory, samples would be sorted and all the individuals
counted as suggested by Doberstein et al (2000). The identification would be done at genus or species level
for all taxa with exception of chironomidae and oligochaeta that would be identified to subfamily and
family level respectively. The main keys used would be Roldin (1996) and Merrit & Cummins (1996).
Information about macroinvertebrate assemblages found in each site would be characterized according to
- 145-



the following indexes and single value metrics: 1) Richness metrics (Total number of taxa and number of
EPT taxa). 2) Tolerance/intolerance measures (Number of intolerant taxa, % of tolerant organisms, % of
dominant taxon). 3) Feeding measures (% filterers, % grazers, % scrappers). 4) The Invertebrate
Community Index (ICI) and the Magalef & Hilsenhoff's family biotic index. All metrics would be adapted
to the local fauna and tested for sensibility to changes in landscape and other patterns.
The aim of the analysis is to find the most sensible biotic and abiotic parameters to the changes done in the
pasturelands. With this in mind, all the information would be processed to detect changes during the study
and their relationship with the increase of tree cover in the catchment area.
The most sensible species, metrics or indexes to the changes in the land cover would be selected as
candidates to be evaluated in Costa Rica and Nicaragua.
Community Involvement
Local co-researchers would be chosen to participate in the collection of information and in the field
measurements.
The co-researchers would be trained in the sampling techniques, macroinvertebrate sorting and
identification and equipment handling. In addition they would collaborate in the elaboration of teaching
material, preparation of meetings in which the community would be informed about the project and trained
to evaluate the water bodies using aquatic organisms. The co-researchers would also be in charge of taking
rainfall and temperature data and would record any extraordinary event in the aquatic environment, such as
spates, fish deaths or any accidental pollutant spillage.
As intermediate outputs of the work, a report would be produced yearly with preliminary results and
recommendations addressed to the different stakeholders: I) LEAD-FAO Virtual Centre, 2) Local
environmental authorities (CVC and CRQ), ,) Local communities in each watershed and 4) Groups of
farmers.
Additional information would also be produced in the form of teaching material and as scientific papers.
- 146 -



I    COLOMBIA 
Coniact with local groups, orgaisafions and Insuons
COSrARICA&
I___________________ I          Selection and identification of local
Pie-selefton of watesheds     couniies and co-researchers
Con    with nte st
grwps, field visits,    _   ___      ___       ___
discussion of tie proposal  Field          and i aghof ng o
Base LTie nfomiaion
FT | T ng of co-researchers
Selecion of wateieds
Samptling for macmivertebmaes,
habhat lan  use and npanan 4
Wodashpsn                vegetation
monitoring of aquatic
envi r , +t
Anmnal    reports  for
Data analysis                .sakeholdeis
L F]
Evaluation and             eIn          mst suIdeaines                    forble
vaLidaXwlof  4=[ 1 Definihoni of most afitable         establsbit of  pua
indexes and
meftics identified
WorishPS     with   local
communities   and    other
staknholders
-147 -



D. Socio-Economic Changes
The Socioeconomic Monitoring would cover a sample of the farmers covered under the project, but also
include a control groups (approximately 20 farms in each country) to assess eventual differences. The
socioeconomic studies would focus on:
*      Farmers perception of the payment schemes. Contingent Valuation assessments (or focus groups)
would be conducted at the beginning, the middle and the end of the project.
*      Access to capital and land tenure in the Project's area of intervention, and the degree such access
affects the adoption of silvopastoral (SPS) technologies.
*      Farmers adoption pattems of SPS technologies, and conditions/factors leading to intensive or
extensive production strategies, and the effect that the promotion of SPS may have on the expansion of the
agriculture frontier.
*      Barriers to market3, such as lack of roads to transport production, or condition related with
hygiene of livestock products (particularly milk).
*      Effects of adopting SPS on family income, labor composition and availability, employment, and
gender.
*      Comparative economic analysis between conventional livestock production systems and SPS, once
information to adjust parameters associated with SPS is available.
FAOILEAD will sponsor under parallel financing, a workshop on socio-economic survey methods.
E. Monitoring Land Use Change: Geographical Information System and Remote Sensing
Component
In essence, GIS is a data base management system (DBMS) specifically designed for simultaneous
processing of spatial and related attribute data. In addition to DBMS, GIS also has many capabilities
similar to automated map making, computer-assisted cartography and computer graphics systems. The
ultimate use of GIS lies ir. its capability for modeling: constructing models of the real world from digital
data bases, and using these models to simulate the effect of a specific process over time for a given
scenario.
In the framework of the project, this ability would be particularly used to:
*      Calculate the areas concerned with the pastures improvement, in order to pay the environmental
services.
*      Assess the biodiversity improvement through the localization of field observations, and their
comparison to existing geographical databases. The assessment of Landscape changes would also be used
as a proxy for biodiversity.
*      Monitor land use changes to track how the farmers would shift from traditional / extensive systems
to more intensive silvopastoral systems. This would possibly lead to models of land use changes in order to
upscale the projects outputs for decision support in policy formulation. Support complementary analysis
such as risk of fires and encroachment.
Activities
Aerial surveys would be proceeded at the beginning and the end of the project. This would allow (i) to get
two accurate pictures of the farms and check the ground observation that would be made with help of GPS,
- 148 -



and (ii) to localize the farms on the biodiversity and land use maps that already exists. The photos would be
made by local companies in the three countries, and processed by CATIE. During the project, the
assessment of field areas changes, biodiversity, water-system quality would be done using GPS and GIS
software by each of the three institutions. To insure the quality of this data acquisition, the field teams
would be trained at CATIE, with support of an international consultant.
The analysis of the geographical data would be done by CATIE, with support of FAO. This would be done
in close co-operation with the organizations in charge of the monitoring activities and of the policy
component, to insure the best use of GIS abilities.
E. Project Evaluation Plan
CATIE would monitor project objectives, outcomes, and activities using log frame indicators presented in
the project summary. In addition, performance benchmarks are being developed to complement the overall
project indicators presented in the project summary that would provide the basis for the Bankes
disbursement of GEF funds throughout the project. In each country the local project coordinator and
financial project manager would be responsible for constant monitoring and evaluation to determine the
success of project administration. Project technical and financial implementation reports would be
completed every six months to meet both project requirements and internal planning and evaluation
schedules. Project accounts would be monitored and evaluated by a regular financial audits by a certified
accountant. Selected programs of stakeholder consultation, training, and capacity building would include
evaluation sessions using instruments such as questionnaires, group evaluation forms, and open
discussions. Special reports would be completed as necessary..
Monitoring results and conclusions reached as a result of evaluation reports would be used to recommend
and implement changes in project management and for future reference in the development of similar or
related projects.
- 149 -



Additional Annex 15: Country specific project descriptions
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Colombia
1.     T'he ecosystem
The area selected for the project would be a corridor in the department of Quindio and the north of the
Cauca valley. The region is recognized by its strategic location for the genetic flow between the Andes and
the Chico region. It is located in the so called Pleistocene haven of the high Cauca, and it is characterized
by high levels of endemism of vascular plants, insects and vertebrates. The Choc6 eco-region region is one
of the most threatened, biologically diverse ecosystems in the world. The human settlement process, the
intensive agriculture (mainly coffee), the drainage of wetlands and deforestation have transformed the
natural ecosystems. Annexes 10 and 11 provide respectively a description and a map of the geographic and
substantive complementarities with GEF and other donor funded projects. There is no duplication of
activities -vith these other projects.
1.1    The physical environment
The sites :elected for the project are located in the south east of Colombia, in two zones (about 2200 km2
in total):
1) the area located in the northern part of the department of the Valle del Cauca (rural areas of Cartago,
Alcala anmi Ulloa municipalities); 2) and the foothills of the Central Andes in the department of Quindio
(rural arees of Armenia, Circasia, Montenegro, La Tebaida and Quimbaya municipalities). 1) and 2)
belong tc, he La Vieja river watershed which receives the Quindio river watershed, all within the territory
of the Re. ublic of Colombia."
The area is representatives of livestock production systems in Colombia and in many other Andean
countries. [he bio-physical conditions are summarized in table Annex 2.1
Table Annex 15.1 Bio-physical conditions in the project zones in Colombia.
Parameters             Zone I                  Zone II
Altitude                            900-1350 meters above  900 - 1500 meters above
sea level               sea level
Average Temperature Year           20 - 25 °C              20 - 25 °C
Annual Rainfall                    1500 - 2000 mm          1500 - 2000 mm
Dry months                         none                    none
Humidity                           65 - 80 %               65 - 80 %
Soils                              poor,                   fertile
Topography                         hilly, strong slopes    hilly, moderate slopes
(>50%)                  (<50%)
The soils originated from volcanic ashes, the soil characteristics in the region are provided in Annex table
2.2
- 150 -



Table Annex 15.2 Soil conditions in the project zones in Colombia.
Eco-region /  Classification        Chemical Properties        Physical         Topography
Range                                                          properties
Zone I        Alfisols or Ultisols  pH acid, low phosphorus, low  Loam, loam-sand  Undulate to very
cation exchange capacity,                   steep slopes, 60%
from low to very low organic
matter.
Quindio.      Typic Dystropepts,    pH acid, high phosphorus,  Loam, loam-sand, Undulate to very
Slopes of     Typic Hapludalfs,     medium to low cation       loam-clay soils.  steep slopes, 25
Central Andes  Typic Hapludads,     exchange capacity, from high               to 60% gradient
Dystrandepts or Andic  *to very low organic matter.
Land degradation on the Quindio slopes is characterized by the accelerated processes of erosion and
compaction due to the absence of plant coyer, to overgrazing and the use of fire. This ecological damage
has been caused by expansion of the livestock sector. Due to falling profitability of coffee in the early
nineties, and increasing levels of rural insecurity, a substantial number of coffee growers switched. to
alternative activities including fattening of cattle. This situation has been exacerbated local policies that
attempted to stimulate the change from coffee to other agricultural activities. The latter entailed converting
areas dedicated to growing coffee, for which the soil and climate in the region are ideal, into intensively
managed pastures, at times on steep slopes, with stocking rates of more than eight Animal Units per ha.
After four years of conversion the ecological damage to soil structure is already clearly visible.
Circumstantial evidence also suggests that the high rates of application of fertilizers are likely to have
changed the chemical properties of the soil.
1.2    The biological environment
The high Cauca is considered one of the most important centers of endemism in Colombia and it is
particularly rich in endemic bird species. These species are Ammodramus savannarum caucae, Rallus
nigricans caucae, Anas cyanoptera tropicus, Colombina talpacoti caucae, Colinus cristatus badius
Conover, Zenaida auriculata caucae Chapman, Falco sparverius caucae Chapman and Phyllomyias
griseiceps caucae Chapman. The predominant vegetation cover in the sub Andean forests of the Quindio
region are the Robledales forests (Quercus humboldtii associated to species of the genera Alfaroa,
Hedyosmum, Weinmannia and Clusia) and the Lauraceas forests (association of species of the genera
Nectandra and Ocotea). In the more humid areas the predominant vegetation cover, are the forests of
Hedyosmum and Rubuacea genera.
In this part of Colombia, there are three protected areas belonging to the National System of Natural Parks.
These are the natural park "Las Hermosas" (between the Valle del Cauca and Tolima departments), the
natural park "Los Nevados" (in the departments of Quindio, Tolima, Risaralda and Caldas) in the Central
Andes and the national park "Tatama" (in the departments of Risaralda and Choc6) in the West Andes. At
present the Government is working towards the establishment of a Regional System of Natural Parks to
include the conservation areas of the departments, municipalities, integrated management districts, especial
areas for native and afro-Colombian communities and the private conservation areas. Future plans include
the establishment of biological corridors between "Los Nevados and Las Hermosas, and between "Tatami"
- 151 -



and " La Serrania De Los Paraguas".
In the past, the valley of the Cauca river had an abundance of wetlands, approximately 15.000 ha. Along
with the development of the agro-industry, these were transformed, almost completely by drainage and
destruction of the associated vegetation. Today only remains relicts of small lagoons and one lagoon
established as a protected area (Laguna de Sonso) which occupies only 12% of the original wetland area,
and is under threat by sedimentation and chemical pollution. There are serious problems of land
degradation in terms of salinization and drainage in the valley of the Cauca river in some 80.000 ha (35%
of the total area) due to predominant agro-industrial production system. In the north of the valley there are
no commercial tree plantations or reforestation programs and pastures, most of them degraded, occupy
90% of the area. The dry forest is the most endangered biome of Colombia, only 1.5% of its original area
remains. This phenomenon is similar in other regions of America. Only 5.000 km2 remain of the tropical
dry forest that once covered the Cauca valley and slopes of Central Andes, mainly in small relics in private
farms.
Thus, the biota of the region is under threat. In the case of the flora, there are not data of extinct species,
because the lack of historical records, but there are 147 endangered species belonging to 30 families (17%
Gymnosperms, 7% Monocotyledonous and 22% dicotyledonous) of a total of 930 species. Regarding the
fauna, there are a total of 40 bird species classified as extinct but there are no records for other species.
Preliminary information suggests that the number of endangered species is: 21 of a total of 161 fish species
(13%), 49 (34%) of 146 amphibians species, 40 (19%) of 160 species of reptiles and 127 (16%) of 818
bird species.
Some of these relicts are preserved thanks to their vicinity with livestock farms. Recent research by the
Universidad del Valle and CIPAV, has demonstrated the importance of the silvopastoral systems to
maintain and increase the diversity of birds, ants, butterflies and other animal species. In this way, the
cattle farms managed with criteria of sustainability can be truly considered as islands of conservation of
regional biodiversity compared with the homogenous landscape of mono crops of sugar cane, sorghum, soy
bean and coffee. The relationship between the cattle farming and the protected areas is extremely important
because only with the re-conversion of the conventional cattle famiing would be possible to advance in the
application of the principles of sustainable management of watersheds and conservation of forests, paramos
and wetlands.
2.     Development options
Without Project Without fundamental technology and policy changes, the current eco-systems degradation
in the Quindio corridor would persist. From the south sugar cane plantations would continue to take
arable land, the rest being utilized for conventional cattle ranching (open grasslands where only one or two
grass species are favored and only scattered big trees are left for shade for the animals). The pressure from
the sugar cane industry depends on the intemational prices for sugar, so if prices are low, agricultural land
would be devoted to conventional cattle ranching or vice versa. From the point of view of the environment,
neither of these activities contribute to the diversity of the corridor due to their mono-crop nature. From the
north, the local policies would continue to promote the change of land use from traditional coffee growing
under the shade to other activities in order to keep coffee prices high. The major trend is to change to
conventional cattle ranching with the consequences on land degradation aforementioned. In the Central
Andes in Quindio in the last eight years more than 15,000 ha have been transformed from coffee
plantations into cattle systems due to plant health problems and poor yields. Something similar, but without
consolidated data, exists in the same eco-region for the department of Risaralda. By continuing the trend of
soil degradation, loss of bio-diversity and water contamination, the cattle farms would lose the possibility
- 152-



of taking care of the increasing demand of products of animal and forest origin as well as the provision of
environmental services.
With Project The project would work towards the conservation and enhancement of this corridor by
introducing sustainable cattle production systems and at the same time working with the local
environmental authorities to develop technological and policy responses to counter further ecological
deterioration. The provision of adequate advisory services and the payment for ecological services, would
greatly increase the adoption of sustainable cattle production technologies. The project would therefore
have the following activities:
Selection of about 75 farms (about 3000 ha in total) in the project area to accelerate the introduction of
intensive silvopastoral systems. On-farm improvements include the introduction of more productive
grassland and the greater use of shrubs and trees, which can be used at the same time as fodder. Detailed
technical menus are provided in Annex 17. Reduction of dependence on external inputs (fertilizer,
pesticides, concentrate feed) would be an important aspect of the For the cropping areas, "no-till"
techniques, and the use of cover crops would be encouraged to maintain soil fertility, and reduce run off
and hence water pollution.
Establishment of the Payment System for Eco-Services. CIPAV as the implementing agency would, upon
certification from CATIE, pay the selected ranches for the global environmental on the basis of quantitative
parameters of land use changes as an indicator for overall production of global environmental services, as
described in Annex 2.
Creating the capacity to introduce the technological package and monitoring capacity. The project
would create the capacity in the extension service to disseminate the new technologies, and support this
service in training of ranchers and community groups in those technologies. The emphasis would be in the
initial phase on the selected farmers, and would in the second phase shift to other groups in the country.
CIPAV would further develop the monitoring methodology for water quality using biological indicators and
implement this technology on the farms in Colombia. In addition, the project would monitor the effect of
the land use intensification on the main biological (carbon, bio-diversity, water) and socio-economic
parameters, following the methodology developed by CATIE under the project.
Disseminating the results.  The results would be translated through preparation of environmental
assessments toolboxes into policy guidelines and workshops for integration in policy formulation.
Project benefits The project would take advantage of the market opportunities for plant and animal origin
as well as the sale of some environmental services which at the present time do not have a proper value.
Thus is would directly lead to the sequestration of about 9,600 ton Carbon per year, and the conservation
of some critical fauna. But more important even might be the indirect effect the project could have on the
environmental effects of cattle ranching. Cattle re-conversion is an urgent priority for the environmental
authorities, but these lack effective instruments of policy and technology. The project would allow an
alliance between the cattle productive sector and the environmental authorities, a very significant fact for
Colombia where ninety percent of the agriculture frontier of more than 40 million hectares are dedicated to
the pastures and in this sense the project is pioneering for the country.
For the sustainable soil management there are already regional recommendations that are being adopted in
the Land Use Plan, especially in Quindio, related to the agroforestry and cattle ranching systems. The
project would hamess some of them and would ensure the completion of altermatives where an institutional
consensus has already been reached. These are:
- 153 -



*      The introduction of preventive practices of soil conservation such as the presence of trees and
shrubs associated to the agricultural and cattle production.
*      The integration of cattle into agricultural production systems and to increase the content of the
organic matter and to improve the physical, chemical and biological characteristics of the soil.
*      The implementation of agroforestry systems, that allows a reduction in artificial fertilizer
dependency, erosion and compaction of the soil, stimulate the cycling of nutrients, establish multi-layered
agro-ecosystems and, in the case of the cattle ranch, generate a better environment for the animals.
*      The promotion of the organic fertilization of the crops, grass and forages. With this practice it is
possible to manage medium and long term to improve the physical, chemical and biological characteristics
of the soil
*      The identification of productive alternatives different fronm the intensive cattle ranching of pasture
with heavy animals on steeply sloped areas. These can include set-aside systems of partial or total
enclosure of animals, fed through the cut and transport of forages that include trees and shrubs as well as
the establishment of agroforestry systems and forests in the freed areas.
*      The promotion of the biological conservation of native forests and establishment of guadua and
biological corridors with these species.
The relation of the cattle ranches with the natural habitats conservation is fundamental since only the
environmental re-conversion of this activity would allow an advance in the application of the principles of
sustainable handling of the river basins and the conservation of the wooded areas, deserts and swamps. The
option developed by the pioneers of the private reserves already recognized by the State from 1993 law 99,
allows clearly to put activities of the cattle ranch under agroforestry systems as a friendly use with
fiagments of natural habitats.
B. Costa Rica
1.     Ecosystem
In Costa Rica, the project would cover three micro-watersheds (Rio Baranca, Rio Jesus Maria, and Rio
Guacamal) in the Esparza area, a tropical sub humid region, which is located in the Central Pacific region
of Costa Rica. The region is undulating with slopes ranging from 10-65 percent, with fragile ecosystems
and evident land degradation. The sites is an important buffer zones for one of the most important
conservation areas in Costa Rica; i.e. Monteverde. The climatic and soil conditions between Esparza and
Monteverde are so different, however, that the silvopastoral technology would not be applicable to the
Monteverde eco-system and the "Moral Hazard" risk, i.e. the technology would be so successful that it
would lead to more deforestation (see risk section) would not apply.
1.1.   Physical environment
The Esparza region is classified as a tropical sub-humid forest with a seasonal rainfall pattern. Mean
annual rainfall is 2040 mm which is concentrated between the months of May and. December. Mean daily
temperature of Esparza is 26 oC .The soils of Esparza are classified as "Typic Haplustalf" that
moderately shallow (< 60 cm) and severely eroded. On the other hand soils of La Fortuna are classified as
Alfisols and molisols and have good depth (> 100 cm), higher organic matter content and fertility
parameters compared to those of Esparza. The project are is about Km2 870.
- 154-



1.2 Biological environment
Costa Rica is one of the richest countries in biodiversity in Latin America with a total of 1434 species and
species index of 9.2 species per 1000 km2. However, recent studies show that many species are rare and in
via of extinction, because of high deforestation and unsustainable production systems. The Monteverde
cloud forest reserve, near Esparza, straddles the low continental divide in the Tiliaran, where the provinces
of Puntarenas, Guanacaste and Alajuela meet. Monteverde's avifauna is derived from three principal
regions: 1) The Guanacaste fauna on the Pacific slope which represents the southern extent of the
Mesoamerican dry forest fauna 2) the highland fauna, a distinct group of species that occurs in the Costa
Rican and 3) the wet forest fauna of the Caribbean slope. Monteverde's geography and climate with a steep
dry season gradient of increasing moisture from Pacific to Caribbean slope create remarkably distinct
vegetation in the different life zones and Avian species richness varies across the life zones. Zone 4 (lower
montane rain forest) has the lowest species richness (121 regularly occurring species) perhaps because of
its small geographical extent and isolation from the more diverse high elevation faunas. The Arenal
Conservation area, near Esparza, is characterized by three altitudinal strata and three life zones and it has
variety of biological richness of more than 1000 species of flora and 500 species of wildlife (fauna). This
complements the presence of geological resources and a beautiful landscape, which is attractive to tourists.
1.3 Production systems
In Esparza, beef and dual purpose cattle production systems are the main land use systems. Beef
production is characterized by low technology and is generally carried out on an extensive basis on farms
of over 80 hectares. The use of inputs is low, labor use is scarce and in general very little management is
applied. The pastures are grazed continuously, and the stocking rate is on average 0.7 Animal Unit
(AU)/ha (Jansen et al., 1997), similar to that found in other Central American countries. The main source
of feed for animals is pasture (i.e. Hyparrenhia rufa) with only mineral supplementation. The dual-purpose
system is characterized by a level of technology midway between the dairy producers and the extensive and
semi-extensive beef producers. Animals used are crossbreeds of tropical Zebu and specialized dairy
breeds. Average milk production is. low, between 600 and 1000kg per lactation. Rainfall is concentrated in
only 6 months of the year (May - November) and this does not favor year round production of forage.
Severe feed shortage in the dry season results in heavy overgrazing, weight losses and, in extreme
conditions, cow mortality. Pasture burning is common in some areas to promote regeneration of succulent
shoots of high nutritive value. However, in hilly areas, it exposes the soil to the highly erosive rains at the
beginning of the wet season, leading to land degradation. In Costa Rica deliberate fires are regulated by the
ley forestal (forest law) which prohibits burning forests or areas adjacent to forests without a permit.
Burning results in an estimated emission of 6 tons carbon/ha/yr.
Silvopastoral systems, which contribute to economic and biotic sustainability are slowly emerging. Live
fence posts (fences made from living trees) are found on more than 90% of cattle farms in Costa Rica
unlike most developed countries in which dead fence material is used. Living fence post and other
agro-silvopastoral systems provide forage, shade for animals and other benefits including fuel wood, timber
or fruit production. Nitrogen fixing trees improve soil fertility and more effectively recycle nutrients
(Romero et al. 1994). Use of forage species in cropping systems can provide additional sources of
nutrition to the animals in those systems.
- 155 -



2. Development Options
Without project. Over the past years, more intensive and diversified agro-ecosystems are emerging in the
Esparza region. Monitoring of land use changes on cattle farms showed that the sowing of improved
grasses supported a higher carrying capacity which resulted in freeing up fragile pastures (> 20 percent
slope) for reforestation programs. Farmers are now starting to plant native trees in the pastures and or
managing natural regeneration of trces in abandoned pasture sites (Ibrahim et al., in preparation). These
land use changes contribute to increase in carbon sequestration and conservation of biodiversity; and would
be greatly accelerated, if incentives are paid for these environmental services.
With Project. The provision of adeqiuate advisory services and the payment for ecological services, would
greatly increase the adoption of these technologies. The project therefore would therefore have the
following activities
Selection of about 100 ranches in i he two project areas to accelerate eco-systems functioning through
the introduction of more intensive f-rms ofpasture management. About 100 ranches (3,000 ha) would be
selected over the two project areas, to the extent possible in a block, to ensure the continuity of the
landscape improvement. For these r inches, fann plans would be prepared. These plans would include the
introduction of more productive gra. 3land, and above all, the greater use of shrubs and trees, which can
be used at the same time as fodder. !4foreover, the project would encourage the use of fodder conservation
technologies to feed cattle in the dry season, such as hay and silage niaking, to reduce overgrazing during
that period. For the cropping areas, 'no-till" techniques, and the use of cover crops would be encouraged
to maintain soil fertility, and reduce .n m off and hence water pollution. The use of chemical means of pest,
and weed control would be discourag.,d. The menus of technical options are provided in Annex 17.
Establishment of the Payment Sy...em for Eco-Services. The project would, through FONAFIFO,
establish a payment system for 17-o Services.  CATIE would therefore establish a contract with'
FONAFIFO, acceptable to the Bank. which would establish the main responsibilities of FONAFIFO, and
FONAFIFO would establish, a coniract to be entered in with the eligible farmers. The model contract
would be included in the operational mnanual, and would need to be approved by the Bank.
Creating the capacity to introduce the technological package and monitoring capacity. The project
would create the capacity in the extemsion service to disseminate the new technologies, and support this
service in training of ranchers and coemmunity groups in those technologies. The emphasis would be in the
initial phase on the selected farmers, mnd would in the second phase shift to other groups in the country. In
addition, CATIE would establish the system to determine changes in the land use and provide the land use
index to the implementing agencies. It would further develop the methodologies to monitor carbon
sequestration, and socio-economic parameters, and lead the work on the link between land use changes and
carbon sequestration, bio-diversity .and water quality, to enable, at the end of the project, with firm
recommendations on how to scale-up the payment scheme.
Disseminating the results.  The results would be translated through mathematical modeling and
environmental assessment toolboxes for policy guidelines and workshops for integration in policy
formulation.
Project benefits. Based on results generated in studies conducted by CATIE and other local institutions, a
representative cattle farm (dual purpose farm) of Esparza was used to determine the effect of different
pasture/silvopastoral technologies and on C sequestration. Table 2.4 shows significant benefits in carbon
sequestration with the use of improved technologies which could amount to about 4,000 ton per year.
- 156-



Technological changes would also reduce erosion by about 500 - 600 ton per ha per year, because of
higher infiltration rates (table Annex 2.5). Additionally, establishment of silvopastoral systems are known
to increase bio-diversity and would contribute to improve water quality.
Table Annex 15.4 Effect of land use changes on production and carbon sequestration on a 50 ha
farm, Esparza, Costa Rica.
Without project             With project
Area (ha)                Area (ha)
Native pastures                                      40                      10
Silvopastoral systems                                 0                      10
Improved fallows                                      5                      15
Secondary forests                                     5                      15
Total                                                50                      50
Stocking rate                                      0,63                     1,32
Milk production (I year-1)                        32193                  48198.2
Beef production (kg/year)                          1700                    1800
Carbon soil fixation (t C year-1)                  57,5                    272,5
Carbon wood fixation (t C year-1)                   7,5                     42,5
Carbon fixation (t C year-1)                         65                     315
Wood production (m3 year-1)                          25                      150
Milk benefits (US$ year-1)                      16096.5                 24099.12
Beef benefits (US$/year)                           2040                    3024
Wood benefits (US$ year-1)                         1125                    6750
Carbon benefits (US$ year-i)                        420                    2060
Total benefits (US$ year-i)                      19681.5                 35933.12
Table Annex 15.5. Impacts of land use change on erosion in Esparza
Land use                  Hydric erosion             Hydric erosion (t year-1)
t ha-1 year-1
Without projectWith project
Native pastures                             25                           1000250
Silvopastoral systems                        ,                              070
Improved fallows                            1                             50150
Secondary forests                          1l                             50150
Total                                                                    1100620
C. Nicaragua
1.1. The Eco-system
The proposed project area in Nicaragua is located in the central zone, in the department of Matagalpa, at
about 140 km from the capital of the country, Managua. It consists of an undulating terrain, with extensive
livestock on the basis of the native pasture, and crop cultivation as the main land use. Two watersheds are
selected: Rio Paiguas and Rio Bulbul Overall, the project area is classified as a tropical to sub-tropical
rainforest, with an average temperature of 25 C. and an average annual rainfall between 1700 (in eight
- 157 -



months, mostly in the Rio Bulbul area) and 2500 (in ten months, mostly in the Rio Paiguas area). Of
particular interest are the reserves of the massif of El Musun, which still retains some of its primary
medium altitude humid forest, and the reserve of the Quirragua.
1.2 The Physical Environment and Landscape
The project area covers two districts, Matiguas and Rio Blanco, and stretches between 300 and 1400 mm.
The strong hilly area, previous under tropical forest, rich in fauna and flora, is now almost completely used
for crops and extensive pasture. As a result, the soils, mostly acid clays, have eroded, and soil fertility has
declined, in particular in the deeper soil layers. There are few flat areas, and they are generally poorly
drained, and hence inundated in the rainy season.
1.3 The Biological Environment
Except in the above mentioned reserves, there is practicaily no primary forest left in the project area. The
colonization started in this region already in the forties and was practically completed in the eighties. The
colonization proceeded as in most of Central America. It started with wood extraction, then continued with
the conversion of the land (often through slash and burn) for the production of grain for humans and
livestock, and, after soil fertility is depleted under arable farming, a further conversion into extensive
livestock production. Towards the higher areas, there is some coffee and cacao. With the proximity of the
markets, some intu.nsification of livestock production occurs. The average size of the livestock ranches
varied between 7(6 and 200 ha. The land use pattern of the project area is provided in the table Annex
table 15.6.
Table Annex 15.6 Land use in the project area.
Land use (1996)                      Share (%) of the area
Crops                                      12
Pasture                                    70
Fallow land                                 11
Forest                                    6
Others                                     1
Secondary forest vegetation is found in the galleries of the many water ways, and with the intensification,
increasingly on the ranches. They are often used as dry season fodder for cattle, in particular for the dairy
farms near the towns. The increase in the price of the construction wood in Managua, has also led to more
forestation. Re-conversion to crop land, and the use of fire in pasture management are the main sources
of loss of the secondary forest cover. The current extensive forms of pasture production, and the
continuous re-conversion of land to cereal production constitutes the main source of environmental
degradation, as it leads to water pollution because of soil erosion and sedimentation and to carbon
emission, because of continued "slash and bum" and mechanized deforestation and land preparation.
2. Development Options
Without project. Without a further stimulus for intensification, the most likely development path would be
a continuation of the current timid pace of intensification, leaving the large majority of the area for some
time to come under the current practice of conventional livestock and crop production, with overgrazing
and use of fire, and hence continued sedimentation of the water ways, further loss of bio-diversity and
continued emission of Carbon-dioxide. Catering for the increased demand for livestock products in
- 158 -



Nicaragua would come from the expansion of the area of traditional pasture at the cost of the little
primary forest that still exists in the area. It would also encourage the migration of smallholders and
subsequent deforestation of other areas. The "ganaderization" of the landscape would continue. It would
seriously endanger some of the natural reserves in the region, such as those of Bosawas to the North East
of the project area. Soil erosion would continue, and the area would continue to be a net emitter of Carbon
dioxide.
With project interventions. With the project, the emphasis would shift from a horizontal expansion of low
yielding pasture land to a more intensive use of the current area under pasture. This would include:
Selection of about 100 ranches in the area to introduce more intensive forms of pasture management.
About 100 ranches (6,000 ha) would be selected in the project area, to the extent possible in a block, to
ensure the continuity of the landscape. The baseline shows that the large majority are smallholders
(between 20-80 ha), which would give the project in this area a particular smallholder focus, in line with
the World Bank/IDA strategy for Nicaragua. The farns would enter into a contract with UCA-Nitlapan,
which would include the obligations of the different parts and include farm plans, indicating the proposed
changes in land use on the farm. These plans would include the introduction of more productive grassland,
and above all, the greater use of shrubs and trees, which can be used at the same time as fodder.
Moreover, the project would encourage the use of fodder conservation technologies to feed cattle in the dry
season, such as hay and silage making, to reduce overgrazing during that period. For the cropping areas,
"no-till" techniques, and the use of cover crops would be encouraged to maintain soil fertility, and reduce
run off and hence water pollution. Burning would only permitted for the first three years of the project, and
only to prepare land for crops. The menus of technical options are provided in Annex 17.
Establishment of the Payment System for Eco-Services. The project would establish a payment system for
global environmental benefits, similar to the system described in Annex 2. The payment would be through
Nitlapan, following the certification of land use by CATIE. Total payment by CATLE would not exceed
US $ 4,500 per farm for the entire contract period.
Creating the capacity to introduce the technological package and monitoring. The project would create
the capacity in the extension service to disseminate the new technologies, and support this service in
training of ranchers and community groups in those technologies. The emphasis would be in the initial
phase on the selected farmers, and would in the second phase shift to other groups in the country. In
addition, the project would monitor the effect of the land use intensification on the main biological (carbon,
bio-diversity, water) and socio-econornic parameters, following the methodology developed by CATIE
under the project.
Disseminating the results.  The results would be translated through mathematical modeling and
environmental assessments toolboxes translated into policy guidelines and workshops for integration in
policy formulation.
Project benefits. The above actions would greatly accelerate the pace of replacing the traditional single
species pastures with more diversified vegetation of improved pastures, shrubs and trees. This would
increase the carbon sequestration by about 12,000 ton Carbon per year, diversify the landscape hence
increase bio-diversity and reduce erosion and hence water sedimentation.
- 159-



Additional Annex 16: Social Assessment
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
rhe social assessment (SA) and participatory consultations have been completed for the project. Spanish
versions of the working documents are available in the project files. This annex provides a brief summary
of the general socio-economic profile of the areas in the three project countries. It describes poverty levels,
resources use, and local organization structure. In the project areas there are no indigenous communities,
the entire population consists of recently settled mestizos. The project does not involve any resettlement or
other indigenous peoples issues.
Background
The process of social assessment and participation comprised an analysis of existing information, provided
by the executing agencies, local NGOs and World Bank's countries profiles. It has been complemented by
a survey, local consultations, focus groups as well as further studies and fieldwork carried out by the
social assessment team in the 3 countries with the assistance of the local executing NGOs, that have been
wvorking in the project areas for over ten years.
The social assessment covers the main characteristics of the three local context, describing the human,
ltchnical and institutional feature of each region, in a dynamnic perspective of the local history and special
interaction. (social geography.)
t he primary beneficiaries of the enhanced eco-systems management provided by the project are the rural
communities and niral producers living in the project areas. The social organization of the target
populations differ by country and zone. The population generally consists of small canpesinos and
r.iedium sized ranchers, who manage livestock production systems that could play an important role in
sustainable ecosystem management. As presented in the table below, there are several forms of land
ownership the project area of each country:
Table: Land Ownership %
Private Land With Title                Government Land
In   the   process  of Government owned
regularizing land tenure
Colombia                         90                      5                       5
Costa Rica                       85                      10                      5
Nicaragua               40 (private land with title)     20                     25
15 (private land holding
land reform title)
- 160 -



There are farmers operating: (1) on private land that are either with title or holding land reform title; or (2)
on public land, some of which are in the process of regularizing land tenure For the first case with private
land, the contract would represent the owner's consent to carry out specified activities in his land. For the
second case with public land, consent from government to carry out specified activities on the land is
expressed through the respective focal point letter. No cases of a third party exploiting or living in the land
are expected in these watersheds, but in case of any land conflict, the project will have the right to
withdraw from the contract with the farmer. Eligibility criteria for selecting a farmer and sample contract
would be part of the Operational Manual.
In order to adequately consider the social, cultural and economic diversity of the population groups of the
three countries, the social assessment is organized by country.
Therefore, in each country, the social assessment process has essentially entailed the following activities:
1) Identification of key stakeholders in the project area: The primary beneficiaries of this project are rural
communities and rural producers.
2) Identification of key social issues in ecosystem management in the project areas. At least five key issues
have been identified during the preparation process and would be subject of further analysis:
*      The need to consider the project area as a living space, not a conservation space
*      The relationship between local culture and the environment
*      Land tenure and distribution
*      Economic activities
*      Social organization
3) Assessing the potential social impacts of the project, with special focus on gender.
COLOMBIA: Quindio Region
Socio-economic profile
The dynamic economy boosted by coffee sector has generated a local society deeply dependant on hired
labor, well integrated to markets and to the urban environment, whose agents have relative high capacities
of management and self investment, although they also show an important process of internal
differentiation. Coffee crisis and the urgent necessity to develop alternative strategies have led to increased
differentiation, either in size and production systems, and some of those conversion are to conventional
cattle grazing on degraded land.
Main common characteristics among the types of producer are their educational level (high compared to
regional standards) and a high propensity to technical change, which can be related to the high cultural
level, also perceived during the groups. Consequently, the changes that the project aims to promote are
highly feasible and, at the same time, technical assistance would have to be highly qualified to meet
producers' expectations. Medium level of participation of women was encountered, which reveals the high
- 161 -



participation of women in Colombian society, basically through farmers association.
Poverty
Social indicators, as determined by public services coverage, housing quality, dependency and other
livelihood characteristics, grouped in the international index of Unsatisfied Basic Needs (UBN) prove that
the poverty level in the project area is still high. Even more importantly, the balance between the urban and
rural sectors is heavily skewed towards the urban population. For example, while the average share of the
population with UBN in 1993 for the total region in the Cauca Valley Department is 25 percent, there is
only 23 percent with UBN in the urban sector, while in the rural sector this figure is 35 percent. This
skewed equity between the urban and rural areas is a strong additional force that promotes rural to urban
drift especially of young people. The movement from the rural to the urban zone was a process of the last
50 years because of the political violence of the fifties, and the industrialization and the development of the
agro-industry in the flat zones in the eighties.
Natural resources use
The project areaa are one of the most populated in the Quindio departments. They are dedicated mainly to
comnnercial, industrial, manufacture and agro-industrial activities. Sugarcane and coffee are the most
important agro-industries of the region, with an export tradition of more than two centuries for the
sugarcane and nearly one century for the coffee. Other important crops in the two departments are banana,
vegetables (in high zones) and in a lower proportion tubers (cassava and potato), oil crops (soy beans) and
cereals (maize and sorghum). The contribution of cattle to the regional economy seems insignificant (one
percent) but its importance lies in the high occupancy of legraded land, its potential for providing
ecological services and its potential role in the development of organic agriculture and silviculture. Because
of settlement, indigenous ethnocidium, colonisation and development of the ranches - first of the colonial
type and later agro-exporter (sugar and coffee) - land tenure was determined more than two centuries ago in
most of the Cauca river valley and since the early nineteen hundreds for the foothill of the central Andes.
The colonization of the coffee region was based on private property at the family level, so in this region
most of the land is in private hands and completely legalized.
Social Issue. Violence.
Quindio departments face some security problems because of armed insurrection, paramilitary forces and
common delinquency. These three activities are directly or indirectly financed by drug traffic money. The
skewed equity, displacement of communities, lack of labor opportunities, low coverage and poor quality of
basic services are strong incentives for the illegal activities, especially those derived from drug-traffic and
armed insurrection. The zone of the project has been selected taking into account these risk factors. The
high mountain zones were therefore discarded, even if livestock systems in those higher altitudes are more
than 90 percent of the agricultural frontier and could be used for the environmental service of water quality
improvement for intensive agriculture and urban populations. The selected corridor between the foothills of
the central Andes in the Quindio and Cauca Valley provides reasonable conditions of security.
Direct Beneficiaries
Two hundred forty five families related to the 75 pilot farms (owners and permanent workers) would
receive TA, inputs, training.
- 162-



Indirect Beneficiaries
Two hundred eighties families would get additional work for the establishment of the silvopastoral systems
Sixty public official of the Regional Autonomous Corporations would be trained in environmentally
friendly livestock systems
Five microenterprises would have higher supply of bamboo (procured in the farms)
Fifteen families would be selling higher fuelwood production for commercial purposes
Forty young people would be trained in water quality monitoring
COSTA RICA: La Esparza Region
Socio-economic profiles of the focal zones
Producers in the intervention zone share several important characteristics: their objective is not only to
increase production but also to conserve the environment. As result of this, a large majority of them has
already planted trees for different reason and degradation is not so wide spread in the region. An important
constraint to make these production system more productive, so that they may carry on with 'green
intensification', appears to be the insufficient animal charge: most producers would require more animals in
the short term.
Producers that succeeded in intensifying had access to very good technical assistance, participated in local
organizations and too part in other projects that incentivated forestry and tree utilization.
Less intensive producers are the result of a reduction of endowments, rather than an 'extensive rationale'.
Propensity to intensify cattle production is not related with higher educational level, which is high, as
expected in Costa Rican countryside.
In contrast with this situation, management capacities, estimated through the use of tools like cattle and
countable registrations appear to be low. Quite low participation of women was encountered, either directly
or through association in the decision process on farming activities (around 30 percent).
Poverty
The poverty index of the region is 26.3 percent, higher than all country (20.6 percent). The literacy of the
young population is very high, close to 100 percent of the young population and 70 percent of the adults
have completed primary education. Small and medium farms prevail in the region. More than 90 percent of
small cattle farmers have land titles.
Agriculture and Livestock Production.
The first settlers arrived to this region in the thirties, where they practiced slash and burn agriculture, to
establish crops followed by pastures. The main current land use activity is livestock production (50 percent
) while 30 percent is still forest land. Among the cattle production systems, beef cattle is most common,
followed by double purpose cattle and dairy cattle, with 48, 28 and 20 percent, respectively. The
- 163 -



remaining area is used for other agricultural activities such as forest production, coffee, honey and different
roots products
Many cattle farmers (> 30 percent of farmers) are now interested in promoting eco-tourism by planting
trees that attracts birds and other wildlife and by developing silvopastoral systems to make the landscape
more attractive. Slash and burn agriculture is not practiced in the target areas anymore.
Social Organization.
More than 65 percent of the small cattle farmers in the la Esparza region are members of the "Centro
Agricola Cantonal" that provides services and technical support to the farmers. This zone also has a
cooperative which operates a "Subasta" for ensure minimum prices for the sale of animals.
Direct Beneficiaries
The project would benefit 90 small and medium livestock farmers in the target areas who depend on cattle
production as a main source of livelihood. Th.ese farners would benefit directly from the project, as the
silvopastoral technology would enable them to adopt more intensive systems, diversify their farm
production, reduce risk, increased land value, increase higher net income per family, and provide more
stable land use.
Indirect benefits
Two hundred fifty small and medium farmers would benefit indirectly, with knowledge of the systems that
are being promoted through the demonstration effects of training events, farmer to farmer contact, and
establishment of improved systems which serves as demonstration plots.
Two hundred and fifty workers would have better knowledge of the systems by indirect participation in
training events, circulation of leaflets and through farmer-worker means of communication.
Three hundred and fifty rural families would benefit indirectly with a source of employment on the farms
on which technologies would be established;
Thirty families of local assistants would be contracted to participate in training events and technical
assistance on different aspects related to management of livestock and silvopastoral systems.
Fifty local workers contracted by communal or private nurseries would be required to produce tree
seedlings or plants for target farmers.
Four cooperatives in Esparza strengthened to increase its capacity for processing milk and cheese
production.
Seven institutions (INBIO, FUNDECOOPERACION, MIRENEM, CCAD, MAG, MINAE, Centro
Agricola Cantonal) would benefit with information and maps generated by project for policy and decision
making.
Operators of Agricultural services would benefit through the demand for seed material and other inputs and
services.
- 164 -



Affected:
The introduction of improved technologies would eliminate the use of chicken litter for feeding animals in
the dry season, which is being sold by small poultry farmers. These farmers would be target for TA of the
project.
NICARAGUA: Rio Blanco and Matiguas Municipalities
Socioeconomic profile
From the survey it could be deducted that there are two kinds of cattle producers among project's possible
beneficiaries. The smaller ones are the result of a process of fragmentation of land tenure, along with
reduction of herd's size, whereas the medium sized producers have been accumulating land since the 80' and
cattle more recently, which results in some level of intensification. Among the larger ones, some are still
more extensive than the average of the group, constituting another subgroup. It also has to be pointed out
that, within the smaller, some have been able to sustain a higher animal charge than the others. Fifty
percent of functional analphabetism is consistent with current figures of educational level in Nicaraguan
countryside. Accordingly, the proportion of farms that carry on with accounting registrations, either in
general management of the farm or cattle variations, is very low. Quite low participation of women was
encountered, either directly or through association in the decision process in farms (around 30 percent).
Poverty
The two project Municipalities rank respectively 20 and 29 (out of 160) in the classification of the poorest
Municipalities of Nicaragua, and more than 50 percent of the people do not have their basic needs covered
(water, education, health, housing).
Use of natural resources: agricultural systems.
Most project participants practice extensive livestock, but for the smaller farms agriculture activities
become important parts in the livelihood of the family. Most of the fincas are of small to medium size. The
traditional system ("slash and burn": roza-tumba-quema), and its post-deforested variant (roza-quema)
prevails. The project region represent the "old agriculture frontier", in fact the first settlers arrived more
than 30 years ago.
Social organization
Although this was one of the zones most affected by the war, the security situation is now satisfactory, with
no conflict related to land tenure (the land issued by the agriculture reform has been legalized). In more
specific terms, for current owners of land located in the project area in Nicaragua in which their land was
acquired through the agrarian reform process, their land is not being disputed by previous owners.
Nitlapan-UCA is developing a network of producers for training and the provision of technical assistance
according to the "campesino a campesino" i.e farmer to farmer model.
Direct Beneficiaries
Hundred twenty families of small and medium size producers would have access to TA on silvopastoral
systems, initial investment grants to improve the management of the farm and payment for environmental
- 165-



services.
Indirect Beneficiaries
Three hundred fifty small and medium size farmers would benefit indirectly, with knowledge of the
systems that are being promoted through the demonstration effect of training events, farmer to farmer
contact, and establishment of improved systems.
Three hundred workers would have better knowledge of the systems by indirect participation in training
events, circulation of leaflets and through farmer-worker means of communication.
Three hundred rural families would benefit indirectly with a source of employment on the farms on which
technologies would be established, as the labor requirements are greater for the silvopastoral systems
promoted by the project.
Fifteen families of local assistants would be contracted to participate in training events and technical
assistance on different aspects related to management of livestock and silvopastoral systems.
Operators of Agricultural services would benefit through the demand for seed material and other inputs and
services.
Affected
The introduction of improved technologies, eliminating the need for slash and bum agriculture would
directly affect the poor, small campesinos, that are practicing agriculture activities on the land left by the
producer as fallow. The environmental educational campaign would also affect poor people that were using
fire for hunting These hunters and landless could be hired by the producers, since the labor requirements
are higher for silvopastoral systems compared to extensive livestock systems.
Conclusions
In general, one observes in the project areas some processes of degradation of natural resources,
increased erosion and the impoverishment of soils with declining production, income, and consumption
levels, increasing water pollution and health problems, depending on the countries. Population growth
in general is very high.
Development policy and programs for the mnarginalized poor have tended to be inconsistent,
misdirected, or unsatisfactory. Opening national forestlands to landless peasants and promoting
extensive cattle-breeding furthered deforestation. Trade liberalization in the late nineties left most basic
grain producers economically non-viable and the government's political commitment to the peasantry
virtually ended.
There are potentialities as well. Principal among them (though not universally present in the three
project areas) are: (a) a rapidly deepening consciousness of the problems of environmental degradation,
(b) successes in sustainable productive systems, (c) specialized campasinos cultural knowledge, (d)
social organizational capacity, (e) land tenure, (f) co-operatives and associated social systems and (g)
the capacity of many women to strategically direct knowledge and income toward family betterment.
The three countries would benefit from project activities through the stabilization of agricultural
- 166 -



frontier's major threat to the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor that spans from Mexico to Colombia,
and the maintenance of different agro-ecosystems where natural resources are managed in a sustainable
way. This project would serve as a model to disseminate the silvopastoral practices to a bigger
geographic scope in each country and would contribute to long-term continued growth. The project
areas would benefit in terms of an increase in income and better ecosystem management, but also in
terms of strengthened grass roots community organizations and NGOs.
As an additional result of the project, several local institutions (not only implementing institutions)
would result fortified. A process of cross-countries exchanges and mutual comparisons, to promote
comparative advantages and possibility of replication, would be encouraged.
In Colombia: (in addition to CIPAV), the Regional Corporations (CVC, CRQ), Comite Ganadero del
Quindio and CORVISA
In Costa Rica: (in addition to CATIE), Centro Agricola Cantonal de Esparza, MAG (province level)
COOPESPARTA and Banrural.
In Nicaragua: (in addition to Nitlapan / TROPITECNIA), FDL - Nitlapan and Asociaci6n San
Francisco de Asis.
The results of the SA indicate the need to tailor the activities of the project to the specific conditions of
the communities located in the three different areas, taking into consideration their socioeconomic and
cultural differences. Specifically, in order to enhance the social impact of the project, the following
activities need to be planned and implemented: (1) strengthening social organization; particularly those
oriented to income-generating activities; (2) promoting a gender approach in the generation and
distribution of income as well as in communal decision making and the distribution of labor; and (3)
increasing their technical capacity for self-management
Producers in the 3 regions show a reasonably high willingness to make changes in their production
systems, in order to improve their production and lower any environmental risk associated with the
current practices.
The effort to learn new practices is going to be very high, and the farners in the 3 countries requested
to receive very intense technical assistance. The bulk of the above activities would be incorporated into
the Capacity Building Program, which would focus on the following topics:
*      Social organization for production
*      Community administration skills
*      Conflict resolution at the community and inter-community levels
*      Sustainable use of natural resources
*      Specialized technical topics, including artisan production, agriculture, ranching, apiculture,
agroforestry, ecotourism, carpentry, land use planning, legal  aspects related to land tenure, etc.
Resistance to change or aversion to risk (depending on the sociological or economical point of view) is
not randomly distributed among farmers. As a matter of fact, most of the 'demonstrative farms'
commonly incentivated by technical institutions, use to be owned by richer and open-minded producers.
If progressive impacts of the project are expected, it would be necessary to ensure the linkages between
innovators and the others, even those who confront more endowment constraints. As it cannot be
simply assumed that they are not in competition (that is a basic assumption to attribute zero cost to
information sharing) it also would be necessary to count on organizations with social objective to widen
- 167 -



the results of the project and ensure replication.
The payment for environmental service would meet its objective to " tip the balance" for the adoption
of silvopastoral systems if it considered by both parts as an additional bonus that the society pays to
peasants for the environmental services they generate. Since the costs of the transition are high,
especially with the essays and mistakes of the learning process and since these costs are not essentially
monetary (ie the cost of change a culture), the incentive system is rightfully the full package presented
in the project and should be based on the following guidelines (but its institutional arrangements would
differ in each country):
*      Share the cost of learning process.
*      Si nce the numbers of producers that fulfill the requisites ex-ante exceed the capacity of the reward,
it should be distributed following a competitive  rule.
*      Extemal support can be cash, easier access to credit, knowledge, inputs at low cost, practical
demonstrations, other intangible rewards
*      T.iis integral set of incentives is to be divulged as the external support, by which the collective
interests w.ould share with the producers the cost of   learning and adapt new techniques.
- 168 -



Additional Annex 17: Technical Menu
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
This annex presents the technical menu for the farm in each country composed of technologies that allow
livestock intensification and the optimization in the provision of environmental services.
A range of technical "best - bets" have been identified for each country. In the two areas of Colombia three
types of production systems are proposed (one in Zone I and two in Zone II). The same number has been
identified for the region of Matiguas in Nicaragua whereas in the region of Esparza (Puntatena Province) in
Costa Rica only one type of production system would be offered.
The areas in which the project would be implemented are rich in tree species, as well as in shrub and grass
species. Nevertheless, the recommendations for the technical menu are based on the best-known species for
the farmers and on those that fulfilled the requirements regarding intensification in production and
generation of environmental services (carbon sequestration and improvements in biodiversity). The grasses
described are: Panicum maximun, Brachiaria sp. (B. brizantha, B. humidicola and B. decumbens),
Cynodon plectostachius and Sacharum oficinarum. The fodder producing shrubs described are: Leucaena
leucocephala, Gliricidia sepium, Morus alba, Guazuma ulmifolia and Cratilya argentea. Timber-wood
species recommended are: Swetania macrophyla, Cedrela odorata, Cordia alliodora, Bambusa guadua,
and others that are listed but not described.
Silvopastoral systems
Silvopastoral systems are multi-purpose farming systems and agroforestry practices applied to livestock
production enterprises in order to linking sound agricultural development and conservation. This means
that, apart from the silvopastoral models, the technical menu would also offer technologies for an
ecologically sound farm management such as manure treatment and handling, minimum tillage, no use of
fire, reduction of the use of pesticides and herbicides, recycling of nutrients, etc. As the project has an
integrated ecosystem management approach, the technical menu would also include interventions at the
watershed level addressed to positively intluence land, water and biodiversity.
The silvopastoral systems that would be offer in the project can be grouped in four major categories:
1. Forest plantations with livestock grazing: In the tropical lowlands, some plantations of fine wood have as
the main associated cost the invasion by different grasses (both native and exotics). Recently, this situation
has been managed by introducing cattle, which has resulted in the livestock paying for much of the
management costs of the plantations.
2. Live fencing, wind-protection shields, biological corridors and shade for animals: This system, widely
used in some countries of tropical America, utilizes fast growing trees and shrubs that not only provide an
inexpensive alternative for fencing, but also supplements the diet of the livestock. In some cases, the system
develops into actual biological corridors connecting remnants of the original forests through a network
crossing the agricultural lands. Naturally, the importance of living fences as corridors increases with size,
structural complexity and plant species diversity.
3. Managed succession within silvopastoral systems: Plant succession, moulded by the activities of the
livestock for three to six years, after the suppression of non-selective control of weeds, including herbicides,
fire, and mechanical removal, results in plant cover with two or three layers above the grass level. Pastures
- 169-



are better protected against erosion, livestock gets additional food from browsing, and farmers reduce the
costs of maintaining their land and animals while obtaining by-products such as fuel and tirnber. There are
several potential benefits to biodiversity, since this kind of pastureland provides food and shelter for many
species, and also serves as a corridor between remaining patches of natural vegetation.
4. Intensive systems for cattle and other animal species: Intensive systems for cattle and other livestock
(reducing the amount of land required for ranching thus freeing some areas for natural forest regeneration
or for agroforestry), are perhaps the most promising alternatives to extensive grazing. Because of
environmental problems and increased production costs, intensive grazing is now approached in 2 radically
different way using high densities of tree and shrubs used by livestock as a diet supplement while protecting
the soil from compaction an erosion. There are two types:
a) High arboreal density silvopastoral systems: Because of environmental problems and increased
production costs, intensive grazing is now approached in a radically different way using high densities of
trees and shrubs used by livestock as a diet supplement while protecting the soil from packing and erosion.
b) Cut and carry systems: Replace grazing in open pasturelands with stables in which livestock is fed with
the foliage of different trees and shrubs specifically planted in areas formerly used for other agricultural
practices. This system is particularly successful in Central America for raising a variety of animals
including cattle, horses, goats, sheep, water buffalo, rabbits, guinea pigs, and poultry.
Expected impacts of technical menu
The main characteristics of the technical menu is that it would have a stratified technological offer for
small and medium size farms, it would propose scenarios to maximize the positive impacts of silvopastoral
systems and it would introduce sound principles for integrated farm management. The following table
illustrates the main components, interventions, stratification and expected impacts of the technical menu.
- 170-



Technology           Main Intervention       Targets      Greatest Impact Expected
.__________   on:
Improved Pastures    Improved grass          Medium size  Soil
germoplasm             farms         Livestock productivity
Managed Succession    selection of trees from  Medium size  Biodiversity
With Silvopastoral    natural plant succession,  farms     Carbon sequestration
Systems               tree planting and;
improved grasses
High Arboreal Density  Introduction of forage  Medium size  Livestock productivity
Silvopastoral Systems  tree and improved     farms         Carbon sequestration
grasses
Protein Banks         Fodder tree banks for cut  Small size  Livestock productivity
and carry              farms         Carbon sequestration
Living Fences         Fodder trees and trees for Small and  Wood production
wood production        medium        Carbon sequestration
size farms   Biodiversity
Wind-Protection Shields Wood trees in stands  Small and    Wood production
medium        Carbon sequestration
size farms
Biological Corridors  Natural plant succession  Small and  Biodiversity
- wire fences          medium        Carbon sequestration
size farms                  t
Land Set Aside for    Natural plant succession  Small and  Carbon sequestration
Conservation          - wire fences           medium       Biodiversity
size farms
Protection of Riparian  Natural plant succession  Watershed-  Water
Vegetation            - Planting of native tree  Community  Biodiversity
species                level         Carbon sequestration
Protection of Forest  Natural plant succession  Watershed-  Water
Cover in the         - Planting of native tree  Community  Biodiversity
Watershed            species                level         Carbon sequestration
The estimated carbon sequestration capacity by the different proposed silvopastoral technologies is as
follow: native pastures with dispersed trees under extensive grazing (in all regions of the three countries), 1
tn; improved pastures with low trees density (<2 ha) under extensive management (Colombia, Zone II), 2
tn; improved pastures with low trees density (<2 ha) under intensive management (Colombia, Zone I1), 3
tn; improved pastures (Brachiaria) with natural regeneration (in the three countries, but in Colombia only
in Zone I), 3.5 tn; secondary forest (in the three countries), 2 tn; Bambusa sp forest, 2 tn; high arboreal
density silvopastoral systems with 10,000 Leucaena trees, 5 tn; protein/fodder bank, 3.5 tn; living fences
with Gliricidia (per km), 2 tn; improved pastures without trees under extensive management (in the three
countries), 2 tn; enriched "tacotales" with management, 5.5 tn.
- 171 -



Technical menu per country
The elements of each technology vary greatly for each country in order to take into account the different
agro-ecological and socio-economic conditions. The main components per country are:
Colombia             Colombia             Costa Rica            Nicaragua
(1000-1350 m)     (More than 1350 m of
altitude)
Improved Pastures
Managed Succession                        Managed Succession     Managed Succession
With Silvopastoral                        With Silvopastoral     With Silvopastoral
Systems                                   Systems                Systems
High Arboreal Density  High Arboreal Density                     High Arboreal Density
Silvopastoral Systems  Silvopastoral Systems                     Silvopastoral Systems
Protein Banks        Protein Banks        Protein Banks          Protein Banks
Livting Fences       Living Fences         Living Fences         Living Fences
Wind-Protection Shields
Biological Corridors  Biological Corridors  Biological Corridors  Biological Corridors
Land Set Aside for   Land Set Aside for    Land Set Aside for    Land Set Aside for
Conservation         Conservation          Conservation          Conservation
Protection of Riparian  Protection of Riparian  Protection of Riparian  Protection of Riparian
Vegetation           Vegetation            Vegetation            Vegetation
Protection of Forest  Protection of Forest  Protection of Forest  Protection of Forest
Cover in the         Cover in the          Cover in the Watershed  Cover in the Watershed
Watershed            Watershed
Technical Menu for Colombia
The menu for Colombia is: Menu COLI for farms located in the north of the Valle del Cauca, with
extensive beef production system (size 70 ha); Menu COL2 for farms located in the good soils area of
Quindio, these farms may have been under coffee production in the past, but have a low level of
intensification (size 20 ha); and Menu COL3 for farms located in the good soils area of Quindio, currently
under intensive beef production system (size 15 ha).
- 172-



COLOMBIA Menu COL1 
Technical options                            Change (ha)
Native and degraded pastures (Paspalum sp,Imperata                - 7
Cilindrica, Cyperus sp, high percentage of Hiparrhenia rufa)
Brachiaria Decumbens and Brachiaria humidicola with Natural      + 5,0
plant succession mainly of Cordia alliodora, Cederla odorata,
Tabebuia rosea, Guazuma ulmifolia, Schizolobium
parahybum, Scheelea butyracea, Chlorophora tintorea,
Psidium guava).
Protein Banks 75% Cratylia argentea and 25% Sacharum             + 0,5
oficinarum
Bambusa forest (Riparian Vegetation mainly Bambusa guadua        + 2,0
Natural plant succession (Native tree and shrub species)          + 1,0
Live fences (k1m) of Gliricidia sepium every meter and a       + 2,15 (kCm)
Cordia alliodora tree every 5 meters.
COLOMBI A: Menu COL 2 and COL 3
Technical options                   Change (ha)     Change (ha)
COL2            COL3
Native and degraded pastures (Paspalum sp,lmperata       - 5         Not available
Cilindrica, Cyperus sp, and Cynodon plectostachius of very
low productivity
Star grass (Cynodon plectostachyus)                  Not available        - 3
High Arboreal Density Silvopastoral Systems (10,000     + 2,5            + 2.5
Leucaena leucocephala per/ha and Star grass Cynodon
plectostachyus)
Protein bank (Morus alba and Trichanthera gigantea)      + 1.0       Not available
Bambusa forest (Riparian Vegetation mainly Bambusa guadua  + 1,0         + 1.0
Natural plant succession (Native tree and shrub species)  + 1,0      Not available
Live fences (Iam) of Gliricidia sepium every meter and a  + 2,1 km     + 1.7 km
Cordia alliodora tree every 5 meters
- 173 -



Technical Menu for Costa Rica
In Costa Rica, the menu corresponds to farms under a dual-purpose milk/beef production system with soils
of regular quality (30 ha).
Costa Rica: Menu CR1
Technical options                            Change (ha)
Native degraded pastures (Paspalum virgatum, Paspalum notatum,        - 7,0
Ciperacea sp, Hiparrhenia rufa)
Improved pastures without trees (Brachiaria brizantha)               - 11,0
Improved pastures with trees (Panicum maximun, Cynodon               + 11.0
plectostachyus)
Brachiaria sp with trees (Brachiaria brizantha, Brachiaria           + 4.0
humidicola and brahicaria decumbens). Trees growth by Natural
plant succession or introduced species: Cordia alliodora, Cederla
odorata, Tabebuia rosea, Guazuma ulmifolia, Schizolobium
parahybum, Scheelea butyracea, Chlorophora tintorea, Psidium
guava, mangus indicus and fruit trees
Pro[ein banks (75% de Cratilya argentea and 25% Sacharum             + 0.75
oficrtiarum)
Native Forests                                                      Preserve
Natural plant succession (Native tree and shrub species)             + 2.0
Live fences (kIn) of Gliricidia sepium       + 2.10 km
every meter and a Cordia alliodora tree
every 5 meters
Wind-Protection Shields of Cordia
alliodora
- 174 -



Technical Menu for Nicaragua
The technical menu for Nicaragua is offered for: NIC1 small farms with a dual-purpose milk/beef
production system (20 ha); NIC2 for farms with dual-purpose production systems with soils of medium
quality (45 ha); and NIC3 for farms with dual-purpose production system of 80 ha in size.
Nicaragua: Menu NICI, NIC2, NIC3.
Technical options            Change (ha)    Change (ha)      Change (ha)
NIC1            NIC2            NIC3
Native degraded pastures Naturales(       - 5,0           - 9,0           -10
Paspalum virgatum, Paspalum notatum,
Ciperacea sp, Hiparrhenia rufa).
Brachiaria sp with trees (Brachiaria      + 4,0          + 6,0            + 8,0
brizantha, Brachiaria humidicola and
brahicaria decumbens). Trees growth by
Natural plant succession or introduced
species: Cordia alliodora, Cederla
odorata, Tabebuia rosea, Guazuma
ulmifolia, Schizolobium parahybum,
Scheelea butyracea, Chlorophora tintorea,
Psidium guava, mangus indicus and fruit
trees
Brachiaria sp with Leucaena leucocephala
Protein banks (75% de Cratilya argentea  + 0,75          + 1,0            + 2,0
and 25% Sacharum oficinarum)       _
Forests                                 Preserve        Preserve         Preserve
Tacotales without management and burning  - 1,8           - 4,5           - 8,0
Natural plant succession (Native tree and  + 1,8          + 6,5           + 8,0
shrub species)                          .
Live fences         + 1,85         + 2,86            + 3,2
(Icn) of
Gliricidia
sepium every
meter and a
Cordia
alliodora tree
every 5 meters
Details of the technical menu are provided in Jorge Botero, OCT 2001- Regional Silvopastoral
GEF-Technical Menu - CATIE .
- 175-



Additional Annex 18: STAP Reviewer Comments
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
The comments of the Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel expert, Dr. Pedro Sanchez, Director-General
of the International Center for Agroforestry (ICRAF), Nairobi have been addressed in detail in this annex
and incorporated into the project document, as described below. The reviewer's comments are quoted below
and each recommendation is followed by the Task Teams response.
Dear Cees,
I have read carefuiiy the silvopastoral project proposal and related comments. I find the project highly
innovative and one -worthy of GEF funding but feel strongly that before approval following issues should be
clarified:
1) The specific silvopastoral system that will be implemented in the different project areas. To me it is
insufficient to talk about silvopastoral systems in generic terms. The proposal should include "best bet"
silvopastoral system with a complete description of which tree species and pastor species will be used, their
spatial configurationl, crop-pastors-tree sequences, the main management action, etc. In addition, I would
assume that each of the silvopastoral systems will have a live fence component with Gliricidia or other
suitable species. '.re they planning to plant trees into existing grazed pastors, or are they starting from
scratch, ploughing. fertilizing, using an annual crop in which trees are inter-planted to be followed by
pastoral species? 'Will they have "protein banks" under silvopastoral systems, for example, Centrosema
macrocarpum, or -;ther shade tolerant legumes under trees like pejibaye? Such protein banks could be
grazed in rotation wvith conventional pastors. A clear description of this specific agroforestry system at
each of the sub-site is to me an essential requirement before approval.
The Task team fu4ly agrees with this comment. The different sites will have different requirements
regarding species composition, etc. More detailed description of the system to be used are provided in
Annex 2, which will be elaborated at appraisal.
2) The project needs to state specifically how does 1/10th of the area in the silvopastoral systems will
provide ecosystem services for the rest.
The Task Team comments: The effect of the silvopastoral system in terms of reduced erosion at the
watershed level, the provision of connectivity through biological conidors, and the reduced pressure it
provides on the hill sides, clearly transcends the part of the participating ranch only planted in
silvopastures. A scale up of ten is therefore assumed. This explanation is now included in the latest text.
3) The projections in carbon sequestration are based on data by CIAT in Carimagua, Colombia. I doubt
very much that such data are applicable to the project locations in Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Colombia. I
suggest that it is better to use carbon sequestration potential rates of agroforestry systems and improved
grasslands that appear in the recent IPCC report "Land Use, Land Use Change and Forestry". Please-make
sure that a distinction is made whether the proposed actions represent land use intensification or land use
change (the conversion of degraded croplands and grasslands into silvopastoral systems). This distinction
makes a big difference in the
carbon sequestration potential as indicated in this IPCC report.
- 176 -



Task Team fully agrees with this comment. Indeed one of the key parameters to be followed would be the
amount of C accumulated. However, the estimates are now adjusted in the text, and are now in line with
the other experiences and the IPCC report.
If you consider it appropriate, I would be glad to look at the revised version again.
The task team gladly accept this invitation.
With best regards,
Pedro Sanchez
Pedro A. Sanchez
Director General
International Centre for Research in Agroforestry
PO Box 30677, Nairobi, Kenya
E-mail: p.sanchez@cgiar.org
Tel.   254 2 521003 or 1 650 833-6645 ext. 4232
Fax    254 2 520023 or 1 650 833-6646
http://www.icraf.cgiar.org
ICRAF is supported by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
- 177 -



Additional Annex 19: Focal Point Letters
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Colombia
e, inwetRLmo swims
' - 'j ''-  -'W@    -0-_      WOOt2-4
''1 .   .   . .  . . . . . .
Miiwtay of th Environment of Colomba
April. 2001
Ms.
TERESA BRADLEY
Acting Globail Environmeint Co-cdinator
Latin Amnican and Caribbean Region
The World Bank-
1818 H Street NW                                       G
Washington. DC 20433 USA
Ret f Regional Sfo-Pastwral Approaches to Ecsystm Managmenm?
Dear Ms. Bradtly:
I wish to refer to the above-cited oroject. On behalf of the Colombian Government-Minister of
Environment, we crompletely endorse the Regional (Costa Rica. Nicaragfua Colombia) Silvp-
Pastoral Approachou to Ecosystem Management GEF project gnd we aihodse CArTIE to be
the sole recipient of the GEF Grant.
The integrated rnanagement ecoystatm focus adopted by the project within the coniext of
reglonal development will result In the consecutive natonal, regionl a.nd global benefitf in
terms of the GEF operationa pnnciples.
Sincerely.
n   yr Maldonado
Mlniate of the Envivonme.\
'~-C..j   l CrebPew.d0   Cas U& MO/CARTAS GaFiCrfta Aval, Suvu-oarnl
- 178-



Costa Rica
FUNTMWCOOPERACION,
Deae,7, 2001.
DS-0123*4
Mrs.
LrenShepadssrn
nMwo
Thb is to acM  ow .w&rnutdg t tw a GaU(rt in tdc awwmt of USS4.5 millon
cqiinln tO akst iwbc foaming of fi ea"ioual legamt  Slwptow  Arcb   to
Ee-usyotn MoAgornmcr Pr*cn wouj tic pwvMef d by tim (3ZF ThAfl iVud to fti Cumi
Apouwico Tfn4 4 1nrcA      on y JAirftAaazCATIE (,t kmcipi1)) .  Nan of rh
ptwvesds oi am   *wzld k: (a) wed by the Rim3-at to fiaote ticw Vayi  oto
P;?wcv mrtiv    CO=     14 uu        the Reiient m The (te rut Rsa.vbh
oi SuMannmabi AgrtulWw Ewuctia Sydnw (UCIPAV) to fisawx thes arying A of
flVj4a oevllS In Colombt and c) utntkrm by In Rw4ozt to lb itvaciiy of
Corin) Amcrc (tlaC) to fatooJ  tr     out of P:tnj  aetivt  la Kwonagu
AAMzty,ILv. woapa   fuA contibution iuld r.ot b1 prWded by f41 &puWk or
c*ubi the ftr*Vwll of Con Rbsunbln lcpablic of Nicag
Liodav. Gtwin VRWS
Col Rae
CC: Archivo
GYAMsr
bls ,:.?taj ?t.-c rAw >243Ct %ul  * Fa eSooo F3Z4i$'ats @0 G(1X PaenttIz*in. $ci Z.hM.Czc 
Wsac'fr': 1Oest0. to &4 ScS lsse POUwa4 WAto Wa5aSJ EstnEeo;Gotncta& |.
-179-



Nicaragua
NMISRAID      £ AL 0 maITEY LOS RECURSOS NATURAL ES
CORROED     SILG= DaL AT1ABNTO
tAZru Mjor NWucia                        M* 9* Eu
Decermber 6202W
I#s. Kaen Shpadwmo
LAO QEF Ccrd narr
The World Bank
Washington. 0. C.
Dear Ms. Shepardsorn
ThiLs icto confirm out urnderstanding ttfi a GBFr Gran in 11w arrmon of LSS 4fi mA1Ian
oquivaljnt to assist In the financing of its Regionao teated Sl  1 1 Approedhes
to, Ecosystem M=anagemrt Project wud be provided by Om GEF Tust Fwnd to the
Coner Agomn    cao TrogpiI de Invest. adn y Ernsfanza - GATE (t. Recipieit).
Part of the pmceds of the Grant woubd be: (a) used by the Rec4ipent to Manem the
cafying out of Pk*t atives in Costa flea; (b) transfefed bY the RecIpient to the
Canter for Research art Sustiwnbc AqdmuIturc" Prodcn Systss (CIPAV) to financ
the canyingv ut of Prjcct octtines ie mZo tia; and (c) b  by the RecipInt to
the Univershy ot CenS   Ameefa (LCA) to finance ths cwying out of Project aties
In Naragua Adtftionfhy. counterpat fut vtnUlbuUon wd not be provkld by the
akputf of Colonbla, the Republic of Cdea Rica nr the Republic of NIfaragua.
A* ~SIMW*
a'a A.       a
Glt;F    a      -cg t
- 180 -



Additional Annex 20: Maps
LATIN AMERICA: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management
Site selection proceeded on the basis of several criteria; first, national locations, second spatial contiguity,
third, farm size and production characteristics, and fourth, a basis in natural landscape units. The
nationality criteria selected 1 pilot area in each of 3 countries, Esparza, Costa Rica, Quindio, Colombia,
and Matiguas, Nicaragua. Each of the sites was projected in the national projection; in the case of Costa
Rica, CRTM (Costa Rica TM, a new projection introduced by the national registry of properties, centered
on 84W, ON, with a false easting of 500000), Nicaragua standard UTM16, and Colombia a modified
UTM18 (false easting 1000000, false northing 1000000).
Costa Rica
The Costa Rica site covers a set of minor watersheds on the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica. The actual study
areas represent truncations of the watersheds, to focus on selected farm size and production characteristics.
The study area measures approximately 50 km East-West and 35km North-South, and partially covers the
watersheds of the Rio Guacimal, Sardinal, Aranjuez, Quebrada Palo, Rio Ciruela, Naranjo, Barranca and
Jesus Maria. As the lower reaches of the rivers were areas primarily of annual crop and sugar cane
production, these parts were excluded. Likewise, the upper ranges of the watersheds were forest protection
areas with little agriculture, so they as well were excluded.
Study Area: Esparza, Costa Rica
Nicaragua
The study site in Nicaragua is in the Central part of the country, also covering an area of approximately
50km East West by 35km North South. This is an area of extensive agriculture, with little primary forest
and large areas of agriculture mixed with animal production. Two sites were selected; the first is the lower
watershed of the Rio Bulbul, near Matiguas, and the second is the watershed of Rio Paiwas, both
tributaries of the Rio Grande de Matagalpa.
- 181 -



C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Colombia
T'he study sites in Colombia are: 1) the ar-ea Ircated in the northern part of the department of the Valle del
Cauca (rural areas of Cartago, Alcala and Ulloa municipalities); 2) and the foothills of the Central Andes
in the departinent of Quindio (rural areas of -.krmenia, Circasia, Montenegro, La Tebaida and Quimbaya
municipalities). 1) and 2) belong to the La Vieja river watershed which receives the Quindio river
watershed, all within the territory of the Republic of Colombia.
-182-



a m:                I? " _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _K A        *            ____e____________
|  t   ,        ~i                                    't  .*                   F
.'   'k                   u                    a .  %  !y.   f
'~ <           1?T44 ' FF.4 'k*.-arW- |/ .,cat .            4 ;16r<q -
a  -. --  1 4~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  ----
.   .   ..   ^   .   ,.,   4 . vs  :t - : r.................  ....................;  ...............l  ......................... 
-  . . m)a5  ;|fli     >                 .V a..                                        A ..c..........t ........a...m
; ,):zS >- iv.ge        s    7-----------'  *  W'  I
X~~~~~~ 1-                                                                               _- C 4_XlS      !
S~~~~       ~ adia                     - ;c*a                          aat.~E l- a1  



Val le del Cauca
* § ; , _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   _ x
*....... .................... ..
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.> .  . ......-. 2.i.- -e ------w -
IL ~ ~     ~     ~,
-i           |        I  1. 
Vi . , _ . _ . . _ - _ .                 ,                _   ,_ 4. ......._
g      ,'  .,Ik,                      .        ',      t l .
~~~~~~~_               _ ___  _.___|___t.      _ _ ,_ 
........  ......,1S
- r g { | 4 t > e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-i*--*--- <*v----



