Report No. 23450
Report No: I072979 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/08/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: LATIN AMERICA Project ID: P072979
Project: Integrated Silvopastoral Approaches to Ecosystem Management      Task
Team Leader: Paola Agostini
Appraisal Date: November 26, 2001        IBRD Amount ($m):
Board Date: April 8, 2002        IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSER     Sector: VM - Natural Resources Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The main development objective of this innovative pilot project is to
demonstrate and measure the improvements in eco-systems functioning,
global environmental benefits, and local socio-economic gains of the
introduction of silvopastoral systems in degraded pasture lands in
Colombia, Costa Rica and Nicaragua. Silvo-pastoral systems consist of
complex arrays of planted trees, shrubs and grass species, used for
mutiple purposes, such as cattle grazing and browsing, live fences and
windbreaks to reduce wind and water erosion, shade for crops and
livestock, climbers for vine crops, and construction and fuel wood. They
serve also as an effective "pump" by capturing mineral nutrients from
deeper soil layers to produce vegetation, which, in time, and in the form
of litter, is reverted back to minerals in top soil layers (see Annex 10
for a detailed description). More specifically, the project aims to
assess incentive systems for environmental services and and measure, at
farm and community level, the benefits provided by an integrated
ecosystems approach to the improvement of degraded pasture land in the
form of:
(a) local environmental benefits through reduction in erosion and
improvement in soil and water quality with increased production, income
and employment in rural areas. The experience gained would be directly
relevant to an estimated 40 million hectare of degraded pasture land in
the three countries. Indirectly the project would be expected to reduce
pressure on the agricultural frontier;
(b) global environmental benefits, through improved biodiversity and
carbon sequestration services, protecting some of the world's most
valuable eco-systems and reducing the risk of climate change;
(c) information on farmers reaction to the payment of environmental
services and experiences in the management of incentives required to
produce global environmental benefits; and
(d) comprehensive guidelines for sector and environmental policies in
terms of land use, environmental services and socio-economic development
provided by the introduction of silvopastoral systems to rehabilitate
degraded pastures.
For GEF, this pilot activity would provide guidance for future funding, on
the definition of policy requirements for optimizing environmental



services in livestock production and mitigation measures in an area for
which operational programs have not yet been developed. The documentation
of experience gained, good practices, and dissemination of lessons learned
and know-how are also an integral outcome of the project. This would lead
to greater awareness of the potential gains to be made in terms of
environmental services provided by integrated ecosystem management.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
Ecosystems enhancement and Capacity building.
Ecosystem Enhancement. To establish demonstration sites totalling at
least 3,500 ha improved silvopastoral systems, which would provide a
variety on ecological services in an area of 35,000 ha.
Capacity building: (i) Technically assist stakeholders, strengthen local
organisations and (ii) produce and disseminate communications on
integrated ecosystem management and in the implementation of sustainable
livestock production systems.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Ecological Services.
Obtain improved information and understanding of the potential of
intensified silvopastoral systems in providing global ecological services
and local socio economic benefits.
Ecoservices payments.
Gain experience on beneficiaries response to incentives for farm's
investments in biodiversity conservation and land use changes to produce
global environmental benefits.
Policy formulation and Outreach. Prepare policy guidelines for
sustainable intensification of livestock production and specific
recommendations for sector and environmental policies in terms incentive
regimes, land use and land tenure procedures and environmental services.
Project management.
Strengthen the administrative and organisation of the collaborating
institutions.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will work in Colombia in the Quindio Region, in Central
Nicaragua (Matigua-Rio Blanco) and in Costa Rica in the Region of La
Esparza.
The population affected are "colonos" that have legal title to their land.
There are no indigenous people in the area.
The criteria used to select the project areas are:
n Focus on zones where cattle production is one of the predominant
economic activities and which are distant of the forest frontier.
n Focus on zones at some distance of fragile and endangered ecosystems
(corridors). In the case of Costa Rica, the particular technology used in
the selected watersheds of Esparza, about 50 km away from the national
park of Monteverde, would be completely unsuitable for the montane climate
- 2-



of that park, and the "ecological" distance would prevent the "moral
hazard" effect there.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The project would have highly beneficial impacts upon the
environment, supporting improved natural resource management and
biodiversity conservation. The project complies fully with the objectives
of OP 4.36 Forestry, namely, "to reduce deforestation, enhance the
environmental contribution of forested areas, promote afforestation,
reduce poverty, and encourage economic development."
There is no major adverse environmental impacts expected as a result of
this project. Minor environmental impacts might be expected from some
on-the-ground investments.
The Category B is designed to be entirely positive from an environmental
standpoint, particularly by promoting conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
- Social assessment has been completed with full participation of all
stakeholders.
- No resettlement will take place under project.
- No indigenous people will be affected.
Deforestation increases as a result of the carbon incentive on improved
pastures and silvopastoral systems.
There is the risk that farmers response to the economic incentives,
increases deforestation by clearing additional land for silvopastoral
systems. This would be one of the key parameters to be tested in this
project. Preliminary research data by CATIE in three pilot farms in Costa
Rica show that pasture intensification leads to a decrease of unimproved
pastures and a significant increase of secondary forest. This evidences
that intensification leads to abandonment of conventional raising methods
- 3 -



on native pastures and therefore reforestation.
Table 7. Land use changes, productivity and incremental carbon in
livestock farms in Costa Rica
Farm 1 Farm 2
1996    2000
Vegetal cover
Native pasture W         49       22
Improved pasture W       1        13
Fodder bank W    1       9
Secondary forest W       1        10
Stocking rate    0.67    1.34
Milk, 1/yr.      8,610   16,917
Incremental C, tons      1,738    2,765
Source: CATIE, 2000.
For the operationalisation of the compensation scheme it is important to
address the "moral hazard" of farmers clearing forest for silvopastures to
claim compensation for environmental services. The following criteria for
the selection of the particular watersheds to further limit the
possibility of ranch encroachment in forest areas have been applied:
n Focus on zones where cattle production is one of the predominant
economic activities and which are distant of the forest frontier.
n Focus on zones at some distance of fragile and endangered ecosystems
(corridors). In the case of Costa Rica, the particular technology used in
the selected watersheds of Esparza, about 50 km away from the national
park of Monteverde, would be completely unsuitable for the montane climate
of that park, and the "ecological" distance would prevent the "moral
hazard" effect there.
n Preference would be given to small or medium size farmers (in terms of
capital).
n Focus on those areas, where there is a strong presence of an organized
group of farmers or community, and where the group has expressed a strong
will to participate, to use peer pressure.
Include in the contract for payment of environmental services a provision
that indicates that no deforestation will take place on a farmer's land
during contract period.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
- 4 -



II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
This project is being prepared under a strong participatory approach. See
Annex 8.The different stakeholders have been actively involved. The
project preparation planning process included a number of stakeholder
activities that were carried out starting from 1999.
n In May 1999, LEAD, CATIE and Servicios Internacionales para el
Desarrollo Empresarial (SIDE), organized a seminar in Costa Rica aimed at
entrepreneurs and the scientific community. The seminar "Livestock
Intensification in Central America: Environmental and Economical Benefits"
focused on sharing information and identify strategies and policies for
the development of a sustainable livestock production including the market
of environmental services.
n On March 13, 2000, a workshop was organized in Plains VA, USA on Bird
Conservation In Livestock Grazing Systems. This workshop, which included
livestock grazing technicians and ranchers with experience in
silvopastoral systems, and biologists with experience in community
ecology, confirmed the feasibility of changing extensive grazing systems
into alternative silvopastures, and provided the ecological basis for
establishing a monitoring framework.
n Two workshops were held to specifically elaborate the project
documentation. The first, to develop the concepts was held in workshop in
Costa Rica from July 10-14, 2000. This involved the GEF focal points and
the proposed implementing agencies of the three countries selected for
this project (NITLAPAN, CATIE and CIPAV), FAO/LEAD and WB staff, and a
representative of the American Bird Conservancy (ABC). In a participatory
fashion, details on the project were discussed and agreed upon, including
the environmental impacts of the proposed technology, criteria for
selection of the sites, methodologies for measuring and certifying the two
ecological services, socio economic evaluation, criteria and payment
levels for the two main ecological services, funding of the initial
on-farm investments, administration of the project, management of the
financial mechanisms to pay for the eco-Services, and detailed budgets and
timetable. As an indicator of government commitment to contribute to and
learn from the project, each of the three governments agreed to
participate in their country's respective Steering Committee during this
initial workshop. Subsequent to this workshop, a series of meetings and
consultations with the governments took place throughout project
preparation. The second workshop, held in Rome from November 13-15, 2000
with the implementing agencies and the partners (LEAD, ABC), assessed
requirements in the light of the shift from a medium to a regular size
project, revised implementation arrangements, finalized the budgets and
integrated the analysis of water quality in the project.
n During the social assessment a survey and many interviews and focus
groups were carried out in the three countries, to discuss and agree with
the farmers on the project objectives and components, and to find out with
them the best implementation mechanisms.
n An electronic-conference was organized by LEAD in October/Novemeber 2001
to discuss with the scientific community, NGOs, Policy makers, the
- 5-



potencial of Silvo-pastoral sistems to generate environmental benefits.
The conference attracted a very wide participation.
Public Involvement During Implementation
Public involvement throughout the project was ensured by stakeholder
participation, information dissemination and consultation during the
preparation. The executing agencies would be responsible for ensuring
public involvement, dissemination and consultation in each country. The
regional and global information dissemination and consultation would be
the responsibility of LEAD's Spanish Speaking Platform and the Virtual
Research and Development Centre.
Stakeholder participation: The project would be implemented in close
consultation with all stakeholders. The participation strategy includes
workshops and meetings at different stages of the project, with the local
farmer's organizations, agricultural and environmental scientists and
government environmental organizations. At early stages of the project
these workshops would be orientated to involve community participation and
to increase environmental awareness Further into implementation, local
institutions in collaboration with farmer organizations, would hold
regular meetings to evaluate the environmental and socio-economic impacts
of the project. A series of training courses for farmers would also be
carried out locally to introduce farmers to the new production
technologies and research methodologies.
Information Dissemination: Information from this project would be widely
available. The results would be published in a series of publications
targeted to several audiences including: manuals for farmers, and
peer-reviewed scientific journals; reports and extension materials for
different end users, including policy makers. The LEAD's Spanish Speaking
Platform would facilitate the information sharing through its network of
institutions in the region. Together with the Virtual Research and
Development Centre would provide the means for conventional and electronic
publications and would incorporate the results of the project within the
Livestock and Environment Toolbox (an electronic decision support tool for
policy makers). LEAD would also include the results of this project within
its "Livestock-Environment in the Policy Dialogue" program which aims to
the creation of a core group of specialists to mainstream livestock and
environment policies, the organization of training/workshops for policy
makers and the participation in policy formulation missions in developing
countries. Moreover, the Steering Committees would be important channels
for internalizing project lessons learned into government policies and
programs.
CATIE would contribute to the dissemination of the project's results with
its active outreach and training programs and its close relations to many
research and academic institutions in the region. The CATIE educational
program began in Turrialba in 1946. Consequently, its postgraduate
educational experience spans more than 50 years. CATIE's has Master and
Doctorate programs and organizes training events corresponding to three
structures: courses workshops, seminars and technical meeting. Project
findings would be incorporated into its educational programs.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
- 6 -



that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Paola Agostini  11/20/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Juan D. Quintero         11/21/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         John Redwood     11/26/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\January 11, 2002\I072979.txt
January 9, 2002 8:09 AM
-7-



