                                                                     92769
                    PES Learning Paper 2014-1


 Evaluation of the Permanence of Land Use Change
Induced by Payments for Environmental Services in
                 Quindío, Colombia

     Stefano Pagiola, Jordi Honey-Rosés, and Jaume Freire-González




                           September 2014


                  Environment and Natural Resources
                            World Bank
                         Washington DC, USA
Abstract	  
The effectiveness of conservation interventions such as Payments for Environmental Services
(PES) is often evaluated—if it is evaluated at all—only at the completion of the intervention.
Since gains achieved by the intervention may be lost after it ends, even apparently
successful interventions may not result in long-term conservation benefits, a problem known
as that of permanence. This paper uses a unique dataset to examine the permanence of land
use change induced by a short-term PES program implemented in Quindío, Colombia,
between 2003 and 2008. This the first PES program to have a control group for comparison.
Under this program, PES had been found to have a positive and highly significant impact on
land use. To assess the long-term permanence of these changes, both PES recipients and
control households were re-surveyed in 2011, four years after the last payment was made.
We find that the land use changes that had been induced by PES were broadly sustained in
intervening years, with minor differences across specific practices and sub-groups of
participants. The patterns of change in the period after the PES program was completed also
help better understand the reasons for the program’s success. These results suggest that, at
least in the case of productive land uses such as silvopastoral practices, PES programs can
be effective at encouraging land owners to adopt environmentally-beneficial management
practices and that the benefits will persist after payments cease.
Authors	  
Stefano Pagiola is Senior Environmental Economist in the Environment and Natural
Resources Global Practice, World Bank; Jordi Honey-Rosés is Assistant Professor at the
School of Community and Regional Planning, University of British Columbia; and Jaume
Freire-González is Consultant at ENT Environment and Management.

Keywords	  
Payments for Environmental Services (PES), impact evaluation, livestock, silvopastoral,
Colomnia

Acknowledgements	  
An earlier version of this paper was presented at the Workshop on Evaluating Forest
Conservation Initiatives in Barcelona, 10-12 December, 2013. Data analysis was partially
funded by a grant from the Bank-Netherlands Partnership Program (BNPP)

Cover	  photo	  
Cows grazing in a pasture with high tree density, Quindío (Stefano Pagiola).

PES	  Learning	  Papers	  
PES Learning Papers draw on the World Bank’s extensive experience in supporting programs of
Payments for Environmental Services (PES). They are part of a larger effort by the World Bank to
provide open access to its research and make a contribution to development policy discussions around
the world.
The PES Learning Paper series disseminates the findings of work in progress to encourage the
exchange of ideas about PES. An objective of the series is to get the findings out quickly, even if the
presentations are less than fully polished. The papers carry the names of the authors and should be
cited accordingly. The findings, interpretations, and conclusions expressed in this paper are entirely
those of the authors. They do not necessarily represent the views of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development/World Bank and its affiliated organizations, or those of the
Executive Directors of the World Bank or the governments they represent. The boundaries, colors,
denominations, and other information shown on any map in this work do not imply any judgment on
the part of The World Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or the endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
     Evaluation of the Permanence of Land Use Change Induced by
      Payments for Environmental Services in Quindío, Colombia

           Stefano Pagiola, Jordi Honey-Rosés, and Jaume Freire-González



                                  1. Introduction
       Payments for environmental services (PES) programs have attracted
considerable attention as a strategy to protect natural resources and improve their
long-term management (Ferraro and Kiss, 2002; Wunder, 2005; Engel and others,
2008; Wunder and others, 2008). As with many other conservation interventions,
there are important questions concerning their effectiveness. One such question
concerns the long-term sustainability of their results. However, there have been no
empirical analyses to date of this long-term sustainability. The effectiveness of PES
program has hitherto been evaluated (if it is evaluated at all), only at the completion
of the intervention. Since gains achieved by the intervention may be lost after it
ends, even apparently successful interventions may not result in long-term
conservation benefits.
       PES programs make payments that are conditional on managing natural
resources in ways that generate benefits for others (Wunder, 2005; Engel and others,
2008; Pagiola and Platais, 2007; Wunder, forthcoming). The approach is based on the
twin principles that those who benefit from environmental services (such as users of
clean water) should pay for them, and that those who contribute to generating these
services (such as upstream land users) should be compensated for providing them. It
thus seeks to create mechanisms in which service users and service providers can
undertake transactions that are in both parties’ interests, internalizing what would
otherwise be an externality.
       Recent years have seen a substantial growth in the use of PES, particularly in
Latin America. PES programs are being implemented in Brazil (Pagiola and others,
2013(, Colombia (Blanco, 2006), Costa Rica (Pagiola, 2008), Ecuador (Wunder and
Albán, 2008; De Koning and others, 2011), Mexico (Muñoz-Piña and others, 2008), and
elsewhere, and others are under preparation or study in several countries. These
programs cover a wide range of scales and contexts. National-scale programs are in
place in Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, and several Brazilian states. Smaller programs
(usually watershed-scale) can be found throughout the continent, in almost every
country. Many programs focus on preserving water services, but programs that
sequester carbon (for regulated or voluntary markets) are also common, and may
become even common if plans for Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and
Degradation (REDD) come to fruition (Pagiola, 2011; Agrawal and others, 2011).
Although few PES programs focus on biodiversity directly, biodiversity conservation is
an important secondary objective of many programs.
      As with other conservation interventions (Ferraro and Pattanayak, 2006; Miteva
and others, 2012), there has been growing concern over the effectiveness of PES

                                          1
(Pattanayak and others, 2010). Concerns have been raised that PES may not in fact
induce the desired land use changes (that is, that they may lack additionality); that
any induced land use changes may not in fact generate the desired services (for
example, because the wrong land uses were induced, or total land use change was
insufficient); that such changes may not be sustainable or permanent (because they
are abandoned once the program ends); or that second-order impacts of the programs
may diminish, or even negate, the benefits of the program (a problem known as
leakage or spillage). There have also been concerns over distributional and social
impacts. Despite these concerns, there have been few efforts to date to assess the
impact of PES programs, and most of those have been hampered by lack of data,
sometimes leading to very divergent results.
        The few evaluations of PES programs that have been conducted have shown
mixed results, in part because almost none had a control group to serve as a
counterfactual, and few collected baseline data. Costa Rica’s PES program has been
the most studied, but the available studies have a wide range of results, ranging from
a 10 percent increase in primary forest cover nationwide in 2005 over what it would
have been without the PES Program (Tattenbach and others, 2006); to a minimal
impact on deforestation in 1997-2000 (Pfaff and others, 2008), and only a slightly
higher impacts in 2000-2005 (Robalino and others, 2008); and an increase in forest
cover among PES recipients of about 11-17 percent of the area under contract
(Arriagada and others, 2012). In Mexico, Alix-Garcia and others (2012), find that the
national PES program reduced deforestation among participants by about 50 percent;
Muñoz-Piña (2011) finds similar results. At a smaller scale, Honey-Rosés and others
(2011) find that a PES program aimed at conserving the Monarch Butterfly Reserve
succeeded in reducing deforestation and forest degradation compared to what it
would have been, but not in eliminating it. In Colombia, Pagiola and Rios (2013) find
that a short-term PES program achieved substantial and strongly statistically
significant land use change among recipients. All these studies focused exclusively on
the problem of additionality during implementation. Only Alix-Garcia and others
(2012) examined the extent of leakage under Mexico’s national PES program, finding
that it partially offset the estimated impact on deforestation.
       In this paper, we are specifically concerned with the long-term sustainability or
permanence of the benefits generated by PES—the least studied aspect of the
effectiveness of PES. We use a unique dataset to examine the long-term sustainability
of environmentally-beneficial land use change induced by a short-term PES program
implemented in Quindío, Colombia, between 2003 and 2008. Under this program,
which was the first PES program to have a control group, PES had been found to have
a positive and highly significant impact on land use, with the proportion of farm area
devoted by PES recipients to environmentally beneficial land uses increasing
substantially. Because of the short-term nature of the program, however, there was
considerable concern that gains would be lost once the program ended. To assess the
long-term sustainability of these changes, both PES recipients and control households
were re-surveyed four years after the last payment was made to measure subsequent
changes to land use.


                                           2
       We begin by discussing why evaluating the long-term sustainability of land use
change induced by short-term PES programs is important and formulating several
hypotheses about long-term outcomes. We then describe the project and its PES
mechanism, and the Quindío site, and the land uses changes that were induced during
implementation of the project. We then use detailed monitoring data collected at the
study site to examine the land use changes that took place subsequent to the last
payment being made. In particular, we search for any evidence that former PES
recipients have abandoned the practices they adopted while receiving payments. We
also examine the extent to which some of these land uses may have been further
expanded even after payments ended, either by former PES recipients or by control
households. We find that the land use changes that had been induced by PES were
broadly sustained in intervening years, with minor differences across specific
practices and sub-groups of participants. Some practices experienced continued
expansion even after the payments ceased. The patterns of change in the period after
the PES program was completed also help better understand the reasons for the
program’s success. We conclude by discussing the implications of our results for PES
program design.

                  2. Long-term sustainability of PES impacts
       In most cases, PES programs are designed to be long-term programs, making
annual payments to landholders essentially indefinitely (although most PES contracts
are typically for five years, they are usually renewable indefinitely). This is
particularly true of PES programs that aim to conserve existing environmentally-
beneficial land uses such as forests and prevent their conversion to less desirable land
uses. The logic of these programs is that the returns to landholders of
environmentally-beneficial land uses are lower than those of alternatives—if this were
not case, there would be no pressure to change land use. Accordingly, perpetual
payments are necessary to induce landholders to retain such land uses. Payments are
made annually, upon verification that landholders have maintained the desired land
uses. In such cases, there is no expectation of sustainability once payments end—on
the contrary, the expectation is explicitly that the environmentally-beneficial land
uses would be abandoned if payments ended. Concerns over sustainability thus focus
primarily on the sustainability of the funding sources and the institutional
arrangements that allow long-term payments to be made. In such long-term PES
programs, the more important concern is that of additionality: many participants in
such programs may be receiving payments for land uses they would have undertaken
anyway, so that the programs generate few or no additional environmental services
compared to the no-program counterfactual (Pattanayak and others, 2010).
       In other cases, however, PES programs only make short-term payments. This is
often the case of programs which seek to restore degraded ecosystems, replacing
environmentally-harmful land uses with more beneficial ones. Wunder (2005) calls
these programs “asset-building”, in contrast to the “use-restricting” conservation-
focused programs. The logic in such cases is that returns to landholders from
environmentally-beneficial land uses can exceed those of alternatives once obstacles
to their adoption have been overcome. In such cases, a short-term PES program that

                                           3
‘tips the balance’ between environmentally harmful and beneficial land uses may be
sufficient. This was the hypothesis of the short-term PES program examined here.
       The hypothesis that short-term payments are sufficient to induce lasting land
use change may, however, be mistaken. If returns to environmentally-beneficial land
uses are lower than those of alternatives, landholders may still participate in the PES
program and temporarily adopt the desired land uses so as to receive the payments
(so that PES appears to be successful during implementation), but would then
abandon these land uses once payments cease. This would, of course, result in the
loss of any environmental benefits after the program’s end. The resources used to
induce the land use change would thus have been wasted. It is important, therefore,
to verify, rather than assume, whether land use changes induced by short-term PES
programs are indeed sustained after payments end.
       Observing land use changes after completion of a PES program is also important
for other reasons. In particular, while some fear that land uses will be abandoned
once payments cease, others hope that—on the contrary—PES will lead to widespread
adoption even after payments cease. This could occur, for example, if the main
obstacles to adoption of environmentally-beneficial land uses were not due to their
benefits to landholders. These land uses may not have been adopted prior to the PES
program, for example, if landholders were not aware of their benefits, or did not
know how to implement them. If the area under the desired land uses continues to
expand even after the end of payments, it may indicate that the apparent benefits of
PES may in fact have resulted not from the actual payments but from the technical
assistance (TA) that was provided concurrently. In that case, a TA program alone may
be sufficient. Alternatively landholders may have lacked the financing necessary to
undertake the necessary investments, and the payments may have affected land use
choice by relaxing this constraint rather than through their effect on profitability. In
the latter case, a credit program may be an attractive alternative to PES.
       The impacts of PES may differ across land uses, as the relative profitability and
technical complexity of environmentally-friendly land uses vary. Thus, some land uses
may prove to be sustainably adopted thanks to a short-term PES programs while
others are not. Impacts may also vary across participants. Poorer households, for
example, may have greater financing constraints than better-off households. These
differences, if observed, would have important implications for PES program design.
Any evaluation should thus seek to identify such differences in impacts rather than
looking at average impacts.
       To date, the only effort to assess the long-term sustainability of a PES program
has been a study of China’s Sloping Land Conversion Programs (SLCP) (Grosjean and
Kontoleon, 2009). This study, however, used stated preference techniques to try to
predict whether the program would prove sustainable, rather than observations of
actual behavior post-program.




                                           4
                                      3. Methods
       This paper uses data from a PES program implemented in the Quindío area of
Colombia from 2003 to 2007 to examine whether land use changes induced by PES are
maintained once payments end. Quindío was one of three pilot sites for the Regional
Integrated Silvopastoral Ecosystem Management Project (hereafter the ‘Silvopastoral
Project’), which used PES to encourage the adoption of silvopastoral practices in
degraded and treeless pastures, so as to generate increased biodiversity conservation
and carbon sequestration (Pagiola and others, 2005). The Silvopastoral Project offers
an excellent opportunity to assess the long-term impact of PES, as it undertook
extensive monitoring of both PES recipients and of a control group of farmers. By
comparing the land use changes undertaken by PES recipients and control households,
we can distinguish the impact of payments from that of other factors that affect land
use decisions. To examine the long-term sustainability of these land uses changes, we
re-surveyed all of the participants in the Silvopastoral Project four years after the last
payment was made.
The Silvopastoral Project
        The Silvopastoral Project piloted the use of PES in three areas: Quindío, in
Colombia; Esparza, in Costa Rica; and Matiguás-Río Blanco, in Nicaragua (Pagiola and
others, 2005). The project was financed by a US$4.5 million grant from the Global
Environment Facility (GEF), with the World Bank as the implementing agency. It was
developed with support of the multi-donor Livestock, Environment and Development
Initiative (LEAD), hosted by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). It was
implemented in the field by local non-governmental organizations (NGOs). In
Colombia, this work was conducted by the Centre for Research on Sustainable
Agricultural Production Systems (Centro para la Investigación en Sistemas Sostenibles
de Producción Agropecuaria, CIPAV).
        Cattle production has long been an important cause of the loss of natural
habitat and biodiversity in Latin America (Downing and others, 1992; Kaimowitz,
1996; Murgueitio, 2003). Moreover, traditional livestock production practices based on
extensive grazing are often unsustainable. After an initial period of high yields, soil
fertility is depleted and grass cover diminishes, resulting in soil erosion,
contamination of water supplies, air pollution, further loss of biodiversity, and
degradation of landscapes. Lower income for producers results in continuing poverty
and can lead to pressure to clear additional areas.
       Silvopastoral practices combine trees with pasture. They include (1) planting
high densities of trees and shrubs in pastures; (2) cut and carry systems, in which
livestock is fed with the foliage of specifically planted trees and shrubs (‘fodder
banks’); and (3) using fast-growing trees and shrubs for fencing and wind screens.
These practices provide deeply rooting, perennial vegetation which is persistently
growing and has a dense but uneven canopy.
       The on-site benefits of silvopastoral practices for land users may include
additional production from the tree component, such as fruit, fuelwood, fodder, or
timber; maintaining or improving pasture productivity by increasing nutrient

                                            5
recycling; and diversification of production (Dagang and Nair, 2003). Because of their
increased complexity relative to traditional pastures, silvopastoral practices also have
important biodiversity benefits: they have been shown to play a major role in the
survival of wildlife species by providing scarce resources and refuge; to have a higher
propagation rate of native forest plants; and to provide shelter for wild birds (Dennis
and others, 1996; Harvey and Haber, 1999; Harvey and others 2008). They can also
help connect protected areas. Silvopastoral practices can also fix significant amounts
of carbon in the soil and in the standing tree biomass (Fisher and others, 1994;
Swallow and others, 2007). Silvopastoral practices can also affect water services,
though the specific impact is likely to be site specific (Murgueitio, 2003; Bruijnzeel,
2004).
       Although silvopastoral practices offer numerous benefits, landholders will
generally only take a portion of these benefits into account. Biodiversity
conservation, carbon sequestration, and watershed protection benefits are all
experienced off-site, so landholders will not normally take them into account when
deciding which practices to adopt. The on-site benefits that landholders do take into
account, however, are often insufficient by themselves to justify adopting
silvopastoral practices—particularly practices with substantial tree components, which
have high upfront planting costs and only bring benefits several years later. Estimates
prepared for the project show rates of return of between 4 and 14 percent,
depending on the country and type of farm (Gobbi, 2002). Other studies found similar
results; White and others (2011), for example, found rates of return to adoption of
improved pasture in Esparza, Costa Rica, of 9 to 12 percent. As a result, adoption of
silvopastoral practices is often low.
       The Silvopastoral Project sought to improve the adoption of silvopastoral
practices by offering payments proportional to their expected biodiversity and carbon
sequestration benefits (watershed benefits were not considered in this project). To do
so, the project developed indices of the biodiversity conservation and carbon
sequestration services associated with specific silvopastoral practices, then
aggregated them into a single ‘environmental services index’ (ESI), described in detail
by CIPAV (2003). The project distinguished 28 different practices, each with its own
ESI score (see Appendix 1). Annual payments were based on the change in the total
ESI score for the entire farm compared to its ESI score at the beginning of the project,
with each incremental ESI point being worth US$75 per year, over a four-year period.
An initial, one-time payment of US$10/point for baseline ESI points was also provided
at the beginning of the project.
       The Silvopastoral Project made its first payments, for the baseline ESI points,
in July 2003. In May 2004, after monitoring land use changes, the project made its
first payment for incremental ESI points. Additional payments were made in 2005,
2006, and 2007. Since 2007, the former program participants have received no
systematic support, in terms of either payments or TA, from CIPAV. However, some
have received occasional visits from CIPAV.




                                           6
Study site
       The Quindío area is located in Colombia’s Central Cordillera, in the watershed
of Río La Vieja, at about 900-1,300m above sea level. Farms range from 10-20ha to
some of 50-80ha. Many of the larger farms are owned by urban professionals and
managed by employees (mayordomos). There is a very wide range of income levels,
from extremely poor to quite wealthy. As shown in Table 1, extensive grazing was the
main land use in Quindío prior to project start, having replaced the previously
dominant coffee production. Degraded and treeless pastures dominated the
landscape, accounting for about 65 percent of the area. Livestock production was
primarily for meat production, with a small proportion being used for milk production.
Overall tree cover was low, although there were a significant amount of forest
remnants, most of which was riparian forest. Silvopastoral practices such as pastures
with trees, fodder banks, and live fences were practically non-existent. Only 7 in 110
farms surveyed had any fodder banks, for example, with an average of less than 1ha
each. Some farms—particularly lower-income farms—had small areas dedicated to
other productive activities, such as semi-permanent crops (mostly bananas), fruit
crops, shade-grown coffee, and annual crops.
Treatment group
       As a pilot project, the Silvopastoral Project had limited funding, so
participation in Quindío was limited to 80 households. A series of public workshops
were held in the area to explain the project, with support of the Quindío livestock
association. Two field visits were also organized to the Reserva Natural El Hatico in
the Cauca valley, where silvopastoral practices are already in use. Households who
expressed an interest were then accepted on a first-come basis, provided they met
some minimal criteria on size of herd.
       The two primary treatments of interest were payments and technical
assistance (TA). All households in the treatment group were offered PES, but 56
households were randomly selected among them to also receive on-farm TA. Although
all participants received advice on which land uses might be most appropriate on
their farms, the TA sub-group also received on-farm, in-person guidance on how to
implement the selected land uses. In this way it would be possible to compare the
effect of PES alone and the combination of PES and TA to the control group, which
received neither. The treatment group was then further sub-divided, with half
receiving payments for all four years of the project, while the other half only
received payments for two years. The intent of was to allow an early assessment of
whether land use change would prove sustainable once payments ended. Payment
levels were slightly higher for the 2-year group, to compensate for the shorter
duration of the payments, so that in principle the payment received to adopt a given
land use should have been roughly similar in present value terms for members of both
groups. Households were randomly assigned to either the 4-year or the 2-year group.
There were thus effectively four treatments: PES for either 2 or 4 years, both either
with intensive TA or without it. Among PES recipients, there were no significant
differences in household characteristics among the sub-groups. Table 1 shows the
characteristics of PES recipient households.

                                          7
Control group
       To allow project-induced land use changes to be distinguished from changes
induced by other factors, the Silvopastoral Project also included a control group. In
fact, it was the first PES project anywhere to include a control group. Ideally,
applicants would have been randomly assigned to either the treatment or the control
group (Ferraro and Pattanayak, 2006; Glennerster and Takavarasha, 2013). This was
not feasible, however, as the treatment group had already been selected when the
decision to include a control group was made. Fortunately, the number of
applications received was sufficient that a control group could be selected from
among rejected applicants. As applications had been accepted on a first come, first
served basis, there was no reason to expect that rejected applicants differed
systematically from accepted applicants. Despite some differences, the control
households have broadly similar characteristics (in terms of size, type of activities,
and agro-ecological conditions) to PES recipient households (Table 2). This is to be
expected, given the relatively small sample size and the wide range of conditions in
the area. Budget constraints, particularly on the cost of monitoring, meant that the
control group had to be limited to 30 households.
Data collection
       A baseline survey conducted in late 2002, during project preparation, collected
detailed information on household characteristics of all PES recipients and control
households at the site. All former PES recipients and control households were then re-
surveyed in mid-2011, four year after the PES program ended. The questionnaire for
the new survey was based on that of the 2002 baseline survey, but also included
questions on the motivations for maintaining, extending, or reducing the use of
different land uses in the period since the end of the project. The baseline survey
included data on 110 households. Nine observations were discarded because
households dropped out of the PES program, usually because they sold their land and
moved away, or because the household head died, leaving 72 households receiving
payments and 29 members of the control group, for a total of 101 observations.
       From 2002 to 2007, detailed land use maps were prepared annually for each
farm in the PES recipient and control groups, using remote sensing imagery. Quickbird
imagery with a 61cm resolution was used to prepare detailed land use maps for each
farm, which were then extensively ground-truthed to match each plot to one of the
ESI’s 28 land uses. These mapping data provide accurate and consistent measures of
area and ensure that land uses are classified consistently into the project’s
categories. At the same time as the 2011 survey, the land use maps for each
participant were updated, using the same methodology as was used during the
Silvopastoral Project (by some of the same personnel, or by new personnel that had
been trained by Silvopastoral Project personnel) to ensure consistency with the
previous land use maps.
Outcome measurement
      The Silvopastoral Project differed from most PES programs (and from many
other development programs aimed at landholders) by offering a large menu of land

                                          8
use options that participants could choose from, in light of their own preferences and
constraints, rather than focusing on a small number of preferred land uses. As such,
the outcome cannot be expressed by a binary participation/non-participation
variable. The dependent variable for our analysis can be formulated in many different
ways. The simplest formulation is to use the area converted: the greater the area
converted, the higher the participation. Households with less land, such as those in
the control group, may score poorly on this indicator, however, simply because they
have less land. Investments such as establishment of live fences are also difficult to
incorporate into an area-based indicator. Using the proportion of farm area converted
avoids this problem, but faces others. Converting 5 ha of land to improved practices
takes greater effort and has a greater environmental impact than converting 1 ha, yet
if the first household has 10 ha and the second only has 1 ha, the first household (50
percent converted) will appear to be participating ‘less’ than the second (100 percent
converted). However expressed, area-based indicators also fail to capture the quality
of the changes. Sowing improved pasture grasses in a treeless pasture has
substantially less environmental impact than converting it to pasture with high tree
density, yet will have the same value in terms of either area converted or percent of
farm area converted. Area-based indicators also omit investments in live fencing. One
option to incorporate a measure of intensity is to weight the area converted by the
ESI of the land use change, and then add the points for live fencing. This measure is
also appealing as it is the outcome of interest to the buyer of the environmental
services being sought. As adopting higher-ESI land uses tend to be more difficult than
adopting lower-ESI uses, using the ESI also provides a rough measure of effort. This
measure can also be stated in different ways. The increase in total ESI is the simplest
measure, but like area converted is constrained by total farm size. Stating it in terms
of increase in ESI per hectare or percent increase in ESI addresses this problem. As
each of these alternatives has its advantages and disadvantages, we use them all in
separate models.

                                     4. Results
      We begin by briefly reviewing the results of the Silvopastoral Project during its
implementation period; these results are examined in more detail by Pagiola and Rios
(2013). We then examine how these results changed in the three years after the
project ended.
Participating households
       The characteristics of participating households are summarized in Table 1
(which only includes households still active at the end of the project). The average
household in the sample is composed of 4.5 members, and has about 36ha of land and
a herd of about 57 livestock units. The average per capita income is about COP10
million. As can be seen, the average characteristics of the sub-group of PES recipient
households differ slightly from those of the control group. This is to be expected,
given the relatively small sample size and the range of conditions in the area.




                                          9
Table 1: Characteristics of participating households, Quindío, Colombia
                                                      PES       PES        PES
                                                      only     and TA       all     Control      All
Income per capita (million COP)                        5.1       9.8       8.2        14.3      10.0
Assets (million COP)                                   9.4       7.9       8.4         8.7       8.5
Farm area ( ha)                                       25.8      47.4      40.2a      25.4a      36.0
Cattle (livestock units)                              59.7      60.3      60.1        48.5      56.8
Flat (% farm area)                                    26.2      21.3      22.9a      36.9a      26.9
Distance to nearest village (km)                       6.7       7.3       7.1a      5.24ab      6.6b
Water (% with water service)                          95.8      93.8      94.4        96.6      95.0
Farm resident (%)                                     33.3      29.2      30.6        17.2      26.7
Family labor (man-days/ha/yr)                          7.2       8.9       8.3         nd         nd
Household size (members)                               5.1       4.7       4.9a       3.7ab      4.5b
Dependency ratio (children per adult)                 0.40      0.40      0.40a      0.22ab     0.35b
Age of household head (years)                         45.2      41.8      42.9        43.9      43.2
Literacy of household head (%)                        100       93.8      95.8        93.1      95.1
Education of household head (years)                    5.2       5.1       5.2         4.3       4.9
Off-farm work (% with off-farm employment)            12.5      14.6      13.9        10.3      12.9
Technical assistance (% with current access)          45.8      31.3      36.1a      10.3ab     28.7b
Credit (% with access to credit)                      20.8      29.2      26.4        13.8      22.8

Number of observations                                    24        48         72           29    101
Notes:    Data reflects conditions just prior to project start.
          a b
           , indicate means are significantly different in paired t-test at 10% test level.
          nd = no data.
          Children are household members under 12.
          Livestock are converted into livestock units (Unidad Gran Ganado, UGG) using the following
              conversion factors: adult cows, 1.0 UGG; oxen or breeding bulls, 1.55 UGG; calves, 0.33
              UGG; yearlings, 0.7 UGG.
Source:   Silvopastoral Project baseline survey.


Changes in land use induced by PES
       Table 2 and Figure 1 compare land use by PES recipients at the project’s start
(2003) and end (2007), and in 2011. Overall, the PES program induced substantial land
use change during its implementation: between 2003 and 2007, almost 44 percent of
total area experienced some form of land use change. A wide variety of changes were
observed, ranging from very small changes such as sowing improved grasses in
degraded pastures to very substantial changes such as planting high-density tree
stands or establishing fodder banks. The area of degraded and treeless pasture fell by
over 90 percent of its original area and that of natural pasture without trees by two
thirds of its original area. (These figures understate total changes as they are for net
changes in the area under each practice. For example, while some natural pastures
with few or no trees were converted to natural pastures with high tree density, some


                                                 10
Table 2: Land use at the Silvopastoral Project site, Quindío, Colombia, 2003 to 2011
(% of farm, unless otherwise indicated)
Land use                                                           PES recipients                         Control group
                                                          2003          2007        2011        2003          2007        2011
Annual crops                                                 1.3          1.3          3.0          7.7         11.3        8.1
Degraded pasture                                             2.8          0.3          0.7          1.9          1.0        1.4
Natural pasture without trees                               24.8          8.1          9.9          6.8          3.8        2.2
Improved pasture without trees                              37.3         30.4         23.4         51.2         42.7       30.7
Semi-permanent crops (plantain, sun coffee)                  6.5          5.1          5.2         13.6         15.4       24.0
Natural pasture with low tree density (< 30/ha)              0.2          0.4          2.0          0.0          1.4        1.8
Diversified fruit crops                                      2.5          1.9          3.0          0.3          1.8        4.2
Fodder banksa                                                0.2          1.0          1.0          0.0          0.5        0.8
Improved pasture with low tree density (< 30/ha)             1.9         11.4          9.6          0.8          1.6        5.3
Natural pasture with high tree density (>30/ha)b             0.0          2.3          2.7          0.0          0.0        0.0
Shade-grown coffee                                           0.8          1.3          0.9          1.0          1.0        1.3
Improved pasture with high tree density (>30/ha)b            0.1          9.3         10.0          0.0          0.0        0.1
Bamboo (guadua) forest                                       1.5          1.8          1.8          0.2          0.2        0.2
Timber plantationa                                           0.0          0.2          0.3          0.3          0.3        0.3
Riparian forest                                             12.9         13.7         14.0         10.4         10.4       10.6
Intensive silvopastoral system (iSPS)                        0.0          4.4          4.8          0.0          2.9        3.0
Primary and secondary foresta                                7.3          7.1          7.7          5.9          5.8        6.1
Total area                                                 100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0        100.0      100.0
Multistory live fence or wind break (km)b                    2.1        356.9        386.4          3.0         13.6       16.6
Notes: Totals may not add up because of rounding.
       a
           Similar land uses with small areas have been aggregated.
       b
          The project distinguishes land uses with recently planted trees from the same land uses with mature trees for the
purpose of computing the ESI score; here these land uses have been aggregated to their mature state and the corresponding ESI
score is shown.
Source:         ESI from CIPAV (2004); area from Silvopastoral Project mapping data.




                                                                   11
Source: Computed from Silvopastoral Project data
            Figure 1: Land use changes during and after the Silvopastoral Project in Quindío, 2003 to 2001




                                                         12
natural pastures that already had high tree density were converted to improved
pastures with high tree density, reducing the apparent net change in natural pastures
with high tree density.) Most of the gains were experienced in pastures with high tree
density, which increased by 334ha. The area of fodder banks also rose dramatically,
from less than 5ha to over 28ha, while that of intensive silvopastoral systems (iSPS:
Leucaena planted at 5,000 trees/ha) went from 0ha to 130ha. About 346km of live
fencing were established. Semi permanent crops, fruit crops, and coffee found little
favor, with their overall area declining by 39ha, while timber plantations and pure
forest uses fared little better, their total area increasing by only 29ha. Overall, these
changes increased ESI/ha of PES recipients by over 60 percent (significant at 1
percent), as shown in Figure 2.




Notes: Bars show standard deviations
Source: Computed from Silvopastoral Project data
  Figure 2: Changes in environmental service generation under the Silvopastoral
                        Project in Quindío, 2003 to 2001

        In contrast, control households undertook substantially fewer land use changes
in the same time period (Table 2 and Figure 1). Control households converted less
than 13 percent of their land area, and adopted substantially less beneficial land
uses, for an increase in ESI/ha of only 7 percent (a change which is not statistically
significant). Econometric and difference-in-difference analyses confirm that these
differences are statistically significant and did not result from differences in
household characteristics (Pagiola and Rios, 2013). These results conclusively
demonstrate that the land use changes induced by PES in Quindío were additional.
       Among the possible land use changes, Pagiola and Rios (2013) found that there
was very little adoption of more conservation-oriented land uses (such as secondary
forests), even as production-oriented land uses (such as fodder banks) were adopted
extensively—even though the payments offered by the project for conservation-
                                                   13
oriented land uses were higher. Pagiola and others (2010) also found that the extent
and nature of changes made by relatively poorer households were not significantly
different from those of relatively better off households. More surprisingly, Pagiola and
Rios (2013) found that TA recipients did not undertake significantly more or better
land use changes.
Post-PES land use changes
       As noted, there was considerable concern that the environmental gains made
during the operation of the PES program would be temporary, with previous land uses
returning once payments ended. The inclusion of a sub-group that would receive
payments only over two years was an initial effort to determine whether these
concerns were well-founded. Pagiola and Rios (2013) found no significant differences
between 2-year and 4-year PES recipients in land use change, at the time of the
project’s end. This result was promising, but did not entirely allay the concerns, as
the continued presence of monitoring teams during the remaining two years could
have inhibited 2-year PES recipients from abandoning the land uses they had adopted.
       Table 2 and Figure 1 show the observed land use changes in the four years
since the PES programs ended. Among former PES recipients, these changes were
minimal. The observed post-PES changes are shown in more detail in Figure 3. The
main change was a continued decline in the area of treeless pasture, which fell by
about 4 percent of the farm area of former PES recipients (compared to a fall of
almost 24 percent of farm area during the project). Some of this area, however, was
converted to annual crops and so did not bring any additional environmental benefits.
Among environmentally-beneficial land uses, there was some very minor expansion
(about 1 percent of farm area) of secondary and riparian forests and of semi-
permanent crops—specifically, monoculture fruit tree plantations. Among
silvopastoral practices there were very few changes, except for a small decline (less
than 1 percent of farm area) of pasture with low tree density.
       Land use changes in the post-project period among former control households
were somewhat larger in terms of area, but very limited in terms of their extent, with
a significant fall (over 13 percent of their farm area) in the area under degraded
pasture, most of which was converted to semi-permanent crops—primarily un-shaded
perennials (Figure 3). Indeed, observed changes among former control households are
driven by a small number of farms converting areas of degraded pasture to semi-
permanent crops––a land use change the Silvopastoral Project had not emphasized as
it brings very limited environmental improvements. There was very limited adoption
of any silvopastoral practice, with the sole exception of pastures with low tree
density (adopted on less than 4 percent of their farm area).
       As a result of these changes, the overall ESI/ha of former PES recipients
declined slightly (by less than 2 percent), and that of control households increased
(by almost 9 percent) but neither change was statistically significant (Figure 2).




                                          14
Source: Computed from Silvopastoral Project data
                  Figure 3: Land use changes after the Silvopastoral Project in Quindío, 2007 to 2001




                                                          15
Source: Computed from Silvopastoral Project data
       Figure 4: Post-PES land use changes in Quindío, Colombia, by farm size




Source: Computed from Silvopastoral Project data
       Figure 5: Post-PES changes in ESI/ha in Quindío, Colombia, by farm size




                                                   16
       The observed changes are concentrated among a small group of farmers: 56
percent of PES recipients and 48 percent of control households changed less than 10
percent of their farm area, while 9 percent of PES recipients and 14 percent of
control households changed more than half of their farm area. The households which
did make substantial changes appear to have little in common, however. As can be
seen in Figure 4, for example, there is no obvious relationship between farm size and
the extent of post-PES land use changes (in terms of proportion of farm area
converted), among either PES recipients or control households; being a TA recipient
also does not appear to have made a difference. Likewise, as can be seen in Figure 5,
there is no correlation between farm size and whether the changes made are
environmentally beneficial (as measured by changes in the ESI). Both the positive and
the negative outliers in terms of environmental impacts of post-PES changes, for
example, are former PES recipients who had received TA. Econometric analysis
confirms that having been a PES recipient had no statistically significant impact on
post-project changes. Income levels are likewise non-significant.
The case of intensive silvopastoral systems
       The evolution of intensive silvopastoral systems (iSPS) is of particular interest,
as this practice is considered particularly promising in terms of environmental and
economic benefits. While costly and technically complex to implement, it can raise
carrying capacity from about half a head of cattle per hectare under extensive grazing
to as much as five head per hectare. Prior to the project, the practice had been
completely unknown in the area. During the course of the Silvopastoral Project, iSPS
was adopted by 26 PES recipients (a third of the total) on 130ha, with areas ranging
from 0.1ha to over 43ha, representing between nearly 0 and over 55 percent of their
farm areas, as well as by one control household (on 21.5ha, or 75 percent of its farm)
(Figure 6). iSPS adopters included some of the smallest farms and some of the largest.
Non-adopters were also found throughout the size range. The largest areas of iSPS
were found on larger farms, but smaller farms adopted iSPS on relatively larger shares
of their farm areas. Both poor and well-off households were represented among iSPS
adopters. Poorer households adopted iSPS on smaller areas, but differences in the
portion of farm area dedicated to iSPS were not statistically significant. These results
suggested that iSPS could be profitable even without PES. Based on these results, a
follow-up project at first did not offer any payments for iSPS adoption, only credit
and TA.
       In the four years following the end of the project, the overall area under iSPS
increased by over 7 percent, seemingly confirming this result. This average, however,
masks considerable variation: Of previous adopters, 5 households did not change their
area under iSPS, 9 households abandoned iSPS entirely, 9 households reduced the area
under iSPS (with the biggest reduction being less than 3ha), and 4 households
increased the area under iSPS (by an average of 7ha) (Figure 7). Moreover, 3 previous
PES recipients and one control household that had not adopted iSPS under the project
did so after the project’s end, on an average of 1.5ha.




                                           17
Source: Computed from Silvopastoral Project data
 Figure 6: Adoption of iSPS during Silvopastoral Project, 2003-2007, by farm size
                      and income level (PES recipients only)




Source: Computed from Silvopastoral Project data
    Figure 7: Change in iSPS area, 2007-2011, by farm size (iSPS adopters only)

                                        5. Discussion
       PES recipients undertook substantial land use changes in the years in which
they were receiving payments, far exceeding the changes undertaken by control
households in terms of both quality and quantity. In an equivalent period following
the end of the project, however, they undertook only minor land use changes. These
results show that beneficial land uses adopted under the PES program were retained
even after payments ceased. On the other hand, we do not see evidence that



                                                   18
adoption of these land uses continued spontaneously on any significant scale even in
the absence of payments, as had been hoped.
       That silvopastoral practices have not been abandoned after payments ceased
strongly suggests that at the study site they are, in fact, more profitable than
alternative land uses once they are established. Had that not been the case, it would
have been simple for landholders to remove them, and they would have suffered no
penalties from doing so. At the same time, these results also supports the hypothesis
that financial profitability of silvopastoral practices was the main obstacle to their
adoption: that is, that by reducing the initial costs of adoption and providing some
income in the period before silvopastoral practices begin to generate sufficient
benefits to be profitable, the payments ‘tipped the balance’ towards adoption. Other
possible explanations for the lack of adoption of silvopastoral practices are
inconsistent with the observed results. Simple ignorance of their possible benefits, or
of how to implement them, were plausible explanations for lack of adoption prior to
the project start, when such practices were practically non-existent in the landscape.
After four years in which the use of silvopastoral practices expanded dramatically in
the Quindío area, these explanations are no longer plausible. If these had been the
main obstacles to the adoption of silvopastoral practices, the area under these
practices would have continued to expand even in the absence of payments, and
particularly so among landholders who received TA. Yet there was very limited
expansion, and no significant differences in the extent of such expansion between
those who received TA under the project and those that did not. Likewise, if the
primary constraint had been the inability to finance the required investments,
expansion should have continued even without payments at least among better-off
households, and perhaps even among poorer households, as the higher income
generated by previously-adopted silvopastoral practices could have financed
additional adoption.
       The observed changes in land use among former control households also
support these conclusions. Lack of knowledge about silvopastoral practices can no
longer be blamed, as by 2011 control households had ample time to observe such
practices; indeed, some of them had adopted silvopastoral practices themselves. Lack
of experience is superficially more plausible as an explanation, as these households
never received TA nor even basic guidance on selecting appropriate practices. But,
again, such inexperience did not prove absolute obstacles as several control
households have implemented silvopastoral practices—including, in two cases, the
most complex practices on offer (iSPS).

                                  6. Conclusions
      The Silvopastoral Project was the first PES program to have a control group
that was monitored from before the treatment began, which allowed strong
conclusions to be reached concerning its effectiveness. It is also the only such
program in which additional data was collected on results several years after the
project ended, allowing the permanence of its results to be assessed.



                                          19
       The experience of the Silvopastoral Project in Quindío indicates that the PES
program has resulted in additional positive land use changes in terms of both the area
affected and the nature of the changes. Our results show that concerns about non-
permanence of land use changes were unfounded: land uses adopted under the PES
program were not abandoned once payments ended.
       In addition to the obvious dangers of generalizing from a single result, it is
important to note the limitations of these conclusions. First, it should be emphasized
that the conclusion applies to an “asset-building” PES program, in which payments are
targeted primarily at productive activities (which also generate environmental
benefits) rather than at pure conservation activities. These results should not create
any expectation that “use-restricting” PES programs aimed at conserving existing
environmentally-beneficial land uses could be sustainable without payments. In fact,
if the land uses supported by such a use-restricting program were maintained after
payments cease, it would likely indicate that the program was non-additional.
Second, even among “asset-building” programs, the Silvopastoral Project was unusual
in offering a very broad menu of options. Farmers were thus able to select the land
uses that were best suited to their conditions, and were thus are less likely to find
them a poor fit once payments end.
       In addition to showing that PES-induced land use changes were sustainable,
these results are also useful in that they help improve our understanding of the
reasons why the original project was successful. That environmentally-beneficial land
uses expanded rapidly when payments were offered for their adoption but then
remained essentially unchanged once payments ended is consistent with the
hypothesis that limited profitability was the primary obstacle to their adoption, and
inconsistent with several other plausible hypotheses, including that the primary
obstacles were lack of knowledge of these practices or of how to implement them, or
lack of financing for the required investments. Again, this is not to say that these
alternative hypotheses may not be correct in other cases.
       A follow-up project, the Mainstreaming Sustainable Cattle Ranching Project, is
now being implemented in Colombia by the World Bank with the support of the GEF
and of the United Kingdom’s Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC). This
project, which promotes similar land use changes and uses a similar payment
mechanism, is being implemented at five sites across the country, under a range of
agro-ecological and socio-economic conditions. It, too, will be the subject of an
impact evaluation, thus further improve our understanding of the effectiveness of
PES, including its long-term sustainability.




                                         20
                                         References
Agrawal, A., D. Nepstad, and A. Chhatre. 2011. “Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and
    Forest Degradation.” Annual Review of Environment and Resources, 36:373–396.
Alix-Garcia, J.M., E.N. Shapiro, and K.R.E. Sims. 2012. “Forest conservation and slippage:
    Evidence from Mexico’s national payments for ecosystem services program.” Land
    Economics, 88(4):613-638.
Arriagada, R.A., P.J. Ferraro, E.O. Sills, S.K. Pattanayak, and S. Cordero-Sancho. 2012. “Do
    payments for environmental services affect forest cover? A farm-level evaluation from
    Costa Rica.” Land Economics, 88(2):382-399.
Blanco, J. 2006. “La experiencia Colombiana en esquemas de pagos por servicios
    ambientales.” Bogotá: Ecoversa.
Bruijnzeel, L.A. 2004. “Hydrological functions of moist tropical forests: Not seeing the soil for
    the trees?” Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environments, 104(1):185-228.
CIPAV (Centro para la Investigación en Sistemas Sostenibles de Producción Agropecuaria).
    2003. Usos de la Tierra en Fincas Ganaderas: Guía para el Pago de Servicios Ambientales
    en el Proyecto Enfoques Silvopastoriles Integrados para el Manejo de Ecosistemas. Cali:
    Fundación CIPAV.
Dagang, A.B.K., and P.K.R. Nair. 2003. “Silvopastoral research and adoption in Central
    America: Recent findings and recommendations for future directions.” Agroforestry
    Systems, 59:149–155.
De Koning, F., M. Aguiñaga, M. Bravo, M. Chiu, M. Lascano, T. Lozada, and I. Suarez. 2011.
    “Bridging the gap between forest conservation and poverty alleviation: the Ecuadorian
    Socio Bosque program.” Environmental Science & Policy, 14:531-542.
Dennis, P., L. Shellard, and R. Agnew. 1996. “Shifts in arthropod species assemblages in
    relation to silvopastoral establishment in upland pastures.” Agroforestry Forum, 7:14-21.
Downing, T.E., H.A. Pearson, and C. Garcia-Downing, eds. 1992. Development or Destruction:
    The Conversion of Tropical Forest to Pasture in Latin America. Boulder: Westview Press.
Engel, S., S. Pagiola, and S. Wunder. 2008. “Designing payments for environmental services in
    theory and practice: An overview of the issues.” Ecological Economics, 65(4):663-674.
Ferraro, P.J., and A. Kiss. 2002. “Direct payments to conserve biodiversity.” Science,
    298:1718–19.
Ferraro, P.J., and S.K. Pattanayak. 2006. “Money for nothing? A call for empirical evaluation
    of biodiversity conservation investments.” PLoS Biology, 4(4):482-488.
Fisher, M.J., I.M. Rao, M.A. Ayarza, C.E. Lascano, J.I. Sanz, R.J. Thomas, and R.R. Vera.
    1994. “Carbon storage by introduced deep-rooted grasses in the South American
    savannas.” Nature, 371:236-238.
Glennerster, R., and K. Takavarasha. 2013. Running Randomized Evaluations: A Practical
    Guide. Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Gobbi, J. 2002. “Enfoques silvopastoriles integrados para el manejo de ecosistemas en
    Colombia, Costa Rica y Nicaragua: Análisis económico-financiero ex-ante de la inversión
    en los SSP propuestos para cada país.” Turrialba, Costa Rica: CATIE.
Grosjean, P., and A. Kontoleon. 2009. “How sustainable are sustainable development
    Programs? the case of the Sloping Land Conversion Program in China.” World
    Development, 37:268–85.



                                               21
Harvey, C., and W. Haber. 1999. “Remnant trees and the conservation of biodiversity in Costa
   Rican pastures.” Agroforestry Systems, 44(1):37-68.
Harvey, C.A., O. Komar, R.L. Chazdon, B.G. Ferguson, B. Finegan, D.M. Griffith, M. Martínez-
   Ramos, H. Morales, R. Nigh, L. Soto-Pinto, M. van Breugel, and M. Wishnie. 2008.
   “Integrating agricultural landscapes with biodiversity conservation in the Mesoamerican
   hotspot.” Conservation Biology, 22:8–15.
Honey-Rosés, J., K. Baylis, and M.I. Ramírez. 2011. “A spatially explicit estimate of avoided
   forest loss.” Conservation Biology, 25:1032–43.
Kaimowitz, D. 1996. Livestock and Deforestation in Central America in the 1980s and 1990s:
   A Policy Perspective. Bogor: CIFOR.
Miteva, D.A., S.K. Pattanayak, and P.J. Ferraro. 2012. “Evaluation of biodiversity policy
   instruments: What works and what doesn't?” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, 28:69–92.
Muñoz-Piña, C. 2011. “Programa de Pago por Servicios Ambientales Hidrologicos de los
   Bosques.” Presented at the International PES Congress, Ixtapan de la Sal, Estado de
   México, México, 3-5 August, 2011.
Muñoz-Piña, C., A. Guevara, J.M. Torres, and J. Braña. 2008. “Paying for the hydrological
   services of Mexico’s forests: Analysis, negotiations and results.” Ecological Economics,
   65(4):725-736.
Murgueitio, E. 2003. “Impacto ambiental de la ganadería de leche en Colombia y alternativas
   de solución.” Livestock Research for Rural Development, 15(10).
Pagiola, S. 2008. “Payments for environmental services in Costa Rica.” Ecological Economics,
   65(4):712-724.
Pagiola, S. 2011. “Using PES to implement REDD.” PES Learning Paper No.2011-1. Washington:
   World Bank.
Pagiola, S., and G. Platais. 2007. Payments for environmental services: From theory to
   practice. Washington: World Bank.
Pagiola, S., and A.R. Rios. 2013. “Evaluation of the impact of Payments for Environmental
   Services on land use change in Quindío, Colombia.” PES Learning Paper No.2013-2.
   Washington: World Bank.
Pagiola, S., P. Agostini, J.A. Gobbi, M. Ibrahim, E. Murgueitio, E. Ramírez, M. Rosales, and
   J.P. Ruíz. 2005. “Paying for biodiversity conservation services: Experience in Colombia,
   Costa Rica, and Nicaragua.” Mountain Research and Development, 25: 206–11.
Pagiola, S., A.R. Rios, and A. Arcenas. 2010. “Poor household participation in payments for
   environmental services: Lessons from the Silvopastoral Project in Quindío, Colombia.”
   Environmental and Resource Economics, 47:371–394.
Pagiola, S., H. Carrascosa von Glehn, and D. Taffarello (Eds.). 2013. Experiências de
   Pagamentos por Serviços Ambientais no Brasil. São Paulo: Secretaria de Estado do Meio
   Ambiente.
Pattanayak, S.K., S. Wunder, and P.J. Ferraro. 2010. “Show me the money: Do payments
   supply environmental services in developing countries?” Review of Environmental
   Economics and Policy, 4(2): 254-274.
Pfaff, A., J.A. Robalino, and G.A. Sanchez-Azofeifa. 2008. “Payments for environmental
   services: Empirical analysis for Costa Rica.” Terry Sanford Institute Working Paper
   No.SAN08-05. Durham: Terry Sanford Institute of Public Policy, Duke University.




                                             22
Robalino, J., A. Pfaff, G.A. Sanchez-Azofeifa, F. Alpízar, C. León, and C.M. Rodríguez. 2008.
   “Deforestation impacts of environmental services payments: Costa Rica's PSA Program
   2000-2005.” Environment for Development Discussion Paper No.08-24. Washington:
   Resources for the Future.
Swallow, S., M. van Noordwijk, S. Dewi, D. Murdiyarso, D. White, J. Gockowski, G. Hyman, S.
   Budidarsono, V. Robiglio, V. Meadu, A. Ekadinata, F. Agus, K. Hairiah, P. Mbile, D.J.
   Sonwa, and S. Weise. 2007. “Opportunities for avoided deforestation with sustainable
   benefits.” Bogor: ASB partnership for the Tropical Forest Margins.
Tattenbach, F., G. Obando, and J. Rodríguez. 2006. “Generación de servicios ambientales.”
   Paper presented at the workshop on Costa Rica’s Experience with Payments for
   Environmental Services, San José, 25-26 September 2006.
White, D., F. Holmann, S. Fuijsaka, K. Reategui, and C. Lascano. 2001. “Will intensifying
   pasture management in latin america protect forests? – Or is it the other way round?” In A.
   Angelsen and D. Kaimowitz, eds, Agricultural Technologies and Tropical Deforestation.
   Oxford: CAB International.
Wunder, S. 2005. “Payments for environmental services: Some nuts and bolts.” CIFOR
   Occasional Paper No.42. Bogor: CIFOR.
Wunder, S. Forthcoming. “Revisiting the concept of payments for environmental services.”
   Ecological Economics.
Wunder, S., and Albán, M., 2008. “Decentralized payments for environmental services: The
   cases of Pimampiro and PROFAFOR in Ecuador.” Ecological Economics, 65(4):685-698
Wunder, S., S. Engel, and S. Pagiola. 2008. “Taking stock: A comparative analysis of Payments
   for Environmental Services Programs in developed and developing countries.” Ecological
   Economics, 65:834–52.




                                             23
                   Appendix: Environmental Services Index


Table A1: Environmental Services Index (ESI) used by the Silvopastoral Project
(points/ha except where stated)
                                                         Carbon   Biodiversity   Environmental
Land use                                                  index      index       services index
Annual crops                                               0.0        0.0              0.0
Degraded pasture                                           0.0        0.0              0.0
Natural pasture without trees                              0.1        0.1              0.2
Improved pasture without trees                             0.4        0.1              0.5
Semi-permanent crops (plantain, sun coffee)                0.2        0.3              0.5
Natural pasture with low tree density (<30/ha)             0.3        0.3              0.6
Natural pasture with recently planted trees (>200/ha)      0.3        0.3              0.6
Recently established or frequently pruned live fences      0.3a       0.3a            0.6a
Improved pasture with recently planted trees (>200/ha)     0.4        0.3              0.7
Monoculture fruit tree plantation                          0.4        0.3              0.7
Gramineous fodder bank                                     0.5        0.3              0.8
Improved pasture with low tree density (<30/ha)            0.6        0.3              0.9
Fodder bank with woody species                             0.5        0.4              0.9
Natural pasture with high tree density (>30/ha)            0.5        0.5              1.0
Multi-story live fence or windreak                         0.5a       0.6a            1.1a
Diversified fodder bank                                    0.6        0.6              1.2
Monoculture timber plantation                              0.8        0.4              1.2
Shade-grown coffee                                         0.7        0.6              1.3
Improved pasture with high tree density (>30/ha)           0.7        0.6              1.3
Bamboo (guadua) forest                                     0.8        0.5              1.3
Diversified timber plantation                              0.7        0.7              1.4
Early secondary growth (tacotal)                           0.8        0.6              1.4
Riparian forest                                            0.7        0.8              1.5
Intensive silvopastoral system (iSPS)                      1.0        0.6              1.6
Disturbed secondary forest                                 0.9        0.8              1.7
Secondary forest                                           1.0        0.9              1.9
Mature forest                                              1.0        1.0              2.0
Source: CIPAV (2003)




                                            24
