Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2145b-CH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CHILE
November 4, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                       =  Peso ($)
US$1.00                             =  $41.5 (January 1980)
$1.00                               = Us$0.024
$1,000,000                          = US$24,096.39
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures
Metric
1 meter (m)                         =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 square meter (sq m)               =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)                  =  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AASHTO         - American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials
ADT            - Average Daily Traffic
CORFO          - Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
DWT            - Dead Weight Tonnage
ER             -  Economic Return
EMPORCHI       - Empresa Portuaria de Chile
EMPREMAR       - Empresa Maritima del Estado
ETC            -  Empresa de Transportes Colectivos
FFCCE          - Ferrocarriles del Estado
GDP            -  Gross Domestic Product
IDB            -  Inter-American Development Bank
IESC           -  International Executive Service Corps
LAN-CHILE      - Linea Aerea Nacional - Chile
MOP            - Ministerio de Obras Publicas
MTT            - Ministerio de Transportes y Telecomunicaciones
ODEPLAN        - Oficina de Planificacion Nacional
PCC            -  Portland Cement Concrete
UNDP           - United Nations Development Programme
VIALIDAD       - Directorate of Highways
VOC            -  Vehicle Operating Costs
VPD            -  Vehicles Per Day



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CHILE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................       1
*                            A.   General   ...........................................     1
B.   The Transport System ..............................       2
C.   Policy, Planning, Coordination and Financing   .......    4
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ..................................       7
A.   The Highway Network ...............................       7
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic ........       8
C.   Highway Administration ............................   10
D.   Highway Planning ..................................   11
E.   Highway Financing          ..................................    12
F.   Highway Engineering ...............................   13
G.   Highway Construction ...............................   13
H.   Highway Maintenance ...............................    14
III.   PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR   15
A.   Overview ..........................................   15
B.   Projects Completed ................................   16
C.   Summary Assessment ................................   17
IV.   THE PROPOSED HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT ............   18
A.   General Description ......       .........................   18
B.   Project Components and Requirements .18
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing .21
D.   Execution, Procurement and Disbursements .23
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .25
A. General .25
B.   The Highway Reconstruction Program .25
C. Traffic .26
D. Benefits .27
E. Overall Economic Return .27
F.   Social Impact and Benefit Distribution .28
G. Project Risks .29
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Chile during January/February 1978 and of post-appraisal missions which took
place in March and October 1980. The missions comprised Messrs. Hayden
(Senior Engineer), Rafloski (Senior Economist), Veniard (Senior Economist),
Paraud (Engineer-Consultant) and Lacey (Economist-Consultant). The report
has been edited by Miss Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
1.1  -  National Cargo Movement by Mode of Transport (1968-1979)    32
1.2  - National Passenger Movement by Mode of Transport
(1970-1979) *..........* ..*..............**** .**. .***    33
1.3  -  Public Sector Investment Program (1976-1981) .........      34
2.1  - Development of the Highway System (1968-1978)      ........   35
2.2  -  Highway Vehicle Fleet 1968-1978 and Truck Capacity .....    36
2.3  - Annual Average Daily Traffic by Toll Station (1968-1979)    37
2.4  -  Vehicle Fuel Consumption (1969-1979) .........0 ......0   38
2.5  -  Sources and Uses of Highway Funds 1970-1980    . ....   .   39
2.6  -  Estimated Road User Charges 1970-1979 .... *..0  .......    40
2.7  - Details of Maintenance Allocations Required during the
Project Period (1980-1984)  - .....................   41
4.1  - Design Standards for the Longitudinal Highway .......        42
4.2  - Details of Lots to be Reconstructed Under the Project        43
4.3  -  Vehicles, Laboratory and Office Equipment to be Purchased   44
4.4  -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements    ....     o  .....    45
4.5  -  Tentative Implementation Schedule  .. ... o  .........      46
5.1  -  Vehicle Operating Costs . ...... *...eoo. ****....**..*.o..   47
5.2  -  Traffic Data Set:  Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT)
1980 and Estimated Annual Average Growth Rates by
Road  Section  .....o. o-.....  .................-.............. -....  48
5.3  - Results of Economic Evaluation       .........................   49
ANNEX
1.     Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ............       ....            ..50
CHARTS
18756 - Organization Chart of the Ministry of Public Works
18757 - Organization Chart of the Directorate of Highways
MAPS
IBRD 13530R - Main Transport System and International Connections
IBRD 13528R2 - Main Highway Network Within the Project Area



I. THIE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Chile is located along the Pacific coast of South America and covers
an area of about 757,000 km2. The population was estimated at 11.3 million
in 1980 and is growing at about 1.5% per annum. Per capita GNP in 1978 was
approximately US$1,410.
1.02      The country is a narrow strip of land between the Andes and the
Pacific Ocean, extending some 4,300 km from the northern borders with Peru
and Bolivia to Cape Horn in the south. The width varies from a minimum of
90 km to a maximum of 400 km (Map IBRD 13530R). The predominant climate is
temperate; the only significant element is the rainfall pattern, which is
heavy in the south (2,500 to 5,000 mm p.a.) and almost nil in the north.
Approximately 70% of the population lives in a narrow corridor about 600 km
long (Central Valley), bounded by the Aconcagua River to the north (about
60 km north of Santiago) and the Bio Bio River to the south (near Concepcion),
with the Andes to the east and the Pacific coast mountain range to the west.
Over 60% of the Central Valley population lives in the metropolitan region of
Santiago. This entire region is served primarily by the Longitudinal Highway.
1.03      Although distances from the coastal cities to the interior urban
centers are relatively short, access is made difficult by the coastal mountain
range. Access between the population centers in the Central Valley is also
made difficult by the many east-west mountain ranges which cross the Valley
and by the numerous rivers, especially in the south, which flow in an east-west
direction.
1.04      The slowdown in economic activity prior to 1976 resulted in a decline
in the demand for transport which mitigated the impact on transport costs
resulting from poor maintenance and lack of capital investment in the system.
However, since 1976, the trend has changed, with an increase in total transport
demand of about 1% between 1976 and 1977, 6% between 1977 and 1978 and 17%
between 1978 and 1979. Modal distribution of tonnage in 1979 was about 40%
highway, 35% railway, 18% coastal shipping and 7% pipeline.
1.05      If properly rehabilitated and maintained, Chile's present transport
network is adequate for the country's state of development. The zone in the
deep south is presently accessible only by air and maritime transport or by
road through Argentina. If extensive exploitation of forest resources
occurs, there would be a need for forestry roads in the heavily timbered
Pacific coast mountain range south of Concepcion. In addition, it might be
necessary to improve some selected port facilities to enable them to meet the
peak seasons for perishable agricultural goods.
1.06      Private companies (trucking and coastal shipping) dominate the
freight transport sector although there are state-owned agencies operating
in railways, shipping, pipelines, air transport and urban transport. The
Government is committed to making the transport sector public institutions
operate competitively on a financially viable basis. This policy, while
commendable, has presented the Government with some problems. Over the years,
the public sector agencies have relied on subsidies, which has led to ineffi-'
ciencies which will be difficult to overcome.



-2-
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways
Highways are discussed in detail in Chapter II.
(ii) Railways
1.07      The railway share of freight and passenger transportation (Tables 1.1
and 1.2) is carried primarily by the State-owned railway system "Ferrocarriles
del Estado" (FFCCE) 1/ over about 8,000 km of trackage of varying gauges.
In the early 1970s, the State railways consistently generated large deficits,
culminating at a peak of over US$100 million equivalent in 1971. Beginning
then, the Government imposed rather severe restraints on expenditures and
increased tariffs so that, at the present time, FFCCE is at or near the
break-even point, and personnel have been reduced by over one-third.
1.08      The restraint on investments has adversely affected FFCCE's operating
efficienicy, particularly in track condition and motive power. The increase
in economic activity in recent years is beginning to emphasize the need for
well planned investments in railways if FFCCE is to handle its appropriate
share of the traffic.
1.09      Consultants SOFRERAIL made an extensive study of FFCCE between
1968 and 1970 under a UNDP technical assistance program for which the Bank
was Executing Agency.  While some of their operational recommendations have
been acted upon, only a few of those made in the investment sector have
been implemented. Although the basic findings are still sound, the upswing
in economic conditions since the study was made necessitates reconsideration
of the overall program.
1.10      The Government is now contemplating short term measures to alleviate
some of the more obvious misallocations of rail resources. It has commissioned
broad-ranging studies to analyze the future role of the railways and to identify
related investments and organizational requirements.
(iii) Ports
1.11      The national port system includes 12 general cargo ports and numerous
privately owned special bulk ports. The former, administered by the Government
agency Empresa Portuaria de Chile (EMPORCHI), are Arica, Iquique, Antofagasta,
Coquimbo, Valparaiso, San Antonio, Talcahuano, San Vicente, Valdivia, Puerto
1/   There is a short length of privately owned railway in Northern Chile
carrying primarily ore and petroleum products.



- 3 -
Montt, Chacabuco and Punta Arenas. These ports are, in general, well con-
structed and have adequate wharfage, warehousing and open space. As with
other transport sector elements, port traffic since 1976 has reflected the
generally improving economic conditions. Annual effective utilization is still
low, indicating some degree of overcapacity. Some problem areas include
divided responsibility and authority within the ports, inadequate land access
and obsolescent and/or poorly maintained cargo-handling equipment. Possibly
one of the more serious areas for concern is that of port maintenance (civil
works), which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP).
Within its limited budget, MOP has tended to give priority to areas such as
irrigation and roads rather than to such items as maintenance dredging.
1.12      The Government has not undertaken port planning studies of its major
ports to determine future needs. Since surplus capacity exists in the ports
at present, there have been no difficulties with cargo handling except for
peak season agricultural produce. However, in view of the time lags involved
in expanding port capacity, planning for future needs should be a matter of
immediate concern.
(iv) Coastal and International Shipping
1.13      Coastal shipping is handled primarily by 16 companies, one of
which is the wholly State-owned Empresa Maritima del Estado (EMPREMAR). The
companies operate with a fleet of 64 ships and three barges, having a total of
about one million deadweight tonnage (DWT). The average age of the fleet is
increasing and replacements are necessary; the purchase of new ships with
EMPREMAR revenues requires Government approval. Coastal shipping under
EMPREMAR has been a deficit operation since tariffs could not be set to cover
costs nor could costs be reduced because of the inefficiency of the ships.
EKPREMAR is seeking Government approval for the financing of a replacement
program to acquire more efficient ships.
1.14      Chilean law reserves 100% of coastal shipping and 50% of interna-
tional cargo to Ch-llean flag vessels. However, the coastal shipping fleet
does not have the capacity to handle current cargo volumes, and an appreciable
amount is handled by foreign lines. Total movement has ranged around 5 million
tons, and, whereas liquid and solid bulk cargos have shown increases during
the past years, general cargo has declined. This deterioration is due in part
to high port costs and in part to truck and rail competition. Tariffs for
trucking have been competitive with those for coastal shipping on distances as
far as Arica to Santiago, over 2,000 km.
1.15      For the most part, the companies, including EMPREMAR, which operate
in coastal shipping also operate internationally. The Chilean-owned fleet
operating internationally (and including chartered tonnage) has a total of
more than 800,000 DWT. Total internatlonal cargo movement is about 17 million
tons, of which about 13 million tons are minerals and petroleum.



-4-
(v)  Civil AvLation
1.16      ChIlean-owned air transport companies offer both passenger and
cargo services on nattonal and international runs. Regular scheduled service
is also offered by Linea Aerea del Cobre (LADECO) and Aerocordillera. Chile's
civil aviation common-carriers had 27 aircraft in 1978, of which more than
one-half were over 20 years old. The country also has a small air taxi
fleet and a helicopter service fleet.
1.17      LAN-CHILE has a large degree of autonomy, but must obtain approval
from the Government on changes of routes and domestic tariffs. The utiliza-
tion of passenger and cargo capacity on both national and international runs
is satisfactory, runnLng about 60% for national passenger and cargo traffic
and about 55% for international passenger and cargo traffic. To reduce
maintenance costs, the airline has plans to move its maintenance operations
from Los Cerrillos Airport to Pudahuel Airport at a cost of about US$15.0
millior. The studies for this physical transfer were done under Bank Loan
978-CH; however, financing for the transfer has not yet been arranged.
1.18      There are about 257 airfields and 11 airports distributed through
the country; the airports are operated on a commercial basis with scheduled
flights, and six of these offer international services. Airports are adminis-
tered by the Aeronautic Directorate under the Ministry of Defense. This
Directorate is also responsible for air traffic control and for technical
control of flight personnel and material. The Civil Aviation Council (Junta
de Aeronautica Civil), reporting administratively to the Ministry of Transport
and Telecommunications (para 1.22), is responsible for recommending tariffs,
establishing schedules and routes, negotiating international civil aviation
treaties, and approving proposed investments in the State-owned civil aviation
fleet.
(vi) Pipelines
1.19      SONACOL, a company jointly owned by ENAP (Empresa Nacional de
Petroleos), ESSO (Standard Oil of New Jersey), and COPEC (Compania de Petroleos
de Chile), operates a 621-km pipeline system, of which 272 km are owned by
SONACOL and 349 km by ENAP, the State-owned petroleum company. ENAP also has
pipelines in southern Chile used to transport natural gas to Argentina. The
main products carried in Chilean pipelines are gasoline, kerosene, diesel,
turbo-jet fuel, butane, propane and fuel oil. The lines are presently operating
at about 55% of capacity. There was a decline in traffic between 1972 and 1975
of about 16% (Table 1.1) followed by an increase in 1976 and 1977 and then again
a slight decline. Currently, there are few signs of any increase in pipeline
traffic, possibly because of high prices inhibiting consumption of petroleum
products.
C.   Policy, Planning, Coordination and Financing
1.20      Under the past three administrations, the transport sector witnessed
different development strategies. Large portions of the present system were
constructed between 1958 and 1964 when the Government expected that investments
in basic infrastructure would stimulate growth in the productive sectors.



- 5 -
While improved transport infrastructure facilitated economic integration, it
did not by itself prove sufficient to bring about the desired growth. Between
1964 and 1970, as resources were directed to other sectors, attention in
transport infrastructure shifted from constructLon to improvement in efficiency,
in particular, through the modernization of the railroads and the reduction in
the large number of employees in the Government transport agencies. Between
1970 and 1973, the emphasis was on employment, and many employees were added
to public agencies and State-owned companies on grounds of social welfare
rather than economic efficiency. This fact is evidenced by the peaking of
almost all agencies' personnel rolls during the 1971-1974 period. On the
other hand, little attention was given to efficiency and maintenance during
this period, resulting in deterioration of services, operations and facilities;
and in large deficits.
1.21      The present administrat-ion has instituted a policy of self-financing
for all publicly owned agencies. The Government's underlying principle is
that growth in the transport sector should respond to growth in the productive
sectors, to population and to income, and the main objective is that transport
services should be offered at the least cost commensurate with an adequate
margin of reliability. Its general policy is that the market will determine
tariffs through free competition.
1.22      The Under-Secretar-iat of Transport, previously under the Ministry
of Works, gained cabinet status in 1975 as the Ministry of Transport, and, in
1977, Telecommunications was incorporated into the Ministry, which is now the
Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTT). MTT is organized into
two Under-Secretariats, Urban Transport and General Transport. The latter
has regulatory responsibility for ports, coastal shipping, railways, buses and
trucks. Regulation of civil aviation technical activities comes under the
Aeronautical Directorate, reporting to the Minister of Defense, while commer-
cial activities are regulated by the Civil Aviation Council under MTT (para 1.18).
1.23      Because of previous large deficits of most of the transport agencies,
decisions concerning investments, personnel hiring, and tariffs have been
allocated to the Ministry of Economy. A major part of the overall transport
budget goes to MOP because of its responsibility for planning, construction
and maintenance of highways, ports, airfields and the Santiago Metro. All
agencies, including those involved in the transport sector, submit their
investment programs, with supporting justification, to the Oficina de Planifi--
cacion Nacional (ODEPLAN). ODEPLAN's review of these submissions, which,
in the past, have not been systematically based on economic analysis, is the
only approach to overall sectoral planning. Recently, ODEPLAN has instituted
a requirement that investments over US$2.0 million be supported by detailed
feasibility studies.
1.24      In part as a result of discussions with the appraisal mission, as
well as general recognition of the need for more comprehensive sectoral
planning, MTT, MOP and ODEPLAN have recently undertaken to coordinate their
work in planning and policy formulation. Recommendations concerning invest-
ments or other sector policy changes or additLons are referred to MTT, which
then arranges for any required actLon in collaboration with other ministries
and ODEPLAN.



- 6 -
1.25      The establishment of MTT, coupled with the coordinated approach
mentLoned in paragraph 1.24, has provided a better opportunity for unified
and rational sector planning. MOP is making a gradual transfer to MTT of
MOP's functions in demand determination for highways, ports and airports.
MTT has reinforced its Information Division in its Planning Department,
established a computer center, initiated a comprehensive survey of road
vehicle population and carried out a number of preliminary studies on
internal and external transport demand. All of this work has been in
collaboration with ODEPLAN, which retains the responsibility for coordina-
tion (para. 1.23).
1.26      ODEPLAN prepares rolling six-year plans reissued annually.  It
also compiles information on the various agencies' perceived needs, which,
however, are not necessarily reflected in the six-year plan (Table 1.3).
Recognition of these discrepancies has been instrumental in encouraging the
developments to date in coordinating transport planning.
1.27      Specifically, under the project, MOP's Planning Department will
move from its past practice of merely preparing lists of desired investments
without economic analysis and establishment of priorities to the development
of a system of preinvestment studies. Specifics of these studies are to be
developed, possibly in the areas of feeder roads, port access roads and
fishing ports (para 4.10).
1.28      The Government's main transport strategy can be summarized as
follows:
(a) provide an improved, comprehensive transportation system that
achieves domestic integration of the country and adequate
international links;
(b) continue the improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of
the road network to provide better access to the main economic
centers and rural communities;
(c) continue the rationalization and limited rehabilitation of
the rail system;
(d) improve port operations through the renewal of equipment,
rehabilitation of one main port (Valparaiso) and completion
of the first stage (breakwater) of another port (San Vicente);
the construction of a dry port in Santiago is also proposed;                      4
this installation would serve as a customs terminal for inter-
national cargo and a transfer point; it would represent a major
benefit to the trucking industry, particularly if the layout
provides for cargo interchanges between truck and rail;
(e) improve merchant marine operations through the purchase of
coastal ships;



(f) develop civil aviation further through the purchase of modern
aircraft and improvement of maintenance facilities; and
(g) improve urban transportation systems, with investments for
the urban bus company and for the continuation of construction
of the Santiago Metro.
1.29      The scarcity of funds for transportation over the next few years
would enhance the need for careful planning and coordination. Most of the
outlays would be for rehabilitation or reconstruction of the existing system,
which offers the highest return. The proposed project would contribute directly
to the reconstruction of an important primary road and would, through studies,
provide the basis to undertake high priority projects.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      Chile's highway network, including seasonal tracks, totals some
75,800 km, all of which are under the jurisdiction of MOP; about 60,400 km
are classified as national or regional roads and the remainder of 15,400 km
are seasonal tracks (Table 2.1). Of the national or regional network, some
6% is portland cement concrete (PCC) surfaced, 9% is asphalt, 53% is gravel
and 32% is earth. The mainstay of the highway system in Chile is the
Longitudinal Highway.  The shape of the country--a narrow strip of land
flanked to the west by the Pacific Ocean and to the east by the Andes Chain--
makes the Longitudinal Highway (located, generally, at the center of the
strip) act as the main collector of traffic from all transverse roads.  It is
therefore a vital artery for Chile's economic life. In addition, it connects
most of the main cities and capitals of the regions (except Valparaiso and
Concepcion located along the coast) and is a factor in national integration.
The road network, with the Longitudinal Highway as a backbone, provides an
adequate system of transport to the more heavily populated areas of the
country. However, primarily because of the age of the paved network, particu-
larly the PCC paved system, and also because of insufficient maintenance in
the past, the network requires considerable reconstruction and rehabilitation
to serve not only the expected, but also the current, traffic volumes adequately.
2.02      In the past, road inventories generally have been made by adding
recent construction to the previous year's tally. No comprehensive coverage
and condition inventory has been carried out recently for Chile's highway
system, but the data available indicate that the network has been growing at
about 4% p.a. since 1970. Natural gravel or earth roads show the highest
growth, followed by gravel roads. Paved roads' growth has been somewhat slower.
Table 2.1 shows a substantial increase in the system between 1974 and 1978,
from about 50,000 km to 60,000 km. The regions are now preparing a detailed
inventory based on a new classification system and coordinated by the
Directorate of Highways (Vialidad). The recently completed Highway Maintenance
Study (para 2.26) included a 5% condition-sampling for the road network, and,



- 8 -
subject to the outcome of the review of the study, further condition inven-
tories would be carried out. Much of the paved system is over 15 years old
and was designed for traffic volumes below those now existing. Vialidad has
recognized the importance of the damage caused to road pavements by overloading
of trucks, and local consultants have completed a comprehensive study of the
overloading problems with recommendations for corrective measures (para 2.08).
An enforcement decree was signed in early 1980, and Vialidad is initiating
serious and comprehensive action to ensure that proper weight control is
effected on all of the network.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
2.03      Statistics of the highway vehicle fleet show that the number of
trucks and buses grew at an average of 5% p.a. from 1968 to 1978 (with the
exception of 1975, when a number of trucks and buses apparently remained
unregistered) (Table 2.2). The depression of economic activity in Chile prior
to 1976 first left the trucking industry with apparent excess capacity, which
led to an interruption in 1975 and 1976 in the growth of the trucking fleet
in service. Over the last few years, two other factors have determined the
evolution of the industry: the deregulation of road transport (a policy of
the present Government) and the availability of financial facilities by the
Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion (CORFO) for the purchase of trucks.
These factors have made road transport attractive to entrepreneurs displaced
from other areas of economic activity and have opened road transport to
initiative and competition. Road transport rates have become very competitive,
comparing favorably with rail and coastal navigation even over distances of
more than 250 km and 2,000 km, respectively.  The truck fleet hauling capacity
has increased, but competitive pressure has held prices down although tariffs,
on the average, do not provide adequate allowance for depreciatLon. Road
conditions (which at present cause excessive mechanical wear and tear) are a
decisive factor in the economy of transport companies, especially for the
small operators who provide undifferentiated services under very competitive
conditions. The small operator dominates the scene with 93% of the fleet
owned by individuals having no more than two vehicles. It therefore appears
possLble that truckers will respond quickly to improvements in road conditions
by increasing the efficiency of their services and taking advantage of lower
risks of damage to equipment and cargo, greater speed, and the possibility of
introducing more modern equipment. Also, it seems probable that resulting
reduction in cost would be passed on to users.
2.04      In passenger transport, service and flexibility have made transport
by road grow at the expense of rail transport (the number of passengers moved
by the southern railway has decreased about 30% from 1973; figures for the
northern railway show a decrease of 75%). At the same time, the price of
domestic air travel has placed it out of reach of the average traveler. This
price consideration, coupled with the geography of Chile, makes movement of
passengers by road, north and south to and from Santiago, very popular (100%
bus occupancy during peak season, 60% the remainder of the year). Since
1976, the passenger transport industry has benefited from availability of
financial facilities for the purchase of road units and shows a healthy
outlook.  The market is dominated by medium-to-large companies serving the



- 9 -
northern and southern sections of the Longitudinal Highway and by owner-
operators performing radial services. Aside from vehicle licensing, the
industry is deregulated and highly competit-ive.
2.05      The toll stations outside Santiago and individual traffic counts
for specific road projects provide a good estimate of the traffic on Chile's
roads. Also, MOP carried out four national traffic counts covering some
600 stations in 1968, 1970, 1974, 1976 and 1978. However, the systems for
these counts were not fully consistent, and the data are not considered
sufficiently reliable for planning purposes. MOP now plans national traffic
counts in the near future. The statistics from the toll stations are a more
reliable source for data concerning traffic growth and composition. It can
also be assumed that the toll stations represent the highest traffic volumes
on the system since Santiago is the focal point for almost all goods and
services. The statistics indicate that volumes of traffic at the toll stations
in 1979 were between 1,380 (at Chacabuco to the north of Santiago) and 6,400
ADT (at Angostura, Route 5 to the south of Santiago) (Table 2.3). Passenger
cars represent about 62% of the traffic, buses 12% and trucks 26%. The
major portion of truck traffic is made up of gasoline-powered, two-axle trucks
with an average capacity of 7 tons, although there is an increasing number
of trucks with three or more axles.
2.06      Traffic growth figures in Chile reflect trends in the gross
national product (GNP). The figures below show the percentage change in
traffic and vehicle fuel consumption compared with the percentage change in
GNP for the same years:
Percent Change
Percent Change   Percent /1 Change   in Vehicle Fuel
Year           in GNP           in Traffic          Consumption /2
1970           + 3.6                +10.9               + 7.2
1971           + 7.7                +17.8               + 9.2
1972             0.0                - 1.3               - 0.8
1973           - 3.6                - 4.6               - 4.4
1974           + 4.1                - 8.5               - 3.9
1975           -13.1                -19.4               -13.3
1976           + 4.1                  0.0               + 1.0
1977           + 8.6                +10.9               + 4.1
1978           + 6.0                +14.2               +12.9
1979             n.a.               + 3.2               + 3.2
/1  At toll stations (Table 2.3).
/2   See Table 2.4.
2.07      Overloading of vehicles is a problem in Chile.  It is related to
the low rates that truckers must charge to compete for cargo and the need for
these truckers to at least break even, which can be achieved at the start only
by overloading in the short run. Vialidad, the HIOP agency responsible for
weight control, purchased, with financing provided by the Bank (Loan 558-CH),
eight portable weighing scales and one fixed scale. However, enforcement of the



- 10 -
regulations on weight control was only partially implemented, mainly because
of inadequate staff to manage a weight control program. In addition, prior to
1974, the strong truckers' union opposed an effective control.
2.08      In June 1975, MOP increased the legal load limits for various types
of trucks, thereby updating permissible axle loads in force since 1960. MOP
subsequently determined that the limits set were both incomplete and obsolete,
and, in January 1980, Decree No. 158 was issued which establishes a comprehen-
sive system of permissible axle and gross vehicle loadings. In March 1980,
MOP's consultants submitted detailed report requirements for effective enforce-
ment of weight control regulations. The study was wholly financed by the
Government, but the terms of reference therefor were reviewed and commented
upon by the Bank. The study includes a diagnosis of the overloading problem
and the formulation of proposals for more effective enforcement, including the
purchase of additional scales and the location of weighing stations as well as
recommendations for operation and staffing of the units. Vialidad has already
acquired the equipment for 13 stations (at an estimated cost of US$1.72
million) and plans to start construction of the necessary civil works for the
stations during 1980. The 1980 budget for the civil works is about US$1.25
million. During negotiations, it was agreed that, by June 30, 1982, or such
later date as may be acceptable to the Bank, the Government shall, in accordance
with the standards set forth in its Decree No. 158 of January 29, 1980, cause
MOP to carry out its program for the control of weight of vehicles in the
territory of the borrower, including the issuance of operating instructions
for MOP's vehicle weighing stations and the adoption of a schedule of fines
for violations of the terms of such Decree. It was also agreed that MOP
would, from time to time, review with the Bank the steps being taken to carry
out the program.
C.   Highway Administration
2.09      MOP is in charge of planning, study, design, construction and
maintenance of all public works. It is responsible for coordinating these
works among its departments, other agencies involved and the regions. The
Ministry is subdivided into three General Directorates: Public Works, Metro
and Water Resources. The Directorate for Highways (Vialidad) is the most
important unit within the General Directorate for Public Works (Chart 18756).
In order to rationalize its organization and regroup its offices to achieve
a better coordination of activities, Vialidad has, with its own funds, com-
missioned a study by a local firm of management consultants. A preliminary
report has been prepared and is under review by Vialidad. Final decision on
the reorganization of MOP is expected shortly.
2.10      In July 1974, the Government undertook an administrative decentral-
ization and subdivided the country into 12 administrative regions plus the
Santiago Metropolitan Region. Progressively, as the regions were organized,
they took over the execution of public works although the final regulations
governing the relationship between MOP and the regions are being prepared,
together with the study to rationalize the organization of Vialidad. At



- 11 -
present, MOP is represented in each region by a Regional Ministerial Secretary
who has staff and offices for carrying out public works activities. He reports
directly to the Minister of Public Works, but coordinates his activities with
the "Intendente of the Region," who is the top regional authority.
2.11      The responsibility for design, construction and maintenance of the
overall highway network, which is by law vested in Vialidad and is non-
transferable, has been affected by the reorganization. Vialidad remains in
direct charge of the design and construction works for the Longitudinal
Highway and its main lateral branches, for all major rehabilitation works, for
works under international loans and for all international roads. The regions
are in charge of maintaining all roads within the region as well as design and
construction of roads within the secondary and feeder road systems. The
relationship between Vialidad and the regions is very close, and Vialidad,
through its departments of studies, construction, maintenance, bridges and
equipment (Chart 18757) provides support to the regions. The Central
Government sends global funds to the regions, and the regional authorities
have the responsibility for distributing these funds among the various activ-
ities, except for routine highway maintenance, for which a special allocation
is received directly from the Central Government. It appears that, after the
inevitable initial adjustments, the reorganization is starting to function
properly.
2.12      Because of the rampant inflation which started in 1972, the real
worth of Vialidad staff salaries was seriously eroded, causing many public
servants to leave the service looking for better opportunities in the private
sector or abroad. MOP was left with a minimum staff restricted to carrying
out the most indispensable activities. Departmental forces also were reduced
when, in 1974, the Government decided to stimulate the private sector by award-
ing contracts for some of the works previously carried out by departmental
forces. On the other hand, the Government has recognized the need to staff
technical agencies adequately and is taking measures, such as automatic adjust-
ment of salaries, to attract qualified personnel to the public service. In
1973, Vialidad had about 13,570 employees, including all categories of staff
(out of which about 5,600 were under the social welfare program (para 1.20));
in 1980, Vialidad employees had declined by about 60% to 5,650. It is expected
that a moderate increase over the present low point will take place during the
next few years. The Vialidad upper level management is competent, and, with
proposed additions to middle level management and technical staff, no major
problems in directing and managing the proposed project are anticipated.
D.   Highway Planning
2.13      The Directorate of Planning in MOP has planning responsibility for
the three General Directorates: Public Works, Metro and Water Resources
(Chart 18756). Works involving highways, ports, airports, irrigation, flood
protection, sanitation, architecture and the Metro are included. The plan
presents an investment program for the period, mainly reflecting the require-
ments for maintenance and rehabilitation and some new works. In the past, the
justification was qualitative; no attempt was made to present any quantified
economic analysis. The Directorate is now working on comprehensive eight- to
ten-year projections from which annual plans will be derived, reflecting needs
and budget availability.



- 12 -
2.14      Within Vialidad, the Studies Department is responsible for highway
planning, but it is short of staff, and the available data base for under-
taking a regional planning exercise is limited. Regular traffic counts are
taken at the toll stations, but the most recent origin and destination survey
is somewhat out of date, and a road condition inventory also should be carried
out. Vialidad does not have an in-house capability for undertaking the
economic evaluation of projects; therefore, evaluations, when required, usually
by international or bilateral lending agencies, are done by consultants.
E.   Highway Financing
2.15      Financing for highway expenditures is provided from four major
sources.  In order of current importance, these are:
(a)  the annual budget appropriation provided by the Central
Government to MOP, in which the highway portion is specifically
Ldentified;
(b) direct income from road user tolls, which are the only road user
charges earmarked directly for highway use;
(c)  contributions from the regional development funds for specific
highway projects within their region; and
(d) borrowings from international agencies.
Table 2.5 gives a summary of the amount of funds provided for highway purposes
between 1970 and 1980, all in 1976 prices and exchange rates. Actual expendi-
tures for 1970-1976 totaled US$584.1 million equivalent, averaging about US$83
million equivalent p.a.  The total for the 1977-1980 period is US$336.5 million
equivalent, an average of about US$84.1 million equivalent p.a. Road expendi-
tures over the past several years have been concentrated on rehabilitation and
maintenance; the amounts have, however, been insufficient to keep up with the
network's deterioration (para 2.25). Investments for roads (Table 2.5) during
1974 showed a steep increase over 1973, reflecting completion of works on main
roads undertaken by the previous administration.
2.16      Highway expenditures increased by 33% in 1978 over 1977, and an
important part of this increase was allocated to maintenance. The figures for
1979-1980 include allowances for two major projects involving external partici-
pation: one is a bridge/road construction and rehabilitation project supported
by IDB financing, and the other is the proposed road reconstruction project.
2.17      Table 2.6 shows a detail of the estimated road user charges for
1970-1979. All of the revenues identified are received directly by the
Central Government except for toll revenues, which accrue to Vialidad. It
can be seen that a dramatic shift has occurred in the relationship between
revenues from road user charges and expenditures for highway purposes.
Revenues in 1970 amounted to US$54 million compared with US$80.8 million



- 13 -
spent on the roads (for new construction, maintenance, debt service and
administration); by 1976, revenues had increased to US$318 million and
expenditures had declined to US$63 million. The net "surplus" in 1976, some
US$255 million, amounted to almost 10% of Government current revenues. While
this figure was inflated in more recent years as a result of duties received
from a sudden one-time increase in car imports, the major source of revenues
continues to be fuel taxes. 1/
2.18      While the overall analysis indicates that revenues exceed expendi-
tures, Lt should be noted that most road expenditures are responsive to
truck use, i.e., inter-city and regional roads where the bulk of the maintenance
effort is found and where traffic is heavy, while the major portion of the user
revenues is derived from automobiles. The revenues are adequate, but the in-
cidence of charges by type of vehicle will be analyzed by MTT and ODEPLAN
as part of their programed activities (para 1.24).
F.   Highway Engineering
2.19     lWithLn Vialidad, the Studies Department is charged with highway
design and the Bridge Department with bridge design. However, following the
Government's policy of promoting the private sector, a considerable portion
of the design work is entrusted to consultants. The Association of Consulting
Engineers of Chile has about 55 members, of which about 10 firms are able to
prepare highway and bridge designs. For very specialized works, local firms
normally associate with foreign firms. There are no limitations on the
foreign firms for registration or performing professional activities.
2.20      Because of the increasing traffic volumes and axle loads, Vialidad's
design standards have been updated, taking more account of the design speeds
and topographic conditions of the terrain; a provisional booklet showing the
updated design standards is in use at present. The geometric standards of the
sections of the Longitudinal Highway to be reconstructed will not be changed,
but the structural standards will be improved substantially (para 4.04).
G.   Highway ConstructLon
2.21      After a period of uncertainty (1970-1974) when the construction
industry in Chile faced difficulties because of the shortage of funds and the
prevailing inflation, the industry has revived strongly. MOP has resumed
construction activities on the basis of a program reflecting projected avail-
ability of funds and based on cost estimates including provision for moderate
inflationary price increases. MOP contracts provide for automatic adjustment
for price escalation. Many of the established contractors have renewed their
equipment, and there are now about 15 firms capable of carrying out yearly
works for US$3.0 to US$5.0 million or more. The Chilean Chamber of Construction
includes about 750 firms of various specialties; several foreign firms are
associated with local firms.
1/   Cost of gasoline in Chile is about US$2.00 per gallon, of which 76% Ls tax.



- 14 -
2.22      According to a Decree dated October 1968, civil works contractors
must be registered wLth MOP. The register includes various categories of
contractors according to their working capital, equipment, specialty, etc.
There are no restrictions to the registration of foreign firms. The register
was reorganized, and a new Decree was issued in February 1978. For works
within the present project, contracting firms have been registered in a
special register in accordance with the provision of the new Decree.
2.23      SupervisLon of construction is carried out as a joint effort of
Vialidad and local consulting firms. Vialidad appoints a "Fiscal Inspector"
as head of the supervising team consisting of a limited staff of Government
personnel (supervisors, laboratory technicians, etc.) supplemented by consult-
ing firms. This procedure has worked satisfactorily.
H.   Highway Maintenance
2.24      Until mid-1974, Vialidad met its responsibility for maintenance of
the overall road network through three zonal offLces (north, central and
south) and 25 provincial offices. Following the administrative decentraliza-
tion of the country in July 1974 (para 2.10), maintenance activities were
gradually taken over by the regions under the general direction of Vialidad.
The regions are now fully responsible for the maintenance of all roads within
their borders, and the Central Government provides special maintenance alloca-
tions to the regions. RoutLne maintenance is carried out by force account,
but sealing, recapping, graveling, bridge reconstruction and any other works
for which precise measurements can be obtained are carried out by contract.
2.25      Because of the shortage of funds and equipment, highway maintenance
in Chile has not been carried out satisfactorily since the late 1960s. The
improvements in road maintenance sought under the Second Highway Maintenance
Project financed by the Bank (Loan 558-CH, US$11.6 million, September 1968)
could not be realized because of procurement delays and, more importantly,
because budgetary allocations for maintenance could not be increased as planned.
The increase, in the early 1970s, of the number of Vialidad employees was not
of much help because about 40% of the employees were hired under a social
welfare program (para 2.12), which has now been abolished. The maintenance
situation was further complicated by the fact that the main network was
designed for less intensive and lighter traffic. Consequently, routine
maintenance operations are effective on only a portion of the road network
while other portions (mainly sections of the Longitudinal Highway) require
reconstruction before routine maintenance can be carried out effectively.
The Government is well aware of the problem and has undertaken a program to
reconstruct a total length of about 805 km along various sections of the
Longitudinal Highway. Construct-ion by contract covering about 240 km,
financed with Government funds, has been completed; the Government is in
the process of awarding contracts for a further 170 km, also with Government
funds; the present project would finance the reconstruction of the remaining
250 km of the program; and a fourth tranche coverLng the remaining 145 km
would be financed entirely by the Government (para 4.05).



- 15 -
2.26      The delegation of maintenance to the regions and the policy of
reliance on contractors have now taken hold. The Government has recognized
the importance of maintenance and confirmed its intention to increase the
resources allocated to it. The Government has also shown its determination
to tackle the problem of axle load control (para 2.08). Some of the conditions
for a successful attempt to improve maintenance are assembled. Mlore important,
Vialidad commissioned a comprehensive maintenance study in line with terms
of reference agreed during appraisal. This study, carried out by Martinez y
Cuevas, consultants, with indirect assistance of Roy A. Jorgensen, was
completed in March 1980 and is now under detailed review by Vialidad. Upon
completion of its review, Vialidad will furnish the Bank, not later than
April 30, 1981, with a final version of the study report along with its
proposals for an implementation program to carry out the study's recommenda-
tions. The program would include, but not be limited to, reorganization of
maintenance activities within the regions, administrative arrangements for
carrying out maintenance by contract, training of skilled workers and super-
visors on a systematic basis and development of basic contract documents for
the maintenance contracts. Implementation of the program would be started not
later than June 30, 1981, by which time Vialidad would have agreed with the
Bank on terms of reference for consultants to assist in the program development
and would employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank for that purpose.
2.27      During negotiations, the Government confirmed that: (a) all of its
national and regional roads would be maintained adequately in accordance with
appropriate engineering practices; and (b) it would provide the necessary
yearly allocations in accordance with specific amounts to be agreed with the
Bank. Table 2.7 shows Government/Consultant estimates of budgetary require-
ments for the period 1980-1984. The proposed transfer of substantial amounts
of maintenance from force account to contract maintenance would reduce the
equipment requirements of Vialidad and the regional maintenance forces, but
the annual allocations would, in any event, provide for adequate equipment
replacements in the remaining equipment pool.
III. PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   Overview
3.01      The Bank has been involved with highway development in Chile since
1961. Three loans and a credit (total, about US$49.0 million) resulted
in (a) construction, upgrading or rehabilitation of about 2,100 km of roads;
(b) building of maintenance capacity through technical assistance and procure-
ment of maintenance equipment; and (c) preparation of feasibility studies
for about 600 km and detailed engineering for about 270 km of roads, which
provided the basis for Bank financing of further highway works.



- 16 -
B.   Projects Completed
3.02      The First Highway Construction and Maintenance Project in 1961
was financed by Credit 4-CH (Road Construction Program, US$19.0 million,
June 1961) and Loan 287-CH (Highway Maintenance Project, US$6.0 million, June
1961). The project was designed to expand and improve the highway network and
to strengthen highway maintenance. Credit 4-CH (Road Construction) comprised:
(a)  the new construction and relocation of about 950 km of roads,
the betterment of about 2,500 km of existing roads, the paving
of about 400 km and the reconstruction of a large bridge, all
in the ten provinces of southern Chile devastated by the 1960
earthquakes; and
(b)  engineering services for preparation and execution of the
construction work under (a) and for reorganization of
maintenance operations, including the preparation of a
master plan.
3.03      Delays were encountered in engaging consultants and in completing
the engineering preparation for the construction works. The scope of the
project (changing the number of km to be constructed or improved) was revised
twice: initially in 1964 and later in 1965-1966 when floods caused serious
damage to project roads, increasing their cost estimates. Some of the roads,
although still included in the project, were completed with 100% Government
funds. Thus, works for a reduced project were completed within the original
cost estimate of about US$56.0 million equivalent. Project works were finally
completed in mid-1971, about seven years behind the appraisal schedule.
The Master Plan prepared under the project was the basis for preparation and
appraisal of the Second Highway Maintenance Project, described in the following
paragraphs.
3.04      The maintenance component of the project (Loan 287-CH) comprised
the purchase of maintenance and workshop equipment as well as the training
of maintenance personnel. Implementation was completed in 1966, about two
years behind schedule. In spite of the shortage of budgetary allocations,
the project helped to improve maintenance operations.
3.05      The Second Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 558-CH, US$11.6 million,
September 1968) included the purchase of maintenance equipment to continue the
program carried out under Loan 287-CH as well as the preparation of economic
and engineering studies, assistance for transport planning and a training
program for Vialidad staff. In April 1974, the Loan Agreement was amended to
include an additional US$1.6 million to cover interest charges.
3.06      Mainly because of cumbersome Government procurement procedures intro-
duced subsequent to the appraisal (now abolished), it took about eight years
to complete the purchase of the maintenance equipment instead of the four
years originally contemplated. In addition, implementation was hampered by
the shortage of budgetary allocations for maintenance operations. Despite
these shortcomings, the project extended an opportune support to maintenance



- 17 -
operations. The Bank-financed equipment provided the only usable units in the
country, replacing the aging and obsolete Vialidad equipment. Although the
objectives of the project could not be fully realized, it is clear that, without
the project, the situation of highway maintenance would have been even more
difficult than it was In the early 1970s. The Project Completion Report on
Loan 558-CH was fLrst issued on January 31, 1978 and was revised on August 22,
1978; the Project Performance Audit Report prepared by the Operations and
Evaluations Department was submitted to the Executive Directors in late
December 1978. The findings of both reports have been taken into account
in developing several aspects of the present project, in particular:
(a) the development of a comprehensive plan of action for axle load
control (para 2.08);
(b) the proposed maintenance covenant (para 2.27); and
(c) the scope of the maintenance study, including the training
aspects (para 4.09).
3.07      The Third Highway Project (Loan 688-CH, Second Highway Construction
Project, US$10.8 million, June 1970) consists of the construction or recon-
struction of four main roads totaling about 165 km and feasibility and engi-
neering studies for about 500 km of future highway construction. Inflation,
coupled with design changes and repeated unsuccessful bidding, caused cost
increases, and, in August 1974, the scope of the project was revised to reduce
the reconstruction component to about 96 km. Works were completed in early
1979, about four years behind schedule. The highway studies were replaced by
bridge studies, which were finally carried out by Vialidad with its own funds.
These bridge studies provided the basis for an IDB loan of US$24.5 million;
the bridge rehabilitation program is now in progress. The final cost for the
reduced project (US$24.1 million equivalent) is practically the same as the
appraisal estimate for the original scope. The Project Completion Report
for this project was issued on September 28, 1979. OED is now preparing the
draft Project Performance Audit Report.
C.   Summary Assessment
3.08      Previous Bank projects have provided for extension and betterment of
the road network and strengthening of maintenance operations and have also
sought improvement in sector planning. The Bank's continuing insistence on
maintenance has been instrumental in focusing Government attention on the con-
sequence of neglect in this area and in creating the present set of conditions
under which substantial improvement can be expected. Improvements realized
under previous projects in the fields of highway planning and engineering and
in procurement and supervision have become an integral part of established
modus operandi. On the other hand, past advances on institutional matters
have been deeply affected by the various changes in policies in the early
1970s. The institutions responsible for the transport sector and, in particular,
the road subsector have regained a measure of stability although they have



- 18 -
to operate under conditions of scarcity. Vialidad has shown, throughout
the preparation of the proposed project, a high degree of effectiveness
and a readiness to undertake difficult actions. This was a key consideration
in agreeing to broaden the objectives of the project in the fields of mainte-
nance and preinvestment studies.
IV. THE PROPOSED HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01       The proposed project consists of:
(a)  civil works and related supervision for the reconstruction of
about 250 km of the Longitudinal Highway;
(b)  technical assistance for implementation of a recommended main-
tenance program and training elements thereof;
(c)  determination of high priority transport investments through
pre-investment studies, possibly in the fields of feeder roads,
port access roads and fishing ports; and
(d) purchase of vehicles and office and laboratory equipment.
The project would be carried out over a period of four years, 1981 to 1984.
B.   Project Components and Requirements
(i) The Reconstruction Program of the Longitudinal Highway
4.02       The Longitudinal Highway (para 2.01) was originally designed and
constructed 15 to 30 years ago to then-prevailing design standards and esti-
mated volumes of traffic. Some sections have seriously deteriorated because
the original design standards are not compatible with today's traffic condi-
tions and some others because of deficient maintenance. These sections need
reconstruction and improvement to meet the foreseen traffic requirements
over the next 10 to 20 years.
4.03      A group of local consultants retained by the Government in early
1976 (Rutllant and Associates) carried out a detailed inspection of the high-
way and identified 1,715 km for further studies to determine the need for
reconstruction and repair. Detailed engineering and economic studies, financed
entirely by the Government and carried out by the same consultants between
mid-1976 and late 1977, showed that about 805 km of the highway are in need of
immediate reconstruction while the remaining 910 km could be postponed for 5
to 10 years if properly maintained. The consultants recommended a program of
works extending over the period 1979-1983.



- 19 -
4.04      The Rutllant study contained a full investigation of the pavement
structure, including the status of the sub-base, base and surface. On that
basis, using the formulas of the American Association of State Highway Officials
(AASHTO), and, after cost comparisons to determine whether the bituminous or
PCC surfacing was more economical, the pavement was designed. A detailed re-
view of the designs carried out by the Bank staff in June 1978 showed that the
pavement was over-designed in some sections while, in other sections, it was
under-designed; an independent consulting firm (Xavier Dorsch - Germany) was
retained by MOP over the period July 1978 to December 1978 to review and amend
the pavement design in light of the Bank's comments and the experience ga-ined
through the sections now under construction. Consultants Dorsch concluded
that the alignment of the road and the bridge structures are adequate for the
projected traffic and that all efforts should be concentrated on reconstructing
the pavement and rehabilitating the drainage system, with the shoulders also
being widened as appropriate. Their recommendations have been adopted by
Vialidad and are reflected in the engineering design and specifications for
the reconstruction works under the project. The geometric design standards
for the project are consistent with the ones adopted for all of the Longitudinal
Highway (Table 4.1).
4.05      MOP has completed construction of the first tranche of works on the
Longitudinal Highway comprising the reconstruction of about 155 km and heavy
maintenance of about 85 km; the total estimated cost of these works is US$33.9
million. MOP is awarding contracts for a second tranche of about 170 km, to be
completed in 1983. The proposed project would make up the third tranche and
would include the reconstruction of the remaining 250 km between 1981 and 1984
(Table 4.2). Thereafter, a fourth tranche would cover the reconstruction or
rehabilitation of the remaining 145 km. Map IBRD 13528R2 shows the location
and length of the sections to be reconstructed under the project. Because some
parts of the road are in good condition and other parts are being reconstructed,
each section generally includes several subsections which have been identified
with letters and numbers according to their location (North = N, Center = C,
South = S) and their relative position with respect to Santiago (Table 4.2).
4.06      Reconstruction of the first (240 km) and second (170 km) tranches
would overlap the third tranche (250 km) included under the project. Although
the economic justificat-ion of the sections included in the project has been
determined independently of the two first tranches, the high priority of these
two tranches makes it essential that they be completed in a timely manner.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would allocate the
necessary resources for carrying out the reconstruction works of the second
tranche by June 30, 1983 and the fourth tranche by December 31, 1985, as well
as for the local component of the project works.
(ii) Preparation of Studies
(a) Assessment of Future Highway M4aintenance Requirements and
Technical Assistance for Implementation
4.07      Under the framework of the administrative regionalization of the
country which started in m-id-1974, maintenance responsibilities for the
national highway system have been taken over by the 13 administrative regions



- 20 -
(para 2.10). The Government also undertook to curtail departmental forces
while promoting the use of private contractors to carry out maintenance works
(para 2.24).
4.08      The Government has come to realize the importance of maintenance and
has increased maintenance allocations (about US$55.0 million equivalent in 1980,
or about 53% over the 1975-1977 average, see Table 2.7) and to develop measures
to improve the efficiency of maintenance operations. MOP is now working with
the regional authorities in planning and implementing stepped-up programs of
activities, taking into account the policy of increased reliance on contractors.
The recently completed maintenance study, now under detailed review by Vialidad
(para 2.26), included:
(a) review of the existing maintenance equipment, workshops and
personnel as well as training facilities in the regions and
determination of the future needs;
(b) review of the policies and operating procedures to assess their
suitability;
(c) review of current methods and practices used in planning the repair
and maintenance of pavements with a view toward achieving a proper
balance between routine and periodic operations and strengthening;
and
(d) consideration of an organizational framework for carrying out main-
tenance operations effectively, considering the decentralization.
4.09      The study provides the basis for assessing the future requirements
of highway maintenance and recommending specific improvements. These improve-
ments would include such items as:
(a) implementation of maintenance planning processes, including an
inventory (now in process by the regions under direction of
Vialidad), pavement surveys (sample surveys included in the study),
traffic studies and highway classification (new system now being
instituted by Vialidad);
(b) coordinating maintenance with the implementing regulations recently
promulgated on vehicle weight control;
(c) setting up of pilot maintenance programs, taking into account
varied climatic conditions which could serve as models for
extending similar procedures to other regions; and
(d) strengthening Vialidad's capability to manage improved maintenance
operations by training programs for personnel at all levels with
an aim toward improvement of staff productivity and operational
efficiency.



- 21 -
During negotiations, the Government agreed to: (i) provide to the Bank, by
April 30, 1981, for its review and comments, the consultants' study of
highway maintenance requirements together with the Government's proposed
program for carrying out the recommendations of the study; (ii) by June 30,
1981, to start implementing the program and to assist in such implementation
by employing engineering consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) are satis-
factory to the Bank; and (iii) thereafter to consult with the Bank periodicalLy
on the progress of the program development.
(b) Preinvestment Studies
4.10      Since the early stages of project preparation in 1975, the Government
has recognized the need to develop its transport planning capacity (para 1.24).
The Bank's October 1977 sector mission found that, although a comprehensive
transport survey was not required at this stage, it would be important over
the next few years to strengthen sectoral planning, particularly to advise on
sectoral policies (rates, regulations) and to plan and coordinate necessary
investments. Dur-ing negotiations, the Government briefed the Bank on measures
taken to date (generally in accordance with an outline plan of action discussed
during appraisal, paragraph 1.24). The Bank would be kept advised informally on
the progress made in transport coordination as a result of these actions. It
was agreed during negotiations that MOP would furnish the Bank, not later than
March 31, 1981, in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank, MIOP's proposals for preinvestment studies to be carried out under the
project and that such studies would be initiated not later than June 30, 1981
with the assistance of consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) are acceptable to
the Bank.
(iii) Purchase of Vehicles and Office and Laboratory Equipment
4.11      To facilitate its execution, this project includes the purchase of
vehicles and office and laboratory equipment to be used by the consultants for
carrying out the studies. The proposed list of such equipment is shown In
Table 4.3.
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.12      High prevailing rates of inflation, combined with a policy of devalua-
tion of the Ch$ in line with domestic/foreign inflation, and uncertainties in
predicting local inflation make it preferable to present cost estimates only
in US$ equivalents. The total cost of the project, based on October 1980
prices and including contingency allowances, is estimated to be US$91.7 million
equivalent with a fore-ign exchange component of US$42.0 million (46%), which
would be financed by the Bank, and a local component (including all taxes) of
US$49.7 million (54%), which would be financed by the Government. A summary
of the project cost estimate is given on the following page.



- 22 -
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Estimate
Foreign
Exchange
Local         Foreign         Total         Component
(US$ Millions)                        %
A. Reconstruction of about 250 km
of the Longitudinal Highway
(i) Civil Works                         35.76           29.25          65.01            45
(ii} Supervision (7% of A(i)) Local        2.22           1.82           4.04            45
Foreign    -              0.51           0.51           100
Subtotal                       37.98          31.58          69.56
B. Studies
(i) Maintenance Program                  0.28            0.42           0.70            60
(ii) Preinvestment Studies                 0.32           0.48           0.80            60
Subtotal                        0.60           0.90           1.50
C. Purchase of Vehicles and Office
and Laboratory Equipment                                 0.15           0.15           100
Base Cost (October 1980)                 38.58          32.63           71.21
D. Contingencies
(i) Physical (7% of A(i))                 2.50           2.05            4.55
(ii) Price 1/ (about 21% of Base
Cost plus D(i))                     8.66            7.32           15.98
Subtotal                       11.16           9.37           20.53
Grand Total                    49.74          42.00           91.74            46
1/ Based on the following estimated annual price increases: 10.5% for 1980,
9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% thereafter.
Source: Mission's Estimates and MOP/Vialidad
October 1980



- 23 -
4.13      The cost estimate for reconstruction work on the Longitudinal
Highway was prepared by local consultants (para 4.03) on the basis of quan-
tities derived from detailed engineering reviewed and amended as indicated
in paragraph 4.04, and current construction contract unit prices for similar
works. The average cost per km, at January 1980 prices (excluding contin-
gencies), is US$253,000 and is within the cost range of similar works now
under way in Chile.  Cost estimates for consulting services are based on
recent contracts or man-month costs for similar services provided by joint
ventures of local and foreign firms. The cost per man-month, including
salary, costs, fees, international travel and subsistence, is estimated
to fluctuate between US$3,000 (for Chileans) and US$8,000 (for expatriates)
for professionals of different levels among Chileans and expatriates, with
the number of expatriates being kept to a minimum consistent with the need
for innovative expertise not currently available among Chilean professionals.
The weighted average between Chilean and expatriate professionals is estimated
to be US$4,000 equivalent. The various consulting services, including con-
struction supervision, would require about 700 man-months of professional
staff.
4.14      The foreign exchange component for civil works has been estimated
by the consultants at 45%, assuming that contracts for these works would
normally be awarded to local firms. The foreign exchange component for
consulting services has been estimated by the appraisal mission at 45% for
supervision of construction and at 60% for the studies, assuming that these
would be carried out by joint ventures of local and foreign firms, with the
latter providing only senior experts as needed.
4.15      A contingency allowance of 7% has been included to cover increases
in construction quantities. About 21% of project costs has been allowed for
price variations assuming inflation rates as shown at the bottom of the cost
table. These rates reflect recent worldwide estimates and are relevant to
Chile.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Disbursements
4.16      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of MOP as
follows:
(a) through Vialidad for the reconstruction works, maintenance
studies and purchase of vehicles and office equipment; and
(b)  through the Directorate of Planning for the preinvestment
studies on highways and ports.
4.17      Contracts for the reconstruction works and for the purchase of
vehicles would be let by international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement" (March 1977). The 250 km
included in the project are divided into eight subsections with estimated
costs ranging from US$5.70 million to US$13.18 mLllion (Table 4.2). The
individual subsections have been grouped into three "bidding packages" with
estimated cost ranging from US$13.9 million to US$27.7 million. The three
packages would be tendered at intervals of about nine months in accordance
with the schedule outlined in Table 4.2. Contracts would be awarded to



- 24 -
prequalified contractors on the basis of the lower of (a) the lowest evaluated
bid for the entire works or (b) the lowest evaluated combination of bids.
Vialidad would have the option of awarding, to one contractor, contracts for
all subsections (one entire package), or, to different contractors, contracts
for one or more subsections. Given their size, the subsections and the bidding
packages are expected to attract large- to medium-size local firms or joint
ventures of such firms, as well as foreign firms mostly in association with
local firms. It Is estimated that the contract value would be distributed
about evenly between local and foreign firms. Contractors for civil works
have been prequalified (para 4.22). In order to obtain the most economical
solution, bid proposals would be invited for the two surfacing alternatives:
bituminous and PCC. Contracts for the purchase of office and laboratory
equipment not exceeding a total amount of US$35,000 would be let on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank. Bidding and
contracting procedures were reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
4.18      In order to limit traffic disruptions due to reconstruction works
along the Longitudinal Highway, Vialidad proposes to award contracts in three
stages: in 1981, contracts would be awarded for one bidding package (three
subsections); in 1982, contracts would be awarded for a second bidding package
(three subsections); and works on the remaining bidding package (two subsections)
would start in 1983 (Table 4.2). Detours would be built whenever practicable
to facilitate reconstruction works.
4.19      Supervision of construction would be carried out by the Construction
Department of Vialidad, which would appoint a senior engineer with the title of
"Fiscal Inspector" (para. 2.23) to be responsible for the supervisory work.
This inspector would be assisted in a technical advisory capacity by a consult-
ing firm engaged under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. This
system has been working satisfactorily for rehabilitation works being carried
out with Government funds, and it is acceptable to the Bank. It is proposed
that the project works would be supervised by four or more supervisory groups;
a consulting firm acceptable to the Bank would coordinate the task of the
supervisory groups. During negotiations, it was agreed that MOP would engage
consultants to assist in the supervision work whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.20      The maintenance study carried out by MOP's consultants would be
submitted to the Bank, along with a proposed program for carrying out the
study's recommendations by April 30, 1981. At the same time, MOP would employ
consultants to assist in the program whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment (including terms of reference) are satisfactory
to the Bank.
4.21      Disbursements would be based on:
(a)  45% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 45% of local expenditures for
supervision related to the civil works;
(c) 60% of total expenditures for consulting services for the
maintenance program and pre-investment studies; and



- 25 -
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported vehicles
and laboratory and offlce equipment and 80% of locally produced
and procured items in this category.
The estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 4.4. Any funds
remaining in the loan account on completion of project works might, with Bank
prior approval, be used for adequately justified extensions of consulting
services connected with project-related items.
4.22      The implementation period of the project would be about four
years (1981 to 1984). In order to start reconstruction works as soon as
practicable, MOP has already prequalified 15 local firms, three joint ventures
of local firms, five foreign firms and one Chilean-Argentine joint venture.
The proposed implementation schedule, as agreed with MOP, is shown in Table 4.5.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The economic evaluation concentrates on the highway reconstruction
component of the project, which, including supervision, represents about 97%
of the estimated project cost. The Longitudinal Highway constitutes the
backbone of the transport system serving Chile; the highway reconstruction
component of the project would maintain operable the main sections of this
key and only route, transporting some two-thirds of the total freight generated
by industry, agriculture and small and mid-size mining activities in the
region. Consequently, the highway's reconstruction is expected to have a
significant impact, not only upon its direct area of influence but also upon
the economy as a whole, by widening market opportunities, expanding the avail-
ability of goods and increasing the mobility of the population. By eliminating
a major bottleneck, the reconstruction project is also expected to stimulate
investment in its area of influence, thus helping to generate additional
employment and output in key sectors. To complement the project, MOP has an
ongoing program of lateral feeder road improvements under which 280 km of
paved and 350 km of unpaved roads would be improved or restored in 1981 at a
budgeted cost of US$12.5 million. These improvements would enable small,
dispersed rural communities, in which some of Chile's poorest people live,
to benefit directly from the reconstruction of the Longitudinal Highway.
Furthermore, these improvements to the transport infrastructure would streng-
then the developmental impact of other public and private sector investments
by reducing costs and spreading benefits faster and more widely.
B.   The Highway Reconstruction Program
5.02      The economic justification of the highway reconstruction program is
based on the quantification of direct benefits to be derived by highway users
(commercial vehicles and light vehicles) in the form of vehicle operating
cost savings through the improvement of the road condition and decreased
road maintenance costs. Important non-quantifiable benefits will also
materialize.



- 26 -
5.03      For analytical purposes, the consultants assumed that the state of
the existing pavement can be described by three parameters: surface roughness;
cracks and patches; and ruts. To measure these parameters, a serviceability
index (P) was adopted as defined by AASHTO 1/. The extremes of this index used
in the analysis were 4.5 for a road with a good surface condition and 0 for
a road with a poor condition. The deterioration of the road surface was
estimated by the number of axle repetitions over the life of the road. This
system was checked for the state of the present road by a physical inventory
of the roads. Many of the badly deteriorated road sections were found to have
a very low serviceability index, indicating that the road condition prevented
normal traffic from using that lane. Vehicle operating costs were then esti-
mated for roads in good condition and in poor condition, using the service-
ability index as a basis for determining the cost of operations for a good
road versus that for a poor road (Table 5.1). These costs were then compared
with tariffs for commercial transport using the roads and were found to have
good correlation.
5.04      The consultants considered that the vehicle operating costs on the
deteriorated road in the "without project" case would not exceed the value
corresponding to a serviceability index (P) of 0. The consultants have found
that some form of rehabilitation was necessary and justified for all pavement
with a (P) value of less than 2. All of the road sections in this project
would have reached a (P) value of 0 by the estimated opening year, confirming
the fact that the proposed reconstruction works are of immediate priority.
This methodology was also used to estimate future vehicle operating cost on
the reconstructed pavements ("with project" case). Since the reconstructed
roads' surface quality would deteriorate with time in relation to the number
of axle repetitions, the vehicle operating costs would increase. The roads
were designed so that the estimated axle repetitions would reduce the service-
ability index from 4.5 to 2 in a 20-year period in the case of PCC pavement
and 3.9 to 2 in the case of asphalt roads.
C.   Traffic
5.05      Traffic data indicate that the rate of traffic growth began to
decline in 1972; heavier vehicles replaced the lower capacity two- and three-
axle trucks, and bus traffic increased beginning in 1974. The general traffic
decline bottomed in 1976, and has since recovered, with an average growth rate
for the last three years of nearly 10% p.a. (Table 2.3). Traffic projections
were based on historical trends of various growth indicators, in particular,
regional gross domestic production, industrial production, agricultural
production, and cargo transported. Resulting estimates of future annual
traffic growth rates, for the areas of influence of the Longitudinal Highway
under study, range from 6.2% to 7.0% over the 20-year life of the project road
sections (Table 5.2). Although estimates were made concerning traffic generated
because of the savings in vehicle operating costs, the annual average percen-
tages by vehicle type of traffic generated were very small, from 2.8% to 3.1%.
1/   Highway Research Board:  "The AASHO Road Test Report 5-Pavement Research,"
HRB Special Report 61-E, 1962.



- 27 -
Also, the data used for estimating this traffic were not consistent; there-
fore, generated traffic benefits were not included in the economic analysis.
Diverted traffic was also not considered because there are only a few short
stretches of alternate roads to the Longitudinal Highway and these are, in
many cases, in even worse condition.
D.   Benefits
5.06      The quantifiable benefits include savings in road user costs and
in road maintenance costs. Passenger time savings are considered separately
and are not taken into account in the base estimates of the economic return.
Vehicle operating cost savings were determined by comparing the operating
costs of four types of vehicles (light vehicles, trucks with two axles, trucks
with more than two axles and buses) traveling on the road sections before and
after the proposed reconstruction. The estimates of vehicle operating costs,
prepared by consultants Rutllant and Associates, were checked by the appraisal
mission. A summary of the vehicle operating costs by vehicle type is presented
in Table 5.1. Typical savings on flat terrain in the initial years of life of
the project roads would be about US$0.22/km for buses, US$0.28/km for trucks
with more than two axles and US$0.11/km for trucks with two axles. Maintenance
costs were estimated for different levels of serviceability for each type of
surface, concrete and asphalt. The benefits were considered to be the differ-
ence in the maintenance costs with the proposed reconstruction and without.
The without case was considered to be constant since the roads have or will
have reached the end of their useful life by the opening year (para 5.04).
The maintenance cost without reconstruction for asphalt roads has been esti-
mated to be about US$8,300 per km p.a. and about US$6,900 per km p.a. for
concrete. As the new road deteriorates over its useful life, annual mainte-
nance costs were considered to increase according to estimates made for the
different levels of serviceability. Because the Longitudinal Highway is
crucial to commercial traffic, the best estimate of the economic rate of
return was made first for commercial traffic only, then for all traffic and
then with maintenance savings. A sensitivity analysis of the rate of growth
of traffic (low traffic growth was one-half the rate of growth of the normal,
and high traffic growth was one-half greater than the normal) and 25% increases
in the investment costs was carried out, showing that the justification of the
project would not be affected by the variation of these factors (Table 5.3).
It should be noted that the project has an important social impact. Improve-
ment of this road would provide better access to the large metropolitan area
of Santiago for the small farmers, particularly those who produce perishable
goods, and would maintain regional communications at an acceptable cost level
for the poor population.
E.   Overall Economic Return
5.07      The proposed highway reconstruction program is well justified with
a best estimate of an overall economic return (ER) of 41%. The ERs for
individual sections range from about 27% to 63% (Table 5.3). For commercial
vehicles only, the ERs range from about 16% to 41%. The ERs are fairly insensi-
tive to changes in traffic growth rates (for the low traffic growth, the ERs go
from 25% to 58% and for the high, from 29% to 68%), and, with an assumed 25%
increase (approximately 50% more than the expected increase due to inflation)
in the investment cost, the range of the ERs would be from 22% to 52% for the



- 28 -
projected normal traffic. Further benefits such as generated traffic (as
noted), passenger time savings, reduced spoilage of agricultural goods and
increased comfort and safety to road users are not included in the estimated
ERs. To this extent, they are most conservative estimates, understating the
true importance of the project for the economy.
F.   S amactandenef Dstribution
5.08      The direct area of influence of the reconstruction project, extending
from the fourth through the ninth regions, has a total population of about
4.2 million, some 950,000 of whom have been defined as poor. 1/ Of these poor,
450,000 reside in rural areas and 500,000 in urban areas, representing 75% and
40%, respectively, of the national totals of rural and urban poor. Among the
area's rural poor are approximately 150,000 small farmers 2/ accounting for
65% of Chile's mLnLfundistas and reformed sector farmers and for 66% of the
total number of farm units in the area. About 420,000 poor persons reside in
dLstricts adjacent to the Longitudinal Highway, while a further 130,000 have
direct access to it by paved road.
5.09      The area produces 75% of the country's 14 major crops, 67% of the
raw material for agro-industry, 70% of agricultural exports and virtually all
the output of the forestry sector. Agricultural products and inputs account
for about 45% of the cargo traffic transported in sections of the road to be
reconstructed north of Santiago, and nearly 60% to the south of the capital.
Improvement of the road would reduce transport costs and, because the road
transport industry is highly competitive, would eventually reduce both cargo
and passenger tariffs. Since the marketing of agricultural products and
inputs is also competitive, lower tariffs would, over time, benefit both
producers and consumers. For instance, savings in the cost of transporting
potatoes to Santiago would be equivalent to about 15% of their farmgate
price and roughly 5% of their retail price. Potatoes are widely grown by
small farmers, are a staple food for the urban poor, and constitute close to
one-half of the fresh foodstuffs transported on the highway south of Santiago.
The effect of the road improvement on the price and quality of all perishable
goods would be enhanced by reduced spoilage and damage.
5.10      The highway's reconstruction would, in addition, improve the quality
and reduce the cost of passenger travel; these benefits would also extend to
poorer sections of the community. According to recent surveys, about 40% of
bus passengers along the highway earn less than one-third of the national
average household income; much of their travel is work-related. Chile's labor
markets are well integrated, and, therefore, the gains from cheaper passenger
transport are likely to have a broad impact. For example, many poor urban
residents who work seasonally in agricultural areas would benefit directly from
lower bus tariffs.
1/   ODEPLAN and Universidad Catolica, "Mapa de Extrema Pobreza," 1974.
Although the study defined poverty according to criteria other than cash
Income, the authors stated that all those defined as poor have a house-
hold income of less than one-third of the national average.
2/   Working farm units of 12 physical hectares or less.



- 29 -
G.   Project Risks
5.11      The reconstruction program presents no special risks.  Particular
attention was given during project preparation to the major sources of imple-
mentation problems encountered in past highway construction projects. All
road sections have been engineered in detail and are ready for bidding. The
designs have been reviewed and amended as appropriate by specialized consultants
(para 4.04). Vialidad has a sufficient number of qualified senior engineers
to act as "Fiscal Inspectors" as well as local consultants to act as technical
advisors. The financial requirements of the program are assured through
budgetary allocations which, because of the upsurge of the country's economy,
should be readily available. In addition, the execution of the program has
the highest priority within the highway subsector and the full support of the
Government. The existing and forecast traffic along the road is high enough
to ensure a high economic return of the investment; the sensitivity tests
carried out on the risks of reduced traffic and increase in investment
(Table 5.3) show that the justification of the project would not be affected
by the variation of these factors.
5.12      Past attempts to improve maintenance have been only partially success-
ful. Equipment shortages, inadequate budgetary allocations and shortage of
well trained staff all contributed to the problem. Three new factors have now
been introduced, however, i.e., (i) transfer of responsibility for execution
of maintenance to the regions (under Vialidad's general direction); (ii) commit-
ment to greater use of contract maintenance; and (iii) the carrying out of a
comprehensive maintenance study-under terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
This study is now under review by the Government, and, during negotiations, it
was agreed that MOP would initiate a program, based on the study's recommen-
dations and agreed with the Bank, utilizing project funds for engaging tech-
nical assistance consultants to assist in the program execution. Although
there is still some risk if the recommended program is not fully taken up,
this is considered unlikely. The Government, during negotiations, made firm
commitments for the provision of necessary budgetary allocations for mainte-
nance, regional organizations are gradually responding to their assigned
responsibility, and, with the help of qualified consultants, it is believed
that the efficiency of the contract maintenance work would gradually improve
and take over an increasing proportion of the maintenance workload. The
agreed maintenance covenant and the periodic consultations between the
Government and the Bank on the implementation of the study's recommendations
would provide an adequate framework within which to address any problems which
may arise in the maintenance sector.
5.13      The enforcement of vehicle weight control has not been very effective,
but the Government is now well aware of the negative economic impact ensuing
from the lack of enforcement and is taking concrete steps to correct the situa-
tion. Vialidad commissioned a consultant study, recently completed, under
terms of reference agreed with the Bank, which provides the necessary framework
for the execution of a comprehensive weight control program. Under a new
decree No. 158 of January 29, 1980, specific standards have been set, and MOP
has been given the necessary authority for enforcement. During negotiations,
the Government agreed to go ahead with a specific weight control program and
to review with the Bank, from time to time, the steps being taken in this



- 30 -
regard. The chances of success in this difficult area are better than under
any previous loan and are sufficient to render the project oTbectives realistic
(para 2.08).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following:
(a) by June 30, 1982, or such later date as may be acceptable to the
Bank, the Government to cause MOP to carry out its program for
vehicle weight control in accordance with the standards set forth
in Decree No. 158 of January 29, 1980 and, from time to time, to
review with the Bank the steps being taken to carry out the program
(paras 2.08 and 5.13);
(b) the Government to: (i) provide to the Bank, by April 30, 1981,
for its review and comments, the consultants' study of highway
maintenance requirements together with the Government's proposed
program for carrying out the recommendations of the study; (ii) by
June 30, 1981, to start implementing the program and to assist in
such implementation by employing engineering consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
(including terms of reference) are satisfactory to the Bank; and
(iii) thereafter to consult with the Bank periodically on the
progress of the program development (paras 4.09 and 5.12);
(c) MOP to furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31, 1981,
in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
MOP's proposals for preinvestment studies, and such studies
to be initiated not later than June 30, 1981 with the assistance
of consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference and conditions of employment are acceptable to the
Bank (para 4.10);
(d) bidding and contracting procedures (para 4.17); and
(e) MOP to engage consultants to assist in the supervision work whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
(including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory to the Bank
(para 4.19).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following:
(a) that all national and regional roads would be maintained adequately
in accordance with appropriate engineering practices and that the
necessary yearly allocations would be available in accordance with
amounts to be agreed with the Bank (paras 2.27 and 5.12); and



- 31 -
(b) that the necessary resources would be allocated for completion of
the reconstruction works of the second tranche by June 30, 1983 and
the fourth tranche by December 31, 1985, as well as for the local
component of the project works (para 4.06).
6.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a basis for Bank lending
in the total amount of US$42.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Chile;
the term would be 15 years, including a three-year grace period.
November 4, 1980



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
National Cargo Movement by Mode of Transport
(Millions of Tons)
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1177    1978    1979
Railways 1/              13.31   13.52   13.96   14.08   12.39   12.48   12.87   11.08   10.71    9.81   10.30   13.36
Coastal Shipping 2/       4.63    4.78    4.63    4.56    4.79    5.29    6.23    4.90    5.05    5.01    4.74    6.71
Highways 3/              12.44   12.86   14.25   15.89   14.90   11.51   11.44    9.34   11.50   12.80   14.60   15.10
Air 4/                      .01     .02      .01      .01      .02      .01      .01      .01      .01      .01      .01      .01
Pipelines 5/              2.19    2.54    2.76    2.92    2.92    2.88    2.75    2.46    2.73    2.77    2.51    2.51
Total                    32.58   33.72   35.61   37.46   35.02   32.17   33.30   27.79   30.00   30.40   32.16   37.69
Sources:  1/ State Railways (Excluding the Antofagasta-Bolivia Line).
2/ National Statistics Institute.
3/ Estimated growth similar to the growth of truck transit.
4/ Civil Aeronautics Board - Ministry of Transport.
5/ National Pipeline Society.
February 1980
I-'



- 33 -                                   TABLE 1.2
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
National Passenger Movement by Mode of Transport
(Thousands of Passengers)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
Rail 1/   21.165  20.750  24.867  28.216  26.878  20.554  21.856  18.836  13.820  12.517
Buses 2/  17.410  21.460  19.937  16.160  14.989  14.132  27.801  33.363  54.879  60.582
Air 3/        430      541     563      510      331      318     307      382      405      402
Total      39.005  42.751  45.367  44.886  42.198  35.004  49.964  52.581  69.094  73.501
Sources:  1/ State Railways.
2/ Estimation based on inter-urban and rural traffic.
3/ Civil Aeronautics Board - Ministry of Transport
February 1980



- 34 -
TABLE 1.3
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Public Sector Investment Program
(US$ million)
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980        1981                 % of
Sector            (Actual)  (Actual)  (Actual)  (Estim.)  (Planned)  (Planned)   Total    Total
Productive Sectors
Subtotal             253.4    345.2       371.6     398.7      359.9       354.2    2,083.0   37.5%
Service Sectors
Subtotal             193.3    198.0       208.8      208.6     212.2       213.4    1,234.3   22.2%
Infrastructure
Transport             16.2      19.2       25.2       30.2      30.8        34.0       231.0    2.8%
Public Works "       120.0    127.0       140.0      161.0     193.0       231.0       972.0   17.5%
Miscellaneous        158.6    174.5       163.0      156.6     168.0       166.5       990.2   17.8%
Subtotal             294.8    320.7       328.2     347.8      391.8       431.5    2,114.8   38.1%
Other2/                     27.5     25.0       20.0       20.0       15.0        12.0       119.5    2.2%
TOTAL                 769.0    888.9       928.6      975.1      978.9    1,011.1    5,551.6  100%
1/ Includes irrigation, Metro, construction and maintenance
of highways, ports and airfields.
2/ Central Administracion excluding Defense
Source: ODEPLAN
June 1980



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Development of the Highway System
(In km)
1968        1969         1970        1971      1972     1973      1974      1975      1976       1977        1978
Concrete    3.082        3.120        3.284        3.400    3.412    3.403    3.444    3.614    3.611    3.696             3.790
Asphalt     3.960        4.290        4.450        4.963    5.118    5.217    5.417    5.415    5.398    5.554             5.834
Gravel     23.903       25.405       25.302       25.605   26.472   28.760   28.798   31.590   32.263   36.181           37.068
Earth      38.232 1/   37.909 1/   13.524         13.684   13.256   14.064   12.471   15.720   19.122   15.393           13.714
Sub-Total  69.177       70.724       46.560       47.652   48.258   51.444   50.130   56.339   60.394   60.824           60.406  >
Track       n.d.         n.d.        14.042       14.427   15.398   14.624   19.987   17.197   15.418   14.173           16.191
Total      69.177       70.724       60.602 2/   62.079   63.656   66.068   70.117   73.536   75.812   74.997 2/   76.597
1/ Includes track.
2/ Drop in total due to discontinuing including certain track in inventory.
Source: MOP
February 1980



- 36 -                               TABLE 2.2
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Highway Vehicle Fleet 1968-1978 and Truck Capacity
Automobiles &                         Service
Year       Station Wagons         Buses         Vehicles 1/        Trucks         Total
,968          130,228             12.614          57,211           54.504        254,557
tiEi          150,853             13,384          61,522           60,544        286,303
1970          176,076             15,956          72,933           69,653        334,618
1971          193,314             15,769          75,337           71,948        356,368
1972           216,031            15,773          79,567           75,989        387,360
1973           225,247            15,479          82,503           78,794        402,023
1974          235,335             15,682          85,348           81,510        417,875
1975           248,231            15,074          77,669           71, 849 2/   412,823
1976          264,118             15,413         105,480           81,234        467,245
1977           298,338            15,563         111,566           85,290        511,757
1978          340,050             17,135         1115,696          92,557        569,582
Annual Average Growth Rate
1968 - 1977 -- 8.2%
1971 - 1977 -- 6.3%
1/ Includes vans, four-wheel drive vehicles, ambulances, pick-ups, garbage and
water trucks.
2/ Decline may be due to trucks out of service.
Source: National Statistics Institute
October 1980



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Annual Average Daily Traffic by Toll Station
Toll Station           1968      1969      1970     1971      1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977      1978      1979
Lagunillas               802       907    1,012    1,176    1,045         911       790       608      594       486       -         -
Chacabuco                665       642       619       730      960    1,121    1,128         994    1,132    1,229    1,328    1,381
Lampa                  2,964    2,929    3,184    3,504    3,357    2,949    2,719    2,221    2,135    2,302    2,577    2,616
Zapata                 3,110    3,256    4,051    5,589    5,461    5,293    4,683    3,538    3,546    4,014    4,740    4,679
Pomaire                3,919    3,687    3,945    4,419    4,384    4,169    3,695    3,131    3,169    3,554    4,108    4,189
Angostura              4,788    5,260    5,741    6,549    6,471    6,302    5,755    4,696    4,670    5,274    5,987    6,429
Perquilauquen          1,600    1,750    1.901    2.123    2,098    1,936    1.717    1,534    1.458    1,668    1,859    1,964
Total                 17,848   18,431   20,453   24,090   23,776   22,681   20,757   16,722   16,704   18,527   20,599   21,258
Annual % Change           -      +3.2%   +10.9%   +17.9%    -1.3%    -4.6%    -8.5%   -19.4%    0.0%    +10.9%   +14.2%1/ +3.2% W
Composition of
Vehicles               %         %         %         %        %         %         %         %         %        %         %         %
Passenger Cars          n.d       n.d       60        63       65        66        63        n.d       59        60       63        62
Buses                   n.d       n.d       10         9        8         6         8        n.d       11       11        10        12
Two-Axle Trucks         n.d       n.d       25        23       22        22        22        n.d       19       19        16        14
Three-Axle Trucks       n.d       n.d        2         2        2         2         3        n.d        4         4        4         4
Four + Axle Trucks      n.d       n.d        3         3         3        3         3        n.d        6         6         7        8
1/ The Lagunillas toll station was eliminated in 1978 - the growth for 1977 was estimated in relation to the other toll
stations in operation
Source: MOP Toll Office
February 1980



TABLE 2.4
- 38 -
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Fuel Consumption
(Millions of US Gallons)
Year          Gasoline            Diesel            Total            Growth
1969            404.33            218.36            622.69
1970            437.64            229.70            667.34           + 7.17
1971            485.91            242.53            728.44           + 9.16
1972            480.14            242.25            722.39           - 0.83
1973            431.33            259.08            690.41           - 4.4
1974            392.09            271.63            663.72           - 3.9
1975            318.42            257.17            575.59           -13.3
1976            313.41            268.02            581.43           + 1.01
1977            335.15            270.23            605.38           + 4.1
1978            363.26            320.05            683.31           +12.9
1979            372.96            332.26            705.22           + 3.2
Annual rate growth (of the total) 1969-1979 + 1.2%
Source: Ministry of Economy - Fuel Department
February 1980



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Sources and Uses of Highway Funds 1970 - 1980
(1976 US$ millions)
Actual
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974    1975   1976   1977    1978           1979   1980 1
Sources of Funds
Central Budget Funds                   68.3   66.9   52.5   51.3   165.4   37.7   36.2   40.3    48.6           58.1   48.0
Regional Budget Allocations                                            --    16.9   13.0   10.2    11.7         12.6   15.3
User Charges (tolls only)               4.0    4.0    2.8    1.5       4.8   11.2   11.5   18.3    12.9         23.5   21.0
Foreign Borrowings                      8.5    5.0    8.6    5.7       2.7    3.0    2.6    3.1        3.1       3.2    6.6
Total Funds                      80.8   75.9   63.9   58.5   172.9   68.8   63.3   71.9    76.3            97.4   90.9
Expendi tures
Investment in Roads                    50.2   36.3   12.3    7.8   122.4   39.1   35.9   33.1    36.0           57.8   44.0
Maintenance                            19.2   28.8   32.2   32.4    36.8   21.3   19.9   29.0    31.0           31.9   34.4
Debt Service                            2.0    2.5    3.5    4.0       5.2    5.2    5.6    5.3         3.9      4.3    3.7
Other (Studies, Equipment, etc.)        9.4    8.3   15.9   14.3       8.5    3.2    1.9    4.5         5.4      3.4    8.8
Total Expenditures               80.8   75.9   63.9   58.5   172.9   68.8   63.3   71.9    76.3            97.4   90.9
Note:  Maintenance figures exclude allowances for depreciation of equipment.
1/ Estimated
Source: Ministry of Public Works, Annual Budgets
October 1980



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Road User Charges 1970-1979 (1976 US$ Million)
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974       1975      1976      1977       1978      1979
Vehicle Registration Fees 1/        7.3      9.4    11.5      9.5     7.3       8.6       7.2     18.4       16.9      13.8
Tolls 2/                            4.0      4.0     2.8      1.5     4.8      11.2      11.5     18.3       12.9      23.5
Import Duties 3/                    4.6     4.0    11.8    19.7    29.9        47.0     13.6    108.6        75.5      78.4
Fuel Taxes 4/                      38.5    38.7    39.8    50.6   156.0    205.6    233.3    273.4          236.2    110.0
Total                              54.4    56.1    65.9    81.3   198.0    272.4    265.6    418.7          341.5    225.7
Sources:
1/ Directorate of Planning MOP
2/ Toll Office - MOP.
3/ Customs Office
4/ Directorate of Planning MOP
October 1980
I.
oN



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Details of Maintenance Allocations Required During the Project Period (1980 - 1984)
(US$ millions, 1980 1/)
Years                                                                                    Maintenance by Contract  Total
Sub-
Materials        Equipment Operation 2/            Salaries    Misc.   Total
Minor       Major
Lubricants    Repairs      Repairs
in MOP's   in Private
Workshops   Workshops
1980         2.97      15.15         4.15        1.32         14.32      3.05   40.96        3.17         40.90      55.03
1981         3.38      17.14         5.21        1.45         14.33      3.40   44.32        3.17         11.73      59.22
1982         3.82      19.15         5.81        1.71         14.32      3.75   47.96        3.32.        12.43      63.71
1983        ,4.38      21.72         6.3         1.97         14.33      4.35   52.56        3.31.        12.97      68.84
1984         4.8       23.6         26.1         2.1          15.6       4.7    57.1         3.6          14.1       74.8
Totals      19.4       96.8                      8.6          72.9      19.3   242.9        16.6          62.1      321.8
1,  The average rate of exchange for 1980 as estimated by MOP is US$1.00 = Ps 41.50
2/  Does not include depreciation
Source: MOP and Mission estimates
January 1980



- 42 -                               TABLE 4.1
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Design Standards for the Longitudinal Highway
Items                                                 Unit
Design Speed                                          k,p.h.        80
Minimum Radius of Curvature                             m           300
Platform Width                                          m           12.00 to 13.00
Pavement Width                                          m             7.00
Shoulders:  Fills                                       m            2.50 to 3.00
Cuts                                       m             2.50 to 3.00
Ditch Width                                             m             1.20
Maximum Grade                                           %             5
Exceptional Grade                                       %             7
Axle Load Design for Pavements 1/                      ton           12
Axle Load Design for Bridges (AASHO)                               HS-20-44
1/ The axle load used for the design of the pavement rehabilitation works is
12 tons; a Decree issued in June 1975 increased the axle load from 8 to 12
tons.
Source: Consultants (Rutllant and Associates)
October 1980



- 43 -                              TABLE 4*2
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Details of Subsections to be Reconstructed under the Project
Estimated           Estimated Cost
Subsection  Length   Present Type    Construction    (At January 1980 Prices)          Bidding
No.     No. 1/      km     of Surface 2/        Period             US$ Millions           Package No.
I      N8         27.2       B          late 1981-mid 1983             6.66                   2
2      N3         21.5       B/PCC      late 1982-mid 1984             5.70                   3
3      N2         26.2       B/PCC    early 1981-mid 1982              8.00                   1
4      C6         31.3       B/PCC      late 1982-mid 1984             8.16                   3
5      C7         27.1       B/PCC    early 1981-mid 1982              6.54                   1
6      C1o        23.2       PCC        late 1981-mid 1983             5.89                   2
7    S1/S2        42.8       PCC        late 1981-mid 1983            10.88                   2
8    S4/S5        52.4       PCC       early 1981-late 1982           13.18                   1
Total      251.7                                                65.01
1/ "N" signifies a subsection of the longitudinal highway north of km 0. "C" and "S"
signify subsections of such highway south of km 0.
2/ B = bituminous; PCC = Portland cement concrete.
3/ Excluding contingencies.
Source: MOP/Consultants
October 1980



- 44 -                               TABLE 4.3
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicles, Laboratory and Office Equipment to be Purchased
Vehicles                                            US$
Carry-allls                   2                32,000
Small laboratory vans         6                50,000
Pick-ups                      2                33,000
Sub-total      115,000
Laboratory Equipment (Asphalt)
Marshall tester, extractors,
sieves, balances, oven, etc.                   25,000
Office Equipment
Calculators and typewriters                    10,000
Sub-total       35,000
Total      US$ 150,000
Prices shown include delivery in Chile, with taxes and duties.
Source: MOP
April 1980



- 45 -                             TABLE 4.4
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Disbursed
in                   Cumulative
Quartpr               Disbursement           %
1981
March 1981                      0.2                       0.2               .5
June 1981                       1.8                       2.0              4.7
1982
September 1981                  2.0                       4.0              9.5
December 1981                   2.5                       6.5             15.5
March 1982                      3.0                       9.5             22.6
June 1982                       3.5                      13.0             30.9
1983
September 1982                  4.0                      17.0             40.5
December 1982                   4.5                      21.5             51.2
March 1983                      4.5                      26.0             61.9
June 1983                       4.0                      30.0             71.4
1984
September 1983                  3.5                     33.5              79.8
December 1983                   3.0                      36.5             86.9
March 1984                      2.5                      39.0             92.8
June 1984                       1.5                     40.5              96.4
1985
September 1984                  1.0                     41.5              98.8
December 1984                   0.5                     42.0             100.0
Assumptions:  Loan Signature:           December 1980
Invitations to bid:      October 1980-81-82 1/
Award of Contracts:      February 1981-82-83 1/
Commencement of Works:  March 1981-82-83 1/
Completion of Works:    June 1984
1/ Three bidding packages
Source: Government and Mission Estimates
October 1980



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Tentative Implementation Schedule
1980                                1981                                1982                                 1983                                1984
J  F       E M  A           S0Nf i         3F M  AIMJ    i        f       E A      | M N  D     J F| A M |   S 0f N E DE J F| A M          S |    N  J  F M  A ME  JE   J i A     
Project Components                                    Responsible 
1. Reconstruction Loan of about 253 km                  Agency
of the Longitudinal Highway
1.0 Prequalification                            Government
1.1 Invitation to Bid, Analysis of
Bids, Award of Contracts                   Govt/Consultants            f
1.2 Reconstruction Works                        Contractors                                                         =       -         -        -                 -                          -
1.3 Supervision                                 Consultants
1.4 Coordination of Supervision                 Consultants                                                                  _                          -                          -                  -        -        -        -                 -
2. Maintenance Program                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1S
2.0 Study                                       Govt/Consultants
2.1  Review of Study Recommendations            Government
2.2 Tech. Assistance for Implementation         G-ot/Consultants
3 Pre-Investment Studies
2.0 Selectivn of Study Areas and
Drafting of Terms of Reference             Govt/Consultants
2.1 Studieo                                     G-ot/Consulants
4. Vehicle Weight Control"/                                                   f
f 1) Study                                     Consultants
(IH  Implementation                             Govt/Consultants                                                                               -
S. Purchase of Vehicles and Office                 Government
and Laboratory Equipment                                                                      i        -        r                                                                                                             |
Estimated Annual Expenditures for Components Financed by the Loan                                                       US$ 14433                                                                US31.8         _          -          USS122
1/ Not Bank Financed
2/ Loans and Government Funds, including allowances for Physical
and Price Conting-nci-s                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       i
Source: Government and Missivn Estimates
October 1980
World Bank -21614



- 47 -
TABLE 5.1
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(Pesos per Kilometer)
Vehicle Type                  Light Vehicles  Truck w/2Axles  Truck with more           Buses
than 2 Axles
Pavement Condition            Goodl' Poor'/  Good-'/  Poor2/  Good"/  Poor!/  Good-/  Poor2/
Flat Terrain
Fuel                        2.79    4.22    3.77    4.69    6.03    8.32    7.82   12.08
Lubricants                  0.36    0.53    0.60    0.91    0.71    1.06    0.56    0.84
Tires                       0.34    0.99    0.76    2.29    2.35    7.00    1.16    3.41
Maint. and Rep.             1.02    1.52    1.40    2.09    2.51    3.77    2.37    3.55
Depreciation                1.03    1.09    1.48    1.60    2.66    3.14    2.50    2.64
Fixed Costs                 0.82    0.86    6.29    6.82    9.72   11.49    8.98    9.48
Total                       6.36    9.21   14.30   18.40   23.98   34.78   23.39   32.01
(US$/1000 km)               163      237     367      472      615      892      600     821
Rolling Terrain
Fuel                        3.04    4.04    6.14    7.27   14.13   17.51   14.45   17.63
Lubricants                  0.36    0.53    0.60    0.91    0.71    1.06    0.56    0.84
Tires                       0.17    0.46    0.76    2.29    2.33    6.98    1.08    3.25
Maint. and Rep.             1.02    1.52    1.40    2.09    2.51    3.77    2.37    3.55
Depreciation                1.53    1.22    1.81    1.98    3.53    4.14    3.17    3.40
Fixed Costs                 0.91    0.97    7.72    8.45   12.90   15.12   11.38   12.19
Total                       6.65    8.74   18.43   22.99   36.11   48.58   33.01   40.86
(US$/1000 km)               171      225     473      590      926      1246    847      1048
Mountainous Terrain
Fuel                        3.09    3.61    9.69   11.07   18.58   20.67   20.90   23.13
Lubricants                  0.36    0.53    0.60    0.91    0.71    1.06    0.56    0.84
Tires                       0.11    0.54    0.76    2.29    2.33    6.98    1.08    3.25
Maint. and Rep.             1.02    1.52    1.40    2.09    2.51    3.77    2.37    3.55
Depreciation                1.27    1.36    1.91    2.11    3.68    4.35    3.35    3.58
Fixed Costs                 1.01    1.08    8.14    8.97   13.45   15.89   12.02   12.85
Total                       6.86    8.64   22.50   27.44   41.27   52.73   40.28   47.20
(US$/1000 km)               176      222     577      704      1058    1352    1033    1210
1/  Serviceability Index (P) = 4.5
2/  Serviceability Index (P) = 0
SOURCE:  Consultants (Rutllant and Associates)
February 1980



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Traffic Data Set: Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) 1980 and
Estimated Annual Average Growth Rates by Road Section
Road                                                                                    Estimated
Section                 Light        Trucks with       Trucks - More                  Annual Average
Number      AADT       Vehicles       Two Axles       than Two Axles       Buses       Growth Rate
N-2         3,618       1,862           885                  522            349            6.6
N-3         1,607          764          425                  234            184            6.6
N-8         1,414         719           339                  208            148            6.6
C-6         3,756       2,123           698                  614            321            7.0
C-7         3,553       2,039           594                  617            303            7.0                  1
C-10        2,107        984            432                  484            207            7.0                  X
S-1         2,185       1,191           420                  405            169            6.2
S-2         2,000       1,144           384                  325            147            6.2
S-4         1,473         895           283                  194            101            6.2
S-5         2,280       1,604           357                  202            117            6.2
Source: Consultants (Rutllant and Associates)
October 1980



CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Results of Economic Evaluation
Economic Evaluation Based3/
on Best Estimate (ER - %)            Sensitivity Analysis
Financial!/       Economic12    Commercial              With Main-      Low      High    Increase in
Road    Length       Cost             Cost          Vehicles      All      tenance      Traffic  Traffic   Investment
Section   (km)   (US$ million)    (US$ million)         Only     Traffic   Savings        Growth   Growth       of 25%
N-2     26.2         8.96              7.62           35          46       49             45        53         40
N-3     21.5         6.40             5.44            21          27       33             30        36        27
N-5     16.1         4.54              3.86           19          25       28             26        31        23
N-8     27.2         7.47              6.35           20          26        32            28        35         26
C-6     31.3         9.14              7.77           39          57       61            56        66         50
C-7     27.1         7.33             6.23            41          59       63             58       68         52
C-l0    23.2         6.58             5.59            30          39       43             39       46         35
S-1     22.2         6.40             5.44            26          36       39             37       42         32
S-2     12.9         3.47             2.95            24          34       38             35       40         31
S-4     19.6         5.51             4.68            16          23       26            25        28         22
S-5     26.1         7.02             5.97            18          32       36             33        38        29
Total    253.4        72.82             61.90           28          38       41             38        44         34
1/  Based on February 1980 cost estimates, including 8% project supervision and 10% physical contingencies on
civil works.
2/ Financial cost net of taxes.
3/ ER = Economic Return.
SOURCE: Consultants Rutllant and Associates and Mission estimates.
February 1980



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
CHILE
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   General Reports and Studies on the Sector and Subsector
1.   Analisis de la Infrastructura del Pais - Camara Chilena
de la Construccion                                                  1968
2.   State Railways - Railway Organization and Operation -
Final Report - SOFRERAIL                                            1970
3.   Transport Development in Chile - Major Problems and
Basic Choices - Vignoles and Wickham                                1970
4.   Aviacion Comercial - Ministerio de Transportes                      1976
5.   Empresa Portuaria de Chile - Boletin Estadistico                    1976
6.   Reforma Administrativa y el Progreso de Regionalizacion             1976
7.   Biografia Sobre Transportes - CEPAL                                 1977
8.   Transporte Terrestre Internacional - CEPAL                          1977
9.   Ministerio de Obras Publicas - Plan                                 1977
10.   Presidencia de la Republica - Programas Ministeriales               1978
B.   General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Reglamento Para Contratos de Obras Publicas                         1966
2.   Estatuto de la Inversion Extranjera                                 1974
3.   Manual de la Empresa Consultora                                     1975
4.   Memoria del Ministerio de Obras Publicas                            1976
5.   Programa de Repavimentacion del Camino Longitudinal -
LEN y Asociados - 4 Volumes                                         1977
6.   Programa de Repavimentacion del Camino Longitudinal -
Informe Preliminar - Rutllant y Asociados - 3 Volumes               1977



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
7.   Programa de Repavimentacion del Camino Longitudinal -
Antecedentes Generales - Rutllant y Asociados                       1977
8.   Plan Masivo de Reposicion de Puentes - MOP                           1977
9.   Proyecto de Reorganizacion del Departamento de
Conservacion - MOP                                                  1977
10.   Actividades Principales de la Direccion de Vialidad
Tendientes a la Conservacion, Expansion y Proyeccion de
la Red Vial Chilena                                                 1977
11.   Album de Normas Diversas - MOP                                      1977
12.   Typical Cross Sections for Project Works                            1977
13.   Proyecto de Rehabilitacion del Camino Longitudinal del
Norte - Evaluacion Economica de los Proyectos -
J. Torrejon                                                         1977
14.   Programa de Repavimentacion - Camino Longitudinal -
Evaluacion Economica - Salida de Computacion - Analisis
de Sensibilidad - Rutllant y Asociados - 2 Volumes                  1977
15.   Informe Final del Prestamo 558 - Consultant LEN y
Asociados                                                           1977
16.   Decree No. 180 Reorganizing the Register of Contractors             1978
17.   Gastos y Inversiones en Conservacion de Caminos -
Martinez y Cuevas                                                   1978
18.   Programa de Repavimentacion del Camino Longitudinal
Informe - Costos Actualizados y Programa de Inversion,
etc.  Tudor Engineering Company                                     1980
19.   Evaluacion Economica de los Proyectos de Repavimentacion
R&Q Ingenieria Ltda                                                 1980
20.   Determinacion de los Pesos Admisibles por Eje
(advance partial copy) - Martinez y Cuevas                          1980
21.   Plan de Conservacion de Caminos (advance copy)
Martinez y Cuevas                                                   1980
C.   Selected Working Papers Prepared by Bank Staff or Consultants
1.   Draft Transport Sector Memo                                         1978
2.   Draft Proposal for Carrying Out a Study for the Control
of Weight and Dimensions of Vehicles, Including
Implementation - Rutllant y Asociados                               1978
April 1980






r       r
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
MINISTER OF PUBLIC
WORKS
CORRESPONDANT                                         L                             MINISTER'S                           REGION I
FOR THE SOUTH CONE  - - - - - - - - -                  L- - - - - - - - --            CABINET
MINISTERS' MEETING                                                                                                   _    REGINE1
UNDER SECRETARY FOR
PUBLICWORKS                                                                  REGION III
-|REGION IVl
D         I R E C T   R A T EREGION V 
I               I              1                                                                                             --SANTIAGO REG]
ACCOUNTING          ._|  NATIONAL                                                                REGIONAL
FPLANNING         AND             LEGAL                                            HYDRAULICS                  MINISTERIAL            REGION VI
FINANCING                                                          INSTITUTE                 SECRETARIATES
REGION VII 
WATER SUPPLY
FORREINVI
SANTIAGO
_  _                                     -               -|  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION IX|
-| REGION X|
GENERAL DIRECTORATE                                GENERAL DIRECTORATE                                 GENERAL DIRECTORATE
FOR         l                                      FOR                                                 FOR              -|  REGION XI
PUB LIC WORKS    lTHE METRO                                                                          WATER RESOURCES
,                                                                               q  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION XII 
DEPARTMENTS                                        DEPARTMENTS                                         DEPARTMENTS
~~~~~~~~~~~~F                                I I                  I              I k<
SECRETARIAT]LSCE                                     PLANNING           BUDGETING                      SECRETARIAT
ANDGENERAL            FLO              ER-AND                             AND             LEGAL            AND              STATITC
ADMINISTR.PROTECTIO             TARIAT         FINANCING         ACCOUNTING                       AMNSR
DIRECTORATES                                       D IRECTORATES                                       D IR ECTORATES
Z~0    0    >-                                                  <0                                                        I -
1                         CC                                                                                -          04  -
W               ir   o                                   le                                            oW <kS
_    _         ~~ ~~0 Er    ir- ,                                 i                                         Er         c
_   Ow                             _                                         0~~~~~~~~  -
March 1978                                                                                                                                  World Bank - 18756






CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS (VIALIDAD)
DIRECTOR
OF
HIGHWAYS
ADMOINISTRA-                         COORDINATION
TION
DEPUTY             DEPUTY
DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR
FOR RURAL          FOR URBAN
HIGHWAYS           HIGHWAYS
DEPARTMENTS
EQUIPMENT           BRIDGES          MAINTENANCE         CONSTRUCTION           STUDIES
World Bank - 18757






To limo               Tcuo jtO      5 D               0                              600                               60
PE    E R                 ::               ti 0i; tS                         \   
L-A PAZ
s1o   t                                --A
AID0
-I                                      r
45=   -h    't1i   . t  t. !19%.,  *;w62s |: :'~:_ ;@V
:ipigo      5                                  1
La S.-
DD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o op
(-03
0                  Puhoo
Olorob      4011500   '   i 15s
) _                 ,    ,,,,>Ali ....   .  :AN
PROJECT AREA
(SEE bIRD 93528)
U.W                   
U-~~~~~.
490~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
t~ ~    ~     ~~~ L                                                                     d. exlimsS  ;   ;       
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
MAIN TRANSPORT SYSTEM AND
INTERNATIONAL CONNECTIONS
. iso;inos:    ,    G311,90$    PRIMARY ROADS
AN."I                                                SECONOIARY  ROADS
, t 7    a--- UNPAVED  ROADS
_-    Ii-I-H--,I+i RAILWAYS (Mal. Lio,w COnly)  4
'-)    -. -  _INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
0      100    200      50      00      -0                          
MILES        -                        0     '                                                                  g
KILOMETERS   ~~~~~~~~~90                             o~60                              50P       0






/                    V                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHILE
AmgRri--                                                                                             HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION  PROJECT
-    -  -  ~~~~~~~~~.00k~~~~                        -*Mi  Highway Network within the Project Area
Y                   -T                                                  j.
QtETiA           k                                                           PO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IST HIGHWAY PROJECT ICred, 4CH (Lo.. 2137-CZH
C005TRTiTt01, BE TE-MET AND A.-ESTOACE PROJECT
(5           ~~~SECOND HIGH5WAY PROJECT (Loon 588-CH-i
NArEkNC-n PTOFC7
EHIRD H GHWAY PROJECT (Loon 688-CH)I
'ONTSRLLT ON AND nncONsTRCT ON OROJECT
Si iLv-    HIHWAY RECONSTRUTION PROJECT
/    roooodo  -           ononOsno SAntA? nEHABI~~~~~~~~1-IrAn ON S, O So.,o oo 
00 00  lo too  I,     %7~~~~~n  -            EXISTINGO ROADS
M  2M                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PoocS Rood
SC  TO  200                                              1                       OnoocI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. Rood
00/  -              ~~~~~Ennih Rood
RAIL ROAD-S
Mooo no     - -                P>t                   ~~~~~~~~~REGIONAL ROUNDARIES
)INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
no                                                               R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANTIAGO  3'
noonoon                                     -~~~~~~~~~~J
(0)
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EN-
7?                     *ono
AonCoo3 00           OOoo 
"Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~Jo-ooo    Io
Po-oo       0ooo
300                                                                                                                              >00  do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1T-
j~~~~~~~~~ooo,O,0$
~~~: ~     ~         ~          0     00
/    IN
P ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~       dlS
noAL"t
-  10000,  V~~~~~(O
AL&/
5-__NB       too    - VEONt CNN 000100001505
so-                                                                                                         0000100 MEd IS OB WOIRRO~~~~p__
0       4                                   000'$ SOC



