Document of                      FL   COPy
The World Bank                         FI  Cury
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2901-CH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
November 17, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be osed by recipients only In the performance of
their oclalch duties. Its entents may not otherwise be disclosed without World nk authorilzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate was being adjusted in line with the difference
between internal and international inflation until June 30, 1979, when
the rate was fixed at US$1 - Ch$39.
Currency Unit                Chilean Peso (Ch$)
Calendar 1979      October 31, 1980
average
US$1            Ch$37.25             Ch$3900
Ch$1            US$0.0268            US$0.0256
Ch$1,000        US$26.85             US$25.64
ABBREVIATIONS
EMPORCHI   -   Empresa Portuaria de Chile
(Chilean Port Authority)
ENAP       -   Empresa Nacional de Petroleo
(National Oil Company)
FCE        -   Ferrocarriles del Estado
(State Railways)
IDB        -   Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(Interamerican Development Bank)
ODEPLAN    -   Oficina de Planificacion Nacional
(National Planning Office)
MOP        -  Ministerio de Obras Publicas
(Ministry of Public Works)
MTT        -  Ministerio de Transportes y Telecomunicaciones
(Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications)
USAID      -   U.S. Agency for International Development
Vialidad   -   Direccion Nacional de Vialidad
(Directorate of Highways in the Public Works Ministry)



- i -                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Republic of Chile
Amount:             US$42.0 million
Terms:              Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:        The project's main objective is to reconstruct about
250 km of badly deteriorated sections of Chile's
Longitudinal Highway. This road, the backbone of the
country's road network, is of critical importance to the
national economy. The project also includes studies to
strengthen road maintenance and prepare priority projects
in the transport sector. The project faces no special
risks.
Estimated Costs:                                         Local  Foreign  Total
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Civil works (reconstruction)          35.8    29.2    65.0
Reconstruction supervision             2.2     2.3      4.5
Maintenance study                      0.3     0.4      0.7
Preinvestment studies                  0.3     0.5      0.8
Vehicles and office equipment           .0     0.2      0.2
Base Cost                        38.6    32.6    71.2
Contingencies:  Physical          2.5     2.0     4.5
Price            8.6      7.4    16.0
Total Project Costs              49.7    42.0    91.7
Financing Plan:     Bank                                      -    42.0    42.0
Government                            49.7       -    49.7
Total                            49.7    42.0    91.7
This documenl has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their officil dutie. Its contenu may not otherwise be discihed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursements:        Bank FY:i           1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
----------(US$ Millions)------------
Annual               2.0    11.0    17.0    10.5        1.5
Cumulative          2.0    13.0    30.0    40.5    42.0
Rate of Return:       41 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 2145b-CH dated November 4, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of US$42.0 million to help
finance a highway reconstruction project. The loan would have a term
of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic report (2390-CH) entitled "Chile:  An Economy in
Transition" was issued on June 21, 1979. The following paragraphs are based
on the conclusions contained in this report and on the preliminary conclusions
of an economic mission which visited Chile from mid-July through early August
1980 to review the economic situation and prospects. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Evolution of the Economy
3.        In the four decades following the Great Depression, successive
Governments sought to reduce Chile's vulnerability to world market fluctuations,
accelerate economic development and achieve a more equitable distribution of
income. Following a policy of import-substitution, Governments increasingly
intervened in the determination of prices, erected high protective barriers
against foreign competition, offered special tax and other incentives to
investment and entered directly into production and distribution activities
while intervening in the allocation of credit and foreign exchange. Unfor-
tunately the results were not consistent with expectations. The economy often
experienced periods of slow growth, rapid inflation and balance of payments
problems. Chile's foreign debt burden grew, its agricultural and industrial
sectors became inefficient and its dependence on copper continued.
4.        Despite the overall trend described above, periodic efforts were
made to reform the tax system, dampen inflation, simplify public administration
and otherwise improve the allocation of resources. However, when the present
Government took power in September 1973, inflation was the highest in the
hemisphere, real wages were one-half to one-third below 1969 levels, and net
international reserves were negative by US$230 million. Chile's foreign debt
payments were in arrears, aggregate production had been declining since 1971,
the overall deficit of the Central Government alone exceeded 20 percent of GDP,
the money supply was out of control, the financial system in shambles, and the
exchange rate grossly overvalued.
1/   This section is an updated version of the section on the economy in
the President's Report for the Second Agricultural Credit Project (No.
P-2870-CH), dated August 19, 1980.



- 2 -
5.        Since then the Chilean economy has undergone a major transformation.
The Central Government's budget deficit has been eliminated. Virtually all
prices, including interest rates, have been progressively freed; most tax and
subsidy distortions to relative prices have been removed; tariff and non-
tariff import barriers have been virtually eliminated; and the exchange rate was
massively devalued in 1973 and thereafter was periodically adjusted until June
1979. Exchange controls were largely eliminated and foreign investment encouraged.
In addition, major reforms have been introduced in the tax structure, public
sector budgetary process and banking legislation; and most of the enterprises
taken over by the previous government have been returned to the private sector.
Many of these structural reforms were consistent with advice long offered Chile
by the Bank and other international institutions.
6.        The transformation, which amounts to a total restructuring of the
economy, was complicated by difficult short-term conditions. In 1975 real
copper earnings fell 50 percent as world prices dropped to their lowest
real level in two decades. The resource loss to the economy of the copper
price drop was equivalent to about 10 percent of the 1974 GDP. Additional
resources, equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP, were withdrawn from the economy
in the form of net capital outflows and interest payments to foreign lenders.
Because of the severe foreign exchange crisis and continuing high levels of
inflation, the Government introduced a drastic austerity program in April 1975
and the Chilean economy experienced its worst depression since the 1930s.
Real GDP in 1975 fell more than 11 percent and open unemployment reached
20 percent of the labor force of Greater Santiago.  The depression bottomed
out during the first quarter of 1976 and Chile, with its first current account
surplus in twenty years, was able not only to repay its creditors but also to
increase reserves substantially. By 1977, GDP in real terms had returned to
1971-72 levels.
7.        In many respects the economy has responded well to the reforms.  Real
economic growth in 1976-1979 was double the 1940-1970 average. The annual rate
of inflation was brought down from 400 percent in 1973 to 30-40 percent in
recent years. The balance of payments position of Chile has improved markedly.
The value of agricultural and manufactured exports grew more than sevenfold
between 1973 and 1978. By mid-1980, net international reserves were over US$2
billion, representing four months of projected imports. By 1978 real wages
and salaries had recovered to their 1970 levels and then rose rapidly as worker
productivity increased. This economic turnaround was accomplished notwithstand-
ing relatively low real copper prices until mid-1979 and a heavy debt service
burden. Despite this progress, the unemployment rate has remained high and
investment only recently responded to the increase in economic activity.
8.        The 1975/76 economic depression probably exacted, as such downturns
usually do, a higher cost from the lower income classes. The available data
do not permit a simple measure of how much income distribution became more
skewed during the depression or how much it has changed in the subsequent
period of rapid economic growth. It is also difficult to measure income
trends in real terms when there is a combination of high inflation (with
a wide degree of dispersion among price trends for different goods and



services) and, perhaps more important, a tremendous shift in relative prices.
Nevertheless, partial indicators can give a picture of the probable trends
in income distribution. There is evidence that wealth in the uppermost
stratum may have become more concentrated, especially since 1973. Certain
cartels had access to Eurocurrency credit when domestic credit was scarce and
expensive. These groups benefitted from the significant difference between
foreign and domestic interest rates and were among the few able to finance the
purchase of public enterprises being sold by the Government as well as bankrupt
private companies. Furthermore, the income share of the unskilled, blue
collar workers probably declined since unskilled workers compose the bulk of
the unemployed. On the other hand, some social indicators, such as the infant
mortality rate, have improved consistently throughout the 1970s. This reflects
in part the effects of Government efforts which have cushioned somewhat the
depression's impact on the poorest. Noteworthy in this respect are the child
nutrition programs and the Government's minimum employment scheme, which
provides subsistence income in exchange for minimum work. Government efforts
since 1977 to increase social expenditures and target such expenditures more
toward the lowest 20 percent income group, plus the rapid growth experienced
since 1976, are consistent with an acceleration of a long-term historical
trend toward improving the lot of the poor.
Population. Unemployment and Social Programs
9.        Chile's population has been growing at about 1.7 percent a year
since 1970, a rate which is considerably below the average for Latin America
and for countries with comparable per capita incomes. The working age popula-
tion has been growing at a faster rate, about 2.3 percent a year. Over
80 percent of the population lives in urban areas; one third lives in the
capital city, Santiago.
10.       In recent years the average annual unemployment rate for Greater
Santiago has remained between 12 and 14 percent since dropping from 20 percent
during the 1975/76 depression. In June 1980, in spite of rapid job generation
the unemployment rate stood at 11.7 percent. The continued high unemployment
rate reflects a combination of factors, including the growth of the potential
workforce, the return of labor force participation rates to more traditional
levels and frictional unemployment caused by rapid structural changes. The
Government has responded to increased unemployment with a series of measures:
the emergency employment program mentioned above, which employed 7 percent of
the work force during the depths of the depression and represented about 5 per-
cent of government expenditures; a program of wage subsidies; reform of unemploy-
ment insurance; and an expanded manpower and training program. Members of
Chile's economic team believe that continued high levels of economic growth
and reduction in the high social security contributions by employers will bring
the unemployment rate down to historical levels (about 6 percent) within a few
more years. The reduced social security contributions since 1974 have been off-
set by increased transfers from the budget, allowing social security benefits
to remain unchanged.
11.       The Government has also undertaken significant changes in Chile's
public social programs. The present Administration views its role as that of
assuring equal opportunity through access to education and health services.
Its strategy is to expand employment and real wages through policies designed
to promote accelerated economic growth. Some past income distribution policies



-4-
and programs in Chile such as price controls, public housing, cheap credit,
direct subsidies, tax exemptions and broadly-based social expenditure programs
not only had perverse growth effects, but were often of equal or, in some cases,
greater benefit to the urban middle class as they were to the truly poor. The
current Government has tried to make its social programs more cost effective
by carefully channelling its efforts towards the extreme poor.
12.       Some of the Government's approaches have been innovative.  The new
treatment and rehabilitation centers for severely undernourished children and
the preschool nursery program for the poor are examples of promising new
approaches in nutrition which are gaining worldwide recognition. Fortified
and protein enriched milk distribution to infants, preschool children and
pregnant and nursing mothers has increased from 21,500 tons in 1973 to 28,700
tons in 1979 and reached about 80 percent of children under 5. Nursery
schools integrating nutrition, medical care, and education for the most dis-
advantaged preschool children, begun in 1973, grew to over 400 schools by
end-1979 and served over 47,000 children. Partly as a result of these programs,
the infant mortality rate has fallen from 82 deaths per 1,000 live births in
1970 :o 55 in 1978 and has continued to drop in recent years.
13.       Attaining the Government's social goals has been made more difficult
by the 1975/76 austerity program and the Government's determination to reduce
the overall size of the public sector. Since 1977 the percent of total Central
Government expenditures devoted to social programs has equalled or exceeded
the high levels recorded during the early 1970s. However, in real terms
these expenditures had not reached the heights of 1972 in 1979. While the
Government's efforts in the social sectors are encouraging, more needs to be
done. The Administration is aware of this and budgeted a further real
increase of 14 percent in social expenditures for 1980. Moreover, Chile
set up a President's Social Council in late 1979 to coordinate social programs
and to allocate a special fund for programs directed toward the extreme
poor.
Economic Developments in 1979 and 1980
14.       Strong growth in the agricultural, industrial and construction
sectors resulted in an estimated real GDP growth rate of over 8 percent
in 1979. This compares favorably with the 7.8 percent recorded in 1978
and represents the third consecutive year of fast economic growth. The
GDP growth rate is expected to slow to between 6-7 percent in 1980, still
well above the 4 percent average of the 1960s. Poor harvests and a slacken-
ing in manufacturing growth are primarily responsible for the slight slowdown.
The Government continued to reduce the size of the public sector and in 1979
again achieved an overall public sector surplus. The surplus, stemming from
higher copper revenues and restraint on Government expenditures, was equivalent
to about 5 percent of GDP in 1979 compared to 2 percent in 1978. A surplus
of similar magnitude is expected in 1980. Although the unemployment rate
remained high, real wages and salaries continued to grow at a healthy pace.



15.       Fuel imports accounted for 20 percent of Chile's total imports in
1979. At present, two-thirds of Chile's energy requirements are met with oil,
about 70 percent of which is imported. The Government expects that at full
development in the early 1980's, off-shore fields in the Strait of Magellan
will enable Chile to produce about one-third of its petroleum needs. Future
expansion of Chile's energy production is hampered by the fact that its major
new sources of energy -- significant deposits of coal and gas as well as hydro-
electric potential -- are largely concentrated in relatively inaccessible
areas of the extreme south, far from the consuming regions. To coordinate its
energy policy better, the Government established a National Energy Commission
in late 1978. Energy conservation has been encouraged by a firm policy of
applying international prices to all hydrocarbon products.
16.       Chile had an overall balance of payments surplus of US$1 billion
in 1979 despite substantial increases in petroleum imports. Exports grew
56 percent in nominal terms (estimated at 12 percent in real terms) because of
more favorable world prices and impressive gains in both traditional and
non-traditional exports. Copper prices increased by 45 percent; this accounted
for most of the increased copper receipts. But copper exports constituted only
half of total exports of goods in 1979. Industrial exports grew 25 percent in
volume and by a similar amount in prices. Despite nearly a doubling in petro-
leum import payments, total merchandise imports are estimated to have grown by
only 40 percent in dollar terms, largely because other raw material and
capital goods imports grew modestly. The Central Bank has estimated that net
foreign capital inflows totaled US$1.9 billion, most of which represented
borrowings by the Chilean private sector.
17.       A similar balance of payments surplus is expected for 1980.  Exports,
including nontraditional exports are expected to continue to grow rapidly,
although the pace will probably lessen as a result of slackening world demand.
More moderate import growth is expected in 1980, mainly because of a lesser,
although still substantial, increase in petroleum prices. Net medium- and
long-term foreign capital inflows are expected to be higher than in 1979 and
reserves are expected to increase by over US$1 billion.
18.       There was a resurgence of the inflation rate in 1979 despite anti-
inflationary monetary and fiscal policies. The December-December rate was
39 percent as compared to 30 percent in 1978. International inflation,
especially the high prices paid for petroleum imports, was one of the major
factors contributing to the acceleration. As part of its efforts to combat
inflation the Government fixed the exchange rate on June 30, 1979, at 39 pesos
to the U.S. dollar. In a small, open economy like Chile, this measure--along
with a planned fiscal surplus and continued access to external capital--is
expected to bring the inflation rate in Chile closer to world levels.
19.       During the first half of 1980 the Government removed some of the
remaining restrictions on foreign capital entry. In particular, the limit on
the amount of foreign borrowing by banks was eliminated and free purchase of
up to US$10,000 a month in foreign exchange was permitted. In response to
the greater availability of cheaper foreign capital, lower reserve requirements
and the recent deceleration in inflation, real commercial bank lending rates to



-6-
borrowers on 30-day loans have continued to decline from 63 percent per annum
in December 1977 to about 18 percent per annum during the first half of 1980.
Moreover, the scarcity of longer-term financing has eased and longer-term
mortgage money became available in 1980. Longer-term interest rates are now
about 12 percent, after being fully indexed for inflation. The steady decline
in real interest rates and increased availability of long-term funds have had
a positive impact on the construction industry, which should help reduce
unemployment, particularly of unskilled workers.
Prospects
20.       A world recession could cause slower growth rates during the next
few years, although they would still be above historical levels. Over the
longer term Chilean economic prospects remain favorable despite substantial
petroleum imports and continued dependence on commercial loans to finance the
majority of its external capital requirements. It is anticipated that Chile
will grow at six percent in real terms between 1980 and 1985. The export
sectors, traditional and nontraditional, should lead the way, although the
fixed exchange rate could alter this prospect. Prices in nontraded sectors,
such as construction and services, are now rising faster than prices in traded
sectors, helping to stimulate an expansion of these generally very labor
intensive activities. This could help to alleviate the unemployment situation.
Unless Chilean inflation falls to levels more in line with those of her major
trading partners soon, however, export growth could begin to be curtailed.
During the last two years, prices of many Chilean exports, particularly raw
material and semiprocessed manufactured exports, have been increasing faster
than internal costs. Given the world recession, the prices of exports can be
expected to rise less rapidly or fall, squeezing exporters who face increasing
internal costs and acting as a disincentive to new investment in export
sectors. For the same reasons, slower growth could be expected in sectors
which must compete with increasingly cheaper imports. The Government is
prepared to reexamine its exchange rate policy should growth begin to be
seriously affected.
21.       In order to sustain growth rates anticipated at nearly double the
historical average, investment will need to increase substantially. It is
expected that private investment will continue to expand with the growth of
confidence in the economy, particularly if real interest rates continue to
fall. IThere is a similar need to expand public investment. As part of the
current austerity program and the broader desire to reduce the direct economic
role of the State, public investment spending has been cut back. As a result,
important parts of Chile's infrastructure base have deteriorated. The Government
will need to act more aggressively to meet the highest priority needs of the
public sector. Finally, the continued growth of strong oligopolistic interests
may ultimately become incongruent with the Government's present liberal, open
trade strategy and endanger the competitiveness and long-term viability of the
Chilean economic system. Expanded access to credit combined with vigorous
enforcement of antitrust regulations could help avoid this possible problem.



- 7 -
22.       Through prudent economic management, Chile was able to cope with
hyperinflation, adverse terms of trade and large debt service payments
during the last half of the seventies. In spite of rising petroleum imports,
Chile's favorable prospects for growth (particularly of exports) and proven
ability to manage its economy so as to meet debt payments, make it creditworthy.
Nevertheless, Chile will continue to require substantial external resources to
finance its future growth. During the early 1980s its current account deficit
will likely average approximately 4.5 percent of GDP. Much of the foreign
borrowing required to finance this deficit is expected to be by the private
sector; the public external debt service ratio is likely to decline from 39
percent in 1978 and 27 percent in 1979 to 15 percent in 1982 and about 11 per-
cent by 1985. For the above reasons, Chile is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHILE
23.       Among developing countries, Chile is the Bank's oldest borrower.
The Bank's first development loan was extended to Chile in 1948 and, since
then, the Bank has approved 25 loans to Chile totalling US$425.5 million, net
of cancellations. The Association has also extended a US$19 million credit to
the country for a road project. Of these operations, 20 Bank loans and the
credit have been fully disbursed; as of September 30, 1980, overall disburse-
ments stood at US$327.6 million. IFC commitments in Chile came to US$21.2
million with US$15 million of this amount committed to copper mining and the
remainder to industry. The Corporation presently holds US$1.2 million of its
Chilean commitments.
24.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 38 percent has been for
power, 24 percent for agriculture, 11 percent for mining and 11 percent for
roads. The balance, 16 percent, has been for industry, education, technical
assistance and water supply.
25.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially in accordance, inter alia, with the country's economic per-
formance and the availability of suitable projects. Between 1971 and 1973,
the Bank did not lend to Chile because of the severe deterioration in economic
and financial management referred to in Part I. On the basis of negotia-
tions substantially completed with the Allende Government, the Bank cautiously
resumed lending in 1974. Specifically, the amount of two existing loans was
increased by US$8.3 million to finance interest and other charges during
construction under the fifth power and second highway maintenance projects.
In addition, a loan of US$5.25 million was made to help finance a technical
assistance project. In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four loans totalling
US$107.8 million to help finance projects in the agriculture, copper mining
and power sectors. The Bank did not lend to Chile in FY78-79, but it approved
a US$38 million loan for a water supply project in FY80 and a US$36 million
loan for a second agricultural credit project in FY81.
26.       Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has, on the whole,
been satisfactory. In the case of the three road and education operations
approved in 1970, however, virtually no headway was made in implementation
during the 1971-73 period owing to the high rate of inflation, deteriorating
conditions in the construction industry and a shortage in counterpart funds.



-8-
Beginning in 1974, execution of these projects improved markedly and all
three have now been completed. More recently, the copper sector and sixth
power projects approved in FY76 and FY77, respectively, experienced delays
in start up but these difficulties have been largely overcome. Annex II
contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC commitments as of
September 30, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
27.        In addition to the proposed road reconstruction project, the
Bank is considering a lending program for Chile which contains a number of
operations which directly address the needs of the country's poor. These
include a second water supply loan, a small- and medium-scale enterprise
credit project, an irrigation scheme, an urban development operation and
a secondary-cum-feeder roads project.
28.        By the end of 1979, Chile's public and publicly guaranteed external
debt, both disbursed and undisbursed, equalled US$5,460 million; the Bank
Group's share was 3.3 percent. The Bank Group's share of the 1979 debt
service was 0.9 percent. The Bank's share of total public external debt is
expected to grow to about 5 percent by 1985 when the Bank's share of the
public external debt service would be about 4 percent, reflecting a slowdown
in public sector borrowing from other sources.
29.        In the past, both USAID and the IDB have been active in Chile with
each agency providing the country with considerable development assistance.
To date, the IDB has committed US$597.1 million net of grants to Chile focusing
on agriculture, industry, power and transportation. USAID's Chile operations--
including about US$80 million in grants--totaled some US$665 million through
1980. While USAID is winding down its operations in Chile, the IDB plans to
continue lending to the country, blending loans for traditional infrastructure
projects with lending for socially-oriented projects, mainly in rural areas.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
30.        Chile is located along' the Pacific coast of South America and covers
2
an area of about 757,000 km . It is a long, narrow country stretching about
4,300 km from north to south, but its width is no more than 150-200 km in most
places. Chile is wedged between the Pacific Ocean on the west and south and
the rugged Andes, which run along the boundary with Argentina, to the east.
To the north, it borders on Bolivia and Peru.
31.        Chile has a varied climate and topography.  In the north lies the
sparsely settled, mineral-rich Atacama desert, the world's most arid region.
The desert gradually gives way to the country's heartland, the Central Region.
The Central Region is endowed with good soils, a Mediterranean climate and
numerous rivers which provide water for irrigation. The region, including its
coastline, is home for approximately 70 percent of the country's 10.7 million
inhabitants. Santiago, Chile's capital and largest city--with a population
approaching four million--is located in the Central Region as are Valparaiso and



Concepcion, the second and third largest urban centers. Moving further south,
precipitation increases markedly and dense forest, lakes, fjords, glaciers
and islands become dominant. The country finally tapers off into a region
of windswept steppes around the Strait of Magellan.
32.       Although there are east-west transport links connecting ports with
inland cities and towns, Chile's transport network has a pronounced north-
south bias following the country's geographical configuration. The network
is most heavily concentrated in the Central Region and consists of the
Longitudinal Highway--the country's only continuous north-south transport
corridor--as well as railways, coastal shipping and civilian air links. The
existing transport network is generally adequate for Chile's present needs
although it does urgently require improved maintenance and substantial
reconstruction.
The Transport System
33.       Railways move about 35 percent of all freight tonnage in the country
and about 17 percent of passengers. Most of this traffic is carried by the
Government-owned State Railways (FCE), which has nearly 8,000 km of track.
Nearly half the tonnage hauled by rail is, however, carried by lines owned
and operated by Chile's mines.
34.       In the past, FCE generated large deficits.  These peaked at US$100
million in 1971 when the previous Government increased the railroad's person-
nel. The present administration has virtually eliminated FCE's deficits by
cutting back on featherbedding, increasing tariffs, closing some uneconomic
lines and curtailing investments. Underinvestment in the FCE throughout
the seventies has begun to affect the line's operating performance but this
has not yet led to serious problems because of declining traffic.
35.       Ports:  The Government-owned Chilean Port Authority (EMPORCHI)
administers a dozen general cargo ports in the country. These facilities tend
to be well constructed, have adequate wharfage and storage facilities and are
soundly managed. They handle a substantial share of the country's coastal
and international shipping, but most bulk cargo--mainly minerals, petroleum
and coal--passes through "captive" facilities, the largest of which service
the mines.
36.       Shipping:  Sixteen Chilean companies, one of which is state owned,
operate an aging fleet totalling about one million deadweight tons engaged in
coastal shipping. Although Chilean flag carriers are, by law, supposed to
carry 100 percent of this traffic, they handle only about 75 percent because
of undercapacity. Many of these same companies also operate internationally.
The international fleet's small size (about 625,000 tons) limits its handling
of international cargo to 30 percent of imports and only 10 percent of exports
instead of the 50 percent required by national legislation.
37.       Civilian Aviation:  There are 257 airfields and 11 airports in Chile.
Six of the airports offer international service. Chilean-owned airlines provide
both domestic and international cargo and passenger service. They account for



- 10 -
about 40 percent of international traffic. LAN-CHILE, the Government-owned
national airline, is by far the largest Chilean carrier, but the Linea
Aerea del Cobre (LADECO), and smaller private airlines also operate and are
growing in importance.
38.       Pipelines:  Chile's main pipeline system, about 620 km long, is owned
partly by private interests (272 km) and partly by the Empresa Nacional de
Petroleo (ENAP), the state-owned oil company. ENAP also operates pipelines in
southern Chile which transport natural gas to Argentina. The pipelines operate
at about 55 percent capacity and mainly carry gasoline, kerosene, diesel,
butane and propane, fuel oil and turbo-jet fuel.
39.       Highways:  The road subsector is discussed in Part IV of this report.
Institutional Framework
40.       Responsibility for the transport sector in Chile is split between
several ministries. The Ministry of Public Works (MOP) plans, constructs, and
maintains the country's highways, ports, airports and the Santiago subway.
All public transport agencies are, by law, under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Transport and Telecommunications (MTT) which regulates ports,
coastal shipping, railways, buses and trucks and shares this responsibility
for aviation with the Ministry of Defense. MTT also has responsibility for
overall sectoral planning. Because of the Government's interest in improving
the finances of the transport agencies, the Ministry of Economy makes
decisions concerning investments, personnel levels and tariffs. Finally,
the National Planning Office (ODEPLAN) reviews and approves all public sector
investment proposals in the sector.
41.       The fragmentation mentioned above has tended to weaken sectoral plan-
ning and coordination in the past, particularly since MTT--which was set up
to do unified planning for the sector--has been impaired in performing this
function because of its limited technical capacity and the absence of reliable
sectoral data. Aware of these shortcomings, the Government has recently taken
measures for more comprehensive sectoral planning, and coordination between
MTT, MfOP and ODEPLAN. More specifically, MTT has begun to determine the demand
for highways, ports and airports and is reviewing proposed transport invest-
ments and sector policy issues. To this end, .ITT has strengthened its Planning
Department by setting up a computer center for data processing and retreival.
It has also initiated a nationwide survey of the country's vehicle fleet and
commissioned studies of the demand for transport services.
Sectoral Strategy
42.       In the past 20 years, successive Chilean Governments have followed
different transport strategies. Between 1958-1964, the emphasis was on
stimulating the country's development by making large infrastructure invest-
ments. Large portions of the existing system were built during this period.
The next administration (1964-1970) stressed improving the system's efficiency
instead of expanding it. During this period modernization of the railroads was



- 11 -
pushed. Between 1971 and 1973, the emphasis shifted to employment generation
and to providing transport services at low prices. Public sector transport
agencies hired large numbers of additional staff but little attention was given
to maintenance. As a result, operations and facilities deteriorated and sector
agencies ran large deficits.
43.       The present Government's policy has been to restore the sector's
efficiency and to make public-sector enterprises financially self-sufficient.
To this end, their personnel has been greatly reduced, management has been
tightened, tariffs increased and investments have been held down. The Govern-
ment's main objective has been to offer transport services at the lowest cost
commensurate with an acceptable level of reliability. To help achieve this
goal, the Chilean authorities favor relying on market forces and free compe-
tition. They have, therefore, greatly reduced transport sector regulations.
44.       With regard to transport sector investments, the Government believes
that these should only be made in response to growth in the productive sectors
and population, i.e., in order to satisfy existing demand. Given the trans-
port network's state of deterioration following nearly a decade of under-
investment and insufficient maintenance, most of the outlays in the next few
years would be for rehabilitation or reconstruction of the existing system.
PART IV - THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
The Highway Network
45.       Chile's national highway network totals about 60,000 km of roads,
not including some 15,400 km of seasonal tracks. About 15 percent of the
network is paved, 53 percent is improved to gravel standards and the remain-
der (32 percent) consists of earth roads. The backbone of the system is
the Longitudinal Highway, which is the country's only continuous road link-
ing towns along the main north-south axis and which collects traffic from
the transversal roads. The Longitudinal Highway is vital to Chile's economy
and fosters national integration.
46.       The road network is adequate in the more heavily populated areas
of the country. However, because of insufficient maintenance and its age --
much of the paved system is over 15 years old and was designed for lower
traffic volumes -- it now requires extensive rehabilitation and reconstruction
to meet current and projected traffic. This applies particularly to the
Longitudinal Highway, which is badly deteriorated.
Road Traffic
47.       Chile's total vehicle fleet grew at an average rate of about eight
percent per annum between 1968 and 1977. On the other hand, MOP data suggest
that traffic volume declined between 1972 and 1975 as Chile's economy went



- 12 -
through a severe downturn. This led to a temporary overcapacity in the trucking
industrv in which 93 percent of trucks are owned by individuals owning no more
than two vehicles.  Since the economic recovery began in 1976, keen competition
among ,truckers has benefitted consumers as tariff increases have not kept pace
with Chile's general rate of inflation.
48.       Road transport of passengers has been expanding, mainly at the
railroad's expense. The market is dominated by medium- and large-size com-
panies operating on the Longitudinal Highway and by owner-operators on the
transversal roads. The industry is deregulated and it, too, is highly
competitive.
49.       Overloading of trucks has been a long-standing problem in Chile.
Under Loan 558-CH approved in 1968, financing was provided for the purchase
of nine weighing scales to help deal with the problem. Enforcement of the
regulations on weight control has been only partially implemented, however,
because of inadequate MOP staff to manage the program and because of opposi-
tion by the strong truckers' union prior to 1974. In 1978, MOP retained
consultants, whose qualifications and terms of reference were acceptable to
the Bank, to diagnose the overloading problem. Based on recommendations by
these consultants, in January 1980 the Government issued a decree establishing
the limits of allowable axle and gross vehicle loadings. The consultants'
report also recommended (i) ways to create a more effective enforcement program,
and (ii) the purchase, location and operation of additional weighing scales. MOP
has already purchased the equipment for 13 additional weighing stations and,
is currently building the control stations. Construction and equipping of
weighing stations is expected to be completed within about 18 months. It was
agreed during negotiations that by June 30, 1982 MOP would complete its program
for vehicle weight control in accordance with the standards of the January 1980
decree, including the adoption of a schedule of fines for violations of the
decree. MIOP would, from time to time, review with the Bank the steps being
taken to carry out the vehicle weight control program (Section 4.06 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Highway Administration
50.       The MOP, through its Directorate of Highways (Vialidad), is in
charge of the planning, study, design, construction and major rehabilitation of
all major roads including the Longitudinal Highway and its main lateral branches.
In 1974, the Government divided the country into 13 regions to decentralize the
public administration and afford greater autonomy to local areas. Since then,
the regions have been responsible for maintenance of all roads in their
jurisdictions as well as for the design and construction of secondary and
feeder roads. After some initial problems, this system is now working more
smoothly. The MIOP has a representative in each region who reports directly to
the Minister of Public Works but who also coordinates closely with the regional
administration. Vialidad staff provide support to the regions in matters
related to roads.



- 13 -
51.       Vialidad is headed by a competent director and, on the whole, has
well qualified staff. It employs about 5,650 persons, less than half the number
on its payroll in 1973 under the previous Government. Approximately 80 percent
of Vialidad's staff are assigned to maintenance activities.
52.       Road planning is done by Vialidad's Studies Department on the basis
of regular traffic counts. This Department is short of staff, however, and
does not have an in-house capability for undertaking the economic evaluation
of projects. When required, therefore, these evaluations are contracted out
to consultants.
53.       Financing for highway expenditure comes from:  (i) the national
budget; (ii) road tolls; (iii) the regional budgets; and (iv) external finan-
cing. In recent years, revenues from road users have significantly exceeded
expenditures for highway maintenance and construction. Vialidad expenditures
during the 1970-76 period averaged about US$83 million per annum and in 1978-80
they increased to about US$100 million annually. Most of these expenditures
have gone for rehabilitation, reconstruction and maintenance, and Vialidad's
1981 budget again focuses exclusively on these items and does not contemplate
any new construction.
54.       Vialidad is formally charged with designing highways and bridges.
In keeping with Government policy, however, a considerable portion of the
design work is contracted out to consultants. A number of local firms are
fully qualified to do most designs, and local firms associate with foreign
firms to handle specialized assignments. After a period of uncertainty in the
early seventies, Chile's construction industry has revived strongly and now
carries out most road construction. There are now close to 20 firms each
capable of carrying out yearly works of US$3-5 million or more. Several
foreign firms are associated with local contractors. Supervision of construc-
tion is done by Vialidad with the assistance of local consultants on contract.
Maintenance
55.       As has already been noted, maintenance of Chile's road network was
transferred in 1974 from MOP to the 13 regions. The Central Government
provides the regions with a special budgetary allocation for this purpose.
The regions do routine maintenance by force account but larger jobs are
done by contractors.
56.       Since the late 1960s, highway maintenance in Chile has been deficient.
The improvements sought under the Bank's Second Highway Maintenance Project
(Loan 558-CH approved in 1968) were not fully realized, mainly because the
Government did not provide the necessary financial resources to support the
effort. The problem of deferred maintenance was compounded by the fact that
the aging main road network was designed for less intensive and lighter
traffic. As a result, large stretches of the network have broken up to the
point where they require reconstruction. The Government has come to realize
the importance of increased maintenance. The annual allocation for this
purpose has been expanded to US$55 million in 1980 and to US$59 million in
1981. This represents an increase of about 15 percent in real terms over the
late 1970's. Since lack of funding has, however, been a major stumbling block
in the past, during negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government



- 14 -
(a) that all national and regional roads would be adequately maintained; and
(b) that it would promptly provide adequate funds for maintenance and renew
and repair MOP's road maintenance equipment as appropriate (Section 4.04 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Past Bank Group Lending
57.       The Bank Group has been active in the Chilean road sector since
1961 and has extended three loans and a credit, totalling US$49 million,
for road projects. The earliest operations were Credit 4-CH (approved on
June 27, 1961) and Loan 287-CH (approved the same day). They supported
projects designed to expand and improve the highway network and to strengthen
road maintenance. While the maintenance project was successfully completed
in 1966, the Credit for construction was not fully disbursed until 1971
because of delays encountered in engaging consultants and in completing
engineering. The project was also set back by floods in 1965-66, which
did serious damage to the roads under construction.
58.       A second Highway Maintenance Project was financed under Loan 558-CH
approved on September 10, 1968. Its aim was to further the maintenance
improvement program launched under Loan 287-CH. After a promising initial
start, the project was caught up in the economic turmoil through which Chile
passed in the early and mid seventies. It was particularly affected by insuffi-
cient counterpart funds and rampant inflation. As a result, the project was
not completed until 1978, about five years behind schedule. Moreover, as the
Project Performance Audit Report issued in connection with this operation on
December 28, 1978 notes, the project did not fully realize its objective of
improving road maintenance owing to the adverse conditions in Chile. On the
other hand, the report notes that without the project, road maintenance in the
country would have deteriorated even more than it did.
59.       The most recent Bank operation in the sector, Loan 688-CH (approved
on April 28, 1970), helped finance a Second Highway Construction Project.
Due to conditions in Chile in the early 1970's, there was virtually no progress
in its execution through 1973. Some delays occurred in 1971 because the
Government's price escalation index did not adequately reflect the price move-
ments of major construction items and contractors withdrew their bids. In 1974
the Executive Directors approved a reduction in the project's scope and, after
a marked improvement in its execution, the project was successfully completed
in early 1979.
60.       As the preceding summaries indicate, the execution of recent
Bank-financed projects in the highway subsector was impaired by the wrenching
changes Chile went through during the first half of the decade. Since 1974,
the institutions responsible for the subsector have regained a measure of
stability although, until recently, they had to continue operating under severe
financial constraints because of the country's difficult economic situation.



- 15 -
Vialidad, in particular, has evidenced a high degree of effectiveness and compe-
tence in preparing the proposed project. The agency has also taken the initia-
tive in launching a nationwide vehicle weight control program and assessing the
country's road maintenance needs. This improved performance was a key consider-
ation in the Bank's decision to propose a new loan for highways.
PART V - THE PROJECT
61.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission in June 1976
and was prepared by Vialidad with the assistance of consultants. A Bank
mission appraised the project in February, 1978 and post-appraisal missions
took place in March and October, 1980. These missions' report entitled
"Staff Appraisal Report - Highway Reconstruction Project" (2145b-CH dated
November 4, 1980) is being distributed separately. Annex III contains a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations of the loan took place in
Washington on November 3 and 4, 1980 and the Chilean delegation was headed by
Mr. Jose M. Barros, Ambassador to Washington.
Project Objectives and Description
62.       The project's principal objective is to arrest the serious deteriora-
tion of the Longitudinal Highway, the main transport link in the country's agri-
cultural and industrial heartland. Vialidad's maintenance capabilities would
also be strengthened to protect against a further worsening of Chile's road
network. Finally, priority investments in the transport sector would be iden-
tified and prepared.
63.       Specifically, the project would include the following components:
(a) civil works and related supervision for the reconstruction
of about 250 km of the Longitudinal Highway;
(b) technical assistance to assess the road network's future main-
tenance requirements and to help implement a four year maintenance
program; and
(c) consultants' services to help prepare preinvestment studies.
The project would be carried out over a four year period (1981 through 1984).
Vialidad would be responsible for the reconstruction works and maintenance
components. MOP's Directorate of Planning would be responsible for the
preinvestment studies of roads and ports.
64.       The Longitudinal Highway was designed and constructed 15 to 30 years
ago. Since then, because of increased traffic volumes and deficient mainte-
nance in recent years, extensive sections of the road have seriously deter-
iorated. Vialidad -- with the help of local consultants and a German firm
(Dorsch) -- selected 805 km of the road for urgent reconstruction in 1977.
The work consists principally of reconstructing pavement which has broken
up, rehabilitating the drainage system and widening shoulders.



- 16 -
65.       Reconstruction of the 805 km of the highway began in 1979 and would
be completed in 1985. A first tranche, comprising 240 km of the most urgent
sections, was financed and completed by MOP in 1979-80. MOP is now contracting
thie reconstruction works of a second tranche of about 170 km, which would be
completed in 1983. The Government would fully cover the cost of the second
tranche as well. 'he proposed Bank loan would help finance the third tranche
(250 km) and reconstruction of these sections and the related supervision
would constitute the proposed project's largest component accounting for about
97 percent of total project costs. A fourth tranche, which comprises the
remaining 145 km, would also be carried out by MOP and be completed in 1985.
Since the timely reconstruction of the sections not included in the project is
of high priority and would have a bearing on the success of the project, it
was agreed during negotiations that the Government would cause MOP to complete
the second tranche by June 30, 1983 and the fourth tranche by December 31, 1985
(Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.       Technical assistance is included in the project to assess the road
network's future maintenance needs and to assist the Government in carrying
out an appropriate highway maintenance program. In 1978-80, Vialidad's
consultants evaluated the agency's maintenance operations, the delegation of
maintenance work to regional authorities and recent experience with contract-
ing major maintenance activities to private contractors. MOP is currently
reviewing the consultant's study and recommendations for improved maintenance
planning, pavement surveys, work methods and operations, and contracting
procedures. During negotiations the Government agreed that MOP would provide
the Bank, by April 30, 1981, for its review and comments, the consultants'
assessment of highway maintenance requirements for the 1981-84 period, together
with MOP's program for carrying out the study recommendations. Not later
than June 30, 1981, MOP would start implementing the program, and would hire
consultants -- whose qualifications, terms and conditions of employment were
satisfactory to the Bank -- to assist Vialidad in carrying out the four-year
maintenance program (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       As for the preinvestment studies, MOP would submit the study propo-
sals -- including terms of references -- to the Bank for approval by March 31,
1981. The studies would be started by June 30, 1981 with the help of consul-
tants whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment would be
acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       Altogether, the project (including reconstruction supervision)
would require about 700 man months of consultants' services. Both Chileans
and foreigners would be retained for these purposes and the cost of their
services is expected to come to about US$3,000 per man-month for Chileans and
US$8,000 for expatriates. To facilitate their work, the proposed loan would
provide for the purchase of vehicles and office equipment to be used by the
consultants.
Cost and Financing
69.       The project's total cost is estimated at US$91.7 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$42 million, equivalent to about 46 percent of
project costs. The proposed loan would cover the operation's foreign costs
and the Government would finance the local cost component, US$49.7 million. A
breakdown of project costs is contained in the Loan and Project Summary at the
beginning of this report.



- 17-
Procurement and Disbursements
70.       Contracts for the reconstruction works and for the purchase of
vehicles would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Office equipment, not expected to cost more than
US$25,000, would be purchased in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank. Disbursements of the loan would
be made against the foreign exchange components of the project, as follows:
(i) 45 percent of the cost of the reconstruction works; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures or 45 percent of local expenditures (equivalent to the
foreign exchange cost) for supervision of civil works; (iii) 60 percent of the
project's studies components; and (iv) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures
of directly imported vehicles and laboratory and office equipment for the use
of consultants, or 80 percent of their cost if locally produced and procured.
Economic Justification
71.       Much of the Longitudinal Highway--Chile's only continuous north-south
trunk road--is in a critical state of disrepair. This is due (i) to deferred
maintenance in the early seventies, which continued more recently as the
result of austerity measures enacted during the 1975 recession; and (ii) to
sharp increases in traffic following the economic recovery begun in 1976. In
many sections the road's pavement has broken up, its shoulders have been
eroded and two-way traffic has been forced onto a single lane. As a result
of the highway's deterioration, the driving time between destinations has
increased by as much as between 25 and 50 percent, users' vehicles suffer
extensive wear and tear and safety is severely compromised, particularly at
night. MOP initially attempted to keep the road open through costly emergency
repairs and stepped-up maintenance. Because of structural failures on segments
of the 15- to 30-year old pavement, however, this insufficient patchwork
approach is being replaced by the 805 km reconstruction program described in
paragraphs 64 and 65. Without the reconstruction efforts which MOP has already
initiated and plans to continue with the help of the loan recommended in this
report, key sections of the Longitudinal Highway would soon disintegrate and
Chile's single most important transport link would become impassable.
72.       The road's break-up would entail heavy costs to the economy, nega-
tively affecting practically all income groups and sectors of economic activity.
Conversely, its reconstruction is expected to have a significant impact on
the economy by widening market opportunities, facilitating the availability
of goods and increasing the mobility of Chile's inhabitants. By eliminating
a major transport bottleneck, the reconstruction is also expected to stimulate
investment, thus helping to generate additional employment and output in key
sectors. Combined with a program of lateral feeder road improvements now being
prepared by MOP--which would restore 630 km of roads at a total cost of
US$12.5 million in 1981--the Longitudinal Highway's reconstruction would
directly benefit small dispersed rural communities where some of Chile's
poorest people live.
73.       The project's most important economic and social benefits would be
felt in the Central Region, the nation's heartland, where the 250 km to be
reconstructed under the proposed loan are concentrated. About 70 percent



- 18 -
of Chile's agricultural exports, 75 percent of its food crops and virtually
all of its forestry exports are produced in the region. In addition, nearly
40 percent of the country's copper output is mined there.
74.       About three-quarters of Chile's rural poor and about 40 percent of
its urban poor--altogether some 950,000 persons--live in the areas directly
influenced by the project and would benefit from this operation. Nearly half
of these poor persons are members of small farm families who depend upon the
Longitudinal Highway for their access to the rest of the economy. Agricul-
tural products and inputs, for example, account for about 45 percent of the
cargo transported on the road sections to be reconstructed north of Santiago
and for nearly 60 percent of cargo traffic on segments south of the capital.
Moreover, potatoes--which are widely grown by small farmers and are a staple
food for the urban poor in cities and towns--make up close to half of the
fresh foodstuffs transported over the Longitudinal Highway south of Santiago.
75.       The thousands of small independent truckers and bus owners who
operate on the Longitudinal Highway would also benefit from the project.
Because of the keenly competitive nature of Chile's road transport industry,
truckers and bus owners can be expected to pass along most of their savings
in lower vehicle operating costs to their customers in the forms of lower real
tariffs. Persons earning less than one-third the national average household
income would be major beneficiaries of lower bus fares since they account,
according to recent surveys, for 40 percent of bus passengers along the
Longitudinal Highway. Much of their travel is work-related and consists,
for example, of poor urban dwellers who work seasonally in agricultural areas.
Lower real truck tariffs would also be translated into greater benefits for
Chile's farmers and consumers of foodstuffs (or both) since the marketing of
agricultural products is also highly competitive.
76.       The economic rate of return of the project's reconstruction compo-
nent is 41 percent, a conservative estimate based only on the quantifiable
benefits to users from lower vehicle operating costs and from savings in road
maintenance. Savings in vehicle operating costs as the result of reconstruc-
tion would be substantial; for instance, on flat terrain they would be equal
to US$0.22/km for buses, US$0.11/km for small trucks and US$0.28/km for larger
trucks. Other benefits such as passenger time savings, reduced spoilage in
agricultural goods and increased safety and comfort to passengers were not
quantified.
Project Risks
77.       This operation presents no special risks.  All road segments to
be improved under the reconstruction component have been engineered in
detail, and Vialidad has a sufficient number of qualified senior engineers
to oversee the works. The Government is fully committed to the reconstruc-
tion program and can be expected to provide the needed counterpart funds in
a timely manner. The Government is also conscious of the harm caused to the
road network in the past by insufficient maintenance and the ineffective
enforcement of vehicle weight control. It is determined to avoid these mistakes
in the future and has already taken important initiatives addressing both of
these critical areas. The proposed loan contains covenants aimed at insuring
that maintenance will be improved and that axle weight limits will be enforced.



- 19 -
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
78.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
79.       The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern for highway
projects. The main features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in the text
of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMIMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 17, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  1  of  5
CHILE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHILE                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (HOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
IT OAL           75 7.0
A(.R\7T'TTTIR&!  176.3                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b 5STIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
CuzP  LEO  CAPITA (VL                510.0        840.0    1410.0                  1384.1                    2381.1
E_YEP(  COISCEPTIO" PCR CAPITA
(<Il.OGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    865.0      1160.0    997.0                    1055.9                    1641.4
POPUL-ATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                    9
POPULATION, MID-YEA. (MILLIONS)      7.6          9.4      10.7
llRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 68.0        75.2      80.1                    63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       15.0
STATIONARY POFULATION (MILLIONS)                         19.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2070
POFULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. NM.                       10.0         12.0      14.0                    28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     43.0        54.0      61.0                     81.7                     129.5
POPELAMION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         39.0        38.0       33.8                    41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                         57.0        57.2      60.9                     54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.0         4.8        5.3                     3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2          2.1       1.7                     2.7                       1.6
VR3AN                              4.0          3. 1      2.5                     4.1                       3.3
CRCDE NIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     37.0         28.0      22.0                    34.8                      22.8
CRTUE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     12.0          9.0       7.0                     8.9                       8.9
0ROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.5          1.7       1.3                     2.5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        62.6      265.8
VSERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..
LOOD ANLS NU.TRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0       103.0      90.0                    106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  105.0       110.0      109.0                   107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          67.0        71.0      70.0                     65.6                     91.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       27.0        30.0       28.0                    33.7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     14.0          7.0       5.0                     8.4                       4.3
SEAL TH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0        62.0       67.0                    63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          108.0        82.0       55.0                    66.5                      55.9
ACCERS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        56.0      83.6                    65.9
UERAN                               ..        67.0       93.0                    80.4
R,ITEAL                             .          13.0      38.4                    44.0
ACTCOS TO EXRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF P0PlTLATION)
TO!TAL                                        29.0       32.0                    62.3
lIR3AN                              .,        33.0       36.0                    79.4
RUgAI,                              ..        10.0       11.0                    29.6
POPIJATION PER PHYSICIAN          1810.0      2210.O0c  1619.0                   1849.2                    1030.1
FOP'l,ATION PER NURSING PERSON     650.0           ..    450.0                   1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TQTAL                            271.0       261.0      279.0                   480.3                     289.7
URPAN                               ..       205.0      223.0
RlTEAL                              ..      1610.0      907.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..       28.0                      ..                      17.0
HOUS0INC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOIAl0                             5.4         5.1
URBAN                              5.2         5.0
RITRAL                             6.0         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TCTAT.                             1.7          1.4
'.E.9AN                            1.6          1.3
RAOAL                              2.0          1.7
ACCES5 TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
'OF DX,ELLINGS)
TO'AL                             71.0           ..      85.0
5BA51                             86.3          ..
URAIL                             24.0           ..      30.0



- 21 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                                      Page  2  of  5
CHILE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CHILE                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)           _
HOST RECENT              HIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROL.LMENT RASIOS
PRIMArY:      DOTAI,               109.0        107.0     117.0                      99.7                     105.9
NAAL,E               111.0        108.0     119.0                     101.0                     109.3
FEMALE               107.0        107.0     116.0                      99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  24.0         39.0      50.0                      34.4                      64.0
MALE                  24.0         36.0      47.0                      33.5                       71.1
FEMALE                24.0         41.0      53.0                      34.7                      56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (x OF SECONDARY)  26.0           33.0      34.0                      38.2                      2B8.
PUPIL-TFACHER RATIO
pRIHARY                               ..         39.0      39.0                      30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                           13.0         15.0      15.0                     14.5                       26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         84.0         88.0      88.0                      76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER TIOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         19.0      28.2                     43.0                       84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         131.0        149.0     172.0                     245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPUIATION                           0.1         53.0      68.0                      84.2                     118.5
NEWSPAPER ;"DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCtLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  131.0           ..        ..                      63.3                      93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA                 5.0       2.3                        ..                       5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       2505.0       2885.8    3540.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    21.7         22.1      24.0                     22.2                       30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               30.0         23.8      20.0                     37.1                       37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  30.3        28.0       26.0                     23.5                       29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.0         30.8      31.8                      31.5                      40.9
MALE                                  52.2         48.6      49.3                      48.9                      55.9
FEMALE                                14.2         13.4      14.7                      14.0                      26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4        1.2                      1.4                        1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            1.4/d
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         4.4d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HO'JSEHOLDS      ..         13. 4d      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA 
URBAN                                 ..          ..      270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      270.0                     190.8.
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (Us$ PER CAPITA)
TRBAN                                 ..          ..      374.0                     474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      374.0                     332.5                     385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Personnel in government services only;  /d 1968.
April, 1980



-22 -
Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORSOa                                                           e    3    o         
Notes   Alhougsh the dat  are draws  iron sources g--o lyr fudged the cost sothurhout i-  and relisbl, it thu                        1-us  he ocrd  th.t  hrhe   oo  -ot Ittret
suelrnelly tepsreh le  because of the Ilak of standardized definlti..s  a-d o-orept  used hr dioff-eo  ..ouIte- lo co2llcing  the dots.  Th.e d-t  ore                          oon
theless... usful no d-olhe orders of   agnitude, indiucts trends. sod chrreie  atrojor doff-reoces bet-o..ocouotrils.
The vefetanos g9-1p  ar  Il  the sam   usutny grouP of she subject  o-try and  2l                   --uctr   grop alth s.-ehat hoglnrorerege  00-2o  then the c-ruc   I  O.p
ofInesb]. enCronery  lasrepi for "CapItal Ouoplus Oil Fopurner..  grup               -ht   'iddie Iores Nort1h Afr Oc  sod tOddle tEat' ithoeshese
asi-ulua  nfecls. Issereaensgopdais the oeae    r  popul-tuo  onlghtod  -nnhutic se....  fcr each    uc,o  rod sh.-t -to  hir.s
leas t half of nth Iuttrisi  agop   a    s   o  tha   dindIcto.l                  nc  she roo-rgo of               I...le..o..biidoatc   d,pod  orI            ttslo   u'
date and is so  ..ifore. reies           .at he esroi-ed to relaniog aear   foeisd loio  tosrhr                         he  sese    c   oyIotc               cro Aitthe oslo
of use iodioseor at cite   sang the osuecry end  -ef--i  groups.
Total - To-I  uf i  ares ospriaisg ladaeaadItodI 1                   see1ecuy..fcd 'o   -oulo-   -cooloutr-o                                                        o
AenuitoltuaI - isti-as   of agrirultuselsta   usdsporarilf or p- -ottly                           oueuo        rSrsgPtar-Porltlo itedoou]tc                                  r ocr
Pot  -rpa, pastures. e-re  and klitban  gardeos  Irto  i  feO11-  1977 date                     tale otd fees,]   gs-du-otose    -couo    ust.adu                      .. ot  us
INP PER CAPITA (US$) - IMP Par ospie. es"teia  atcero  sre  pus,co                                  ouultP7.PetclPo-tiD   oa,0 702                                    horupetb1 (total
I y1;-     - -i.. ..thd .. W.rld7                        1960,            -.il.~~ubas,  id total)  -dioledbyihet c 9 ept-doce   fhsptlbd
1970, aud  978 data.                                                                               hebilitasiro ceterh.   AtPttlsae  ciblcahe-t   per_cnsy staffed
bp ci lectroephitlse.  Eancblihoe..ets  proriding priloipally rustodisi
ENERGY COUMSMQTiO5  PtP. CAPITA -. Aessual oohaupeloo of  o                 ...clsorgy (orl          caear           icued        uelheOnl.hoee.  nldehath and sdicell
trusty)ihiorsofoasarse 1.pee  -  ita; o9go. l9ll,  od 0970                                        rae,    &sife, ri-I which offe  ir-rrisro  scro detidonedPrid
data.                                                                                              I liited range of nedicelfcilte. Por  eataOl putpo.e  urbes hospi-
POPIULTION AND1 VITAL. STATISTICSh.pt.                                                                                  1_Idi                                      _t            t
atleraia.Mod-Tsa  .Lelli l -. hA. of July 1; l960, 1970, sod lA78                     Idelaooert i..          alOr    Total rusher of ed. fn t.              r .iia-e
sa    neetis;1960, 1970, and 198dn.Aoer_es Oleo    oshl  lesn    e   oseod       oaHura.sder
P:MMA= .Y9iit4.6hosholdcosaeoagraofidod leh bteIri    q res
P9psl.NiesiaearlM9    C-Crtese Ppopetsef    projerniona are based ro 1980                un   hi   e aae        ore   rlde   a   r myoth   nlddi
tetel pePuletim  bpy a       Isd s-  sad ihair earielity and f-rnility races.                 the hu..ehold for etetistlrsi purprees.
Itjeis  prser   fet esrtalitp  rates  -sPrieo   bee.o.asu-                          Aergos ofthperesn..           ret..Pose   'ocl Irhn.cd trd.. I- thergeor
lagLfe  sepeetes   cIt birch iaotsaieg eith osuetey pr ccpita iotce                            e   f  eso.prro  I., all utbas,endrud                  ot.icuidto--enc .onI
level  ca  f.-sala lfe  esgatseo   stbilieita  t5 77.5 eas   Th. pars-                        Owllinga, te-petslely.  Dneljlogee-Ioudeoo--petmaoete-ttusr5asnd
-etsr  far fe-tility rate alas have three lasi. easce  decline  i                               ...unocoposo  pane.
fertility ec-ediag to is-e  leesi end Past fseily plaee.oog perforsace.                    Access. to  EI trlriciy lo--et of doliogl-ttl    rhn   o    ue 
aElh nemtry is them  esiged am   f tbsas als  eeisist f enetalOsy                             loooieldolliege with elcricitnytolio   quartets ee per--tgo
ad fettility  reeds fee peaJecei   esrnea.                                                     f          _st,uban, aud rural dwell Dgs respectotoly.,
St-iatlame  seeselsie   - I. c  t- ans tesp.P tsnliio   there is os groth since
the bieth rate is eqs1 ne the detah rate. aud also the age  ttu-tta  re-                 iDUOATION
alec  nuseamt.  Thgs is e.ih-es   omy after f-tiOltyprie   elo   to                         bdlueted inrlleens ..    aoho
sh .rplersee  leve  of -lt seetapedios tee, t-han .e.brosesior                              Plaoahol-n              l  ale  and fecalo- G...  total, ale  end femal
.fss rPlee..e itself   -teely.  The scatioamy population   le  weeenrollmen-tofalge  an  he pelcary 1er-O  as p-rceteges  f1 reepsotl
senfaned a  thehasteef na praeeJ.    ohrintact   f she population                      primar   lhobool-ege Ioue              rulyinludes children aged A-lI
Zis he pee  2000, sa  the .tee  ef d-tife  of frnil ity rote to repIlac-                        ye.r  hut'.  adjusted Err  lifferes I egh    f proereuct o;ye
Tea  s-tzticar   Psesslait    is rashad - The peer ohm. aatic...ry pryalatio-                      ai..co    paleor  beo orsrete ficasholg.
else baa bese  teethed.                                                                         eodreb               onl   scadfml  - Computed aabore; secondary
PowsleDa_ity                                                                                   eduoeorqisaclatfa   ar   fepoe    rmr                                    tructit.;
_ena. ha. - MUd-pest popslmtiot pet aere klojocsr 1100 bec-erol of                               prrdagrrl  oaioe,o   ece   r osigOdeo con"                                fetui
tonal era.  ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~    "..l  of 12 to 17 paste of age; ctreeponder- torea   t  geaerllp
Per sa.he  aeienr             .Wd-  eae   sa  hor  for agni-oltu-l lend                            _nlded.
omly.                                                                                         Vtotaioolsrol eet(eot   f...c.nd.ryl - Voostionl i-tnituatoi
Psecentm Ag  Scscacts  eernmnl- Childran  (I-lA  years I,  -okisp-ege  115-                include  techics1, i'dats,r   na   rgeteoi oreeidP..-
he pesral . ad  eatired  (65 pears ad  roerl as peroennagee of aid-pear popu-  deenly or ea deperteent-1yerof.adctedtry..nttltu-iOde.
Iseisa; 1960  1979,ad  19P  dais.Purul-teacher ratio     raar   s  aodrnNTal1  -sdsn-  enrolled in
!wsleeism Gowab Mats ameecail -total - A.1maa  growh rates of tonal mid-                   yitrl     s  es rodry      1eel  dinidod by uahero of tea-hera  Oc the
year pepalatises fee1959-60. 19b0-P0, sd 1970-78.                                       coraodlog bode.
Poeslelas ireib Lts lea=ati - obas  - Outel groath este of uebsr pepu-                       IduitI. literareas  (rce,l) - Litaroreadulce  (abll to  teed ard  -rite)
Datiom   fet 195-N, 190-0  a   17-Taper-n-ge  of tots1 edult populatlo  aced 11 yeare and over.
Cred   .irt   ate  F.s   - -ssdl - Amaael lire  birtha Per thousco.d of mid-yer
Csed  MethtMane fea   thssel- Osal de-hb  Per thu....d of rcd-yer                                eeer P..      Care  rerctossu   rorpcil -Psentcaetatleror
peslsia  190-90    d   9NAi.ors etiog less  thn eIgt peesooa; ocluessauloa   hearses a.d
Gra-    apeada-t- Maca - haragS. eseht ef daughteras eoe                 ill bear Is,              silar  rehicle..
her me-Is  ,rprdainiv   pevid if she  eprsespresntag-oa.i. rfee-                              OsdioR.. tcirers (per thousand,tole                 AOl ltype  of r-ciesfrrd
ciyraces; usealy firsy-pe    -eSrga  seling ie 19gO. 1970, ard 1977.                        b-odoeietoge.r.pbIcprI                    Iesdo   oulto;soldeol-
Peello Pl 1        lleeis- tosnc.1- Aeass  tlbeaeds  - Amsul osbse of  -ripioni                   ceedessreso                 rillr end Or years thee ceglcrentios of radio   e
ofbet-e_       rl  ecseieraaptsofan_cl  et dpanig   rgam                                         aai  efct   ot  o  rcnspas  a  ntheccarhe   iceca
PseOiv Plamalma - tears Irsteset of carried womeal ~- Pretage of aertied             cutrIes obelshad 1I .ce.ciog.
ofhoild-bsetfg ag  (15-446         . pee  whe usbieth-cowrol d-vi-r  so                TV  Rc..ivers (per obh-esd erlnol-                    . reirer   for I boadceot to
all atrld see   00 ease ag  gre..pP.gerrlpiblir Per thousan.d populatios; eoludeuunIiie...ed TVrcerr
FOOD AND MMITIM                                                                   _tli.~~~~~~~~~~ciconce  and On yeane then ergtnrt ion ot TV' cats --- io effect.
15d0 of Poad Predaea ertem               6199-O1( -ldo ofpr  aiteI .....l                          tir    o 'dily t" geea   itteetes p..dfoa    sprod                          lpb
peadeotie  of all fed   -eadiee. Pearu                  eDd        .esed and feed  -tO           3icoton denoted primaily  tc rerodlo9g genra  tos.I  in cr...idered
is on caleadat pear basis.  Isadinies  rover p~~~rimar  goods (e.g. sogee....      to bs  'dalOp' if itappearee   lecer..  fou.      i,eaeh
intado   sg   hlo   are edibl  end  -tosi  s,airiere   (e.g. coffee and             Ciea,ets'h edac   erCffarrYerOad ortherethr of
tee are seclded).  Angstesr  prodacio  of each ....,try ie bae ..            o tdht   oddrn   h    er    cldo    dcerot   er-olee
aeriorl  -nras. ptedc,nr .rf   wIghts; 191-N65, 1970, and.1079 data.                             oirk.hle unl.dit.E  h    .r    ll~igt    l-.~.
?PLooo4itc e        Ie    f teoresferet of  assr-          era  - Cos-td from
eeatgp equi-es-  of met food copplies e-ileble  In cutyPer -eyOfa                        iJclo FOiCt
pet day.  Available espplies reeprise desatir production, inp-rS lets                       Total Labor  ...cr Oehouaa-odal-Oooocll   c-r   ee ,Inldn
owrfs    d chasgee in stock.  OVen spplies  sloIde sti-ied feed,seed,                    sted fo.rces, od uep          d hutIecocg   ossvs,suet, ec
punitossd  inf_d Po_s...o   en..d Oose  O  dietrihotioc. nquice-                        Oioiri... It oari-r .. coutrIes  err rot c-sperebie; 1960, 1070 sod
esewre  -eis.itd by PAP basdEon physiologOos- ned  foe norte  sotl-                        197h date.
rOsy sod health cosideriag environetta1 t-perfre_,body orgt,ae                              rsl   rret      etl   eo   oc    ,Psrce-ta .. or;toal  ahe  foce
ca   e   istribuni_wo  popalcienJ,  adalwn   10 Pe Irceo    ho   st   t                O_iotr.ore                -Lhrfcc   nfrog  foretry    hutogo
orosheld tnI;I906,17,sdI177 dti.,                                                              finhiog a  pretg of total labor force ; lObO, 1070 sod.1076 dta.t
Per tatic srely o  etotto lares ea  devl     Protin  cotent o  per  spltu    oduity OterPctId.-Oorforce  n etLog, costructOot,   asufiturir
Iensopplp  offod Pee dyp.  fle  su pply of food Isdefined as ahn.  iR-                       and ele-triclty, ose          fndges.    pse.g.o   osllhcfore   O
olosseo   Dgrs   fitlpotiie   s   n   I)gaso   tsl  t                                        oc  lslo   er(ecr   E- toc l ,.sle  andI feotle-rrtccup.t ior  or
erd ter  Dowe  IllIs . those of  S gas  ef1 tote  preA   sod, 03 grao o
Nol Dedfuryr16-I       !17   n  17    as                                              1970,.. 1070, sd 00    ae   Toeielinyrhlpcortariet
Chid leas   i-AlVsa thalot      I a 7te Stra   ebe teel.1 po,tcl. dets  e 2 hounEdl   i          -to ithe totl   hoffoce
egr group 1-A  pears, te children  to ibia ege group; for sfost droelopf.-I   tog-i-    f  cour--r--P-i-1Y
triesdan .darledfre  ife nele;d   10770 sod 107017.  1dcfs.                               lAT-COttILO lfSTfIptPl'T-IOMIi,
atibsth  1960  197  ad p1978 dat.El-p.d.;1665190I    97d..                                       ..irOpd yRr,                            pp.f- .d                 5..65.    -
bsetauhsat96enf197        prdo19c8edhoseo.  pig, o.auoralnoo                                 tcmtdheult cettcojde   jn   eccio-reonrrl
f.tMl.i t  Mtheir  rect"o d pouAtir.-     Ith ef urban1 oc         dapolo -OuEtYi 7RGElt ROnepSrrytcc     u                              n-hr   fs aeyttps
foorsi  re .t.. dPoest.1 lortdrtmrb           te-,       eestrehueryh -yIcsorul coct...n...of. the dillry   Itba                                    --o f-Ondetld   ..... the  riro
uccestoocrns   itesa  (oneceve ofeouosoo-ottiths..sa
rarel - Susber of people  hotel, orbac, cod coral)~~~~~~~~~         ~             ~~ oeto   by. rore
p05  tnlcld   secllclo    o  dIsps-l  ucb o  uItrhouthretftftll ..cotolc.U,- c                                                          valcotcdyo ei tot   repatne
_,  il, rl.Ty'1.%  lr Ib.~~~~dyIl,000
ofhu.rrcrt Iadea ply-othrtb otec h-       ifocn    cyotoro  or  cth.h- hlds-c,                                       h~- -
pit proches sod.. oAiebisclal



- 23-                                     Annex I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 10,700 (mid-1978, thousands)
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,410 (1978)
Amont
(in millions,
U8$ 1979 for total.    Average Annual increase (%)            Share of GDF at Market Prices (%)
ratios in 17  prices)   (at constant 1975 prices)         (Current prices except 1980  1980 in 1977 prices)
Indicator                                1979iJ           1965-70  1970-75  1975-00            1965       1970       i975      j       p (prol.)
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product               18,506.8             3.6      -0.3      7.5            100.0      100.0      100.0       100.0
Agriculture                         1,758.0             1.5        -       4.7              9.6        7.2        5.7        9.4
Mining and industry                 5,329.8             3.5      -1.7      7.2             40.4       42.6       32.7        29.0
Services                           11,419.0             3.8       3.7      8.0             50.0       50.2       61.6       61.6
Consumption                          17,694.1             4.9       0.0      7.1             81.9       83.7       97.1        93.6
Gross investment                      1,849.3             3.4    -11.6    20.7               17.6       15.6        6.3        11.9
Exports of goods and NFS              3,399.0             3.3       2.5    14.2              13.3       15.0       19.8        18.8
Imports of goods and NFS              4,435.6            8.2       -2.7     16.o             12.8       14.3       23.2       24.3
Gross national savings                  256.3             4.3      -7.7      b/
Amount                                                  Composition of Merchandise Trade
(million U8$        Average Annual Increase (%)                   (Current Prices)
at current prices       (at constant 1975 prices)                                          1980
1979 i          1965-70   1970-75  1975-80           1965       1970       1975      Pro:.
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                   3,839.7             2.4       5.0    10.7             100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Copper                              1,oW.3             4.6        4.1      4.7             63.0       75.5       54.1       44.o
Agricultural goods                    537.3            5.8        2.1     23.2              3.5        2.9        5.4        8.1
Manufactured goods                    972.2            0.7       10.4    14.0              15.2       11.2       25.1       29.0
Other goods                           445.9           -2.9        0.6    21.0              18.3       10.4       15.4       1S.9
Merchandise imports                    44                 7.3      -1.6     16.3            100.0      10C.0      100.0      100.0
Food                                  484.8           -1.8       6.6      14.3             22.7       14.5       20.3       13.5
Nonfood consumer goods                715.1            12.5      -1.2     47.6              7.3       10.0        5.2        16.0
Petroleum, oil, lubricants            8S.7             9.1       o.6      10.6              2.7        3.0       14.2       19.5
Other intermediate + capital goods 2,354.1             8.7      -4.1      14.0             67.3       72.5       60.3       51.0
1970      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator (Us$)                   100.0     108.9    137.1    168.3    157.6    178.4
Exchange rate                          0.01      4.9       13.1      21.5      31.7      37.3
Export price index                   100.0    138.9    151.5    153.1    165.8    229.7
Import price index                   100.0    208.8    222.8    234.0    248.6    327.4
Terms of trade index                 100.0      66.5      68.o       65.4      66.7     70.2
1965      1970      1975
GENEAIL GOVERNMENT AS % OF GDP
Current revenue                       25.0      31.5      28.7
Current expenditure                   24.0      28.3      22.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)            +1.0      +3.2      +6.o
Capital expenditure                    6.6       5.7       4.5
Foreign financing                      0.0      -1.5      -2.9
1965-70   1970-75   1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                    3.4       0.0        7.4
GNP per capita growth rate (%)         1.5      -1.8        5.9
Energy consumption growth rate (%)    4.8       -0.3       n.a.
ICOR                                   3.3    -17.9        1.2
Marginal savings rate                  0.1       0.1        0.1
Import elasticity                      2.3       1.4       2.1
Gross national savinga increased from a negative US$38.4 million in 1975 to $538.4 million in 1980; both in 1975 prices.
Estimate.
LClDD
8/4/80



- 24 -                                Annex' I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMINT  EXTERNiAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Million UsiB at current prices)
Actual                                                            Pro ecoted
1970     1973    _1974       17        196       1977        1C978    lt7  e         1980       19br       198l2        1993
DAIAJIC2 OF PAYMENTS
Dit experts o" goois -nd services          -107       -313     -137      -597         82     -579      _1,005      -945      -1,307      -1,237      -1,318      -1,419
Lxp,rts of goods and services           1,280    1,427    2,399    1,758    2,34O    2,613            3,176    4,823        5,816       6,993       8,388       9,653
?n'oorrs of goodo noel servioeO         1,387    1,740    2,536    2,355    2,255    3,192            4,181    5,768        7,123       8,230       9,706      11,072
Tfet tr,o  rs                                  2        13        11        10       28        50          57        81          100         107         115         123
Corrent accovnt bs;rce                     -105      -300      -126      -557       110      -529        -948      -864      -1,207      _1,130      -1,203      -1,296
11ircto  r;,ate t-eestoent                     5       -4       -17        -4         7        30         178       250         275         301         325          348
^'117 losrs 'i;et!                          255        -9       -58       -78        52        36       1,294    1,641        2,021       1,003       1,113       1,163
5,ffioisi                                215        -8       -89      -180      -114      -138        -202         9          20         -92         _79         -48
Se" 's'                                    71        -1        31       102       166       174       1,496    1.632        2,001       1,095       1,192       1,211
th-er c-pital                               -72       202       156       395       286       456         100        21          11          11          11           13
ae,go  ,v reserves (- = i-crease)        -114       ill        45       27L      -455         7        -624   -1,048       -1,iOO        -185        -246        -228
TP-srpstiooal reserves (net)                409      -232      -277      -551       -96      -103         522    1,570        2,670       2,855       3,101       3,329
Reserve  as -noths of imports                  4       -2        _1        -3       -.5       -.4           2         3           4            4           4           4
_______________Actual________w
1970     1975      1976      1977       1978       1979  -
GP.953 D5SBOROE9OEBTS
Official grants                                 -         -
Gross disbursements of MLT loans               397      283       433       676       1483       1315
Concession-l                                 47        60        13        28         31         13
Bilateral                                    46        46        12        26         28          7
Ida                                          -         -         -
Other eultilateral                             1       14         1         2          5          6
Non-concessional                               350      223       420       648       1452       1302
Official export credits                      S1        46        97        45         50         79
IBRD                                         27        16        13        12         17         13
Other multilateral                             5       14        11        33         19         22
Private                                     267       147       297       558       1366       1188
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding and disbursed                2066     3730       3589    3662        4351       4767
cfficial                                   2910      2487       2309    2213        2075       1843
IBRD                                      111       129        136      141        152        158
IDA                                        19        22         22       22         21         21
Other                                    2780      2336       2151    2050        1902       1664
Private                                     844      1243       1280    1449        2276       2924
Undisbursed Debt                               468      632        657      979       1268        693
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                    241      501        757      886      .1216       1258
Interest                                     78       157        209      201        290        354
Payments as X of exports a/                   18.8     28.7       32.0    33.6        38.8       26.7
Average interest rate on new loans (2)         6.9       7.2        7.8     8.7       10.6       12.9
Official                                    6.5       6.1        6.4      7.8        8.0        7.5
Private                                      7.0      8.3        8.9    80.         10.7       13.2
Average maturity of ne. loans (years)         11.4     14.5       10.2      6.8        8.1        7.8
Official                                   19.7      19.4       16.8    17.3        15.7       18.7
Private                                    10.0      10.3        5.4      5.7        7.8        7.3
BANK GROUP EXPO1URE (X)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                            5.4       3.5        3.8      3.9        3.5        3.3
IBED diob-rsements!tot. gross disb.ets.    6.8          5.7         3.5     1.8        1.1        1.0
IBRD debt service/total debt service          8.0        1.0       1.0      1.0        1.1        0.9
IDA DOD/total DOD                             0.9       0.6        0.6      0.6        0.5        0.5
IDA disb.rsemonts/tot. gross disbsmts.         -         -          -        -          -          -
IDSA dcbt srrviee/toral debt service           -         -          -        -
As X of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Maturity structurs of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                       66.0
Principal due within 10 years                      98.3
Interest strurctre of debt outstanding
Interest doe within first year                     10.1
_/ The cebt servic- payments reflect the amounts actually paid rather than the amounts due
prior to renegotiation, which affects the figures for 1974, in particular.
b/ Estieate.
LC1ID
11/24/80



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CHILE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS * (as at September 30, 1979)
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit   Fiscal                                          Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year       Borrower    Purpose               Bank         IDA     Undisbursed
20 loans and one credit fully disbursed               263.7        19.0           -
1200      1976       Chile     Copper Sector           27.8          -          12.7
1350      1977       Chile     Agric. Credit           25.0          -           1.1
1351      1977       ENDESA    Power System Reh.       35.0          -         29.1
1832      1980       CHILE     Water Supply            36.0          -          36.0
1902      1981       CHILE     Agric. Credit           38.0          -         38.0
Total                                                 425.5        19.0        116.9
of which has been repaid                            146.1         2.0
Total now outstanding                                 279.4        17.0
Amount sold                              7.2
of which has been repaid               7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                        279.4        17.0
Total undisbursed                                                              116.9
(*) Prior to exchange adjustment
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at September 30,1979)
Fiscal                                    Type of            Amount in US$ million
Year                Obligor             Business             Loan  Equity  Total
1958, 1959     Empresa Minera de
and 1966          Mantos Blancos        Copper Mining         3.10   1.24    4.34
1959, and      Fideos y Alimentos
1965              Carozzi S.A.          Food products        1.50   0.15    1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965        Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.   Cement                 1.20   0.10    1.30
1963           Cia. Manufacturera
de Papeles y
Cartones              Pulp and Paper       3.00      -     3.00
1970           Minera Sagasca S.A.    Copper mining         10.45   0.45   10.90
Total gross commitments                                      19.25   1.94   21.19
less cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                                 19.25   0.70   19.95
Total Commitments now held by IFC                        -      1.24    1.24
Total undisbursed                                        -



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan No. 1200-CH  Copper Sector Project; US$27.8 million Loan of March 24,
1976; Effective Date:  June 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 31, 1982.
Project start-up was delayed by a major reorganization of CODELCO--
one of the project's executing agencies. The reorganization was an insti-
tution building measure which the Bank supported. Start-up was further delayed
by changes in the project's scope which the Government requested in late 1977.
The most important of these was the decision to provide electricity to CODELCO's
El Salvador mine by interconnecting it with the main power grid of the National
Power Company (ENDESA) instead of by rehabilitating the mine's dilapidated
thermal plant as the project originally envisaged. This move made sense
following ENDESA's decision in 1976 to extend the grid to a point relatively
close to the mine. The Executive Directors agreed to the requested modifica-
tions on a "non objection" basis on September 7, 1978. At the same time, the
loan's amount was reduced from US$33 million to the present US$27.8 million
because the approved changes entailed lower project foreign exchange costs.
The Loan's Closing Date was also extended to December 31, 1980. Since the
project's modification in 1978, its execution has improved considerably and is
now satisfactory. Mainly because of the long delivery period of specialized
equipment provided under the project, however, the Closing Date has been
extended to June 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1350-CH Livestock, Fruits, Vineyards and Agro-industry Credit
Project; US$25 million Loan of March 17, 1977; Effective
Date: June 15, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Loan disbursements have moved more quickly than expected at the
time of appraisal and as of September 30, 1980 only about US$1.1 million
remained undisbursed. Strong demand for credit amongst medium-sized farmers
resulted in fast disbursements to this group. As expected, subloans to
agrarian reform beneficiaries and "minifundistas" farming five basic ha. of
land or less have moved more slowly, mainly because of their slower absorptive
capacity. Both categories of small farmers have received about a third of
loan funds and the agreed-upon earmarking of 20 percent of project funds to
"minifundistas" is being met. Bank staff are closely monitoring this aspect
of performance.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan No. 1351-CH Sixth Power Project; US$35 million Loan of February 15, 1977;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
After repeated postponements in the effectiveness deadline, this
loan was declared effective on December 28, 1978. These postponements
were caused by the Government's unwillingness to raise tariffs sufficiently
to enable ENDESA, the National Power Company, to earn the agreed-upon rates
of return in 1977 and 1978. The Government, for its part, maintained that
ENDESA's tariffs were already satisfactory and that its rates of return
appeared low only because the company's asset base was overvalued. To resolve
this valuation issue, the Government retained the services of consultants,
satisfactory to the Bank, to review ENDESA's asset base. Their study, completed
in July 1978, indicated that the company's assets were over stated, albeit by
less than the Government had believed. Subsequently, the Bank and the Government
jointly reviewed ENDESA's financial projections and investment program. Both
sides agreed to a plan of tariff increases and other tax measures which would
assure the company's financial viability and enable it to make a satisfactory
contribution to its investments. Following this agreement, the loan was
declared effective. Because of the delays in effectiveness referred to above,
disbursements, to date, have been low, but are picking up. Extension of the
Closing Date by about a year will be required.
Loan No. 1832-CH Water Supply Project; US$38 million Loan of August 15, 1980;
Effective Date:  November 7, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30,
1985.
This loan has become effectively recently and the two executive
agencies under the project -- EMOS (the Santiago Metropolitan Sanitation
Service) and SENDOS (the National Sanitation Service) -- have already advanced
the preparation of bidding documents and the contracting of consultants.
Loan No. 1902-CH Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$36 million Loan of
November 3, 1980; Effective Date: not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This loan was approved on September 9, 1980 and is now expected to
become effective shortly. Disbursements would commence in early 1981.



- 28--                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
CHILE
HIGHWAY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: Approximately 1-1/2 years
(b) Project Prepared by: MOP with assistance of local and international
consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank: June 1976
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: February 2, 1978
(e) Post-Appraisal missions: March and October 1980
(f) Completion of Negotiations: November 4, 1980
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: March 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) By June 30, 1982, MOP would complete its vehicle weight control
program. MOP would, from time to time, also review with the Bank
the steps being taken to carry out the program (paragraph 49).
(b) The Government would adequately maintain all national and regional
roads and provide funds for this purpose and to renew and repair
MOP's road maintenance equipment (paragraph 56). Also, the Government
would cause MOP to provide the Bank, by April 30, 1981, for its
review and comments, a study of highway maintenance requirements for
1981-84 and a program for carrying out the study's recommendations.
To assist in carrying out the program, MOP would, by June 30, 1981,
hire consultants whose qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment were satisfactory to the Bank (paragraph 66);
(c) The Government would cause MOP to complete the second and fourth
tranches of the proposed reconstruction program for the Longitudinal
Highway by June 30, 1983 and by December 31, 1985, respectively
(paragraph 65).
(d) MOP would submit proposals for preinvestment studies to the Bank,
for approval, by March 31, 1981. The studies would get underway by
June 30, 1981 (paragraph 67).



q~~~~~~
-I                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHILE
==. \  f   =aMEg,co.ZA  ===                     tOkn =   .= p   = a                     ; .=-;= -              HIGHWAY   RECONSTRUCTION    PROJECT
.- 4                                                                                              9    !: :   Q ,  V *  ;:  .--: . i . Main  Highway Network within the Project Area
nt                                                                                            =;1 '$=ffS=Xv===itqv o  moo  ^0 = . 
-g*E~~~~~~~~~~~C
*   ,    .   .= =,.     ,,,   '  FIPST HIGHWAY PROJECT (Coe.!  4CH/ Loon 287-CH)
d   :5!' 5E./T P55:1 =,      "  * 't  =, ' {-    i  = -                                              , !'                 CON- II  ON -TR 11T-         -111PM-E  11.1
-     e ,  ,:j 2i.,=* >   : ,SECOND HIGHWAY PROJECT Ioon 5tH-OH)
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT Loon E8R-CH-)
=  =                              -- EToHonon                                no>                     - ;:W   $  tf =_ =   f    fX   (   i   ST  ;iS  HIGHWAY RECONSTRUTION PROJECT
,oohor              ON ==L EL    -,          Ks                          EPROFOTED HIGHY AG REPIOBIL nOTION   i 0on D-  - T    (   InF.i )
EXISTING ROADS
-   Roved Rood
RILGELEETTES-                                                                           Toil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   -- E.q  Rood
-                                     -        -     -n----- RtfT5 ';0 '  F C ' RAICROADS
- -                 p  3    *      R            t:); . sN5  no  = REGIONAL  OUDNDARIES
-   SANTIAGO   )  -            ~~INTERNATIONAL RGUNDARIES
04~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
tf~~~~~~~~~~~~~TnOoon -t0       t     X           F      '                          n%(   n oYd  
Z;                              N Y =   EshJF m 6,--=1  %<  >   -   j JrROnNO             o n
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 g                                                                                         Jl Sw;iX,:99.   ERRTwR'F un0i-==7 
31 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
<   =   1  W  =;  <<?->-. X g-,'r rpX c p Se ; ;;iC Cnn 4.                                                           old n\
P.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ o
9 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NP                                                                0 h0 ion -;  n   Too no =_  eloXRXQ
_ polIo                    _      O_Noon                                               On             _             On_oo  00   E =t#\sR O96R    k   
no . >-   <<   >    Ien >  gl   ;W1E'g'tE W  E   dZ   ANCTt7Oi
bER   +  b; . 1; ; < < 9XW () g iOR                                                                                                        / ;P.
PAPI -n /
s \ -- ; - l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~on                                               o      < n         0E;g0 no  i )Zfd
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~001 TOE- JTE
Neruem ;e o  / r -   TEhEUtt    _    a ~              XE - tFe  g      q  S  = 0 l      j0 l               D u ol/             D A                     t        ES _
Itn
,.0  W  a  ;,  S *,, ---- T   -- -- --J>.; ,RW .H r .; f C I W noo_-7---   0                                                0
_______________________________________________                          r                                                  po            non



