OFFICIAL    i'LOAN NUMBER 1927 CH
DoculfvTs
Loan Agreement
(Highway Reconstruction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                 2            , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1927 CH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   46,ze   'Z               , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF CHILE (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "MOP" means the Borrower's Ministerio de Obras
Publicas or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank may establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause MOP to carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, administrative and financial prac-
tices, and the Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out Part A of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause MOP to employ engineering
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment (including terms of reference) shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-3-
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for'this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. Except as the parties hereto may otherwise
agree, the design standards for highway reconstruction under
Part A of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.06. (a) By April 30, 1981 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall cause MOP to


﻿provide the Bank, for its review and comments, its study of
the Borrower's highway maintenance requirements for the years 1981
to 1984 (inclusive), together with its program for carrying out
the recommendations of such study, as appropriate.
(b) By June 30, 1981 or such later date as may be acceptable
to the Bank, the Borrower shall cause MOP:
(i) to commence the carrying out of the program
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section;
and
(ii) to employ engineering consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of
employment (including terms of reference) shall be
satisfactory to the Bank for the purpose of assist-
ing in carrying out such program.
Section 3.07. (a) By March 31, 1981 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall cause MOP to
prepare and furnish to the Bank for its approval, in accordance
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, its proposals
for preinvestment studies under Part C of the Project.
(b) By June 30, 1981 or such later date as may be accept-
able to the Bank, the Borrower shall: (i) initiate the implementa-
tion of the preinvestment studies under Part C of the Project
as agreed with the Bank; and (ii) in order to assist in such
implementation, employ engineering and transportation consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for


﻿-5-
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause MOP to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with practices appropriate for public work operations
in the territory of the Borrower.


﻿-6-
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall ensure adequate day-
to-day maintenanc2 of its national and regional highway system,
and cause all necessary routine repairs thereof to be made
promptly, all in accordance with appropriate engineering practices
and economic standards.
(b) In order to carry out its obligations pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, promptly as
needed:
(i) provide the required funds, facilities, services
and other resources; and
(ii) renew its road maintenance equipment and carry out
adequate maintenance and repairs thereof in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering and financial
practices.
Section 4.05. (a) Not later than June 30, 1983 or such
later date as may be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall
carry out or cause to be carried out the Second Tranche (as
defined in Schedule 2 to this Agreement) in conformity with
appropriate engineering practices and the Borrower shall provide
the funds and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Not later than December 31, 1985 or such later date as
may be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall carry out or
cause to be carried out the Fourth Tranche (as defined in Schedule
2 to this Agreement) in conformity with appropriate engineering
practices and the Borrower shall provide the funds and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 4.06. (a) By June 30, 1982 or such later date
as may be acceptable to the Bank, the Borrower shall, in accord-
ance with the standards set forth in its Decree No. 158 of Janu-
ary 29, 1980, cause MOP to complete its program for the control of
weight of vehicles in the territory of the Borrower, including the
issuance of operating instructions for MOP's vehicle weighing
stations and the adoption of a schedule of fines for violations of
the terms of such Decree.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MOP to review with the Bank,
from time to time, the steps being taken to carry out the program
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date 1, 1L?/                  , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Public Works of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Condition3:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Works
Morande 59
Santiago
Chile
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINOBRAS                           40777
Santiago                           40778
40779
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 8 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
Countersigned on behalf                REPUBLIC OF CHILE
of the Controller General
and of the Treasurer General
of the Republic of Chile
By IS                               By . I
Authorized Representative           Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
62t.16  Regional Vice President
LatliAmerica and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works               28,700,000        45%
(2) Consulting services:
(a) Supervision of        2,300,000        100% of foreign
construction                           expenditures
and 45% of local
expenditures
(b) Maintenance             420,000        60%
program
(c) Pre-investment          480,000        60%
studies
(3) Vehicles and office          150,000
and laboratory
equipment
(a) directly                               100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(b) locally pro-                           80% of local
duced and                              expenditures
procured
(4) Unallocated                9,950,000
TOTAL          42,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 11 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the third part of the Borrower's program to
reconstruct approximately 805 km of its Longitudinal Highway so as
to ensure adequate service levels on this Highway. The first part
of this program, completed in 1979, involved the reconstruction of
about 240 km. This program's second part (the Second Tranche)
involves civil works and related supervision for the reconstruc-
tion of about 170 km. The program's fourth part (the Fourth
Tranche) involves civil works and related supervision for the
reconstruction of about 145 km.
Besides reconstructing other critical sections of the Bor-
rower's Longitudinal Highway, the purposes of the Project are
to strengthen MOP's highway maintenance capabilities and to
prepare transport preinvestment studies.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Civil works and related supervision for the reconstruc-
tion of a total of about 250 km of the Longitudinal
Highway in various sections thereof as set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule.
Part B:   Assessment of the Borrower's highway maintenance re-
quirements and carrying out an appropriate highway
maintenance program (including the relevant training of
MOP staff, as required).
Part C:   Preparation of preinvestment studies of the Borrower's
transport infrastructure requirements.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 13 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Sections of the Longitudinal Highway
for purposes of Part A of the Project
Sections 1/
From about   To about     Approximate km
Designation 2/     km           km 3/   to be reconstructed
N-8          271           244            27.2
N-3          161           139            21.5
N-2           99            73            26.2
C-6          229           260            31.3
C-7          260           288            27.1
C-10         424           451            23.2
S-1          476           505     )      42.8
s-2          508           529     )
S-4          583           609     )      52.4
S-5          644           669     )
TOTAL         251.7
1/   Km 0 is located at Santiago's Plaza de Armas.
2/   "N" signifies a section of the Longitudial Highway north
of Km 0. "C" and "S" signify sections of such Highway
south of Km 0.
3/   The kilometrages are the approximate limits of the Sections
within which reconstruction is to take place.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 1984
through   March 1, 1996                       1,750,000
* To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
zCCA.Section 4.00), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 15 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.0! (b)40
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     1.35%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            3.70%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     6.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                     8.00%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                     9.25%


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procu-ement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Bidders for the civil works under Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
4.   To the extent practicable, identical or similar items shall
be grouped for purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procure-
ment.
5.   The vehicles to be procured shall be in accordance with
a description thereof satisfactory to the Bank.
6.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,


﻿- 17 -
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods,
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded, and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the
territory of the Borrower equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the territory of the Borrower.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿- 18 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of office and laboratory equipment
may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank;
provided, however, that the description of such equipment is
satisfactory to the Bank and that the price of the contracts so
procured shall not, in the aggregate, exceed $35,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequLified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works or vehicles:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to


﻿- 19 -
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   For all contracts financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Borrower shall advise the Bank of any material modi-
fication or waiver of the terms and conditions thereof or the
issuing of any one or more change orders pursuant thereto which
would increase the cost of the contract by more than ten per cent


﻿- 20 -
as well as the reasons therefor. If it determines that any such
action is or would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, the Bank shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 21
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards for the Longitudinal Highway
Items                         Unit
Design Speed                                 km/h             80
Minimum Radius of Curvature                    m             300
Platform Width                                 m              12
to 13
Pavement Width                                 m               7
Shoulders: Fills                               m               2.5
to 3
Cuts                               m               2.5
to 3
Ditch Width                                    m               1.2
Maximum Grade                                   %              5
Exceptional Grade                              %               7
Axle Load Design for Pavements               ton              12
Axle Load Design for Bridges (AASHTO)                      HS-20-44


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify Lhat the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        198 L
FOR SECRETARY


