                        ReportNo. 38800 BR
                                       -




The Inspection Panel          e

     FinalEligibility Reportand
          Recommendation


Brazil: Paranii Biodiversity Project
         (GEF TF 051007)



           March 1,2007


                                  The InspectionPanel


                FinalEligibilityReportand Recommendation

                 Brazil: ParanriBiodiversityProject(PBP)
                                  (GEF TF 051007)




   1. On July 10, 2006, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
       Inspection (the "Request"), dated June 23, 2006, related to the Brazil: Parana
       Biodiversity Project (PBP) (the "Project")             financed under the Global
       Environmental Facility (GEF Trust Fund 051007). The Request was submitted by
       a non-governmental organization (NGO) based inthe State of Parana, Brazil. The
       Requesters asked that their names and their organization's name be kept
       confidential.

   2. On July 11,2006, the Panel notified the Board of Executive Directors and the
       World Bank's President that it received the Request and registered it as IPN
       RQ06/04.' The Panel received Bank Management Response to the Request for
       Inspectionon August 10,2006.

   3. After the Request for Inspection was submitted to the Panel, Management agreed
       to carry out a Technical Audit of the Project and the biodiversity conditions inthe
        State, as the Requesters had previously asked in order to help address their
       concerns about the Project. In addition, the Government of Parana prepared a
       draft proposal to re-orient strategic directions and activities under the Project to
       respondto concerns ofthe Requesters.

   4. The Panel visited Brazil from August 26 to September 2, 2006. It met with the
       Requesters, with federal Government officials in Brasilia, with state and local
       Government officials in Curitiba, SBo Jorge do Patrocinio and other
       municipalities in the State of Parana, and with Bank staff in the Bank Office in
       Brasilia. During its visit, the Panel observedthat the Bank's proposal to conduct a
       Technical Audit and the above-mentionedGovernment's draft proposal generated
       a constructive and potentially fruitful dialogue between Government authorities,
       the Requesters and Bank staff regarding possible steps to change the direction of
       Project implementation in a manner that could address the issues and concerns
       raisedby the Request.

IThe InspectionPanel, OperatingProcedures,(August 1994), 7 17


                                                                                          1

    5. On these bases, on September 11, 2006, the Panel submitted its Report and
         Recommendation to the Executive Directors and stated that, at that time, it didnot
        take a position on whether the Request merited an investigation. The Panel
         recommended to the Board "that it approve the Panel's proposal to refiain fFom
         issuing a recommendation at this time on whether an investigation is warranted in
         this case, but rather await further developments on the matters raised in the
         Requestfor Inspection." The Panel stated that it expected "to be able to make a
         determination by February 2007 as to whether to recommendan investigation."

    6. On October 3, 2006, the Board o f Executive Directors approved the Panel's
         recommendation on a non-objection basis.

    7. The present Eligibility Report contains the Panel's Final Recommendation on
         whether an investigation of the issues raised in the Request for Inspection is
         warranted.


A. The Project

     8. The Atlantic Rain Forest o f Brazil (Mata Atldntica) originally ranged for
         thousands o f kilometers through 17 States along the eastern coast o f B r a ~ i l .It             ~
         was, and is, isolated by the ocean to the east and drier ecosystems to the west,
         north and south, so that its level o f unique biodiversity is also very high. Once
         destroyed, it will be gone forever. Presently, over 92% o f the Atlantic Rain
         Forest has beencleared and replaced by agriculture and urbandevelopment.

    9. Parana, about 200,000 km2inarea, was originally mostly covered with part o f the
         southern extension of the Atlantic Forest where the conifer Arauchia angustifolia
         mixes in with the broad-leaved species forming one o f the main dominant tree
         species of the ecosystems. These trees are conifers, like pines, but very different,
         since they evolved inthe Southern Hemisphere. They are also large, striking and
         uniqueinappearance, andwere adoptedas the symbolofParana.

     10. The presence o f Araucaria is an indicator of soil fertility. Large parts o f Parana
         have very fertile soils
         America in a very favorable growing climate. Several o f the broad-leaved trees
                    -                 -  among the most productive agricultural lands o f South

         associated with Arauchria are also highly valuable as timber. For much o f the
         twentieth century, Parana supported a booming timber industry based on these
         species. Since the forest area was almost all very good for farmland, it was
         converted, and the sustainability o f native forest was foregone.


 Inspection Panel Report and Recommendation, Brazil: ParanhBiodiversity Project (GEF TF 051007),
September 11,2006, Report No. INSP/R2006-0005, p. 16.
 It was, and its remnants are, tropical and sub-tropical moist andwet forests, tall, closed canopy, and
generally broad-leaved forests. As is typical o fthis type o f forest, the level o fbiodiversity inall the
differenttypes of organisms is very high.


2

     11. It should be noted that Parana has developed a large program o f plantingpines
         native to the southeastern United States for industrial purposes. These exotic
         pines supply some o f the processing capacity that Parana built up for its native
         forests. They are planted because they grow faster than the native species. There
         is also a very serious corollary problem o f natural invasion o f exotic pines into
         natural grasslands. Invasions of introduced exotic species can seriously harm or
         destroy the original biodiversity o f native ecosystems.

     12. As a result, Parana has its own .biodiversity crisis. O f the original 76,000 km2of
         Arauchia forest in Parana, 0.8 % (60,000 hectares-ha) remained in 2001.
         Although the Iguaqu National Park effectively protects 187,000 ha o f Atlantic
         Forest in the southwest o f Parana, there i s no comparable protected area in the
         "Arauchria Zone" inParana. It is estimated that less than 60,000 ha of this unique
         ecosystem remain, all o f it inrelatively small and isolated fragment^.^

     13. The Project aims "(a) to support biodiversity conservation and sustainable
         natural resource management in the Biodiversity Corridors with a view toprotect
         two highly threatened ecoregions in the Recipient's territory: the Inland Atlantic
         Rainforest and the Arauchia Forest regions; and (b) to design and implement a
         modelfor improving biodiversity conservation in the Recipient's territ~ry."~

     14. The Project's four components are:                    Education and Capacity Building;
         Biodiversity Management; Control and Protection; and Project Administration.
         These four components aim, inter alia, at creating ecological corridors by
         connecting and upgrading protected and interstitial areas that consolidate the
         corridor and facilitate the protection o f biodiversity. Two corridors in the inland
         Atlantic Rainforest and one inthe Araucaria Forest, covering a total of 2.5 million
         ha, are to be created under the Project.6One corridor, the Arauchria Corridor, i s to
         be created inthe Arauchia Forest.

     15. The Requestprimarily addresses the activities included inthe Project Component
         11, Biodiversity Management. This component provides for four types of activities
         aimed at consolidating the corridors and safeguarding the biodiversity. These
         activities include incorporating "fragments               of natural vegetation into the
         corridors through the establishment of [privately and publicly owned] protected



 Brazil, at the Federal level, and Parana, as a State, have promulgatedvarious decrees and regulations
requiringprivate land owners to conserve as forest a certain proportion o ftheir land. Evena general
analysis o fthese decrees and their effectiveness is a complex undertaking. Less than 1% o fthe Araucciria
forest remains and it is fragmented into small patches.
 Global Environmental Facility, Trust FundGrant Agreement between the State o f Parana and the IBRD
acting as implementing agency o fthe GEF, (May 29,2002), Schedule 2 (Project Description).
 The corridors inthe Atlantic Forest ecoregions are: the Caiud-ZZhaGrande Corridor which follows the
Rio Paranh between the Caiua State Ecological Station and the National Park o f Ilha Grande, and the
Iguap-Paranci Corridor, which includes two protected areas and links the Iguaqu National Park with the
PoligonalEquivalente initiative to recover areas inand around the Itaipu hydroelectric dam.


                                                                                                          3

         areas," by increasing "connectivity of existing fragments and protected areas
         through microcatchment management," and by restoring "degradedareas.                "'
    16.On February 2, 2007, the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Grant Agreement)
         financing   the PBP Project was amended. Part B of the Project, Biodiversity
         Management, now provides for, inter alia, "Financing Biodiversity Subprojects
         through Biodiversity Subprojects Grants to beneficiary NGOs." The subprojects
         consist of research,       environmental education, biodiversity conservation
         infrastructure, and creation of private protected areas.8 According to the
         amendment, the Project Operation Manual is to be updated to include, inter alia,
         the Model Form for the subprojects, the selection criteria, approval procedures,
         implementation, andmonitoring and evaluation guidelines for the subprojects.

B. Financing

    17. The Project is supported by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant
         TF051007 for SDR 6.5 million, approximately US$ 8 million.' The Board of
         Executive Directors approved the Grant Agreement between the State of Paranh,
         Brazil, and the IBRD on May 21, 2002. The Agreement became effective on
         August 27, 2002. The closing date, originally set for January 31, 2007, has been
         extendedto January 31,2009.

C. The Request

    18. The Request for Inspection is summarized extensively in the Panel's original
         Report and Recommendationissued on September 11,2006. A brief summary of
         the Request follows for purposes of the present Final Report and
         Recommendation.

    19. In their submission to the Panel," the Requesters state that they viewed the
         approval of the PBP as positive, because it primarily aimed at preserving
         biodiversity inseverely threatened natural areas inthe State o f Parana, such as the
         Atlantic andthe Araucciria Forest.

    20. However, the Requesters claim that "methodological changes" made to the
         Project during implementation after it was approved resulted in a change in
         Project activities, which will prevent the achievement of the original Project

7ProjectAppraisalReport(PAD), April 25,2002, ReportNo: 24066-BR, p. 12.
8Brazil: GEF GrantNo TF051007 (Paran6 BiodiversityProject) SecondAmendment, February2,2007.
9GlobalEnvironmentFacility Trust FundGrant Agreement, Brazil Paran6BiodiversityProject, May 29,
2002, p. 7.
loThe Request is composedof a formal letter to the Panel, dated June 23, 2006, and a letter with annex,
dated March21, 2006, sent to the Inspection Panel and the World Bank by an umbrellaNGO, the NGO
Network of the Atlantic Forest-RMA (Rede de ONGs da MataAtlantica). The Requesters askedthat the
March2006 letter with accompanyingannexbe considered an integralpartofthe Request.The Requestfor
Inspection is attached as Annex Ito the original Inspection Panel Report and Recommendation dated
September 11,2006, ReportNo. INSP/R2006-0005.


4

       objectives and will worsen the current situation, thereby intensifying the loss o f
       biodiversity. The Requesters believe that the Project focus has shifted: the
       activities planned under the Project to protect against the destruction o f the last
       existing preserved natural areas in the State o f ParanB, such as the Arauciria
       Forest, are currently not being implemented. Rather, they state that the Project
       resources are being used for the recovery of degraded areas. The Requesters
       believe that if this restoration work i s continued, these areas may achieve native
       vegetation areas, but there is no guarantee that they will have significant
       biodiversity, the preservation o f which i s the original focus o f the Project. The
       Requesters argue that a review o f the Project's current activities against the
       performance indicators established during Project preparation shows the changes
       inProjectimplementationabout which they complain.

   21. The Requesters believe that the "misdirected implementation" o f the Project may
       miss the opportunity to minimize the loss of biodiversity of the biomass in
       question, where the Project i s implemented.The Requesters believe that it would
       take decades to transform degraded areas with low biodiversity into mature
       environments, while the "destruction of natural areas is ongoing, in some cases
       with the endorsement of the Government of the State of Paranci through its
       licensing unit, the Parand Environmental Institute (IAP)."

   22. The Requesters further claim that, because o f illegal deforestation, implantationo f
       monocultures o f trees and agricultural products after clear cut deforestation, the
       destruction o f preserved areas i s proceeding rapidly. In light o f this, the
       Requesters believe that the Project should work directly with the owners o f those
       lands that are crucially important for the conservation o f biodiversity. The
       Requesters state that "the absence of a policy for protecting these better-
       conserved areas indicates a trend that chronologically is not supported in terms
       ofresults.771

   23. The Panel notes that the above claims may constitute non-compliance by the Bank
       with various provisions o fthe following operational Policies andProcedures:

          OP/BP 4.01                    Environmental Assessment
          OPBP 4.04                     Natural Habitats
          OPBP 4.36                     Forestry (1993)
          OPBP 13.05                    Project Supervision




D.ManagementResponse


11Request, DeforestationinParanB, p. 5.


                                                                                          5

    24. Management Response is summarized extensively in the Panel's original Report
         and Recommendation issued on September 11, 2006.12 A brief summary of the
         Responsefollows for purposes ofthe present Final Report and Recommendation.

    25. Management states that the Project was designed to help demonstrate that
         ecological corridors are a usefkl means for preserving biodiversity in productive
         landscapes, such as those in the State o f Parana. The ecological corridors
         approach was chosen, after considering other options, because it allows
         strengtheningthe conservation units (UC - Unidades de Conservaqiio) previously
         established within the two ecoregions targeted by the Project. The ecoregions,
         without the PBP, would remain isolated, with consequent loss o f genetic diversity
         andultimately extinctionofspecies.

    26. With respect to Project implementation, Management states that resources have
         been employed in activities consistent with the project design financing plan.
         However, Management acknowledges that during the first half o f Project
         implementation the biodiversity conservation activities under the PBP were
         postponed because o f an 18-month delay related to procurement procedures
         betweenthe new state administrationinParanaand the Bank.

    27. Management claims that the implementation o f the Project activities in the
         corridors created in the Atlantic forest has proceeded according to the plans,
         although the situation in the Araucaria forest is different, because the protected
         areas are limited and there is a highlevel o f fragmentationo f forest remnants.

    28. Contrary to the Requesters' claims, Management stated that the Project is working
         with farmers on biodiversity issues, has helped landowners to establish private
         protected areas, and has identified other incentives to promote biodiversity
         conservation. Management also arguedthat the Project complies with OP/BP 4.01
         on EnvironmentalAssessment.

    29. Management Response contended that the Bank was aware that the Araucaria
         forest i s under threat, but, before the Requesters' March 21, 2006 letter, the Bank
         had not received any report from the Requesters or other parties about incidents o f
         destruction o f native areas described inthe Request for Inspection.

    30. Management further stated that the Project complies with the policy on
         Supervision OP/BP 13-05. In its Response, Management also proposed "Next
         Steps" to address the Requesters' concerns, i.e. intensive supervision and
         assistance to the State for improving project implementation and for identifying
         mechanisms for biodiversity conservation inproductive areas.




l2
 Bank Management Responseto Requestfor Inspection Panel Review o fthe Brazil: ParantiBiodiversity
Project (GEF TF 051007), August 10,2006, in Inspection Panel Report and Recommendation dated
September 11,2006, Report No. INSP/R2006-0005Annex 11.


6

   31. Management concluded that the destruction o f the Arauciiria is an issue to which
       the Bank will pay increasing attention in the fbture, but also stated that incidents
       of deforestation raised in the Request do not imply the Bank's noncompliance
       with its operational policies, OP/BP 4.01,4.04, 4.36 and 13.05.

E.Assessment

   32. The Panel reviewed the Request and Management Response. In late July 2006,
       after the Request for 1nspection.was submitted to the Panel, Management agreed
       to carry out a Technical Audit of the Project and the biodiversity conditions inthe
       State, as the Requestershad previously asked for. Inaddition, the Government o f
       Paranii prepared a draft proposal to re-orient strategic directions and activities
       under the Project to respond to concerns o f the Requesters. This proposal called
       for, inter alia, increased focus and actions on conserving remaining remnants o f
       the Arauciria forests.

   33. The Panel visited Brazil the first time from August 26 to September 2, 2006. It
       met with the Requesters, with Federal Government officials inBrasilia, with state
       and local Government officials in Curitiba, Siio Jorge do Patrocinio and other
       municipalities in the State o f Parana, and with Bank staff in the Bank Office in
       Brasilia.

   34. During this visit, the Panel observed that the Bank's proposal to conduct a
       Technical Audit and the above-mentioned Government's draft proposal generated
       a constructive and potentially fruitful dialogue between Government authorities,
       the Requesters, and Bank staff regardingpossible steps to change the direction of
       Project implementation in a manner that could address the issues and concerns
       raised by the Request.

   35. On September 11,2006, the Panel submitted its Report and Recommendationto
       the Executive Directors. The Panel stated that, while the Request and the
       Requesters met the eligibility criteria set forth in the Resolution that established
       the InspectionPanel andthe 1999 Clarifications, the Panel didnot take a position,
       at that time, on whether the Request merited an investigation. The Panel rather
       recommended to the Board "that it approve the Panel's proposal to refrain from
       issuing a recommendationat this time on whether an investigation is warranted in
       this case, but rather await further developments on the matters raised in the
       Requestfor Inspection." The Panel stated that it expected "to be able to make a
       determination by February 2007 as to whether to recommend an investigation."      l3
       The Board approved this recommendationon October 3,2006.

   36. Pursuantto the recommendation approved by the Board, the Panel visited Brazil a
       second time to prepare its final recommendation on whether the issues raised in
      the Request merit an investigation. The Panel's Chairperson EdithBrown Weiss,


l3
 InspectionPanelReportandRecommendation,p. 16.


                                                                                          7

        Panel Member Tongroj Onchan and the Panel's consultants Eduardo Abbott and
        Ralph Schmidt visited Brazil from January 21-26, 2007. During their visit, the
        Panelmet with the Requesters, Project officials, Bank staff in Brasilia, NGOs and
        members of civil society. The Panelalso hadthe opportunity to visit areasthat the
        Project ImplementationUnit(PIU) deemedrelevantto the Project.

    37. The Panel especiallywishes to thank the Requestersfor their assistanceduring the
        Panel' s visit, the Country Director and his staff for facilitating the Panel's visit
        and arrangementsinBrasilia andthe PIUfor their assistanceinParana.

    38. The Panel understands the concerns of the Requesters for the reasons noted
        below. The Requesters, the Government and Bank Management agree that the
        Arauciiria Mixed Forest remnants in advanced successional stage are very rare
        and now reducedto about 60,000 ha or 0.8 % of their original area, although there
        are estimates that the exact area may be a little higher or lower. They note that the
        threat of the complete destruction of these remnants is very high and that the
        highest priority for biodiversity conservation in the State should be to prevent
        their destruction.

    39. As noted above, the area of the Arauciria Mixed Forest is largely an area of rich
        soils and very favorable climate for agricultural and timber production. Global
        economic drivers are involved in crops like soybeans and exotic pine production.
        The productivity is such(inthe case oftimber one ofthe highest inthe world) that
        a single hectare may be worth thousands or tens of thousands of dollars. Although
        every natural forest remnant o f 10 or 100 ha is very valuable, a viable State or
        National conservation area would require thousands of hectares. Thus the
        acquisition costs for conservationlandinParanaare presently very high.

    40. Environmental protection in Brazil is supportedby a substantiallegal framework.
        The Federal Constitution dedicates an entire chapter to the environment and, in
        Art. 225, explicitly provides for the preservation of the Atlantic Forest as part of
        the national wealth. The Forest code of 1965 (Law 4.771) and the National
        Environmental Policy Act of 1981 (Law 6.938) are pillars of modern Brazilian
        environmental law. The use and protection of the Atlantic Forest is mainly
        regulated by Federal Decree 750 (February 10, 1993), and the National
        CONAMA Resolution 728 (May 24, 2001), both of which prohibit cutting,
        exploiting or suppressing Atlantic Forest's vegetation except in cases of public
        utility projects or on a small non-commercial scale.l4 Federal Regulation 507
        (December 20, 2002), also applicable, strengthens Federal Decree 750 by
        defining, inter alia, the areas that may become Federally Protected Areas. The
        Forest Code further includes provisions related to Legal reserve^,'^ Areas de



l4Management Response, 7 52.
l5The Forest Code defines the Legal Reserve as an area located within rural property or possession,
necessary for the sustainable use o fnaturalresources, conservation and rehabilitation o f ecological
processes, biodiversity Conservation and protection o fnative flora and fauna. Use o f vegetation ina Legal


8

          Preserva@io      Permanente (APP),l6 and management o f planted forests. Inplanted
          forests, exploration is permitted but, pursuant to the Forest Code, their
          management i s subject to "strict application of environmental laws", especially in
          vulnerable areas such as the Atlantic Forest. The removal o f storage or timber
          requires an authorization from the relevant environmental authority, while
          removing any vegetation inAPPs i s prohibited.

   41. However, as in any society, the potential for economic gains, and the natural
          feeling o f rural landowners that they should make decisions on their own land,
          would lead to difficulties in enforcing such regulations. In Paranh, for example,
          Arauchia, and other protected hardwood trees, may be removed if they are dead.
          Across extensive rural areas it is very difficult to tell if single trees were dead,
          although large movements o f logs would certainly be questionable.                  Also the
          delineation in the field o f the boundaries o f the forest covered areas i s a massive
          undertaking which has not been done, so that "chipping away" at forest areas
          would be very difficult to detect. Notwithstanding this, parties interviewedby the
          Panel observed that the Parana Government i s taking important measures to
          strengthen its enforcement capacities for these regulations. All parties agree that
          the job i s difficult and challenging.

   42. The Panel observed a new biodiversity conservation tool taking form in Paranh.
          Federal and State legislation require that land owners maintain at least 20 % of
          their land under forest cover. Paranh State regulations now require that land
          owners with less than this forest cover work toward that coverage by 2018. A
          systemis beingdeveloped where landowners without adequate forest cover could
          pay other land owners for "forest cover services". In other words, land owners
          with more than 20% natural forest cover could sell their "excess" forest cover to
          those with less who would rather purchase it than develop it themselves. Non-
          profit groups are working on brokering such biodiversity "transfer trading" deals.
          This system is coupled with a State law permitting "Private Property Natural
          Reserves,"       which can have permanent legal status much like conservation
          easements.

    43. Underlying these measures for biodiversity conservation in Parana is the question
          o f who will bear the immediate costs.                 If the Federal Government were to
          establish national parks, it would be the citizens o f Brazil. If the State acquired
          conservation land, it would be the taxpayers o f the State. Ifit were done through
          the 20% legal reserve (including trading) it would be the land owners o f the State.
          The Panel notes that if international funds, public or private, could be utilized,
          citizens o f other countries could bear some o f the costs.




16According to the Forest Code, anAPP is a protected area, which may or maynot be covered with native
vegetation, which has the environmentalfunction ofpreservingwater resources,the landscape, geological
stability, biodiversity, flow of flora and fauna, soil and well beingof humanpopulations.Management
Response, at note 13.


                                                                                                     9

  44. In response to deforestation and forest degradation, parties agree that the State
      Government needs to continue to strengthen enforcement o f the new forest
     regulations.     The Requesters and other environmental groups urge that
      enforcement be greatly strengthened and focused more on the advanced
      succession natural forest areas, especially inthe AraucariaMixedForest.

  45. Although provided for in its original design, direct support for enforcement was
     apparently not a priority during initial Project implementation. The Panel notes
     that savingthe most valuable and rare natural areas i s a basic priority o f the State
     Biodiversity Conservation Program. Bank staff informed the Panel that the new
     phase o f the Project would include some support for this, and also that the State
      Government understood the issue very well, agreed with a new priority focus, and
      intended to implement this.

  46. One important issue that came to the Panel's attention i s that to date there i s
      apparently no systematic inventory o f the most important biodiversity properties,
     nor any inventory of their ownership and status, which i s needed to develop an
      action plan for their conservation. Earlier projects produced valuable work only
      on the extent and location o f different forest types. The Panel was told this was
     now being worked on, but it would seem to have been an obvious priority from
     the outset. Since this is a situation where valuable eco-systems are being lost,
     every delay inaction represents a lost opportunity.

  47. The Requesters have emphasized that many actions .supportedby the Project, such
      as farmer training sessions or tree planting on bare land, are positive, but should
     not have utilized scarce funds that could have been used for valuable natural area
     protection. As stated above, the'Panel believes that an overwhelming majority o f
     biodiversity experts would agree that the latter should be the highest program
     priority. The Panel would like to note that there may be debate, and even trial and
     error, inmany forest eco-system biodiversity conservation programs regarding the
     extent to which, and how, a program should work with local communities living
     within or near eco-systems with important biodiversity. The situation varies
     according to local circumstances. Often natural eco-systems provide very
     important benefits for local communities, especially indigenous people, and
     should be protected from "outsiders"          seeking quick profit opportunities.
     Contrarily, there are also many cases where very poor people needto utilize eco-
     systems for immediate needs in a way that lowers the level o f biodiversity. An
     important point i s that poor local communities are often closely involved with
     high biodiversity value ecosystems. Projects, if they are to be effective, needto
     consider the needs o f those communities while working toward conserving
     biodiversity. Thus almost every project explores strategies to find win-win
     situations where local communities benefit through poverty reduction, while
     biodiversity is protected. These strategies may take myriad forms according to
     local situations.




10

   48. The Parana Biodiversity Project devoted, and will continue to devote, a large
        portion o f its resources to working with agricultural communities in the three
        project Corridors. The Panel no.testhat these activities are usehl and appropriate
        as long as they are balanced with equally effective actions to protect the last
        remnants o f the valuable biodiversity o f Parana's forests. The Panelobserves that
        this may have not been the case for the past several years, but that Project
        management i s aware o f the problem and has expressed a strong desire to amend
        the situation.

   49. Another closely related issue raised by the Requesters i s the geographic focus o f
        the Project. The Project has and will continue to work in three corridors. The
        south central corridor contains Araucaria Mixed Forest and the others do not. The
        Western corridors contain very important areas o f Atlantic Rain Forest. The
        Panel observes that it is consistent with the Project's objectives for the Project to
        work in other priority forest areas as long as the actions in the Araucaria Mixed
        Forest corridor are as effectively supported as possible.

   50. The Panel notes that the submission of the Request for Inspection led Bank staff
        and State authorities to pay close attention to the issues raised inthe Request for
        Inspection and, as a result, to agree on changes to the Project design and
        implementation and on new actions, to help ensure that the Project can meet its
        development objectives, namely to support and improve biodiversity conservation
        in the State of Parana. Among the new actions, the Bank recommended a
        Technical Audit, as suggested also by the Requesters, and intensified supervision
        to improve Project implementation and to identifl mechanisms to conserve
        biodiversity inproductive areas.

   5 1. The Technical Audit (TA) was conducted and finalized between September and
        October 2006. According to recent Bank documents,        l7 the overall conclusion of
        the TA was that "the project is a well-developed and advanced initiative, which
        has achieved positive planned objectives". However, the TA also stated that "it
        would be appropriate to make certain modifications and adjustments regarding
        improvement of the project in order to make it more effective in achieving its
        global objective of conserving biodiversity." The TA also proposed increased
        focus and attention on actions to conserve the remaining remnants, especially for
        Arauchria forests, including financing o f activities to be carried out by NGOs
        working inbiodiversity conservation.

   52. Following the TA, the Bank undertook two supervision missions to the Project
        area to discuss the conclusions and the recommendations o f the TA. In addition,
        as a result o f the TA's findings, the Government prepared an Action Plan
        providing for, inter alia, the development o f additional mechanisms to finance
        biodiversity conservation, such `as Biodiversity Subprojects to be carried out by


17MemorandumdatedFebruary2,2007, Brazil:ParantiBiodiversityProject(TF 051007)-SecondOrder
RestructuringandReallocationof Funds,l 11.


                                                                                          11

        NGOs working inthe field. Inlight o f this, changes inthe Grant Agreement anda
        reallocationo f funds were proposed.

    53. The Grant Agreement was amended on February 2, 2007. The memorandum
        recommending the amendment to Regional Management states that the Project's
        development objectives and its four components "continue to aim, inter alia, to
        promote biodiversity conservation by creating and consolidating ecological
        corridors by connecting and upgrading protected and interstitial areas."' The
        Agreement, as amended, provides for strengthening civil society participation,
        especially in the Arauchria area. To do so, the Government will enter into
        Biodiversity Subproject Grant Agreements with beneficiary NGOs to carry out
        biodiversity subprojects that include conservation activities. US$400,000 has been
        allocated to fund these conservation projects. The Panel notes, however, that the
        details about these subprojects and the selection criteria for the NGOs were not
        yet defined when the amendment to the Grant Agreement introducing the
        Government-proposed Subprojects was approved and signed by the Bank.

    54. Inaddition, US$lO,OOO has beenallocated to implement and fund activities o f the
        Project's Advisory Committee to ensure more effective participation of civil
        society in Project implementation. The amendments will also support structural
        changes inthe State Secretariat o f Environment and Water (SEMA) to create two
        separate directorates dealing respectively with licensing and enforcement, with
        particular attention to the implementation o f a system of monitoring and
        enforcement by the latter directorate.

    55. The Requesters have been informed about the changes to the Project activities
        agreed upon by the State Authorities and the Bank, but they do not consider them
        sufficient to attain the original objectives o f the Grant. However, during the
        Panel's visit to the Project area, the Requesters indicated that the activities being
        carried out under the Project were not harmfulinthemselves to biodiversity. They
        argued that the emphasis on restoration rather than conservation constitutes a
        missed opportunity to preserve the remnants o f the Araucaria forest inthe State o f
        Parana. They also stated that indicators o f biodiversity are still lacking and that
        this is a major flaw of the Project. The Panel notes that this would also not be
        consistent with the overarching objectives o f a GEF-funded Project focused on
        biodiversity conservation.      19




   Memorandum,February2,2007, Annex 1.

   The GlobalEnvironmentFacility(GEF), establishedin 1991,helps developingcountries fundprojects
andprogramsthat protectthe globalenvironment. GEF grants support projectsrelatedto biodiversity,
climate change, internationalwaters, landdegradation,the ozone layer, andpersistentorganicpollutants.




12

F.Conclusions

  56. The Panel notes that after the Request for Inspection to the Panel, a number o f
      actions have taken place to address the Requesters' concerns about the
      implementation o f the Project. The Technical Audit, conducted in September and
      October 2006, proposed increased attention to conserving the remaining remnants
      o f the forests, especially the Arauchria forests. The State Authorities in Parana
      subsequentlyprepared an Action Plan to develop additional measures to support
      biodiversity conservation.

  57. As a result, the Grant Agreement was amended on February 2, 2007, to provide
      for stronger participation of civil society, especially in the Arauchria area, for
      biodiversity subprojects to be carried out by NGOs, and for structural changes in
      the State Secretariat o f Environment to promote a stronger system o f monitoring
      and enforcement. Moreover, the closing date o f disbursements under the Grant
      Agreement has been extended to January 31,2009.

  58. The Requesters continue to be concerned that an emphasis on restoration rather
      thanconservation constitutes a missed opportunity to preserve the remnants ofthe
      Arauchria forest inthe state o f Parana. The Requesters feel that the redirection o f
      the actions to be carried out under the Project agreed upon by the State
      Authorities and the Bank will not enable the Project to achieve its original
      objectives. Thus, they believe that there i s no long term assurance that areas still
      well preservedwill continue to be protected.

  59. The Panel notes the efforts on the part o f the Bank and the State Authorities to
      redirect the activities and the allocation of funds to make the implementation o f
      the Project more consistent with the objectives of the Project to conserve
      biodiversity. While the Panel appreciates the continuing concerns o f the
      Requesters, it notes the concrete steps and the amendment to the Grant
      Agreement, as outlined above, that have been taken to ensure that the Project
      complies with Bank policies and procedures and to further the objectives o f the
       Grant.

  60. In light o f the above considerations, the Panel does not recommend an
       investigation o f whether the Bank has complied with its operational policies and
      procedures.




                                                                                        13

