Docunent of
The World Bank
Report No: 24066-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED GRANT
JN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.5 MILLION (US$8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
THE STATE OF PARANA (BRAZIL)
FOR THE
PARANA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY)
April 25, 2002
Brazil Country Management Unit
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 2002)
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.00 = US$0.42
US$1.00 = R$2.40
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APA                Area de Protedo Ambiental                    Protected Environmental Area (permits restricted romercial use)
BPFbo              Batalhio da Polkcia Florestal                Forestry Polce Batalbn
CCPG               Centro de Coordena9io de Programas do Govemo  Center for Coordinatbn of Govemment Programs (project
coordinating unit)
DEFIS              Departamento de Fiscalizacao da SEAB         Sec. of Agriculture's Flscalization Department
DIBAP              Diretoria de Baodiversidade e Areas Protegidas do lAP Department of Bbodiversity and Protected Areas (LAP)
EMATER             Emprosa Paranaense de Assistencia T6cnica e  Technical Assistance and Rural Extensl6n Company of Parana
ExtensAo Rural
GEF                                                             Global Environment FacUity
IAP                Instiuto Ambiantal do Parani                 Environmental Instilute of Parans
ICMS               Imposto sobre CirculaeIo de Mercadorias e Servios Tax on the Circulation of Merchandise and Sericas (VAT)
NAP                Nucdeo de Assessoramento do Projeto          Project Advsory Nucleus (secretadat
Parana 12 Meses    Parana 12 Meses                              Parana Rural Poverty Aleviatbon and Natural Resources
Management Project (World Bank loan to Parani)
RPPN               Reserva Partficular do Patrimrnio Natural    Privately Owrned Protected Area Recognkid by the Government
SEAB               Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e do     State Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply
Abastecimento
SEMA               Secretara de Estado da do Melo Ambiente a RecursosState Secretariat of the Environment and Water Resources
Hidricos
SIG                Sistema de Infom,ag6es Geogrhficas           Geographic information System (GIS)
SISLEG             Sistema Estadual de Conservaro e Recuperacao de State System for Conservation and Recuperation of Legal
Reserva Legal e Area de PreservaVio Permunento  Reserves and Permanent Preservation Areas
Sistema Nacbnal de Unidades de Conserva9io
SNUC                                                            National System of Conservaton Units
SPVS               Sociedade de Pesqulsa em Vida Setvagem e     WildlWe Research and Environmental Education Society (NGO)
Educeaso Ambiental
SUDERHSA           SuperintendAncia de Desenvolvimento de Recursos  Superintandency of Water Resources and Environmental
Hidrcos e Saneamento Amblental               Sanitation Development
UC                 Unidade de Conservegia                       Conservation Unit
UGP                Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto          Project Management Unit
UNILIVRE           Universidade Livre do Meb Ambiente           Free Environmental University (NWO)
Vice President:      David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:         Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:        John Redwood
Task Team Leader:         Michael Carroll



BRAZIL
PARANA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY)
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     18
3. Benefits and target population                                                    19
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     19
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               24
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  25
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       26
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          26
2. Financial                                                                         26
3. Technical                                                                         27
4. Institutional                                                                     28
5. Environmental                                                                     29
6. Social                                                                            31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                32
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    33



2. Critical risks                                                                    34
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    35
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           35
2. Other                                                                             36
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         36
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        37
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         38
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        73
Annex 4: Response to STAP Technical Review                                              76
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   81
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    92
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  93
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 94
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           98



BRAZIL
Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSER
Date: April 25, 2002                              Team Leader: Michael G. Carroll
Country Manager/Director: Vinod Thomas            Sector Manager/Director: John Redwood
Project ID: P070552                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management, VY -
Other Enviromnent
Theme(s): Environment; Rural Development
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                      Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit   [X] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             14.86           0.00         14.86
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IBRD FUND                      10.00           0.00         10.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    7.83           0.17           8.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING              0.00            0.00          0.00
COUNTRY
Total:                                                        32.69            0.17         32.86
Borrower/Recipient: STATE OF PARANA
Responsible agency: SEPL/SEAB/IAP/EMATERJCODAPAR
Address: Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento e Coordenacao Geral - SEPL
Centro de Coordenacao de Programas do Govemo -CCPG
Rua Maximo Joao Kopp, 274 - bloco 1 - I°andar
Santa Candida
CEP - 82630-900 - Curitiba-PR, Brazil
Contact Person: Ms. Yara Eisenbach
Tel: (55-41)-313-5290           Fax: (55-41)-313-5408           Email: yarabach@pr.gov.br
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2003      2004        2005      2006       2007
Annual      1.00       4.34      1.57       0.79       0.30
Cumulative      1.00      5.34       6.91      7.70       8.00
Project implementation period: 4 Years: August, 2002-July, 2006 - Closing Date: January 31, 2007
OCSPAF- P- M-,. ~



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The primary objectives of the Parand Biodiversity Project (PBP) are to:
*    Support biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resource management in two highly
threatened ecoregions in the State of Parana, the Brazilian Inland Atlantic Rainforest and Araucaria
Forest.
*   Design and implement a model for improving biodiversity conservation in Parana.
The project would achieve these ends through (i) mainstreaming biodiversity conservation among targeted
Govemment, rural communities and civil society organizations, (ii) mitigating threats to biodiversity
through establishment of microcatchment-based corridors and the consolidation of sustainable practices in
target areas, (iii) monitoring and enforcement functions, and (iv) reviewing and revising relevant legislation,
regulation, enforcement and incentive systems.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The indicators cited below will apply to the PBP's two target ecoregions.
Overall Biodiversity Indices
* Maintenance of relative abundance of selected species in targeted protected and interstitial areas
* Consolidation/rehabilitation of protected areas (UCs) and buffer zones
*   Increase of connectivity (linking of protected areas, recuperation of Legal Reserves and
microcatchments, incorporation of fragments, consolidation of interstitial areas) to constitute corridors
of adequate size and quality to effectively promote biodiversity conservation
Education Component Indices
*   Program Executors, Environmental Advisors, educators trained in biodiversity concepts and
project-related programmatic material
*   Interstitial farmers and other rural producers (19,600) trained in biodiversity conservation concepts and
practices and presented with altemative production system modules
*   Awareness campaigns on the importance of mainstreamning biodiversity conservation
Biodiversity Management Component Indices
* Establishment of a macro planning unit to develop strategic plans for ecoregion intervention
* Appropriate productive systems in 40% of targeted interstitial areas
* Targeted UCs with satisfactory operational Management Plans including interstitial areas
* Rehabilitation of 40% of Legal Reserves in priority interstitial areas
Environmental Monitoring and Enforcement Component Indices
* Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation capacity and development of a comprehensive
biodiversity data base and indicators
* Decentralization of environmental enforcement functions ("fiscalization") in targeted municipalities
with concomitant increase in enforcement agencies and effectiveness
* Reduction in illegal clearing and in burning
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: CAS: 20160-BR; Progress Report: 22116-BR  Date of latest CAS discussion:C AS: March
24, 2000; Progress Report: May 1, 2001
In recognition of Brazil's preeminent position as a mega-biodiversity country, environment has
always figured prominently in Brazil CAS objectives. According to the most recent Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS; document number: BR-RN 20160; CAS discussion: March 30, 2000)
the Bank continues to support (i) protection and conservation of priority ecosystems, and (ii)
more efficient use and sustainable management of natural resources. The May, 2001 Progress
Report focuses heavily on fiscal reform, growth and poverty reduction. Nevertheless,
considerable space is also devoted to the improved conditions for environmental interventions
resulting from Government initiatives. The next CAS, scheduled for May 2002 is expected to
present a strong environmental program.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The CAS specifically cites the PBP and several closely related pipeline operations which address
and define environmental program objectives. These operations have in common (i) targeting of
critical biodiversity rich areas, (ii) creation of unbroken "corridors" which include interstitial areas
to improve biodiversity maintenance and management, (iii) institutional strengthening to ensure
enforcement of appropriate laws, regulations, and adoption of incentive based programs, (iv)
stakeholder participation, and (v) strengthening of monitoring and evaluation functions.
The PBP directly addresses each of these five points. The recently approved Rainforest Pilot
Program's Ecological Corridors Project also follows this strategic approach in establishing the
Central Amazon Corridor in the state of Amazonas and the Central Atlantic Forest Corridor
spanning the states of Bahia and Espirito Santo. A third, related operation is the National
Biodiversity Project (PROBIO), also funded by GEF, that designed and implemented thorough
evaluation of biodiversity conservation status and conducted priority setting exercises to identify
gaps and propose areas for investment for all major Brazilian biomes. A fourth operation
scheduled for FY02, the GEF Amazon Region Protected Areas Project (ARPA), would establish
huge corridors, expanding the Amazon area under strict protection to 44 million hectares while
strengthening the existing protected area system in the region. A fifth operation that supports the
Bank's strategic approach is the pilot National Forestry Project scheduled for FY03, the first of
possibly several larger loans or an APL focussing on forestry management and conservation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Both the Federal and Parana governments face similar issues that revolve around balancing
development interests and conservation. The fact that so little has been done to conserve the
Atlantic and Araucaria forests despite their very visible devastation bears witness to the strong
vested lumber and development interests in Parana. A second problem is the inefficiency and
lack of coordination between agencies that characterizes most public bodies charged with
conservation. This has been exacerbated over the last 5-7 years by the financial crisis that has
affected Federal and state governments. Parand has been no exception and the tight budget
-3 -



constraints imposed by Federal debt renegotiations and legislation governing the size of
Government payrolls resulted in a dearth of discretionary funding, a freeze on hiring and reduced
resources for lower priority environmental initiatives.
Federal Government Strategic Initiatives. Despite this scenario, considerable progress has been
made in reforming legislation and regulations bearing on environmental issues although
implementation has often lagged. Since 1998, the Federal Government has created over 1.2
million hectares of strict conservation protected areas including four parks totaling about 50,000
ha. in the Mata Atlantica. Major institutional reforms include
*  Approval of the National Protected Areas System Law (SNUC)
*  Approval of a "Green Protocol" requiring banks and lending agencies to consider
environmental criteria in project finance
*  Preparation of an Agenda 21 for Brazil and for the Amazon
* Approval of a national water resources law (1997)
* Approval of an Environmental Crimes Law (1998)
* Approval of legislation allowing for forested lands to be considered to be "in productive use"
* Decentralization of environmental management to states and municipalities.
In addition, the Ministry of Environment is providing substantial support to individual States for
the implementation of environmental programs. This initiative is partially funded by the
Bank-financed Second National Environment Program (PNMA II). The State of Parand has
already met the eligibility criteria for funding, and is in the process of preparing proposals for
PNMA consideration, which are expected to be complementary to the activities to be financed by
the PBP.
State of Parana Strategic Initiatives. The State of Parand is an environmental leader in Brazil as
evidenced by its groundbreaking work on environmental incentives (ICMS-Ecol6gico) and
tradeable development rights (SISLEG). The State launched the "Biodiversity Network
Program" (Programa da Rede de Biodiversidade) in 1997 that is intended to mainstream
environmental conservation throughout the State Govemment apparatus. The Govemment has
used it own funds to support project preparation and has since established a strong and well
funded PBP project preparation unit in the Planning Secretary. It is committed to applying
US$10 million of the Bank's "Parana Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources
Management Project" (Paranti 12 Meses) to finance the implementation of altemative production
systems in PBP targeted interstitial areas. Equally encouraging is its commitrnent to undertake
significant environmental reforms including regulation of the cutting of natural stands of
Araucaria, certification of Araucaria and non-timber forest products, and refinement and
stepped-up implementation of the ICMS-Ecol6gico and SISLEG.
The Govemment of Parana's current strategy is to use the PBP to 'operationalize' and orient the
Biodiversity Network Program to better deal with environmental issues--to mainstream
biodiversity conservation. The Network is a program to coordinate activities, introduce
environmental considerations into public investment and budget allocation decisions, better target
resources and impose a semblance of order and discipline on the multiplicity of agencies impacting
- 4 -



upon Parand biodiversity. Its ultimate objective is to conserve and recuperate what remains of the
State's natural resources. The program includes numerous public agencies whose regulatory and
other activities impact the environment such as construction and water resource management.
The Network's effort to mainstream environmental considerations in Government assures the
collaboration of important secretariats and agencies throughout Parana including state, regional
and municipal institutions concerned with sanitation, water supply, power generation, and
agriculture. The Network also includes other stakeholders: NGOs, universities, labor unions,
fisherman and community associations, and small rural producer societies.
The Government of Parana is also building upon a rich menu of environmental and related
operations which it intends to integrate into the Network's mainstreaming effort. These include
the following.
*   Parana Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources Management Project - Loan
4060-BR) (Paranti 12 Meses). Referred to locally as Parana 12 Meses, the operation is
intended to alleviate rural poverty through support to agrovilas, development of rural
production opportunities and introduction of technologically advanced and
environmentally sound land management practices. Project activities include
recuperation and preservation of vital watersheds and forested areas. Paranti 12 Meses is
a statewide program that is able to operate in each of the State's four globally significant
ecoregions. At present, the program does not explicitly target Conservation Unit (UC)
buffer zones nor are activities focused on conserving biodiversity. With the PBP,
resources will be redirected to support interstitial activities in areas targeted by the grant.
*   CORIPA Project. With assistance from GTZ, the State and Federal environmental
agencies, IAP and IBAMA, respectively, have supported the creation of a consortium of
four municipalities in the northwestern region of Paraia (Ilha Grande). This project has
been instrumental in developing imnproved decentralized control and monitoring of
mechanisms, as well as the development of ecological zoning in protected areas. Lessons
learned from this project have been taken into consideration for project design. In
addition, GTZ's project interventions are considered a significant contribution to the
"baseline" of the Ilha Grande area.
*   Paran6Atlantic Rainforest Protection Project-Pro-Atldntica. This complementary
operation, sponsored by the government of Germany (KFW/GTZ) is active in portions of
the Coastal Atlantic Forest where the project will likely not penetrate. Components work
with the Secretary of Environment and Forestry Police targeting consolidation of existing
protected areas.
*   Municipal Forests. This State project works in 307 municipalities and has produced
around 120 million seedlings for reforestation, conservation and commercial raw material
production. It also aims to strengthen municipal forest services. The program will be the
main seedling supplier for PBP components addressing recuperation of PBP degraded
areas.
*   State Reforestation System-SERFLOR. This State program aims at guaranteeing raw
material supply to industry on a sustainable, environmentally benign manner. It is directed
primarily to forest plantations for industry and helps to reduce the pressure on native
forests.
*   Guaraquecaba APA Development Plan. This state program is carried out by the
- 5 -



Government's environmental agency, IAP, with the collaboration of leading
NGOs--Wildlife Research and Environmental Education Society (SPVS) and the
Environment Free University (UNILIVRE). It is directed at the Coastal Atlantic Forest
region comprising communication and enforcement activities.
*   Iguaqu National Park Buffer Zone Municipalities. This is a joint effort involving the
Ministry of the Environment, the federal environmental agency (IBAMA), and UNILIVRE
to implant sustainable, environmentally benign development practices in the buffer zones
of the Iguacu National Park, the largest protected area in southern Brazil. This PBP's
Inland Atlantic Forest corridor will complement activities in these areas.
*   Ecological ICMS ("Green " Value Added Tax) and SISLEG. Parana is a leader in
developing economic instruments to support responsible conservation practices, especially
those bearing upon protected area management, forest cover and watershed/public water
supply. Accordingly, municipalities with protected areas that satisfy state criterion for
good practice receive monetary payments from an ICMS set aside. The State has also
been implementing a tradeable development rights framework (SISLEG) aimed as
increasing compliance by private landholders with the minimum (20%) requirement for
forest cover per property--the "legal reserve". SISLEG allows private landholders who
have reduced their forest cover below the required 20% to compensate by purchasing and
putting into protected status important microcatchments and forested and other areas in
the same biome. PBP will look closely at modifying these two programs to increase the
support for the four critical ecoregions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Main Sector Issue    I                PBP and Government Strategy
A. Mainstreaming Environmental/Biodiversity Conservation & Targeting Interventions
Operationalize the Biodiversity The progress of Government's Rede de Biodiversidade program,
Network Program            involving all agencies connected to conservation, has been slow for three
years owing to the lack of an operationalizing plan and political
mobilization. It is unlikely that any major shift would occur without the
support of the PBP which is piloting and implementing the plan in two
critical ecoregions and will affect environmental programs throughout the
State
Strengthen the environmental  The PBP Education Component will target project executors at all levels,
constituency               involve public, NGO, and private stakeholders in design and monitoring
through the convocation of committees, and train farmers, teachers and
opinion makers in the targeted Corridor areas. Constituency building will
also be a part of UC action plans.
Strengthen environmental   Under the PBP a Macro Planning and Strategy Unit will be established
management through improved that will systematically use satellite imagery and other data to develop
planning, targeting, data bases  Corridor strategies. The Project will also establishment within this Unit a
and monitoring and evaluation  group charged with monitoring and evaluation and constructing a
comprehensive data base with concrete biodiversity indicators. This will
- 6 -



eventually expand its operations to other biomes within the State.
Improve EMATER's focus     Despite participation in Parana 12 Meses, EMATER is primarily a
and work on biodiversity issues traditional rural extension service focussing attention on agricultural
output and productive technologies. Its priority is grain producing areas
and little attention is paid to protected area and biodiversity
conservation. Under PBP, PR 12 Meses resources will be allocated to
these areas and activities directed by EMATER officials. The hope is that
through PBP environmental concerns will be mainstreamed within
EMATER.
B. Addressing Interstitial Areas
Address key interstitial   Without the PBP no serious effort or incremental resources would be
environmental needs relating to directed towards Corridor interstitial areas. EMATER is developing and
productive technologies and  will help to propagate alternative production technologies and target
conservation               critical Corridor microcatchments. It will also mobilize enforcement of
water source, riverine forest and other existing laws impacting natural
resource conservation.
Strategically increase legal  Since forest cover in Parana is only 8%, the expectation is that legal
reserves                  reserve requirements are not being met in interstitial areas. However,
unless specifically targeted for action, Corridor proprietors will not
increase reserves nor will critical microcatchment and other areas be
rehabilitated. Under PBP there is a firm commitment to mobilize
environmental and legal enforcement agencies and make greater use of
SISLEG and the ICMS Ecol6gico to address these problems.
C. Strengthening UC Management Capacity & Increasing Corridor Connectivity
Systematically strengthen UC  Management plans are few and, in many case obsolete. Few UCs are
management capacity to    staffed or equipped to confront incursions or monitor and preserve
conserve biodiversity      biodiversity. The PBP will develop and implement prototype plans for
the Corridors' UCs that will involve interstitial areas and provide training
and equipment. Outreach to buffer area communities and producers will
help achieve connectivity and conservation objectives. And the process
will serve as a prototype for other State biomes.
Increase connectivity and  The map of protected and relatively untouched areas in Parana is a
reduce fragmentation       patchwork of fragments generally too small to assure biodiversity
sustainability--hence the Corridor approach. Through PBP, Parana will
identify critical fragments and microcatchments, develop action plans
using satellite imagery and mobilize SISLEG and the ICMS Ecol6gico on
the ground to consolidate corridors. At the same time Government
officials will be mobilized to promote the setting up of privately owned
protected areas (RPPNs). A parallel Government effort has been
launched to identify large tracts of biodiversity rich lands--both privately
owned and protected areas--and to develop and promote incentives for
their maintenance and protection by private sector entities.
Increase financial sustainability Parana's financial difficulties are a serious limitation on public agencies
ability to undertake environmental improvements. The PBP will, in
conjunction with the ARPA project (which has a major component
- 7 -



dedicated to the question of 'revenue generation') and other efforts
underway in Parana, examine alternatives for putting environmental
efforts on a sustainable financial basis.
D. Legislation, Regulation and Enforcement
Promote biodiversity       PBP is to be a catalyst in designing and implementing a number of
conservation through       important reforms including:
regulatory and enforcement  -certification of Araucaria and heart of palm
reform and improved        -protection of legal reserve and microcatchments through mobilization of
incentives                 local IAP officials and magistrates and greater use of SISLEG
-review of ICMS Ecol6gico to enhance its role in biodiversity
conservation
-undertaking of studies of the current legislative/regulatory framework
governing environmental matters with the objective of introducing
necessary changes.
Upgrade Parana's enforcement The lack of adequately trained and equipped personnel in sufficient
capacity through          number to enforce conservation regulations is a significant problem. lAP
decentralization and capacity  has indicated its intention to address this problem by decentralizing the
building                  fiscalization function to municipalities --some 15 Corridor municipalities
have been selected for this pilot. PBP will support this effort and provide
training and equipment to municipal teams. LAP will also be
decentralizing licensing with PBP support.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Operational Strategy and Objectives
The objective of the Parana' Biodiversity Project is to achieve sustainable biodiversity
conservation in the State of Parana by the establishment of three ecological corridors, improving
State environmental policy, linking public and private efforts and ensuring the compatibility
between Parana's development and environmental objectives. The project focuses on two
ecoregions of the Brazilian Atlantic Forest dominion. The areas are among of the world's 25
"hotspots"--highly threatened regions with exceptional biodiversity and endemism.
-8-



Indicative          Bank     % of     GEF      % of
Component               Sector        Costs     % of  financing  Bank   financing   GEF
(USsM)   Total    (USSM)  financing  (US$M)  financing
I. Educational & capacity  Institutional        0.63       1.9   0.00       0.0     0.54     6.8
building: (i) Capacity building Development
for project executors
ii) Education & dissemination  Other Environment  0.71    2.2    0.00       0.0     0.44      5.5
for beneficiaries/stakeholders
(iii) Promotional & capacity  Other Environment  0.23     0.7    0.00       0.0     0.23     2.9
building materials
II. Biodiversity management                               0.0               0.0              0.0
(i) Interstitial areas programs, Environmental  23.37    71.1    0.00       0,0     1.61    20.1
connectivity and fragments  Institutions
(ii) Macro-planning and    Environmental        3.37      10.3   0.00       0.0     3.31    41.4
Activities in Conservation  Institutions
Units & interstitial areas
III. Control and protection                               0.0               0.0              0.0
(i) Integrated fiscalization  Environmental      1.24     3.8    0.00       0.0     0.46      5.8
(enforcement, monitoring,  Institutions
licensing)
(ii) Protection of threatened  Other Environment  1.25    3.8    0.00       0.0     0.70      8.8
species
IV. Project Administration &                              0.0               0.0               0.0
Studies
(i) Project administration  Environmental        1.67     5.1    0.00       0.0     0.33      4.1
Institutions
(ii) Strategic studies     Environmental        0.38       1.2    0.0       0.0     0.38      4.8
Institutions
Total Project Costs                    32.85    100.0    0.00       0.0     8.00   100.0
0.00      0.0    0.00       0.0     0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                    32.85    100.0    0.00       0.0     8.00   100.0
Three Ecological Corridors in Two Ecoregions
The Parana Biodiversity Project will support the creation of two ecological corridors in the Inland
Atlantic Rainforest Ecoregion and a third in the Araucaria Ecoregion. The Inland Atlantic
Rainforest Ecoregion corridors are the following.
*   Corridor Caiuai-Ilha Grande. Located in the northwestern border of Parana, the Corridor
generally follows the Rio Parana and has its extremities in the Caiua State Ecological Station
and the National Park of Ilha Grande. The Rio Parana contributes to making this one of the
Ecoregions richest repositories of biodiversity. It includes an archipelago of more than 300
islands, varzeas, alluvial forests and areas that are transitional between forest and savannah.
The main State Parks that will be targeted by PBP for Management Plans and modernization
are the Caiua Ecological Station and the Sao Camilo State Biological Reserve. To
consolidate the Corridor connectivity will be forged with six additional protected areas.
*   Corridor Igua u-Parana. Located in the southeastern corner of the State, this corridor is
under pressure from the agricultural frontier owing to the richness of its soils. It is important
-9-



also because it makes possible the linking of the Igua,u National Park, the largest continuous
area of inland Atlantic forest, with a major initiative to recuperate areas (the "Poligonal
Envolvente") in and around the lake formed by the Itaipu hydroelectric dam. Two protected
areas, PE Rio Guarani and ARIE da Cabeca do Cachorro will be targeted by PBP for
management plans and upgrade and connectivity will be forged with three other protected
areas to consolidate the Corridor.
The third Araucaria Corridor will be established in the Araucaria Ecoregion in the center-south of
the State. It includes three PBP targeted UCs. Parand has the largest Araucaria forests in Brazil
and at one time covered 37% of the State's area. Less than 1% of the original forest survives and
this is extremely fragmented which exacerbates its fragility. The area chosen for the Corridor
represents among the most important surviving forests and those with the best chance of achieving
sustainability through increasing connectivity and Corridor consolidation.
The three Corridors taken together cover an area of about two million hectares, involve seven state
protected areas, 280 microcatchments and 63 municipalities. The corridors comprise over 40% of
the municipal land mass in their relevant ecoregions. The rural population is estimated at about
300,000 of which a projected 20,000 will be targeted. An in depth descriptions of these areas is
included in the document Relat6rio do Projeto and its annexes, available in the Project File.
Corridor   Munici-   Corridor Municipal Corridor!    Urban     Rural       Total
palities   Area      Area    Municipal Population Population Population
(#)    (000 Ha)   (000 Ha)  Area (°)     (#)       (#)        (#)
Caiua-Ilha     26        987      1.442       68      334,000    86,000    420,000
Grande
Igua,u-Para    26        575      1,317       44      414,000    140,000   554,000
Araucaria       1        589      1,247       47       85,000    81,000    166,000
The project is structured in four components summarized below and described in detail in Annex 2.
Summary of Costs by Project Components and Cost Share
The following table aggregates costs for the four year project by component and amount of Bank
and counterpart funding. Detailed costing projections are available in project documents.
Components/Sub-Components            _Total Cost ($000)
GEF         Parana        Total
I. Education and Capacity Building                1,209        371          1,580
* Capacity building for project executors
*Edu cation and dissemination for project beneficiaries
*Pr omotional and capacity building materials
II. Biodiversity Management                       4,925        21,747       26,737
* Macro-planning for prioritization & Connectivity
eActivities in UCs and Contiguous Areas
- 10-



* Interstitial Areas Programs, Connectivity, &
F ragments
Ill. Control and protection                          1,159         1,331        2,490
* Integrated fiscalization
*Pro tection of threatened species
IV. Project administration                           707           1,344        2,050
* Project administration
*Strategic studies
Total                                   8,000        24,857        32,857
Project Components
Component I: Education and Capacity Building (US$1.58m: GEF $1.21m + State
$0.37m)
The objective of this component is to (i) sensitize the population of Parana State to the
importance of biodiversity conservation, mobilizing it to support the process of recuperating and
maintaining the quality of the State's principal ecosystems, and (ii) prepare project implementing
agencies, beneficiaries and stakeholders to take part in the Project.
Specific Objectives.
*   Change attitudes and behaviors and broaden knowledge, skills and competencies required for
biodiversity conservation among Project stakeholders and environmental agents.
*   Build the requisite capacity among PBP executors to successfully carry out the project.
*   Support rural populations to adopt agricultural and husbandry technologies that are
environmentally benign, especially in targeted interstitial areas.
*   Improve the efficiency, effectiveness and dedication of public officials directly or indirectly
involved in activities impacting upon PBP implementation and biodiversity conservation.
*   Involve civil society, including NGOs, in PBP design and implementation to strengthen
ownership, implementation and sustainability.
Component Activities. There are three sub-components:
A.     Capacity building among implementing agencies. There are eight courses projected for
project executors. They target participants at every level of Government including committee
and forum members. UC and EMATER officials who will direct implementation in the corridors,
municipal officials assuming fiscalization responsibilities, and state officials charged with
enforcement of legal reserves and SISLEG will receive specialized training to enable them to
carry out their critical functions.
B.     Dissemination ofproject concepts and practices among project beneficiaries. These
courses are budgeted are primarily intended for the targeted interstitial rural communities who
will take part in the agroecological subprojects (also referred to in this document as
agroecological subprojects) and eventually adopt the new activities and technologies with
assistance from PBP. There are six courses including three for rural producers (basic project
dissemination, agroecological subprojects, and field days). Another three activities target social



mobilization and environmental education.
C.    Development of educational and promotional materials. The menu of courses and
activities outlined in the first two sub-components indicated above will require an array of project
(operations manuals) and pedagogical materials common in agricultural extension activities.
ComDonent II: Biodiversitv Management (US$26.74m: GEF $4.93m + State $21.81m)
The objective of this the largest of the components is to work with targeted rural producers in
interstitial areas and UC officials to assure the production and conservation activities undertaken
by them will improve the environmental integrity of the three corridors and thereby safeguard
biodiversity.
Specific Objectives. Biodiversity conservation objectives addressed by the component are:
* Improved administration of the seven protected areas that are the geographic core of the
corridors
*   Transition to altemative, environmentally more benign production systems in interstitial areas
* Incorporation of fragments of natural vegetation into the corridors through establishment of
RPPN, protected areas or other means
* Increased connectivity of existing fragments and protected areas through microcatchment
management and other means
* Recuperation of degraded areas in selected microcatchments and UCs.
The success of the project in achieving these objectives will also depend greatly upon activities
undertaken in other PBP components. For instance, activities having to do with recuperation of
degraded areas, increased connectivity and incorporation of fragments will be supported by
refinement of incentive systems (ICMS Ecologico and SISLEG) and enforcement of existing
regulations governing water sources, riparian galleries, exploitation of natural resources,
strengthening of fiscalization and licensing through decentralization and legal reserves. All of
these are included in Component HI, Control and Protection. Component IV, Project
Administration & Strategic Studies, will advance certification and refine the general legal and
regulatory framework governing biodiversity conservation. Component I, Education and
Capacity Building, will provide the basic educational building blocks essential for project
executors, stakeholders and beneficiaries to implement the project and take decisions designed to
improve biodiversity conservation in their unique spheres of influence. Hence, great care has been
taken in sequencing Component I and II activities.
Component Activities. There are three sub-component activities, two of which are small but
crucial to corridor consolidation, macro planning and selected UC upgrade and consolidation.
The third focuses on rural producers adopting alternative production systems.
A.    Macro-planningforprioritization and connectivity. Macro-strategic planning will be
undertaken to identify priority microcatchments within each corridor along with fragments and
other important areas. Activities will be sequenced according to the outcome of this work. A set
- 12 -



of criteria has been defined for establishing priorities including (a) proximity to protected areas,
(b) number and quality of existing fragments, (c) type of land use, and (d) levels of degradation of
riverine forests and especially those critical for connectivity. To carry out this activity a
Macro-Strategic Planning Unit will be established. This small sub-component is primarily for
Unit staffing plus the acquisition of GPS, hardware and software.
B.    Activities in UCs and Contiguous Areas. This sub-component is directed at upgrading
and consolidating the seven targeted protected areas (see Annex 2 for details) that are central to
the corridors. The objectives are:
*     Developing and implementing Management Plans--including management processes and
outreach--to support biodiversity conservation within the UC and in contiguous areas
through outreach programs
*     Equipping UCs for effectively carrying out of their biodiversity conservation
responsibilities including small infrastructure projects and equipment.
*     Review of the public access and ecotourism potential of the UCs, including infrastructure
needs, and development and dissemination of promotional materials and other marketing
activities.
*     Carrying out of communications campaigns to reach populations living in areas contiguous
to the UCs to acquaint them with knowledge on fire prevention and control, recuperation
of degraded areas, alternatives to agrochemicals, and other threats to the integrity of the
UC.
The main activities to be undertaken in this sub-component are the following.
(i)   Planning and Management Activities. Each UC will develop, with the assistance
of consultants, a comprehensive Management Plan that identifies the activities to be
undertaken. IAP already has a model Management Plan that is participatory and will
advance the objectives of involving interstitial stakeholders and consolidating connections.
Local Management Support Groups will be formed from public and private stakeholders,
including NGOs and associations, to assist UC management. Activities that may be
included under the rubric of management activities include title regularization, research,
and monitoring of biodiversity.
(ii)  Equipment, Maintenance and Small Infrastructure Activities. About half of the
UC budget will be devoted to equipping UCs to function more effectively. Expenditures
will be verified in the management plans and could include, inter alia, maintenance,
recuperation of degraded areas, construction of guard houses, visitor centers, research
centers, fencing signage, and trails. Vehicles and other basic equipment will also be
procured.
(iii)Sustainability and  Public Use. The UCs will look closely, with consultant
support, at opportunities for achieving financial self-sufficiency including ecotourism, sale
of handicrafts and related goods, reimbursement for services recognized under Federal
legislation addressing UCs, and resources available from the ICMS Ecol6gico and State
- 13 -



Environmental Fund.
(iv)  Interstitial Community Relations. The UC plans will also identify what is required
to work in a constructive way with populations living in areas contiguous to the UCs.
Education and outreach will be used especially to address problems such as fire control,
recuperation of degraded areas, alternatives to agrotoxics, and other threats to the
integrity of the UC. These activities will be promoted through UC sponsored campaigns.
C.    Interstitial Areas Programs, Connectivity, and Fragments. This is the single largest
sub-component of the project. It is where the macro-strategic plans get implemented.
Consequently, activities developed in this sub-component will recuperate/connect
microcatchments, fragments, and protected areas and support the adoption of environmentally
benign, alternative production systems in interstitial areas.
In order to achieve these ends, the Project would:
*   develop and pilot alternative, environmentally benign productive systems--the
agroecological subproject
*   promote and support the adoption of these systems by targeted rural producers through
dissemination, technical assistance and funding of individual and community projects in
order to reduce the interstitial damage done by traditional agriculture and livestock
activities, and
*   mobilize authorities responsible for enforcing existing laws covering conservation of water
sources, riverine forests, and legal reserves in targeted areas, activate SISLEG and
promote adoption of private reserves (RPPNs).
C-1: Development ofAgroecological Subprojects
Except where legal reserve and other laws can be enforced, the success of the interstitial program
depends upon (i) demonstrating to rural producers the advantages of alternative economic
activities and production met'hodologies through demonstration projects and dissemination of
results, and (ii) offering appropriate incentives for them to convert to the new systems including
technical assistance and financing.
Preliminary Diagnostic and Agroecological Subproject Proposals. Considerable progress has
been made in diagnosing biodiversity threats in the target ecoregions and identifying the most
appropriate alternative production systems. The development and implementation of these
subprojects will cost an estimated US$3.4 million including the costs of setting them up which
will be carried out by the Technical Environmental Advisor (an EMATER official) in each
targeted municipality. There will be 40 modules implemented in the first two years. Twenty-one
production specific systems will be piloted in these modules, many of which have been
successfully tested and implemented elsewhere in the State. These systems include:
*   general environmental cultivation technologies relevant to all microcatchments
* forestry management
* organic agriculture
* new crops--medicinal, aromatic, spices
- 14 -



*   arts & crafts and ecotourism
*   grain production
*   dairy, meat and fish production
*   fruit cultivation.
C-2: Connectivity Enhancement and Promotion ofAgroecological Practices
The widespread implementation of environmentally friendly production and conservation practices
included in the microcatchment and production unit plans, as well as support to possible demands
for the new production systems piloted in the 40 demonstration plots, is the single largest PBP
activity, stretching over the four years of the project and costing roughly US$21 million. It is the
activity that will support corridor connectivity and the conversion of traditional production
systems in interstitial areas. Some 280 microcatchments will be targeted involving an area of
840,000 ha and a population of nearly 20,000 rural producers. Most of the funding comes from
Government counterpart including Parana 12 Meses resources which will support the adoption of
environmentally friendly activities to promote biodiversity conservation in existing production
systems, as well as conversion to new agroecological production systems. Individual and
community projects will be funded according to well established formulas and procedures
successfully employed in Paranti 12 Meses. The principal activities will include:
(i)   Microcatchment planning including prioritization and action plan development for
connections, microcatchments and individual properties in each of the three corridors
(ii)  Development of a microcatchment cadastre of relevant information and including
systematic and detailed evaluation of environmental problems that will feed into Global
and Annual Operational Plans.
(iii)  Support to rural producers converting to new production systems in the form of funding
and technical assistance with emphasis on connectivity/microcatchment recuperation.
(iv)  Establishment of local Biodiversity Technical Units within the Muncipal Councils to
disseminate the PBP, prioritize local connections, approve Annual Operation Plans, serve
as forums for debate, help resolve conflicts, and generally oversee local PBP activities.
Component III: Control and Protection (US$2.49m: GEF $1.16m + State $1.33m)
This component addresses reform of the state environmental monitoring and evaluation, licensing
and enforcement functions, and the protection of threatened species.
Specific Objectives. The specific component objectives are to:
*     Establish parameters for monitoring and evaluating the quality of biodiversity conservation
*     Develop and refine norms for licensing of activities with environmental impact in support
of the decentralization of this function to regions
*     Support the decentralization of fiscalization functions to select municipalities in the
corridors which will require changing of IAP roles, elaboration of protocols, procedures
and standards, and intensive training of IAP and municipal officials
*     Conduct research to identify endangered species and develop appropriate programs to
protect them.
- 15 -



Component Activities. The component comprises two sub-components, "Integrated
Fiscalization" and "Protection of Endangered Species", and five principal activities as
presented below.
A. Integrated Fiscalization.
(i)   Central Environmental Monitoring Unit. The unit will be part of the
Macro-Strategic Planning Unit to be housed in IAP. It will be responsible for monitoring
and the elaboration of reports, maps, and benchmarks for biodiversity performance,
licensing and fiscalization. The Unit will also consolidate existing data bases, notably the
System of Forest Recuperation (SERFLOR) and the SISLEG data bases. Funding will
cover acquisition of satellite imagery, a GPS system, and requisite software and hardware.
(ii)  Regional Licensing. Inspection and technical analysis of licensing requests
constitutes the most demanding licensing activity carried out by the State. These are
activities that need to be organized geographically and along regional lines to assure closer
proximity to locations for which licensing requests are received. One of the reforms to be
undertaken by IAP is the regionalization of licensing. Funding for this activity will include
vehicles, GPS, hardware and software to strengthen the capacity of the regional offices to
carry out this function.
(iii)De  centralized Fiscalization. One of the most serious, chronic problems
confronting state and Federal agencies charged with environmental protection is the lack
of adequately trained staff to discharge fiscalization/enforcement responsibilities. Parana
is no exception. In IAP's nine regional offices there are 48fiscais or an average 0.38
officials/municipality. This number is insufficient to mount the required control and
enforcement. Seven municipalities within the corridors have requested/agreed to assume
fiscalization responsibilities and providefiscais. Another 8 municipalities are
contemplated for a second phase. If successful, this initiative could serve as an important
prototype for other states wrestling with similar staffing problems. Funding will cover
equipping participating municipalities with a vehicle and computer and GPS equipment.
IAP is taking the lead in developing the operational agreements, norms and regulations
required to pilot this effort. Training of municipal and IAP officials is covered in
Component I. The decentralization activity will cost an estimated US$203,000 for 15
municipalities primarily for computer and GPS systems, vehicles and motorboats to enable
local officials to carry out their new functions.
B.    Protection of Endangered Species. This sub-component is intended to support
biodiversity management while protecting species of interest whether threatened,
migratory, or for which information is lacking. There are two main activities:
(i)   Fauna Surveillance. These activities will be developed in the field by the selected
corridor UCs and IAP regional staff. There are 18 species selected for monitoring and
evaluation including migratory species from three locations. The field surveys will be
done by four local teams that will include the municipal enforcement officials. Two of the
- 16 -



teams will work on the two Interior Atlantic Forest corridors and the third will work with
the Araucaria corridor.
(ii)  Wildlife Management. The project would strengthen the wildlife management
capacity of IAP to house, and provide veterinary services as needed, to species of interest
for protection, undertake breeding programs, interface with other stakeholders, create and
maintain data bases and support species research through:
a) the construction and setting into operation of a wildlife management center; and
b) the equipping and technical assistance required therefore in its regional facilities.
Component IV-Proiect Administration (US$2.05m: GEF $0.71m + State $1.34m)
Component Activities. Component IV comprises two sub-components, Project
Administration (US$1.67m) and Strategic Studies (US$0.38m).
A. Project Administration. The basic project structure and organization is presented in detail in
Annex 2. It draws heavily upon a successful and oft used State model that ensures project
coordination by forming central, regional and municipal management committees comprising
relevant state officials whose secretaries and agencies are also organized according to the three
government tiers. State officials have ample experience with the model and this should greatly
facilitate coordination and implementation. Over 90% of the cost of this component comprises
staffing for four years for the Project Coordinating Unit and other Government staff supervising
the four year project and logistics and consultant expenses.
B. Strategic Studies. In addition to Project Administration, the UGP will be responsible for the
formulation of terms of reference, organization and procurement of study executors, monitoring
of progress and validation of results. The five major studies to be done are described below.
1. Identification and consolidation of legislative aspects and norms regarding environment
legislation at different levels of government. This study will provide the basis for
environmental reforms. It has three distinct components
Research of legislation at Federal, State and municipal levels
Development of a legislative manual and cd-rom to disseminate findings
Consolidation of legislation through proposals for reforms to strengthen biodiversity
protection.
2. Environmental Certification. This study looks at biodiversity conservation through
certification. It will define models and processes appropriate for certification of specific
products with special attention being given initially to palmito and Araucaria. The main
activities will be (i) the characterization of certification systems, (ii) definition of benchmarks,
(iii) development of norms of environmental certification of palmito and Araucaria, and (iv)
definition and development of proposals for norms, incentives and institutional organization
and processes to support certification.
- 17 -



3. Identification and Characterization of Priority Areas for Conservation. This study has as
its objective the mapping of fragments in the ecoregions targeted by the project which will
support prioritization and the development of recommendations as to how the fragments can
be linked and maintained.
4. Cost-Benefit of Environmental Interventions. This methodology is not well known in
Brazil. It is important for justifying environmental interventions in general and especially
biodiversity conservation. The objectives of this study are inter alia to identify and establish
the cost-benefit methodology as it pertains to biodiversity conservation, disseminate the
techniques, and estimate the economic contribution of such interventions as SISLEG, riverine
forest conservation, agrotoxic control and/or other activities impacting on water quality and
other factors important to society.
5. Improvement of ICMS Ecol6gico. Parand is a leader in the field of environmental
incentives and this study is intended to improve ICMS incentives for biodiversity
conservation. The study components are (i) assess the ICMS Ecol6gico regarding incentives
to conserve biodiversity and water sources (mananciais), the rural land tax (ITR) and RPPN
formation, (ii) develop proposals to improve the ICMS Ecol6gico, and (iii) upgrade and
actualize the ICMS software to accommodate changes and improvements.
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The sector responsible for the coordination of
monitoring and evaluation will be located in the UGP, more precisely in the Project Advisory
Group. The system designed for project M&E calls for a Managerial Monitoring of project
physical and financial performance. This activity will be developed based upon a survey and
analysis of data dealing with the Project's document flow, which will be consolidated in
semi-annual reports covering the physical and financial progress of scheduled activities, as well as
quantitative and qualitative data resulting from the on-site inspection of a sample of 10% of the
investment subprojects supported. Managerial monitoring will be complemented by a managerial
evaluation, carried out by means of direct research with beneficiaries, executors and municipal
leaders. In addition, to gauge the Project's evolution, impact assessments will be performed. The
impact indicators adopted were divided into two groups: a) indices depicting the quantitative and
qualitative evolution of vegetation coverage of natural environments and other classes of land use;
and b) index of the relative abundance of species. Tables dealing with Managerial Evaluation
Indicators (input, output, outcome and follow-up indicators) and Impact Assessment Indicators,
respectively, are presented in Annex 2.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
I. Institutional reforms
* Establishment of a Macro Planning and Strategy Unit within IAP
* Refinement/improved targeting for biodiversity conservation of the ICMS Ecol6gico
* Mobilization of SISLEG across agencies to consolidate Corridors' interstitial areas
* Decentralization of the fiscalization function in selected Corridor municipalities
* Pilot decentralization of licensing to regional level
* Design, implementation and mainstreaming of Management Plans in Conservation Areas (UC)
- 18-



*   Dissemination of consolidated biodiversity and environmental conservation legislation in user
friendly manual and diskette forms to public agencies at the state and municipal levels
*   Mainstreaming of biodiversity conservation in targeted ecoregions especially regarding
infrastructure investments and budget allocations.
II. Policy reforms
*   Certification of forest products starting with heart of palm and Araucaria
*   Consolidation and reform of the legal framework governing biodiversity and the environment.
3. Benefits and target population:
Environmental benefits
*   Consolidation of adequately dimensioned and safeguarded corridors to assure biodiversity
maintenance in two ecoregions (Interior Atlantic Forest, Araucaria Forest) that are
internationally recognized as unique and important repositories of biodiversity severely
threatened by anthropomorphic encroachment
*   Establishment of biodiversity management models that will serve as prototypes for organizing
conservation activities throughout the State
Target population
*   Farmers and other economic stakeholders in Corridors' interstitial areas who will be offered
training, technical assistance and funding to convert to superior, environmentally benign
agricultural activities and technologies
* Municipal governments, local NGOs, opinion makers, and teachers who will be given the
opportunity to receive training, participate in PBP design and supervision, and, in the case of
municipalities, assume responsibility for and obtain resources to implement biodiversity
conservation programs including fiscalization
*   Parana State Government officials across a number of secretaries and agencies who are in
some way involved in or accountable for environmental conservation. This will happen
through mainstreaming of conservation including education, closer coordination of
Government initiatives and better targeting of resources
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
One of the key PBP features is that it would be implemented within the existing institutional
structure that has successfully been employed in two previous Bank-financed projects, and is
currently being used in Paranti 12 Meses. The structure allows PBP's different secretaries and
agencies to work together coordinating and implementing activities at the central, regional, and
local levels. This is achieved by drawing upon key officials from existing organizations at each
government level to form project management committees. The institutions that would participate
in project implementation are
(i) the State Secretary of Planning (SEPL) through the Center for Coordination of
Government Programs (CCPG), responsible for coordinating all existing state programs
implemented with external financing, where a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
established.
(ii) the Environmental Institute of Parand (IAP) of the State Secretariat of Environment
(SEMA);
- 19-



(iii) the Secretariat of Agriculture (SEAB), through it's Unit responsible for the
implementation and monitoring of the Parand 12 Meses Project;
(iv) CODAPAR, the state agency that will enter into agreements with the beneficiaries of
Agroecological Subproject Grants, in order to supervise adequate implementation of
Agroceological Subprojects;
(v) EMATER, the highly decentralized state agency responsible for assistance to rural
communities on natural resources management and production.
The institutional roles and responsibilities at the State, Regional and Municipal levels are
described below.
Centerfor Coordination of Government Programs (CCPG).
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be located in the Secretary of Planning and
Administration and is part of the CCPG -which is also responsible for project elaboration. The
PMU will be responsible for PBP implementation including the functions of planning and
coordination of project components, inter-governmental agency and civil society support, and
administration, finance and accounting. The CCPG is currently charged with overseeing all
multilateral investment and grant programs, developing and coordinating multi-sector projects
and providing technical, financial and legal assistance for State project implementation. It is a
prestigious, efficient and well-staffed organization overseeing operations supported by the World
Bank, IDB, Bank Kreditsanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), and the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF). The CCPG is thoroughly familiar with Bank procurement, financial
control and project supervision procedures. PMU staffing would comprise a manager and two
technical staff members. Additional staffmg would include consultants to assist with management
systems, logistics, monitoring and evaluation, and other technical services.
State-Level Management: Advisory Committee and PMU, including a ProjectAdvisory
Nucleus, and a Project Technical Management Unit
The PMU will be supported by an Advisory Committee comprising representatives of the principal
secretariats and agencies involved in environmental management and participating in the PBP.
Membership includes IAP and SUDERHSA of the Environment Secretary, EMATER and DEFIS
from the Agriculture Secretariat, the Forestry Police from SESP, and a representative of the
Education Secretary. The Committee, in its advisory capacity, ensures coordination of its
subordinate regional and local staff, advises on regional and municipal proposals and related
activities and consults on legislative and institutional reform proposals.
The PMU includes an Advisory Nucleus which performs the function of administrative secretariat,
assuming responsibility for general project planning and administration, financial and accounting
control, and operational support. It is responsible for project support in the areas of contracting,
development of budgets and operational plans, M&E and reporting on implementation, payments
and ensuring that these functions are performed smoothly across State, regional and municipal
levels.
A Technical Management Unit (TMU), led by a high level operations specialist, would be
responsible for the implementation of each of the four project components: (i) Education &
- 20 -



Institutional Strengthening, (ii) Biodiversity Conservation & Incentives Management, (iii)
Environmental Monitoring and Enforcement, and (iv) Project Administration. The components
are represented in the TMU by separate units. The TMU is responsible for the overall component
coordination and supervision and for providing technical assistance as needed.
Regional Level Management: Ecoregion Manager, Regional Project Management
Commissions and Forums
Each of the ecoregions will have an Ecoregion Manager who will be the link between PMU,
regional and local bodies. The manager will be responsible for the ecoregion, vetting the
priorities, work programs, and budgets produced by PBP municipal staff, overseeing
implementation and providing technical assistance as needed. The Manager will be supported by
a Regional Project Management Commission, taking advantage of existing regional
organizations maintained by each of the state secretaries participating in the Advisory Committee.
The Committee would pass on information from the State level secretariats, review program
priorities, oversee project implementation and provide liaison and support for Municipal
Commissions and activities. The SEMA/IAP regional representative presides over the
Committee. Regional Forums involving public and private sector entities will also be convoked
from time to time by the Committee to inform stakeholders of progress and elicit their views.
Municipal-Level Management:    EMA TER, Local Branches of State Agencies,
Technical Units and Forums
Local PBP implementation would be organized along municipal lines in accordance with the
organization structure of the participating State agencies and because the municipalities are the
appropriate implementation counterparts. EMATER is the most decentralized of the State
agencies with the largest local presence. It is also the executor of Parana 12 Meses and hence
responsible for the interstitial programs. The local EMATER representative, the Environmental
Adviser, will run the project at the municipal level and chair the Biodiversity Technical Unit within
the local Municipal Councils. The other Council members would include representatives of
DEFIS, IAP, SUDERHSA, NGOs, and municipal counterpart agencies. The Councils would
oversee and report on implementation activities being carried out in the field and liaise with the
regional and State organizations on issues germane to project execution. Municipal Forums may
also be convoked by the Committee from time to time to inform stakeholders of progress and
seek their views.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The main alternatives considered were operations that would
(i) defend biodiversity by mounting a comprehensive, state-wide campaign to mainstream
concepts, rationalize programs and address institutional problems,
(ii) focus on particular problems--threatened species (e.g., Araucdria) and conservation units
upgrade--rather than a more integrated approach based upon important ecoregions and including
interstitial areas
(iii) an operation that would stress UC consolidation and interstitial interventions but with
relatively little in the way of institutional and policy reforms
- 21 -



(iv) a corridors approach including interstitial programs in especially high biodiversity ecoregions
with supporting institutional and policy reforms.
The fourth alternative won out as it afforded much greater protection for Parana's "hot spots",
allowed the project to develop and test a prototype corridors approach that had been successful
elsewhere, and best addressed the problem of sustainability through policy and institutional
reforms. The existence of the Parani 12 Meses operation also assured that a robust interstitial
program would be included. Once this decision was taken it was then necessary to decide which
of Parana's four critical ecoregions would be addressed--the Coastal Atlantic rain forest, the
Campos Gerais/savannahs, Interior Atlantic Rain Forest, and Araucaria forests. Technical
discussion ensued and a number of criterion were established against which alternatives ranging
from large corridors in all four ecoregions to the smaller corridors. The criterion included
* feasibility of administering programs given Parana's technical and administrative capacity and
available resources
* threat to biodiversity and feasibility of mounting successful remedial programs
* importance of biodiversity in each locale
* importance of species, the biotic community, ecosystems and habitats, and endemism
* presence of protected areas and feasibility of connectivity
* existence of other programs addressing biodiversity issues.
The importance of each ecoregion and the threat to biodiversity argued for at least two
ecoregions. Operational feasibility argued for fewer than four and opinions coalesced around two
ecoregions. The Coastal Atlantic Rain Forest was considered to be less of a priority because of
its extensiveness, lesser threat, and the fact that programs already existed within the ecoregion.
The Campos Gerais was also rated less highly because it is representative of an ecosystem that is
more abundant elsewhere in Brazil and because of the relative technical difficulty of monitoring
and surveillance, especially making use of satellite imagery. In the end, the decision was taken to
proceed with two ecoregions, Araucaria and Internal Atlantic Rain Forest, establish successful
prototype operations, and rely upon future operations to address the other ecoregions. Once this
decision was made, it was a relatively easy decision to identify three corridors based upon the
presence of protected areas and connectivity opportunities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue         |         Project                (PSR) Ratings
I___ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ___   ______ ___[ (Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                              Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Implement zoning with buffer zones,  Brazil--Rond6nia Natural  S            S
environmental and park management  Resources Management Project
in Westem Amazon region         (PLANAFLORO)
Brazil--Natural Resources      U            U
Management Project
(PRODEAGRO)
- 22 -



Support state level legislative and  Brazil--National Environment  HS            S
regulatory reform and strengthen  Project II
environmental agencies throughout
Brazil including licensing and coastal
environment management
Consolidate community support for and Brazil--Parani Rural Poverty  S            S
introduce environmentally superior  Alleviation and Natural
alternative land management and   Resources Management Project
production systems
GEF Financed
(i) Bring 10% of Amazon under strict  Brazil--Amazon Region
protection regime, upgrade biodiversity Protected Areas Project (under
M&E, and improve UC and interstitial preparation)
management and finances
(ii) Develop biodiversity strategies for  Brazil-- #2 Biodiversity Fund  S       S
key biomes in Brazil/ promote     Projects (FUNBIO/PROBIO)
partnerships among government,
NGOs, and private sector to promote
biodiversity conservation
Rainforesi Pilot Program Financed
(i) Create ecological corridors in the  Ecological Corridors Project
Atlantic and Amazonian forests,   (Negotiations pending)
incorporating fragments, upgrading
protected area/UC and interstitial area
management, improving monitoring and
evaluation of biodiversity, and building
corridor support
(ii) Promote sustainable natural  Demonstration Projects (PD/A)    S             S
resource management conservation by
local communities in the Amazon &
Atlantic forests
(iii) Complete the legalization and  Indigenous Lands Project      S             S
assisting in the protection of indigenous (PPTAL)
lands in the Amazon
(iv) Develop & test approaches to  Extractive Reserves Project     S             S
management of extractive reserves in  (RESEX)
the Amazon
(v) Strengthen policy analysis,   Natural Resources Project        S             S
regulatory, zoning, monitoring,   (SPRN)
enforcement and implementation
capacity of state environmental agencies
in the Amazon
(vi) Promote sustainable use of the  Floodplain Natural Resources   S            S
natural resources of the Amazon   Management Project
- 23 -



floodplains                      (PROVARZEA)
Other development agencies
Protect Atlantic Rainforest in the states German Development Bank
of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Rio de  (KfW)
Janeiro, Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do
Sul (preparation)
Modernize management of protected  German Technical Cooperation
areas --Atlantic Forest of MG State  Agency (GTZ)
Modernize park management including Parana Atlantic Rainforest
mapping, data base, forestry police,  Protection Project
eco-tourism--primarily Atlantic Forest --Pro-Atlantica (KFW/GTZ)
Implement alternative, environrnentally Iguacu National Park Buffer
benign development practices in  Zone Municipalities--Ministry
interstitial zones contiguous to the  of Environment/IBAMA and
Iguacu Park--Atlantic Forest     UNILIVRE
Elaborate and implement a management Guaraquecaba APA
plan for a large protected area--Atlantic Development Plan--LAP plus 3
Forest                           NGOs
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Developing a strategic approach and policy framework. Given funds constraint, political
sensitivities and the need to focus conservation efforts on critical, high biodiversity ecoregions
there is a need for a strategic approach to planning buttressed by a supportive policy framework.
Prioritization of areas and the mobilization of resources, including enforcement (e.g.,
decentralization, Legal Reserves, SISLEG) and incentive structures (e.g., ICM Ecologico,
decentralization of fiscalization) to consolidate Corridors is an essential starting point. GEF's
PROBIO has been especially important in supporting the identification of priority, high
biodiversity areas throughout Brazil, which have been incorporated into ARPA, the Ecological
Corridors operations.
Consolidating UCs. interstitial areas and incorporating fragments to form ecoregions sufficiently
large to support biodiversity. Fragmentation of protected areas and inattention to interstitial
areas and microcatchments must be addressed, especially in threatened areas outside the Amazon
where parks tend to be much larger. The many GEF and RFPP operations address these issues
and the Parana Rural Poverty and Natural Resource Management has specialized in
microcatchment rehabilitation which will be critical to consolidating the three Parana Corridors.
Strengthening conservation units. Consolidated, well managed protected areas are at the center
of Bank, RFPP, GEF, KfW and other interventions designed to support conservation. The 1990
National Environmental Project (NEP) targeted 32 conservation units with mixed success. Major
lessons learned from this and other operations are that success factors include (i) decentralizing
responsibilities to local levels is important (ii) participation in design and implementation by
- 24 -



interested stakeholders, particularly in local communities and among NGOs and the private sector,
(iii) development of a strategic policy framework and approach for biodiversity conservation, (iv)
focus on a few areas, (v) link institutional development to infrastructure and equipment so that ID
will not lag behind.
Decentralizing responsibility. A 1994 Bank study, Decentralization and Biodiversity
Conservation, found that decentralization is important but not a panacea and requires long-term
commitment to strengthening local institutional capacity. The study and subsequent experience in
Bank projects point to the following prerequisites for realizing the benefits of decentralization, (i)
local participation and dissemination of project information regarding sensitive issues like land
management and tenure, (ii) providing NGOs and local government units resources to enhance
skills and opportunities to work together on project design and implementation to increase
cooperation and accountability, (iii) subsidies or investments where necessary to compensate for
loss of livelihood or welfare, (iv) countering powerful local or central interests with appropriate
enforcement tempered by education and public relations, (v) providing for ecoregion executives
and stakeholder forums to ensure the authority to take decisions, mediate conflicts, and procure
help from central and other authorities., (vi) ensuring enabling policies, laws, incentives and
institutions to provide a clear support framework.
Engaging stakeholders. A 1994 GEF report emphasized the importance of facilitating "direct"
biodiversity conservation activities by communities or conservation stakeholders dependent upon
conservation for their livelihoods and quality of life. Specifically, the report found that (i) more
attention needs to be given local people, recognizing their expertise and views, (ii) more
meaningful involvement of NGOs throughout the project cycle is needed to ensure quality, avoid
problems and create networks, (iii) more creative cooperation is needed among implementing
agencies and other global organizations working in the area. Stakeholder participation and
sensitivity to beneficiary views are now an essential part of Bank operational design and especially
in environmental projects where stakeholders' livelihoods are often affected and alternative,
environmentally benign production systems must be adopted.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Government of Parana approached the World Bank nearly two years ago to obtain support
for a GEF environmental grant to consolidate their approach to environmental management.
Upcoming elections mean that there is a narrow window of opportunity for processing and
launching this operation and that is motivating the Parana Government which is concerned about
its environmental legacy. The State had undertaken the following actions are also indications of
strong commitment and ownership.
* Created a top project unit in the Secretary of Planning's prestigious CCPG and has maintained
it throughout project preparation.
* Produced an excellent and detailed project document that could serve as a prototype for
subsequent Corridor projects.
*   Regulated cutting of natural growth Arauc&ria, agreed to refine and mobilize its ICMS
Ecologico and SISLEG initiatives, enforce Legal Reserves, undertake Araucaria and heart of
palm certification and decentralization of the fiscalization function to municipalities. It will
- 25 -



also review State and municipal environmental legislation. These are all important and, in
some cases, leading edge initiatives in Brazil.
* Agreed to apply more than US$10 million from the Bank's Parand Rural Poverty loan for
complementary funding of specific project activities.
* Made PBP the catalyst that orients and mobilizes the Government's ambitious 1997
Biodiversity Network Program that will mainstream the government's environmental efforts.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
Without the Bank's involvement it is doubtful that any new environmental project would be
undertaken and the Government's ambitious Biodiversity Network Program initiative would have
very little impact upon environmental management. In addition to serving as a catalysts to help
mobilize and reorient the Government's environmental programs, Bank participation in the PBP is
adding value in the following ways.
*   The Bank serves as an "independent broker" among competing agencies, stakeholders and
interests which is especially important in a multi-sector operation.
*   The Bank has successfully pressed for the inclusion of significant institutional and regulatory
reforms cited above.
* The Bank has, in a parallel effort, supported a collaborative effort by Government, NGOs, and
the private sector to identify important public and private land holdings and develop a
proposals as to how they might be incorporated into protected areas.
*   Bank experience with Brazilian, Latin American and global environmental reform including
Corridor consolidation and UC management has helped to orient work on these components.
Bank knowledge of Brazilian initiatives, including the RFPP program and GEF ARPA work
provide important input to project design.
*   The interstitial area management component draws upon the Bank's Parand 12 Meses loan
resources and experience. The loan's Task Manager is also responsible for the PBP project
which ensures close coordination.
*   The Bank's role as GEF implementing agency faciliatates Parana's access to the program's
grant resources.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
The Incremental Cost analysis is detailed in Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
[Not required]
- 26 -



Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal burden of a new project is mitigated by the fact that GEF is providing grant finance and
Parani counterpart will be derived from reallocation of existing, budgeted Government resources
including proceeds from the Parana Rural Poverty loan.
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound. The main technical issues are summarized below.
Component 1: Education and Capacity Building
There are numerous beneficiaries and training courses included under this component.
Government technical and training specialists (the design of this component was assisted by the
Government's in-house training unit) are competent to design and deliver the required courses
and, in the case of EMATER, have ample experience in designing and implementing similar
extension programs gained under the Parana Rural Poverty loan.
Component 2: Biodiversity Management
This is the single largest and most complex component. The principal technical challenges and
PBP approach are described below.
* Develop strategic Corridor management plans prioritizing areas and interventions. A
central macro planning unit will be set up in IAP. Working with satellite imagery it will
develop Corridor maps that identify critical areas for intervention: rehabilitation of park areas
and microcatchments and other interstitial areas, identification of fragments and larger,
relatively conserved private holdings that can potentially be brought under a protected regime.
It will also assess the relative anthropomorphic threat. Based upon this information, a
Corridor management plan specifying and prioritizing interventions will be developed for each
corridor. This work is already underway and should not be a problem.
* Verify on the ground interstitial land proprietorship and legal reserve compliance;
enforcement/operationalization of SISLEG. The Corridor management plans produced by the
Central Planning Unit will be provided to the Ecoregion Manager who will convoke regional
IAP staff whose job it will be to verify land proprietorship and assess legal reserves and the
feasibility of targeted interventions. This is arduous manual work and records are often
incomplete. LAP officials will then interface with local magistrates to achieve the desired
intervention whether it be rehabilitation of microcatchments and legal reserves or negotiation
of solutions through SISLEG. IAP officials have ample experience in this sort of work which
is labor intensive but technically feasible.
*   Stimulate corridor connectivity. Plans to develop connectivity and adjust the productive
systems in all production units in the 280 microcatchments involved in the three corridors will
be developed. The plans aimed at making production practices conform to appropriate
natural resources management and biodiversity conservation will be implemented with
resource of the ongoing Parand Rural Poverty loan.
* Develop and implement of alternative cropping systems for interstitial areas. Some twenty
modules appropriate for the two targeted ecoregions are under development. EMATER,
- 27 -



which does similar work for the Parana Rural Poverty project has ample experience in
developing modules, mobilizing communities, and undertaking the dissemination and technical
assistance required to successfully implement alternative production systems.
* Develop and implement comprehensive conservation unit management plans. There are
numerous examples of good practice in Brazil and elsewhere that can be drawn upon to guide
Government and UC officials. The plans should include interstitial and park management,
community outreach and financial sustainability. Plans will be validated by LAP technicians
and implementation will be closely monitored.
* Revise environmental legislation and regulations. Again, Parana is a leader in environmental
management in Brazil and its current efforts may constitute a prototype for other states and
projects. The state is capable of evaluating and developing reforns for the State and
municipal environmental legislation including the ICMS Ecologico, SISLEG, legal reserve
enforcement, decentralization of the fiscalization function and certification of forest products.
Component 3: Control and Protection
Developing, maintaining, and using a comprehensive environmental data base that integrates
project indicators and information requirements, extant data bases, and develops new information
required for biodiversity monitoring is a major and essential undertaking for sustainable and
professional monitoring and evaluation. The Government of Parani recognizes the need for such
a data base and has proposed, under the grant, to establish a unit in IAP that would centralize all
relevant biodiversity and conservation information, undertake mapping and evaluation, and
provide input into prioritization exercises covering corridors. Given IAP capabilities this
undertaking is feasible and should present no serious technical problems.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Achievement of project objectives will require activities to be carried out at three distinct
levels--state, regional, and municipal--with the participation of various public and private agencies
at each level. Hence institutional coordination must be efficiently managed. However, the project
is considered to be institutionally sound because it does not involve the creation of new structures
and will be predominantly implemented within the institutional structure currently responsible for
the implementation of the ongoing Bank-financed Parand 12 Meses project as described earlier.
Participating agencies also already maintain active working relationships on a number of related
initiatives. During project design the Center for Coordination of Government Programs (CCPG)
has involved Parand 12 Meses and experienced staff from the Secretaries of Environment and
Agriculture to ensure coordination and collaboration will be ensured through project
implementation by adhering to the State's well established institutional structure for coordinating
such projects described previously.
4.2 Project management:
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will be located in the CCPG and will involve the same
excellent technicians currently designing the project. The will have an Advisory Nucleus for
- 28 -



day-to-day project administration and a Technical Management Unit to oversee each of the
Project Components. An Advisory Committee comprising representatives of the principal
secretariats and agencies involved in the project will oversee implementation, provide a sounding
Board for the , and assure efficient liaison of their subordinate regional and municipal units.
Following the successful organization structures used in other Parana projects, Regional
organizations will be established with an Ecoregion Manager for each Corridor who will liaise
with the and supervise municipal implementation work programs. Regional Management will be
established involving the same participants that make up the State level Advisory Committee.
Regional stakeholder forums will be held from time to time to disseminate information and receive
feedback.
Project management and execution on the ground will be managed by an Environmental Advisor
who will be the ranking EMATER officer in the participating municipality. EMATER is the most
decentralized of the State agencies and has considerable experience in project management of the
sort envisioned by PBP owing to its executor role in Parana Rural Poverty Alleviation whose
funds will be financing the interstitial program. IAP officials will also be very active at the local
level. Similar to what exists at the other levels, a Project Management Committee comprising
participating secretary/agency officials at the local levels will be established to ensure smooth
implementation. Municipal stakeholder forums will be convened from time to time to exchange
information and receive feedback on implementation.
This project structure replicates what has successfully been used by Parana Rural Poverty
Alleviation and other projects managed by the CCG and given the high quality of the technicians
and the experience of CCPG, IAP and EMATER officials, no project management problems are
expected.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project executor, CCPG, is thoroughly familiar with World Bank procurement practices and
procedures by virtue of managing many Bank operations. A large part of the project involves
EMATER operations in interstitial areas where Parana will be drawing upon experience gained in
Parana 12 Meses. There are no difficult consultant or equipment or any other contracts foreseen.
Hence the project procurement is expected to present no problems.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Parana was one of the first Brazilian states to pilot LACI and the CCPG is very experienced in
Bank financial management procedures. The successful Paranai 12 Meses financial management
system will be adapted to manage PBP. Based on this, no financial management problems are
expected.
5. Environmental:              Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmnental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatrnent emerging from this analysis.
The main goal of this project is to increase biodiversity conservation in highly threatened
ecosystems. Most of the project's activities address capacity building and are intended to
- 29 -



mainstream biodiversity conservation within the Parana Government and public agencies whose
activities impact upon the environment. It is also intended to orient Government environmental
expenditures, including several on-going projects, to ensure biodiversity conservation objectives
are met. There are no significant infrastructure investments in the targeted protected and
interstitial areas. The only construction activities contemplated are small outlays for access roads,
guard houses, visitor centers, a fauna management center, fencing, trails and other small projects
intended to upgrade Conservation Units' ability to carry out their enhanced mandate. Overall,
project objectives and activities are environmentally benign. Innovative activities intended to
strengthen biodiversity conservation will be undertaken within and around public and private
protected areas. A comprehensive Environmental Assessment (EA) summarizing the procedures
for subproject eligibility and screening was prepared and submitted to the Bank prior to appraisal,
and would become an integral part of the Project Manual.
5.2 What are the nmain features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 04/02/02
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environrment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Over the past 18 months of project preparation, the project unit has maintained close contact with
all of the main public secretariats and agencies that will participate in the project. IAP and the
Agriculture Secretariat (EMATER) have especially been involved in designing the project and the
Government's Training Unit has been responsible for supporting design of the Education
Component.
At the regional and local level, meetings of NGOs and potential beneficiaries have been convened
in the target ecoregions to ascertain views on project design and especially as it pertains to
interstitial area altermative production systems. In addition, an in-depth consultation on project
objectives and components was held with the State of Parana Association of Environmental
NGOs (UNIAP). Recommendations of the meeting were fully incorporated into the project
design. It is important to note that the Government is offering alternative systems to farmers and
others who will ultimately decide whether the new crops and technologies are worth adopting.
The project's EA has been widely disseminated among stakeholders and project beneficiaries.
Regarding the main institutional and regulatory changes being contemplated the following points
should be made
* Decentralization of the fiscalization function can be done only at the request of municipalities
* Enforcement of legal reserve and microcatchment preservation requirements involves approval
of no new laws or regulations. It will be implemented in interstitial areas and targeted at
interventions critical for biodiversity maintenance. The operationalization of SISLEG
mitigates somewhat the command and control aspect of enforcement, permitting a
negotiation' process that optimizes legal enforcement. Similarly, better targeting of the
ICMS Ecologico should provide municipalities with greater incentives to help consolidate
- 30 -



Corridors.
* Regulation of cutting of threatened AraucAria is a long overdue step, albeit one that is still
contentious owing to vested lumber interests. The Government is ready to take this step in
light of the devastation that has been wrought on the few remaining forested areas and
negotiations are proceeding regarding the opening of other areas to compensate lumber
interests for losses suffered.
* The introduction of certification to address illegal harvesting of heart of palm (and possibly
other products in the future) will affect relatively few people. The certification process will
keep harvesters from invading and depredating private property and protected areas.
Programs to establish commercially viable substitute crops such as popunha are also being
developed in parallel and will be offered in interstitial areas.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Component #3, Environmental Monitoring and Enforcement, envisions the creation of a central
unit in IAP charged with developing a comprehensive biodiversity/conservation data base
comprising PBP indicators and information generated through continual evaluation of satellite
imagery and on the ground surveys of targeted species plus other extant data bases. The unit will
generate the requisite data for evaluating Corridors, PBP indicators, and eventually conservation
data for the entire state. It will also be involved in setting priorities for PBP targeting which
should support the effort to meet project objectives.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The primary social outcome has to do with the success of the alternative production systems
proposed by the Project for farmers and others in key interstitial areas. "Success" means that
large numbers of targeted beneficiaries convert to the alternative systems with the result that their
income and quality of life improves.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
A sizeable and well articulated project dissemination and agricultural extension program has been
developed that will target interstitial communities. Agricultural modules are being designed by
EMATER that evaluate current cropping patterns and technologies, soil quality, environmental
impact and develop crop/technology alternatives that will be offered to agriculturalists with
technical assistance and financial support to induce them to convert to the new production
systems. Hence the participation of interstitial communities is virtually assured and their
willingness to adopt new systems will be an essential barometer of project success.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A major Parana NGO, Sociedade de Pesquisa em Vida Selvagem (SPVS), has been involved as a
participant and later as an informal consultant during the project design process. Through SPVS
and others, NGO concerns regarding Government management of the environment and regulatory
issues have been taken into account, especially in designing the institutional reforms contemplated
by the project. The Government hosted two meetings of the environmental umbrella organization
- 31 -



(UNIAP) with representation of environmental NGOs from all over the state to discuss the
project and make recommendations. NGOs will be involved in project implementation by (i)
participating in central, regional and municipal Project Committees, (ii) participating in regional
and municipal forums, (iii) providing training as part of the Education Component--especially
UNILIVRE, a leading environmental NGO, and (iv) being included in the UC Management Plans
and resultant outreach activities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
EMATER has been designated as the local executor of PBP, especially as relates to the interstitial
program. It will draw upon Parand Rural Poverty Alleviation experience in commtnunity
organization and extension campaigns to change production systems. EMATER is the best
institution to ensure interstitial agriculturalists and others understand PBP and take advantage of
offerings.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Conversion to alternative production systems will be monitored closely in interstitial areas--as
well as the rehabilitation of interstitial and protected area biodiversity that should result from this
and other efforts. To overcome the inertia associated with traditional cropping methodologies a
farmer converting to alternative production systems must be assured of the favorable balance of
costs and benefits. Hence, this measure is a satisfactory proxy for welfare improvement.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Pest Mana ement (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                       O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           O Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  O Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     O Yes *0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
- 32 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is considered technically, institutionally and financially sustainable. Long term
sustainability issues have been adequately addressed during project design. The technical
sustainability of the project has been described in the Section on Technical Analysis of this
document. Institutionally, it is expected that the comprehensive strengthening of EMATER in
biodiversity-related matters, promoting larger awareness of diversity considerations among its
staff and clients, would be a key aspect to ensuring long-term sustainability of project
interventions. This, combined with the de-concentration of IAP activities, resulting in an improved
linkage with EMATER's regional offices and a closer connection to the relevant institutional
structure at the municipal level, would also promote long-term sustainability of the project, mainly
through increased awareness of the target population regarding biodiversity considerations.
Sustainability considerations on specific project elements are as follows:
Corridor Consolidation. Corridor strategic plans with prioritized interventions will be
established during the project period as regards such parameters as quality of park area and
species counts. Also, the quality of contiguous interstitial areas and microcatchments will be
addressed through (i) SISLEG, the enforcement of Legal Reserve requirements, (ii) ICMS
Ecol6gico, and (iii) UC outreach which will be an integral part of the new management plans. A
unit will be established in IAP to (iv) evaluate Corridors and prioritize interventions and a second
to (v) monitor and evaluate the impact of these interventions on biodiversity and Corridor
consolidation. It is expected that both of the units will become permanent pillars of IAP and their
regular reports and prioritization of interventions will continue to orient biodiversity conservation
following project closing. Furthermore, mobilization of SISLEG/legal reserve enforcement
efforts and the ICMS Ecol6gico are expected to be permnanent.
UC Upgrade. The core UCs targeted for management plans and equipment/infrastructure
upgrade will establish prototypes for UC management. The management plans will draw upon
best practice in Brazil and elsewhere and should serve as the blue print for a more professional
and comprehensive management of UCs that includes such areas as interstitial
management/outreach and financial sustainability.
Institutional Reforms. The regulatory refinements and reforms contemplated by the
project--SISLEG, ICMS-Ecol6gico, licensing, decentralization of fiscalization, and Araucaria and
heart of palm certification will be permanent. It is expected that the PBP supported review of the
legal framework will also contribute to permanent reforms.
Mainstreaming Biodiversity Conservation. It is expected that EMATER involvement on a large
scale in PBP will help to mainstream biodiversity and conservation concerns and approaches in
this important body. Also, PBP should revitalize the Government's Biodiversity Network
Program and orient its activities including promoting closer coordination ("mainstreaming")
among agencies whose activities impinge upon protected areas and corridors.
- 33 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(i) Gubematorial elections affect support  M         Speedy grant processing will leave sufficient
for PBP project/objectives                           time to establish organizational sustainability
and show results. Broad collaboration of key
agencies assures continuing project ownership.
(ii) Vested interests undercut support for  S        Initiatives have sufficient public and private
main institutional reforms:                          support to be instituted early in the project as
decentralization of fiscalization and                planned. Cutting of Araucaria has already been
licensing, certification of Araucaria and            banned. Broad collaboration of key agencies
hearts of palm, mobilization of SISLEG               assures continuing project ownership.
and legal reserve enforcement
(iii) Closing of "Parana Rural Poverty     M         A two-year extension was recommended by the
Alleviation" loan undercuts financing for            project mid-term review and will be requested,
interstitial program                                 which should be sufficient to achieve project
goals.
(iv) Continued fiscal problems result in   H         There has been no hiring for several years and
budgetary retrenchment that undercuts                agencies are already lean owing in part to the
PBP                                                  State's financial situation and Federal legislation
restricting Government expenditures.
Counterpart funding comes largely from
"Parana 12 Meses" and reallocation of existing
budgetary outlays. LAP fees have recently been
increased making the agency nearly self
sufficient. Revenue generation studies will be
undertaken by corridor UCs.
From Components to Outputs
I. Education Component                     M
(i) Critical interstitial campaign with              EMATER has been selected to manage this
numerous dissemination efforts and wide              effort. It is a respected extension service that
variety of courses will not be successfully          has successfully implemented the similar
implemented                                          "Parani 12 Meses" loan and has ample
extension experience.
II. Biodiversity Management Component
(i) Critical interstitial management       M         EMATER will run PBP locally. Performance
campaign faces implementation problems               will be closely supervised by the Ecoregion
Managers.
(ii) Corridor consolidation/increasing     M         Mapping and identification of priority
connectivity proves difficult given highly           interventions will be done by a special unit set
fragmented protected areas                           up for that purpose. Mobilizing IAP officials
and local magistrates to identify and 'negotiate'
with proprietors is labor intensive and politically
sensitive but Parana has done this successfully
- 34 -



before and the Govermment is committed.
(iii) Alternative production systems not    H        EMATER has been successful in getting
adopted by interstitial farmers                      farmers to adopt environmentally benign
technologies on larger, more commercially
viable farms and the expectation is that they will
be successful in the ecoregions as well.
Identification of alternative crops and
production systems has been done based on
successful experience elsewhere in the State and
evaluation of Corridor needs.
(iv) UC staffing and resourcing continue   M         PBP covers seven UCs in the targeted Corridors
inadequate to turn around Corridor UCs               and will provide intensive training, technical
assistance, equipment and minor infrastructure.
Management plans will be carefully scrutinized
and implementation will be monitored closely.
m. Biodiversity Monitoring and             M
Enforcement                                          A special unit will be created in IAP to
(i) Development of adequate indicators for           implement monitoring and evaluation. Species
species targeted for systematic                      counting and environmental quality evaluation
monitoring proves difficult                          will be subcontracted to competent groups
where LAP officials cannot easily operate.
(ii) Enforcement continues inadequate      H         Certification will be subcontracted to a
specialized private firm. Decentralization of
fiscalization will increase the numbers and
distribution of fiscal agents. PBP will provide
training and equipment. Monitoring and
evaluation will be rigorous.
Overall Risk Rating                        M         The professionalism and commitment of
Government officials is expected to overcome
implementation risks.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Certain aspects of institutional reforms and enforcement promoted by the project may be
controversial among some stakeholders, including certification of heart of palm and Araucaria and
enforcement of legal reserve requirements.
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
General Conditions of Effectiveness
* The Recipient has adopted the Operational Manual;
- 35 -



* the Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank and the Project Coordinator has been appointed;
* a Project Implementation Plan, including the Procurement Plan for the first 12 months of
Project execution has been approved by the Bank;
* the Recipient has submitted to the Bank terms of reference, acceptable to the Bank, for
implementation of the studies referred to in Part D.2 of the Project; and
* at least five Technical Units have been established in the respective Municipalities.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* Carry out Agroecological Module/Subprojects in accordance with the Project Manual, by
entering into agreements with beneficiaries , which will include the following requirements: (i)
comply with technical recommendations regarding envrionmental practices and production
systems, (ii) participate with own resources to complement project budget proposals
validated by PBP Advisors, (iii) participate in relevant Project training, and (iv) agree to audit
of support received.
* As a condition for disbursement for specific components, no withdrawals shall be made in
respect of: (i) payments under an Agroecological Subproject unless the EMATER Agreement,
the CODAPAR Agreement and the respective Agroecological Subproject Grant Agreement
shall have been entered into between the parties thereto; (ii) payments for expenditures for
goods and works of Agroecological Subprojects (to be financed by Categories (1) and (2) of
the table in paragraph I of the Grant Agreement), unless the IAP Agreement shall have been
entered into between the parties thereto; and (iii) payments made for Microcatchment
Subprojects.
* Within six months after the Effective Date, establish and thereafter maintain, within the
Municipal Councils of the 63 Municipalities in the corridors, technical units for the support of
the Biodiversity Corridors with responsibilities and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
*   Not later than two years after the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank for its comments the
results of the studies to (i) identify and characterize priority areas for biodiversity conservation
including fragment identification, mapping, characterization, and elaboration of thematic maps
for such areas, and a final report summarizing findings; and (ii) improve the Recipient's tax
incentive system benefiting municipalities who apply environmentally sound practices.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Ol 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 36 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
J ohn Redwood                          Vinod Thomas
Team Lea-aer                         Sector ManagerlDirector             Country Manager/Director
-37 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Achieve Biodiversity      Selected species and      A new Monitoring &       Parana's political and
conservation in two priority  environmental quality  Evaluation Unit will be  financial support for the
ecoregions-Brazilian Inland  indicators.            established in IAP and will  Project will continue strong.
Atlantic Forest and Araucaria                       generate periodic supervision
Forest                                              reports making use of satellite
imagery and on the ground
surveys
MIainstream biodiversity  Provide technical basis to  Supervision reports, Studies  Commitment to each of these
conservation in Parana State  promote any necessary  and Evaluations.        goals is not derailed by vested
institutional and legislative                      interests
revisions (see Component #3
Hierarchy of Objectives
below).
GEF Operational Program:
Conserve biodiversity in  [SEE ANNEX 2 FOR THE
globally important forest and  FULL SET OF
freshwater ecosystems     MONITORING INDICATORS
(Operational Programs 3)
prioritizing
(i) in situ conservation of  Selected species and   Project Monitoring &     Continuing political and
globally unique biodiversity  environmental quality  Evaluation Unit will generate financial support for the
indicators.               periodic implementation   Project.
progress reports.
(ii) sustainable use of   Adoption of alternative   Data generated by local   Benefits of conversion are
biodiversity              production systems in 40% of survey and reporting will be  clear to potential beneficiaries
targeted Corridor interstitial  carried out by PBP  and interstitial program is
areas or roughly 336,000 ha.  Environmental Advisor  carried out efficiently.
(EMATER) in each
participating municipality.
(iii) local participation in the  Number of participants  idem               idem
benefits of conservation  involved in PBP interstitial
activities                area dissemination/training
programs (19,600 producers)
and adopting alternative
production systems
Global Objective:         Outcome I Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
- 38 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy |
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                  | Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component 1: Education &
Institutional Strengthening
Project                   -Completion of training   Implementation progress   Government capable of
Dissemination/Training    program including for more  reports from PMU core   organizing and delivering
than 21,000 participants,  responsibilities. These will be projects; PBP and altematives
including courses see Annex  validated in Supervision  production systems of
2) for:                   Reports.                 sufficient interest to rural
* Project Management                              producers.
*E MATER Environmental
Ad visors
* Rural Producers--Basic
Co ncepts, Agr. Modules
* UC-IAP Staff
*IA P-Municipal Inspectors
*Loca I Justices Training
Component 2: Biodiversity  -Creation of a Central Macro  Protocol, supervision reports  Continuing Govemment/lAP
Management                Planning Unit in IAP and  and Bank validation of plans  support of PBP and its
development of strategic                            approach to planning
intervention plans for three
Corridors
-6 prototype Management   Supervision Reports       Government support of
Plans including interstitial                        quality, comprehensive
area programs under                                 Management Plan model and
implementation                                      adequately prepared
technicians to draft these
-Appropriate productive                             plans.
systems in priority interstitial Supervision reports
areas: 40% of targeted                              Altemative production
microcatchments or roughly                         systems attractive to
840,000 ha.                                        interstitial communities are
developed and readily
-20,000 ha of native species                        available.
forest planted annually   Supervision reports
Government will support
enforcement efforts/SISLEG,
mobilizing IAP and local
magistrates
Component 3: Environmental 15 municipalities with  Implementation progress    Incentives for assumption and
Monitoring and Enforcement effective decentralized  reports                   effective carrying out of
systems of fiscalization                            responsibilities sufficient for
municipalities.
Illegal buming reduced in  idem                     Efficient enforcement
- 39 -



priority municipalities and                         capability along with better
interstitial areas.                                 targeted fiscal incentive will
reduce clearing.
Protection of threatened  idem                      Efficient enforcement
species; maintenance of   (field teams will benchmark  capability.
abundance of targeted species in year one and conduct
within corridors.         annual updates)
Studies carried out to provide idem                  Continued Govemment
the technical basis and/or  (TORs and final reports will  support of reform
support for the           be reviewed by Bank       commitments made.
implementation of:        specialists).
* certification model for
su stainably produced
products
* decentralization of
fis calization
* decentralization of
li censing
* improved enforcement of
legal/ regulatory
framework
* revised targeting of fiscal
p olicies to support
biodiversity conservation
* review and modemization
of environmental
legislative framework
* altemative allocation of
b udget resources to
benefit biodiversity
conservation
Development and use of    idem                       Continued Govemment
comprehensive biodiversity  (Supervision and verification  support of project concept,
data base                 in Central Macro Strategic  approach and funding.
Unit in IAP)
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
GEF/Total Budget
($Thousands)
Component 1: Educational  1,209/1 580               Supervision reports        Government continuing
& Institutional                                                               support of PBP programs and
Strengthening             537/635                                              reforms; efficient training and
dissemination activities;
Sub-components                                                                 availability of altemative
- 40 -



(i) Capacity building for  442/715                                            production systems attractive
project executors                                                             to interstitial inhabitants;
appropriate training and
(ii) Education/dissemination  230/230                                         resourcing for UC upgrade.
for project beneficiaries
(iii) Training materials/
dissemination
Component 2: Biodiversity  4,925/26,737             Supervision reports       idem above plus Govemment
Management & Incentives                                                       support and effective enforce-
ment of legal and regulatory
framework.
Sub-components
(i) Activities in Conservation 1,619/23,367
Units & interstitial areas
(ii) Use of strategic     3,305/3,370
enforcement instruments &
incentives/agr modules &
technical assistance
Component 3: Control &     1,159/2,490
Protection
Sub-components
(i) Integrated fiscalization--  463/1,241           Supervision reports       Continued State and
decentralized licensing/                                                      municipal support of
enforcement                                                                   decentralization and in
effectively carrying out
fiscalization mandate
(ii) Protection of threatened  231/1,249            Supervision reports.
species                                                                       General success of PBP
approach
Component 4: Project      707/2,050
Administration
Sub-components
(i) Project administration  330/1,674              Supervision reports.       Continued State support and
coordination among array of
State and municipal agencies
(ii) Strategic studies    377/377                   TORs and final reports will be Continued State support of
validated by Bank specialists  reforms despite vested
interests
- 41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
Back2round and Comnponent TarWetiiW of Areas Rich in Biodiversitv
Development Versus Environment
The occupation of Parand started in the 17th century, spurred by gold exploration in coastal areas
and the Curitiba Plateau supported by subsistence agriculture. Two hundred years ago the state
was little developed, predominately agrarian and rural, and nearly 85% of Parand was forested.
However, the rapid expansion of agriculture and livestock plus migration to urban areas set in
motion economic forces that quickly transformed this panorama. Colonization of Brazil's
southern regions, one of the world's most important in terms of biodiversity, intensified during
the 20th century. Especially over the last fifty years, the use of modem inputs in large-scale
agriculture has had a devastating impact upon the forest cover. The construction of the Brazilian
center-south railroad with its connections to the coastal regions was decisive in establishing the
lumber industry. The coffee culture was established in the state in the first decade of the 20th
century growing slowly for the next three decades. By 1940 Parand coffee represented 6% of the
national production, but by 1962-3 it had increased to 63%.
The occupation of the western and southwestern regions of the state was accompanied by
nomadic sawmill operations that responded to the increased demand for lumber. The Araucaria
forests along with Imbuya phoebe, cedar, cinnamon and other noble trees suffered predatory
exploitation, reaching a peak in 1939 with the exportation of 307,000 tons of lumber. Migration
from surrounding states to a rapidly developing Parani exacerbated the trend and by 1950 State
forest cover had been reduced to 40%. Only fifteen years later, in 1965, forest cover had
declined to 24%. The advent of large scale, technologically modern farms dedicated to grain
production plus cattle ranching gave rise to the consolidation of land holdings. Soybeans and
wheat cultivation had substantially replaced coffee by the 1970's. Today the State produces
nearly 18 million tons of grains, representing 23% of Brazil's production.
Rapid economic growth in the 20th century acted as a magnet for migration. In 1940 Parana's
population numbered only 1.2 million with over 900,000 living in rural areas (see table below). In
the 1950-60s, annual population growth averaged 7.3%. By 1970 total and rural population
stood at 6.9 and 4.4 million respectively. Today, a rural population of 2 million dedicated to
agriculture and livestock still accounts for 34% of the state GDP or some$ 10 billion/year and
helps to support large urban centers and highly sophisticated industries.
The result of two hundred years of development has been to reduce forest cover to 8.5% with
serious loss of biodiversity in ecoregions of regional, national and international importance. In
this respect, Parani is prototypical of the entire southern region where unconstrained natural
resource exploitation has reached the point of seriously threatening the survival of entire
ecoregions.
The Parand Biodiversity project specifically supports Bank/GEF Operational Strategy by
-42 -



contributing to the long-term protection of globally important ecosystems, with particular focus
on strengthening protected areas networks and scaling up successful biodiversity conservation
initiatives. Specifically, this project supports Operational Program 3 (Forest Ecosystems) and 2
(Freshwater Ecosystems). The project would target three GEF priorities; in situ conservation of
globally unique biodiversity; sustainable use of biodiversity; and local participation in the benefits
of conservation activities. The project is fully consistent with Brazil's first report to the COP IV.
The project is also fully consistent with the principles of the CBD by supporting all three levels of
biodiversity (ecosystems, species, and genes). It also supports CPO Decisions I/8, II/8, II/9, III/9,
111/10 and III/12, and the SBSTTA Recommendation 1/3. Brazil signed the Convention of
Biological Diversity in 1992.
Overview of Parand Biodiversity and Targeted Ecoregions
Parand harbors significant, pristine tracts of four important ecoregions: Araucaria Forest,
Brazilian Inland Atlantic Rainforest, Brazilian Coast Atlantic Rainforest, and Campos Gerais
(savannah/steppe). All four are highly important for the planet's biodiversity conservation and
threatened, according to Dinerstein, et. al. in A Conservation Assessment of Terrestrial
Eco-regions of LAC (The World Bank and The World Wildlife Fund, Washington, 1995),
The four ecoregions' global importance is based upon their extraordinary biodiversity and the fact
that they are threatened. They contain numerous animal species categorized as critical,
endangered, rare or vulnerable. In the table bellow animals listed in the Lista Vermelha de
Animais Ameaqados de Extinqdo do Estado do Parana ("Red List of Parana State Animals
Threatened with Extinction") include the following resident species which are threatened in
Parand and considered globally at risk.
Threatened Species
Species                    Parana                   Globally
Mammals                               21                        2
Birds                                117                        13
Reptiles                              12                         6
Butterflies                           17                         I
Evidently, there are other elements of the Parand fauna which suffer significant impact from
encroachments on their natural habitat including ichthyic, zooplankton, zoobenthos, micro and
meso fauna among others. The situation of Parana flora is also disheartening. Today the estimate
of State plant species is around 7,000. Of these, about 70% or almost 5,000, suffer from
degraded habitats and are at risk of extinction. The list cited above categorizes 593 species as
"critical" status and 95% of these are found in the two targeted ecoregions, the Inland Atlantic
Forest and the Araucaria Forest and the two ecoregions that are expected to be eventual
beneficiaries of the prototypes established by the PBP. The ecoregions are described below.
The Araucdria Forest (Ecoregion 105-Mixed Ombrofila Forest) is classified as "critical
conservation status" and considered to be of high biological relevance at the global level and
- 43 -



maximum conservation priority at the regional level. The most important surviving tracts exist in
the Middle Igua,u Basin in the center-south of Parana. The Araucaria forest has been reduced to
only 1. 16% of its original area primarily owing to exploitation over the last 50 years. Continued
commercial exploitation, extension of agriculture and seed overexploitation threaten Araucaria
regeneration, causing genetic erosion and reducing its diversity. The remaining Parani forests
cover 269,839 hectares, of which just 6,428 are included in protected areas, locally know as
conservation units (UCs). The remaining habitats face severe threats.
The Brazilian Inland Atlantic Rainforest (Ecoregion 55-Seasonal Semi-deciduous Forest) is the
last important tract of the meridional-occidental type (in the Parand River Basin) are located in the
Iguacu National Park, complemented by the Iguazu National Park in Argentina. Ecoregion 55 is
classified as "threatened" and considered of high biological relevance at the global level and
maximum conservation priority at the regional level. This region includes environments highly
important for biodiversity conservation, which is also the case for the Ilha Grande National Park
and contiguous wetlands, located in the northwestern part of the State. However, the latter's
setentrional-oriental type (Paranapanema River Basin) differs in structure and composition from
the Parand River Basin and has been almost totally eradicated. Its few remaining vestiges are of
vital importance for maintaining biodiversity. In the center-northern area of the Parana River
Basin (Ilha Grande National Park) we can find a portion of Ecoregion 116 (Chaco Umido),
classified as "vulnerable status" and also of global biological relevance and regional importance.
The situation of these inland Atlantic rainforests is critical as the ecosystem is practically isolated
and confined to protected areas, as in the Iguacu and Iguazu National Parks, with little or no
connection to smaller fragments. There are some important tracts on the margins of the Itaipu
Lake in Paraguay (UCs include Mbaracayu, Lemoy, others) which conserve important primary
ecosystem formations.
The PBP components will be directed at creating successful Corridor prototypes that will restore
connectivity and create the conditions for maintenance and possible recuperation of biodiversity.
It is expected that this experience will eventually be replicated in the other two critical Parand
ecoregions, the Campos Gerais and Brazilian Coast Atlantic Forest. It is also expected that
some PBP training, legal reforms and enforcement initiatives will benefit these two ecoregions
whose global and regional importance is similar to that of the two PBP microregions.
The Campos Gerais-Parana Cerrados (Ecoregion 114-Savannah/Steppe) is classified as
"vulnerable", considered important at the global level and of maximum conservation priority at
the regional level. This ecosystem is found in the Campos Gerais and Tibagi River Basin regions.
The Parana Cerrados are the extreme southern limits of this ecosystem in Brazil and there are
states where larger and more importance vestiges can be found and this is one reason that the
Campos were less of a PBP priority. The Brazilian Coast Atlantic Forest (Ecoregion
#54-Mixed Ombrofila Forest) or "Mata Atlantica" refers to all of the forest ecosystems of
Brazil's coastal states from Rio Grande to Rio Grande do Norte. Originally, these forests covered
more than 1.29 million km2 and represented 15% of Brazil's entire land surface area spread over
17 states (ISA 1999, SOS 1998, MMA 1999). This represents one of the planet's most
threatened ecoregions. According to the National Report to the Convention on Biological
Diversity and other studies, only 7.5-9% of the original area remains and the largest contiguous
- 44 -



tract is in Parana. It is classified as "critical conservation status" and is considered of high
biological relevance at the global level and maximum conservation priority at the regional level.
In Stattersfield et. al., Endemic Bird Areas of the World, Priorities for Biodiversity Conservation
(1998), the ecoregion is classified as one of the 25 areas of maximum priority for biodiversity
conservation owing to its critical risk indices and rich biodiversity. The remaining areas are
composed largely of secondary forest in different seral stages and it is assumed that the depletion
of the forest has already resulted in significant loss of biodiversity, system stability and local
species extinction. Parana has suffered a 35% loss of its original coastal forest due mainly to
lumber, buffalo, and small and medium sized agriculture systems. It has not lost more due to the
fact that it includes the mountainous Atlantic Ridge which has resisted development pressures.
Also, there are already a number of conservation efforts underway in the Mata Atlantica which is
one reason it was not included as a PBP priority.
Proiect Obiective
The primary objective is the sustainable conservation of Parana's surviving biodiversity focusing
on critical ecoregions. PBP will assist the Government to attain this objective by helping to
reorient public and private environmental efforts through a program of coordinated reforms in
policy, organization, resourcing, and approach.
Stratezic Approach
The PBP approach is to build "ecological corridors" in critical biodiversity areas by connecting
and upgrading protected and interstitial areas critical for corridor consolidation and protection of
biodiversity.
Corridors are areas distinguished by
(i)    an area sufficiently large and 'connected' to allow maintenance of existing biodiversity,
(ii)   protection/recuperation of environmental resources through appropriate legal and
regulatory frameworks and efficient enforcement,
(iii)  interstitial programs to address anthropomorphic threats--especially traditional productive
systems--to corridor integrity and ensure connectivity,
(iv)  systematic monitoring and evaluation, and
(v)   a strengthened and growing constituency supporting conservation objectives through
targeted education and dissemination programs.
Ecological corridors are comprised of
*     UCs of a variety of types--including public (Federal, State, municipal), private
(RPPN)--and a variety of uses (permitting controlled commercial use to total prohibition
of any but research activities)
*     Fragments of preserved areas which are under private ownership
*     "Stepping stones" that are small preserved or recuperated interstitial areas sufficiently
close to one another to permit species to move freely between larger conservation units or
fragments, thereby assuring biological connectivity
*     Interstitial legal reserves (by law, 20% of privately held lands) and water courses and
- 45 -



contiguous "siliar" areas essential for connectivity (also protected by existing legislation).
*     Other interstitial areas under environmentally benign forms of exploitation.
Connectivity is critical for biodiversity because it (i) assures areas sufficiently large to protect
endangered species and allow for 'dispersion routes' for species recolonization, (ii) increases the
possibility of water resource management including flood and sediment control and sustainability
of aquatic communities and fish species, (iii) makes possible increased productivity by providing
windbreaks for agriculture and pasture and controlling soil erosion, preventing desertification, and
(iv) provides dispersion routes for species in isolated, preserved fragments.
There are four critical ecoregions in Parana that are considered planetary "hot spots". In
addition to the Interior Atlantic and Araucaria Forests which are addressed by the PBP, there are
the Coastal Atlantic Forest and the Campos-Cerrados (savanna). The two ecoregions targeted by
the PBP were chosen based upon a careful selection procedure that looked at
(i)   global, regional and local importance of biodiversity,
(ii)  the number and size of protected areas within the potential corridor,
(iii)  the degree of connectivity and proximity of protected areas,
(iv)  the richness of the species found in the area,
(v)   biodiversity,
(vi)  biotic communities,
(vii)  diversity of ecosystems and habitats,
(viii)  endemism.
These same criterion were used to identify, within each ecoregion, the three corridors.
The largest planning and administrative unit in the targeted ecoregion is the Corridor. The basic
corridor planning unit is the microcatchment, an area of roughly 3,000 ha. comprising a drainage
area and generally with one or more water-courses. The smallest operational unit within the
microcatchment is the private holding. The PBP works with microcatchments and private
holdings to consolidate three corridors.
PBP assists the Government of Parand to establish and consolidate, on a permanent and
sustainable basis, three ecological corridors in two ecoregions. The area of the 63 municipalities
(of a total of 399 in Parana) in the PBP Ecoregions cover four million hectares of the State's
total of twenty million. The actual area of the three corridors is 2.15 million hectares.
(i) Caiud-Ilha Grande Corridor in Ecoregion 55 comprising Interior Atlantic Forest. The
Corridor touches on 26 municipalities with a combined area of 1,442,000 ha and a population
of 420,000. The Corridor area is 987,000 ha. or roughly 68% of the total.
(ii) Iguaf u-Parana Corridor, also in Ecoregion 55, also touches on 26 municipalities with a
total area of 1,317,000 ha. and a population of 554,000. The Corridor covers 575,000 ha or
44% of the total.
(iii) Araucaria Forest Corridor in Ecoregion 105 comprising Araucaria Forests includes
eleven municipalities with an area of 1,247,000 ha. and a population of 166,000. The
- 46 -



Corridor includes 589,000 ha or 47% of the total.
Corridor  Municipalities  Corridor  Municipal  Corridor!  Urban   Rural      Total
(#)        Area       Area    Municipal Population Population  Population
(000 Ha)   (000 Ha)    (%/6)    (#)        (#)       (#)
Caiua-Ilha        26         987       1.442       68      334,000   86,000    420,000
Grande
Iguagu-Parana     26         575       1,317       44      414,000  140,000    554,000
Araucaria         I          589       1,247       47      85,000    81,000    166,000
PBP works throughfour main components to create sustainable corridors capable of preserving
critical biodiversity. Components and sub-components are presented in the table below along
with detailed cost projections.
Component and Cost Summary
($000)
Components/Sub-Components                Year                      Totals
1      2       3      4     GEF   Parana   Total
L Education and Capacity        751     382    301     146   1,209   371    1,508
Building
Capacity building for project   327     91     121     96     537     98     635
executors
Education and dissemination for  305    242    141     27     442    273     715
project beneficiaries
Promotional and capacity building  119  49      40     23     230            230
materials
I. Biodiversity Management      7,439  11,270  7,336   692   4,925  21,812 26,737
Macro-planning for prioritization &  1,239  1,239  446  446  3,306          3,306
connectivity
Activities in UCs and Contiguous
Areas
Interstitial areas programs,    6,199  10,031  6,890   247   1,619  21,812 23,431
connectivity & fragments
II. Control and Protection      1,080   542    434     434   1,159   1.331  2,490
Integrated fiscalization        523     311    203     203    463    777    1,241
Protection of threatened species  556   231    231     231    696    553    1,249
IV. Project Administration       707    519    451     374    707    1,344  2,050
Project administration          440     437    428     368    330    1,344  1,674
Strategic studies               267     82      22      6     377            377
Totals                     9,977  12,714  8,522  1,646  8,000  24,857 32,857
-47 -



Descriptions of the four PBP components are presented below followed by the array of outcome
and output indicators proposed for monitoring and evaluation by the Government follow.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.58 million
Component I: Education and Capacity Buildina
Objective.  The objective is to sensitize the population of Parana State to the importance of
biodiversity conservation and train project executors, beneficiaries and stakeholders to participate
in the Project. Hence, the Component is essential to mobilizing support for recuperating and
safeguarding the quality of the State's principal ecosystems.
Specific Objectives.
*     Change attitudes and behaviors and broaden knowledge, skills and competencies required
for biodiversity conservation among stakeholders and environmental agents.
*     Build the requisite capacity among PBP executors to successfully carry out the project.
*     Persuade rural populations to adopt agricultural and husbandry technologies that are
environmentally benign, especially in targeted interstitial areas.
*     Improve the efficiency, effectiveness and dedication of public officials directly or indirectly
involved in activities impacting upon biodiversity conservation.
*     Implement effective biodiversity monitoring and evaluation systems.
*     Involve civil society and especially NGOs within the State in project implementation.
Summary of Activities and Cost. The total Component cost is $1.5 million with about $1.1
million coming in the first two years to prepare project executors and beneficiaries for
implementation of other Project activities. Component and sub-component activities have been
broken out and costed out in detail according to a timetable of activities including: cost per
subcomponent per year, GEF/counterpart contribution, cost per expenditure category per year,
and cost per individual sub-component activities per year. These are available in project files.
Component Activities. There are three sub-components described below, namely
A.    Capacity building among project executors
B.    Dissemination of project concepts and practices among project beneficiaries
C.    Educational and promotional materials
-48 -



Education Component Cost Summary
Sub-Component/Activities                                 Budget
($000)
Year I      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Total
A. Capacity Building Among Project       327          91         121         96         635
Executors
i.      Management Capacity Building      12                                             12
ii.     Dissemination of Project Concepts  39                                39         78
iii.    Basic Capacity Building           119         42         42          42         240
iv.     Operational Capacity              40          14         22          15         92
v.      Specific Capacity Building for
Technical Environmental Advisors  28                                             28
vi.     Capacity Building for UC
Employees                         54                      26                     80
vii.    Specific Training for IAP
Supervisors and Municipal
Fiscalization Officers            25          25          25                     75
viii.   Capacity Building for
Environmental Secretary Justices  12          9           5                      26
B. Dissemination of Project Concepts     305         242         141         27         715
and Practices Among Project
Beneficiaries
i.      Project Dissemination Meetings    62         122         88                     272
ii.     Agroecological Modules            86          49         21                     156
iii.    Field Days                                    11          18         18         46
iv.     Extension Courses for Other                               4                      4
Municipalities
v.      Social Mobilization and           97                                            97
Environmental Education
vi.     Support for Education Project     42          40                                 82
Implementation - Prizes            19         19          9           9          57
vii.    NGO Participation
C. Promotional and Capacity Building     119          49         40          23         230
Materials
TOTAL                      751         383         301         146       1,580
Sub-component A: Capacity Building Among Project Executors
The courses and beneficiaries contemplated under this sub-component include the following.
(i)     Management Capacity Building. The objective of this course is to promote familiarity
with biodiversity and project concepts among the roughly 30 members of the PMU and the Forum
advising the PMU comprising officials representing organs involved in the project.
(ii)    Dissemination of Project Concepts. These seminars are directed at some 820 regional and
municipal level Forums comprising officials in agencies involved in the project, local justices,
Municipal Council participants, municipal officials and civil society leaders.
- 49 -



(iii)B  asic Capacity Building. There will be a basic biodiversity and environmental education
course focusing on the characteristics of each corridor. The course will be given 17 times and the
expectation is that some 470 officials involved in project execution in the corridors will
participate. Included in this target group are officials from EMATER, IAP, DEFIS, Parana 12
Meses, SUDERHSA, the Forestry Police, municipal officials, and NGOs.
(iv)  Operational Capacity Building. Twelve sessions are contemplated for some 360 officials
representing the same institutions above who will be directly involved at the local level in project
execution. This group evidently includes the EMATER officials who will serve as the Technical
Environmental Advisers who will be responsible for managing project initiatives in interstitial
areas. The course will focus on the Operations Manual and activities to be developed with
Corridor communities.
(v)   Specific Capacity Buildingfor Technical Environmental Advisors. Twenty Advisors will
be trained in the specific agroecological modules that will be offered to local communities in each
of the three corridors. The course will be 120 hours and will focus on the new technologies and
also on community mobilization techniques required to persuade local farmers and ranchers to
adopt the environmentally benign technologies offered by PBP.
(vi)  Capacity Building for UC Staff Four different courses will be offered for managers and
administrators (basic and specialized courses), and park guards and laborers (basic and specialized
courses). The basic courses are 24 hours and the specialized are 40 hours. UC employees in the
seven corridor UCs will be targeted.
(vii)  Specific Trainingfor IAP Supervisors and Municipal Fiscalization Officials. The
decentralization of the fiscal functions to the 15 participating corridor municipalities will require
both training for IAP officials who must switch to a supervisory role, and also for the municipal
officials who will be assuming their direct fiscalization responsibilities. This is a 5 day, 40 hour
course targeting some 135 participants. While not a part of PBP, the decentralization of
responsibilities will also include a period of close mentoring and supervision during which time
IAP officials will be imparting their experience to municipal officials.
(viii) Capacity Building for Environmental Secretary Justices. The training of local justices
will be essential to operationalize SISLEG and expand the ICMS Ecol6gico. Local IAP officials
will be responsible for verifying legal reserve compliance of landowners whose holdings are
especially important to assuring the integrity of corridors or who are candidates for participation
in the SISLEG program. Working together with the justices (promotores), they will negotiate the
critical interstitial actions that will assure connectivity and recuperation of riverine forest and
other important areas and encourage the establishment of RPPNs (privately owned reserves).
Hence the training of justices is vitally important to structuring and mobilizing this effort.
Sub-Component B: Dissemination of Project Concepts and Practices Among Project
Beneficiaries
These courses are primarily for the targeted interstitial rural communities and producers who will
participate in the agroecological modules and eventually adopt the new activities and technologies
with assistance from PBP. There are three basic courses/activities designed to cover large
numbers of economically active rural inhabitants. It should also be noted that NGOs will also be
trained and deliver training Training activities are described below.
- 50 -



(i)   Project Dissemination Seminars. Nearly 20,000 rural workers are projected to
participate in these seminars over the first three project years. Some 654 four hour meetings are
programmed with 30 participants each. These will be the PBP introductory meetings meant to
build support and participation and propose the menu of agroecological modules based upon
diagnostics of local needs and characteristics.
(ii)  Agroecological Modules and Alternative Technologies. These courses are built around
the actual demonstration projects/modules of which there will be twenty. Each course will be of
40 hours and involve twenty farmers/producers. The objective is to introduce the target
population to the modules and persuade them to adopt the new activities and technologies offered
with PBP support. Examples of modules are fish farming, organic agriculture, palmito
production, ecotourism, medicinal plants, and flowers.
(iii)Field  Days. These are the critical vehicles for acquainting potential interstitial rural
workers with the results of the demonstration projects implemented in and around their
communities. Each field day is a full 8-hour day for community groups of about 20 rural workers.
There will be about 50 such field days in the 63 municipalities .
(iv)  Extension Courses for Other Municipalities. These will also be 8-hour events, one in
each corridor. The target audience will be some 30 rural workers from municipalities within the
Ecoregion municipalities that do not have agroecological modules and are not directly involved in
PBP planned activities. The intention of this activity is to upscale the PBP approach throughout
the ecoregion.
(v)   Social Mobilization and Environmental Eduction. The objective is to educate teachers
and community leaders in the importance of biodiversity conservation and make the link to PBP
activities, and especially the role of the corridor UCs which will be permanently involved in
community mobilization. There will be 20 such courses and it is projected that 600 people will be
trained in the corridors. Participants will also be expected to elaborate community dissemination
programs. This will require agreement with municipalities and especially education secretaries
regarding course development activities and also with local associations.
(vi)  Support for Education Project Implementation. As a means of providing incentives for
the Social Mobilization and Environmental Education programs developed by participants, prizes
will be awarded for the best results. There is to be a prize awarded in each of the 63 participating
municipalities in the 3 corridors.
Sub-Component C: Promotional and Capacity Building Materials
The menu of courses and activities outlined in the first two sub-components indicated above will
require an array of pedagogical materials and 'prizes'and giveaways, comnmon in agricultural
extension field days and courses of this nature. Among the main items to be developed and
handed out will be
*     690 Operations Manuals
*     2000 copies each of biodiversity booklets in 8 different editions of 100 pages
*     3 slide collections to be used for presentations
*     5 videos on 5 relevant PBP themes
*     Folders including information on relevant areas including Project concept, agroecological
modules, ICMS Ecol6gico, SISLEG with copies ranging from 10-25,000 copies of each.
- 51 -



*      11 folders, each with a different theme, for agroecological modules training activities
*      Promotional items include 6,000 hats, 25,000 calendars, 3,500 posters, 15,000 games.
Project Component 2 - US$26.70 million
Component II: Biodiversitv Mana2ement
Objective. The objective of this component is to work with direct stakeholders --UC officials and rural
producers in interstitial areas--to consolidate and assure the environmental integrity of the corridors and
thereby safeguard their biodiversity on a sustainable basis.
Specific Objectives. Biodiversity conservation in targeted corridors will be achieved through five types of
Component II interventions
*   Improved administration of Conservation Units (UC) that are the geographic core of the ecological
corridors
*   Transition to environmentally benign production activities in interstitial areas
*   Incorporation of fragments into the corridors through establishment of RPPN, protected areas or other
means
*   Connection of protected areas and fragments
*   Recuperation of important UC and interstitial areas.
The last three of these will draw heavily upon activities in other PBP components, namely
*   Operationalization of legal and regulatory protections of critical legal reserves and water courses
through ICMS Ecol6gico, SISLEG, and enforcement of laws governing water courses/siliar areas and
other exiting laws in interstitial areas (Component III, Control and Protection)
* Reform and efficient enforcement of laws and regulations governing biodiversity conservation including
certification (Project Administration & Strategic Studies, Control and Protection)
*   Strengthening of fiscalization and licensing through decentralization (Control and Protection)
*   Dissemination of PBP and biodiversity conservation knowledge to project executors, beneficiaries and
stakeholders and eventual mainstreaming to all Governnent agencies involved in activities impacting
on the environment and to civil society. (Component I: Education and Capacity Building).
Cost and Summary of Activities. This is by far the largest component, totalling $26.7 million.
Comprehensive cost breakouts exist in project documents by sub-component, expenditure item, year, and
GEF and counterpart contribution. The sequence of interrelated Component II activities and cost
and timetables are presented below. Note also that the Component I Education and Training
courses and dissemination activities have been carefully developed and scheduled to support
Component II activities. A summary of the main activities to be undertaken in Component II and
how they will be sequenced is presented in (a) below followed by a timetable (b) and cost
summary (c).
a. Summary & Sequencing of Component IHActivities
(i) Making use of satellite imagery and maps and extant data bases, macro strategic planning
will be undertaken to identify key Conservation Units and connectivity between these UCs and
UCs/fragments, the first step in designing corridors.
(ii) Microcatchments that contain the key UCs and fragments will be identified and macro
plans for them developed taking into account degraded areas, legal reserves, commercial
- 52 -



activities, preserved fragments and other parameters bearing upon the quality of the
microcatchment and its impact upon the corridors.
(iii) Microcatchments and connections will be prioritized based upon their importance to the
corridors.
(iv) Findings will be verified locally 'on the ground' and microcatchments, properties and
connections will be evaluated and prioritized according to needs and characteristics, and plans
will be developed for them. This information will be used for identifying the need for Legal
Reserve, SISLEG, ICMS Ecol6gico and other compliance and incentive type interventions
and to evaluate the feasibility of implanting new environmentally benign production systems.
(v) Producers/communities who will take part in the implementation of agroecological
modules will be identified and modules implemented.
(vi) Production systems building on demonstration plots' results will be marketed and
replicated with the assistance of Component I education/dissemination activities. Technical
assistance and funds will be provided to facilitate conversion to new technologies on the basis
of producer proposals.
(vii) Simultaneously, UC management plans that include interstitial area outreach will be
elaborated and implemented.
(viii) Implementation will proceed with Project technical assistance, funding and supervision.
b. Timetable of Major Activities
Component Activities               Year I       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4
2_314__ 2    1 2 3 4 1        2 3 4 1234
Prioritize UCs                 x
Implement UC activities           x  x  x   x  x  x   x  x   x  x  x  xx    x   x
Macro strategic planning of    x  x  x  x
connectivity for priority corridors
Macrostrategic prioritization of  x  x  x  x
interstitial microcatchments and
connections
Training of Technical Environmental  x  x  x
Advisors and Producers
Diagnosis & planning for properties  x   x                                     I
Diagnostic & action plan for properties  x  x  x  x   x  x   x  x  x  x  x   x  x
in priority microcatchments/connections
Selection of producers for           x  x   x
implementation of agroecological
modules and demonstration projects
Training of Advisors and producers in  x  x  x  x  x  x
module implementation
Implementation of modules      _x           x  x  x   x
Intensive training surrounding modules            x   x  x   x  x  x  x  x   x  x
for producers
Development of action plans including   x   x  x  x   x  x   x  x  x  x  x   x  x
modules/reserves in microcatchments
and properties
Execution of actions programmed in       x  x  x  x   x  x   x  x  x  x  x   x  x
microcatchments and properties
- 53 -



c. Biodiversity Management
Cost Summary ($000)
Component Expenditures                     Corridors               Total
Araucaria  Iguafu-   Caiud-  Common
Parand    liha
.______________________________________   Grande
Conservation Unit Activities/ Infrastructure  535  401     401         _    1,336
Conservation Unit Management            316       237      237               790
Macrostrategic Planning                                             283     283
Consolidation of Connectivity            79        59       59               197
Agroecological Modules Development &    344       688      688              1,720
Dissemination
Municipal Institutional Support-EMATER   65       626      626              1,517
Institutional Support-Regional                                      132      132
Microcatchment Management, Modules,    4.153     8,304     8,304           20,761
Conversion to New Production Systems                    I_               I
Total                                 5,691    10,315    10,315   415     26,736
A description of the sub-components follows.
Sub-Component A: Macro-Planning for Prioritization and Connectivity
This small sub-component is primarily for the acquisition of GPS plus hardware and software to
equip the central Macro-Strategic Planning Unit that will design corridor interventions and also
monitor and evaluate results. The costs borne by GEF will amount to around $280,000 with the
Government providing about $200,000 over four years for staffing and consultants. The work
done in this unit will be vital for global planning of corridors as it will identify and prioritize
critical microcatchments, connections, and degraded areas.
Sub-Component B: Activities in UCs and Contiguous Areas
The general objectives of this $2.4 million sub-component include
*   Developing and implementing management processes in the UCs to support biodiversity
conservation within the UC and in contiguous areas
*   Equipping UCs for effectively carrying out their biodiversity conservation responsibilities
including small infrastructure projects and basic equipment
*   Training UC officials to efficiently carry out Project/biodiversity conservation activities (draws
upon Education & Capacity Building Component)
* Establishing processes and procedures to refine and implement a State UC Management
System
*   Elaborating strategic plans for connectivity between UCs and fragments
*   Generating information required to implement connectivity making use of ICMS Ecol6gico,
SISLEG and other laws and regulations (Control and Protection Component)
- 54 -



The critical UCs for corridor consolidation have already been identified. Targeted UCs are
indicated below.
Ecoregion          Conservation Unit*      Area (Ha)       Municipalities #
Ombrofila          PE das Araucarias         1,052               2
Mista/Araucharia
_____________    _  RF  do Pinhao             197                 1
EE Rio dos Touros        1,228                1
PN do Iguacu             185,262              5
Interior Atlantic  ARIE da Cabeca do          61                  1
Rainforest        Cachorro
EE do Caiua              1,427                1
PE Rio Guarani           2.235                1
RB Sao Camilo             385                 1
APA das Ilhas e         274,900               12
Varzeas do Rio
Parana
Total                                     466,747              25
*PE-Parque Estadual, PN-Parque Nacional, APA-Area de Preservacao Ambiental, RB-Reserva Biol6gica,
RF-Reserva Forestal, EE-Estacao Ecol6gica,
The specific activities covered under this sub-component are:.
(i) Planning and Management Activities. Each UC will develop, with the assistance of
consultants, a comprehensive Management Plan that identifies the activities to be undertaken.
LAP already has a model Management Plan that is participatory and will advance PBP objectives
of involving interstitial stakeholders and consolidating connections. Local Management Support
Groups will be formed from public and private stakeholders, including NGOs and associations, to
assist UC management. Other activities that may be included under the rubric of management
activities include title regularization, research, and monitoring of biodiversity.
(ii) Equipment, Maintenance and Small Infrastructure Activities. About half of the UC budget
will be devoted to equipping UCs to be able to function more effectively. Expenditures will be
verified in the management plans and could include, inter alia, maintenance, recuperation of
degraded areas, construction of guard houses, visitor centers, research centers, fencing signage,
and trails. Vehicles and other basic equipment will also be procured.
(iii) Public Use. UCs will be required, with consultant support, to examine public access and
ecotourism potential. This will include requisite activities and infrastructure needs plus the
development and dissemination of promotional materials and other marketing activities.
(iv) Interstitial Community Relations. The UC management plans will also identify what is
required to work in a constructive way with populations living in areas contiguous to the UCs to
- 55 -



preserve biodiversity. Education and outreach will be used especially to address problems such as
fire control, recuperation of degraded areas, alternatives to agrotoxics, and other threats to the
integrity of the UC. These activities will be promoted through UC sponsored campaigns.
(v) Training. This will be carried out through the Education Component and will include critical
skills such as promoting connectivity, management information systems, connecting fragments,
and development of community conservation activities and programs.
Sub-Component C: Interstitial Areas Programs, Connectivity, and Fragments
This is the single largest component, through which the macro-strategic plans get implemented.
Consequently it addresses the need to
* plan and connect protected areas through microcatchment management
*   plan and connect protected areas and fragments
*   ensure the adoption of environmentally benign productive systems throughout interstitial
areas.
In order to achieve these ends, the Project will:
*   mobilize authorities responsible for enforcing existing reserve and other requirements in
targeted areas, activate SISLEG and promote RPPNs
*   develop and test new, environmentally benign productive systems through implementation
of agrecological modules
*   persuade rural producers to convert traditional production systems to new ones in order
to reduce the interstitial damage done by agriculture and cattle.
C-i: Agroecological Modules Development
Except where legal reserve and other laws can be enforced, the intersititial program depends upon
(i) proof of superior, altemative economic activities and production methodologies through
demonstration projects, (ii) dissemination/'marketing' of results, (iii) provision of appropriate
incentives to rural producers to convert to new production systems including technical assistance
and financing. Considerable progress has been made in diagnosing biodiversity threats in the
target ecoregions and identifying the most appropriate alternative production systems. The
development and implementation of these modules will cost roughly $3.4 million including the
costs of setting them up, establishing demonstration plots, and maintaining EMATER staff--the
Environmental Advisors--to run them and upscale them thereafter.
Preliminary Diagnostic and Agroecological Module Proposals. The three corridors have been
evaluated on a preliminary basis and the alternative production systems have been identified.
There will be 40 modules implemented in the first two years with upscaling taking place during
each year of the four year operation. Twenty-one production specific systems will be featured in
these modules drawn from eight generic categories found to be important for the corridors:
*   general environmental 'sanitation'/conservation activities in all microcatchments
*   forestry management
*   organic agriculture
- 56 -



*   new crops--medicinal, aromatic, condiments
*   arts & crafts and ecotourism
*   grain production
*   dairy, meat and fish production
*   fruit cultivation
The average cost of each module is about $102,000 including investment and recurrent costs,
ranging from $23,000 for medicinal plants to $177,000 for organic coffee.
The preliminary diagnostic of corridor needs results in the generic and specific programs
presented below.
Generic Activity Proposal                   Corridor
Iguacu-Parand   Caiud-llha   Araucdria
Grande
Environmental microcatchment            X             X           X
sanitation (for all basins)
Forestry management                     X             X           X
Organic agriculture                     X                         X
New crops--medicinal, aromatic,        X             X            X
condiments
Arts & crafts, ecotourism               X             X           X
Grain production                       X
Dairy, meat and fish production         X             X           X
Fruit production                        X                         X
-57 -



Alternative Production Systems    Corridor   Corridor  Corridor   Total by
Igua u -  Caiua - Ilha Araucaria  Activity
Paranif    Grande
Forest/agriculture with com and beans                        2         2
Forest/pasture               I          I          1         3
Forest/erva mate                          -         2         2
Palmito cultivation (pupunha and palmeira      I              -          2
real)
Organic herbs                I                     2         3
Organic erva mate                         -          1         1
Organic beans                           -          1          1
Organic corn                 1                    2          3
Organic soj a                2                    2          4
Organic fruits               1                     1         2
Organic chicken                          -          1         1
Organic unrefined sugar          -                     1          I
Organic coffee                           1         -          1
Medicinal plants              1          1          1         3
Fafia                     -          2         -          2
Tourism and arts & crafts         I          1          2         4
Various grains                1          -         -          1
Dairy farming                           -          1         1
Cattle husbandry                          1         -          1
Hog husbandry                 1          -          1         2
Fish farms                             -         2          2
Total                   I 1        8         23         42
Implementation-EMA TER 's Technical Environmental Advisors. The activities described above
will be undertaken by municipal based EMATER extension officials-EMATER maintains at least
one in each municipality. EMATER is also experienced in the sort of work envisioned for PBP
which is very similar to what is being done in Paranti 12 Meses. At present there are 167
EMATER officials in municipalities included in the three corridors that could be involved in PBP.
The Project contemplates using 63 of these in the first two years of operation, increasing to 74 in
years 3 and 4, at a total cost to the Project of $1.6 million.
C-2: Agroecological Module Upscaling
The microcatchment planning and implementation of the new production systems proven in the
Modules is the single largest PBP activity, stretching over the four years of the project. It is the
activity that will implement Corridor connectivity and the conversion of production systems in
interstitial areas. Some 280 microcatchments will likely be targeted involving an area of 840,000
ha and a population of 19,600 rural producers. Most of the funding comes from the
Government's counterpart including the Parana 12 Meses resources for module development and
- 58 -



upscaling/conversion to new production systems. The principle activities will include
(i)   Micro planning including the prioritization and action plans for connections,
microcatchments and properties in each of the three corridors
(ii)  Development of a microcatchment cadastre of relevant information and including
systematic and detailed evaluation of environmental problems that will feed into Global and
Annual Operational Plans for each one.
(iii)  Establishment of local Biodiversity Technical Committees to disseminate the PBP,
prioritize local connections, approve Annual Operation Plans, serve as forums for debate, help
resolve conflicts, and generally oversee local PBP activities.
(iv)  Upscaling of modules to implement conversion to new production systems throughout
interstitial areas with special emphasis on connectivity and degraded areas contiguous to
protected areas.
To encourage the execution of proposed changes in microcatchment and individual farm plans,
the Project will use the financial support line of the Parana 12 Meses Project (Loan 4060-BR),
currently under execution in the State and which should make available individual and community
incentives, aimed at supporting and encouraging the implementation of planned practices,
technologies and works.
Thus, an integration mechanism will be established among Projects so that microcatchments may
become part of the registry of beneficiaries of the Parana 12 Meses Project. The system for
providing individual and community support for producers in these microcatchments will be the
same as that used by the Parani 12 Meses Project, including support to producers not regularly
assisted by Parand 12 Meses (larger producers), for the purpose of restoring the legal reserve
(forest seedlings), construction of fences to isolate springs and for the implementation of Type II
Community Water Suppliers. Support to these activities will be conditioned to the
implementation of other practices recommended for the farm.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.05 million
Component III: Control and Protection
This component is budgeted at $2.05 million and is comprised of two sub-components,
"Integrated Fiscalization" and "Protection of Endangered Species". The first addresses reforms in
licensing and fiscalization/enforcement activities. The second concentrates on developing
monitoring and evaluation capacity, biodiversity indices and management of threatened species.
Specific Objectives. The specific objectives contemplated in this component include
*     Establishing indicators for biodiversity and conducting research, monitoring and
evaluation to identify threatened species and develop appropriate programs for
guaranteeing their survival
*     Developing and refining norms for licensing--that will be decentralized to regions-- of
activities with potential for environmental impacts
*     Strengthening fiscalization efforts which will be decentralized to municipalities in the
corridors, requiring changing of IAP roles, elaboration of protocols, procedures and
standards, and intensive training of IAP and municipal officials
- 59 -



*     Protecting targeted threatened species in order
*     Developing programs to enhance the awareness of society in general regarding the need to
protect biodiversity.
Component and Cost Summary. Detailed presentations of activities by year, GEF/counterpart,
corridor and expenditure categories are available in the Component volume. The table below
summarizes annual Component costs.
Sub-Component        Year I       Year 2       Year 3      Year 4        Total
A. Integrated             523          311          203         203         1,241
Fiscalization
B. Protection of          556          231          231         231         1,249
Endangered Species
Total                  1,080         542          434         434         2,490
Component Activities. The component comprises two sub-components and five principal
activities
Sub-Component                           Activities
A. Integrated Fiscalization          -Central Monitoring Unit
-Regional Monitoring
-Decentralized Fiscalization
B. Endangered Species Protection     -Wildlife Management Center
-Endangered Species Protection Activities
Summary of Activities and Costs. The table below summarizes the costs by sub-component
and activity for each Corridor. Detailed cost breakouts are available by year, expenditure,
GEF/Counterpart, and Corridor.
- 60 -



Annual Costs by Corridor
($000)
Sub-Component/Activity  Araucaria IguaVu-Parant   Caiua-Ilha  Common to      Total
Grande    all Corridors
Integrated Fiscalization
-Central Monitoring Unit                                          241        241
-Regional Licensing        351         262           183                     796
-Decentralized             41           81            81                     203
Fiscalization
Endangered Species
Protection
-Wildlife Management                   261                                   261
Center
-Endangered Species       247          371           371                     989
Activities
Total                                                                      2,490
Sub-ComponentA: Integrated Fiscalization
(i)   Central Environmental Monitoring Unit. The unit will be part of the Macro-Strategic
Planning Unit to be set up in LAP. It will be staffed by lAP professionals and will be responsible
for supervision and reporting of PBP and general biodiversity performance. It will also assist in
the elaboration Qf reports, maps, benchmarks and parameters for licensing and fiscalization. The
general approach to be followed in macro-strategic planning was outlined in Component II. The
Unit will work intensively with satellite images to support field work and provide precise M&E.
Regarding macro-strategic planning, the unit will use the images to do the initial diagnostic and
prioritization of connectivity and microcatchment that will orient all of the subsequent regional
and field work culminating in Global and Annual Operations Plans at the
property/microcatchment/corridor levels. The Unit will also incorporate existing data bases,
notably the System of Forest Recuperation (SERFLOR) and the SISLEG data base. Note that a
preliminary, extensive list of potential project indicators is presented at the end of this section.
Central Monitoring Unit expenses total $95,000 in acquisition of satellite imagery, a GPS system,
software and hardware.
(ii)   Regional Licensing. The most difficult licensing activity involves the technical analysis of
the specific request and this is an activity that should be organized geographically along regional
lines to assure closer proximity to locations involved. One of the reforms to be undertaken by
LAP is to regionalize this activity and at the same time, link it to the Central Monitoring Unit.
Licensing should also be in closer proximity to the fiscalization function which is also being
decentralized to a number of corridor municipalities with the IAP regional offices assuming a
supervisory role.
Expenses for this activity, covering nine regional IAP offices, is $165,000 and the principal
- 61 -



expenditures will be vehicles, GPS, hardware and software for each of the offices.
Decentralized Fiscalization. One of the serious, chronic problems confronting state and Federal
agencies charged with environmental protection is the lack of adequately trained staff to discharge
fiscalization/enforcement responsibilities. Parana is no exception. In IAP's nine regional offices
there are 48fiscais or an average 0.38 officials/municipal. Evidently, this number is far too low
to mount the sort of control and enforcement required. Seven municipalities within the corridors
have requested/agreed to assume fiscalization responsibilities and providefiscais. Another 8
municipalities are contemplated for a second phase. If successful, this initiative could serve as an
important prototype for other states wrestling with problems of staffing. Decentralization will
also require establishing operational agreements, training and equipping municipal officials,
establishing norms and institutional regulations so that technical, legal and administrative
responsibilities can be effectively handed over to municipalities.
The decentralization activity will cost an estimated $203,000 for 15 municipalities. The municipal
packages will cost about $15,000 each in terms of a vehicle and computer/GPS equipment.
Recurrent Expenses. The municipalities will be reimbursed from the roughly $1.4 million in
environmental fines it currently assesses. It is expected that with the advent of municipalfiscais,
environmental fines will decline as enforcement becomes more rigorous. However, it is expected
that increased revenues from the ICMS Ecol6gico, which will also undergo review as part of the
PBP project, will compensate municipalities for diminishing funding from fines.
Sub-Component B-Threatened Species Protection.
General Objective. This sub-component is intended to protect species of interest, whether
threatened, migratory, or for which information is lacking as a support to biodiversity
management.
Specific Objectives.
*     Monitor selected species to support preservation
*     Manage and treat species apprehended through fiscalization
*     Develop knowledge and data regarding the species about which relatively little is known
*     Promote local, national or even intemational meetings regarding protection proposals.
Implementation. These activities will be managed in the field by the selected corridor UCs and
IAP regional staff. Species have been selected and fall into five categories having to do with how
much is known about them and whether they are the subject of ongoing, species specific projects.
There are 24 species selected for monitoring and evaluation plus migratory species from three
locations. This work will be done by four local teams that will include the municipal fiscais.
Three of the teams will work on the two Interior Atlantic Forest corridors and the third will work
with the Araucaria corridor.
Wildlife Management Center. A state-of-the-art center will be established and equipped in the
city of Toledo. The Center is intended to complement IAP's existing facilities and receive and
- 62 -



manage selected species of interest for protection, provide veterinary services as needed,
undertake breeding programs, dispose of individuals that cannot be reintroduced to the wild,
interface with other stakeholder institutions, create and maintain data bases and support species
research.
Project Component 4 - US$1.58 million
IV.   Proiect Administration
Component IV comprises two sub-components, Project Administration and Strategic Studies.
Cost Summary.
Detailed cost breakouts exist for this component in terms of year, expenditure item,
sub-components, GEF and counterpart. The table below summarizes annual expenditures by
sub-component.
- 63 -



Cost Summary and timetable ($000)
Sub-Component      Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Total
Project              430         427         418         368         1,674
Administration
Strategic Studies    267          82          22           6          377
Total                697         509         441         374        2,051
Sub-Componente A: Project Administration
Over 90% of the costs are for Government officials who will participate in the PMU and manage
project implementation plus logistics and consultants to support them according to the table
below.
Expenditure Item          Source              Quantity          Amount ($000)
PMU Staff                    State                 12                  1,34
Operational                  GEF                   48                  0.12
Travel/Logistics
Management and               GEF                    4                  0.05
Impact Evaluations
Consultants                  GEF                    --                 0.14
Vehicles                     GEF                    2                  0.03
Total                                                               1.67
The basic project organization and summary terms of reference are summarized below.
Level       Hierarchy               Organization/Description
Central         State        The State of Parana contracts the project
Responsible  State Secretary of Planning & General Coordination
Secretary    is responsible for executing the project
Project      The Center for the General Coordination of
Executor     Government Programs (CCPG) is the State
administrative body charged with actual project
execution. The CCPG is well staffed and has
implemented Bank and other multilateral projects.
Project      The Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a general
Management manager comprises the project's administrative and technical
secretariat--the Project Advisory Nucleus (NAP)
Description of  General
Responsibilities  * Liaise and coordinate activities with Federal, State and Bank officials
*Man age project execution and respondfor results
*Co nsolidate corridor program requests from regions and municipalities, discuss them with
the A dvisory Committee and formalize them in the Annual Operations Plan observing PBP
- 64 -



priorities
* Meet with and oversee subordinate Project organisms
eLibera te Project financial resources in accordance with operations plans
*Be responsible for project monitoring and reporting
*Art iculate public and NGO cooperation and promote synergies
*Promo te the PBP program of training and awareness-raising of biodiversity among public
P roject executors at all levels
Administrative
* Support contracting, procedures, reporting, guidelines of annual operations plans,
systematize project documents; data base organization and information requiredfor
physical andfinancial accompaniment, control, account for and report financial
movements--the fmis function; carry out financial transactions; manage budget; support
procurement operations
Technical (sub-units for each component)
* Coordinate M&E, manage strategic studies; supervise, monitor and evaluate component
imple mentation providing technical and administrative support
* Plan, orient, coordinate and control the execution of technical activities and coordinate
the wor k of the corridors' technical managers and establish norms
* Support procurement operations regarding technical requirements
*Su pport the elaboration of physical/financial timetables according to priorities and
reallocations and development of annual operation plans
* Supervise monitor and evaluate project execution
*Orie nt elaboration of technical terms of reference
*Certif y payments, vetting technical work performed
*Appro ve technical proposals and support the Technical Manager
*Ov ersee integration and coordination of project executors at all levels
Advisory       Advisory Comrnmittee comprising PBP participants:
Committee      SEMA (IAP, SUDERHSA), SEAB (EMATER,
DEFIS, UGP Paranca 12 Meses), SESP (BPFlo),
SEED plus a prominent NGO
Description of    *      Support the General Manager in achieving PBP objectives
Responsibilities  *      Promote coordination among Committee organizations participating in Project
execution at the central, regional, and municipal levels
*       Discuss together with the General Manager Project proposals from the regional and
municipal levels
*       Evaluate public projects that could impact negatively on biodiversity and take
suitable steps to remedy them
*       Analyze and provide input on legislative reform proposals affecting biodiversity
*       Support project execution by assuring organizational compliance at all Project levels
Regional/        Corridor        Corridor Managers will be responsible for planning,
Ecoregion/       Management          budgeting and implementation of corridor
Corridors                            programs in each of the three corridors
Description of    *      Articulate and coordinate actions of participants and respondfor project
Responsibilities         implementation at the corridor level
*       Plan, orient, coordinate and control project implementation
*       Orient and coordinate Regional Commissions and Municipal Councils in action plan
- 65 -



formulation and consolidate, evaluate and make them compatible with guidelines,
recommending changes as required
*       Supervise, monitor and evaluate physical andfinancialproject execution and provide
support to Regional Commissions and NAP
*       Assist with terms of reference and advise on technical issues
*       Orient training programming given corridor needs
*       Assist with procurement, especiallyfor studies
Advisory       Regional Committees comprised of regional
Committee      representatives of participating public agencies and
important environmental NGOs
Description of    a       Support Corridor Managers ensuring coordination with central and municipal
Responsibilities          agencies and stakeholders and conflict resolution
*       Support vetting and consolidation of annual plans comprising municipal proposals
and their processing from formulation through release of resources to fund them
*       Provide orientation on training and research needs
*       Support technical managers and their work at the municipal level
*       Propose technical, legal and operational interventions
*       Collaborate with municipal advisory bodies and participate in regional meetings of
Forums (below)
*       Accompany Project execution at the regional level and determine what must be done
to meet performance benchmarks
Advisory       Regional Project Forums comprising participating
Forum          public agency participants and major stakeholders
from civil society, municipal representatives, NGOs
to facilitate implementation and discuss issues.
Municipal          Municipal     Technical Environmental Advisor (municipality based
Management EMATER official) will be responsible for project
execution and reporting at the municipal level with
direct responsibility for Component II and assistance
with other components.
Advisory       Technical Biodiversity Units -in conjunction with
Parand 12 Meses Municipal Councils
Description of    *       Project dissemination at the local level
Responsibilities  *       Evaluate macro-strategic plans at the municipal level and prioritization of
microcatchments
*       Approval of Annual Operation Plans and ensuring they are compatible with Paranai
12 Meses guidelines
*       Serve as a forum of discussing biodiversity matters, resolving issues and conflicts,
ensuring consonance with PBP strategic guidelines
*       Bring to the attention of the Regional Councils training and research needs at the
local level.
Sub-Component B: Strategic Studies
Objective. In addition to Project Administration, the UGP will be responsible for the formulation
of terms of reference, organization and procurement of study executors, monitoring of progress
and validation of results. The five major studies to be done are described below.
- 66 -



1.    Identification and consolidation of legislative aspects and norms regarding environment
legislation at different levels of government (Year 1). This study will have three distinct
components:
*      Research of legislation at Federal, State and municipal levels ($52,000)
*      Development of a legislative manual and cd-rom to disseminate findings ($16,000)
*      Consolidation of legislation through proposals for reforms to strengthen biodiversity
protection ($32,000).
2.    Environmental Certification ($152,000- Years 1 through 3). This study looks at the
definition of models and processes appropriate for certification of specific products with special
attention being given to palmito and Araucaria. The main activities will be (i) the characterization
of certification systems, (ii) definition of benchmarks, (iii) development of norms for
environmental certification of palmito and Araucaria, and (iv) development of proposals for/to
implement norms, incentives and institutional organization and processes to support certification
3.    Identifi cation and Characterization of Priority Areas for Conservation ($28, 000-Year
1). This study has as its objective the mapping of fragments in the ecoregions targeted by the
project. The activity will lead to eventual recommendations of guidelines and criterion for the
establishing links to the most important ones and identification of which ones should be targeted
for conservation and how this should be done. Specifically it includes fragment identification,
mapping, characterization, and elaboration of 'thematic'maps plus a final report summarizing
findings.
4.     Cost-Benefit of Environmental Interventions ($33, 000-Years 1-4). This methodology is
not generally understood in Parana. It is also important for demonstrating the benefits of
biodiversity conservation. The objectives of this study are to determine technically the relevant
evaluation indicators, the cost-benefit methodology of biodiversity conservation, disseminate the
techniques used, estimate the economic contribution of SISLEG interventions and siliar, agrotoxic
control and other interventions impacting on water quality.
5.    Perfection of ICMS Ecol6gico ($63, 000-Years 1-2). The three component activities are
(i) studies of ICMS Ecol6gico indicators re biodiversity and water sources (mananciais), rural
land tax (ITR) and RPPN formation incentives, (ii) proposals to perfect the ICMS Ecol6gico, and
(iii) reformulation and actualization of software to accommodate changes and improvements.
- 67 -



Project Monitoring and Evaluation: the sector responsible for the coordination of monitoring
and evaluation will be located in the UGP, more precisely in the Project Advisory Group. The
system designed calls for a Managerial Monitoring of project physical and financial performance.
This activity will be developed based upon a survey and analysis of data dealing with the Project's
document flow, which will be consolidated in semi-annual reports covering the physical and
financial progress of scheduled activities, as well as quantitative and qualitative data resulting
from the on-site inspection of a sample of 10% of the investment subprojects supported. These
reports will provide the information basis for Bank regular supervision activities. In addition, an
assessment of future project activites will be made at the time of the closing of the loan supporting
Parand 12 Meses activities. Managerial monitoring will be complemented by a managerial
evaluation, carried out by means of direct research with beneficiaries, executors and municipal
leaders. In addition, to gauge the Project's evolution, impact assessments will be performed. The
impact indicators adopted were divided into two groups: a) index of vegetation coverage of
natural environments and other classes of land use; and b) index of the relative abundance of
species. Tables dealing with Managerial Evaluation Indicators (input, product, outcome and
follow-up indicators) and Impact Assessment Indicators, respectively, are presented below.
To carry out this work, the UGP, in the case of monitoring, will make use of executors' reports
and of ongoing inspection ('yfscalizaqdo") of a representative sample (10%) of investment
subprojects supported. In the case of managerial evaluation, research studies will be
commissioned at the end of years two and four. For the impact assessment, the Project will have
the participation of executors to monitor coverage indices, as well as the participation of
executors plus the contracting of consulting services to evaluate the index of the relative
abundance of species. All these procedures should be the subject of specific Terms of Reference
that will be submitted to the Bank for approval.
The UGP will send to the World Bank every six months a report on the Project's physical and
financial progress, at the end of year two, managerial and impact evaluation reports, and at the
end of the fourth year, the final impact assessment report and another on the Completion of
Implementation.
Physical and Financial Performance Indicators - Input, Output and Outcome
The framework for the Managerial Monitoring and Evaluation is represented by a set of indicators
(physical and financial performance indicators: inputs, outputs and outcomes) stemming from
project components and subcomponents activities, summarized in the following table.
TABLE 1 - PERFORMANCE INDICATORS - INPUT, OUTPUT and OUTCOME
INDICATOR             UNIT.  TARGET     DATA    PERIODICITY GROUP
SOURCE
INPUT
Macro-strategic plans produced   plan     03     IAP/PMU      By yr. I   G I
Demonstration Projects identified  project  40     ATA      Annual til yr. 2  G4
Microcatchments planned          micro    280   lAP/PMU/Prl22  Monthly   G2
- 68 -



catchment
Productive units planned                        properties   19,600     IAP/PMU/Prl2        Monthly          G2
Central Environmental Unit implemerted in IAP     unit         01         IAP/PMU          ate o 30 mes      Gl
Agreements signed with Municipalities to implement  agreement  15         1AP/PMU            annual          G4
decentralized inspection/enforcement
Riparian Permanent Preservation Areas identified   ha        84,000        ATA/IAP        monthly til yr. 3  G2
(critical areas mapped)
SateDlite images purchased                       image         12            IAP             annual          G4
Fauna teams equipped and trained                  team         04            IAP             by yr. I        GI
Studies commissioned                              study        05            PMU          monthly til mnth 6  G2
Concept Dissemination Seminars carried out
- Corridor I (Caiua - llha Grande)              seminar        04           PMU             by yr. 4         G I
- Corridor 2 (Iguau - Parana)                   seminar        04           PMU             by yr. 4         G I
- Corridor 3 (Araucaria)                        seminar        02           PMU             by yr. 4         G0
Meefings to disseminate the project caried out   meeting       654           ATA          annual til yr. 3  0G I
Courses to train producers in the implementation of  course    20            PMU             annual          G4
agro-ecological modules
Seminars about replication of the model implemerted  seminar   03           PMU           annual til yr. 3   G4
Environmental Education and Social Mobilization  course        20            PMU          annual til yr. 3   G4
courses for professors and leaders
Promotional contests to support implementation of  contest     63            PMU          annual til yr. 3   G4
sub-project
Biodiversity folders printed                      unit        16,000         PMU             annual          G4
Slide collections produced (5 copies each)      collection     03           PMU          monthly til yr. I   G2
Videos produced (5 copies each)                   video        05            PMU          monthly til yr. I  G2
Basic training courses for all agencies involved in  course    34            PMU          monthly 6l yr. 3   G2
inplemertation
Operational training courses for implementing agents  course   12            PMU          monthly til yr. I  G2
Environmental technical advisors receiving 120 hrs of  advisor  40           PMU          monthly til yr. 3  G2
training on Agro-ecologic Modules (implementing
agents)
Training courses for UC staff                    course        11            PMU          monthly bl yr. 3   G2
Training courses for IAP Supervisors and municipal  course     08            PMU          monthly 6l yr. 3   G2
Environmental Inspection Agents
OUPUT
Training courses for officers of the Secretary of the  course  05            PMU          monthly til yr. 3  G2
Environment
Producers involved in the replication of agro-ecological  producer  7,840    ATA             monthly         G2
modules
Fauna Management Centers implanted                center       01            IAP           by 6th month     G0
Fencing installed in UCs                           m         12,200          IAP          monthly til yr. 1  G2
Trails implanted                                   m          2,000          IAP          monthly til yr. I  G2
Elevated water tanks installed                    tank         200      ATA/PMU/Prl 2        monthly         G2
Fencing installed in production units              km         2.500     ATA/PMU/Prl2         monthly         G2
Degraded areas within UCs restored                 ha          30            IAP          monthly 6l yr. 3   G2
Producers involved in restoration activities within  producer  19,600   ATA/PMU/Prl2         monthly         G2
microcatchments
Participants in Concept Dissemination Seminars  participant    820           PMU          monthly til yr. I  G2
(technicians, leaders and authorities)
Agro-ecologic Modules Implanted                  module        40         ATA/PMU            annual          G4
Productive units within microcatchments with their  property  7,840       ATA/PMU            monthly         G2
production systems adapted for biodiversity
conservation
Management Plans finalized and reviewed           plan         06            IAP          annual til yr. 2   G4
IAP Regional Offices connected to the Central    regional      09            IAP             till yr. I      G I
Environmental Monitoring Unit through the         office
information integration network
Biannual reports produced by the regional        report        18            IAP             biannual        G3
administrative units about licensing and inspection
Studies concluded                                 study        05           PMU           annual til yr. 3   G4
Biannual project implementation reports produced  report       08            PMU             biannual        G3
Trainers trained (execu6ing agents)              trainer       380           PMU          monthly til mnth 6  G2
Inspections canied out by the decentralized municipal  inspections  6,000    IAP             monthly         G2
inspecting body in production units within the target
microcatchments
Municipal inspectors trained                   inspectors      30            IAP          annual til yr. 2    04
- 69 -



Biodiversity Technical Units set up                   unit          63            ATA             by 6th month       Gl
IAP staff (managers, UC managers, inspectors, etc.)  trainee       200            PMU            annual til yr. 3    G4
trained
Environmental Technical Advisors and staff from other  trainees    540            PMU               annual           G4
organizations (ONGs/ Municipalifies) trained
Producers trained                                   producer      19,600        ATA/PMU             monthly          G2
Producers and other involved parties trained in      trainee       800          ATA/PMU             annual           G4
Agro-ecologic Modules
IAP inspectors trained                             inspectors      135          IAP/PMU          annual til yr. 3    G4
Promotores do Ministerio Pfublico do Meio Ambiente  promoter        80            PMU              biannual          G3
reciclados_
Content assimilated by trainees, measured through      %                          PMU               annual           G4
questionnaires related to the assimilation of project
precepts. Content assimilated by:
- Promoters                                                        70
- Environmental agents                                             80
- Professors                                                       70
- Producers                                                        70
Schools with projects implanted that participate i     %            60            PMU            annual fil yr. 3    G4
courses
OUTCOME
Infrastructure implanted in the UCs                   m2           710            [AP              biannual          G3
Area involved in the implementation of the three target  ha     2,151,175         PMU              biannual          G3
comdors
Percentage of the total area worked on that transformed  %          40          ATA/PMU             annual           G4
conventional production systems into production
systems compatible with biodiversity conservation
Percentage of producers receiving training or assistance  %         40          ATA/PMU             annual           G4
that get involved (adopt) in restoring the Legal Reserve
or Permanent Preservation Areas
Producers in surrounding or connecting                 %           100          ATA/PMU             monthly          G2
microcatchments that get involved in the restoration
efforts
Pemmanent Preservation Areas restored                  ha         53,000      ATAIIAPIPMU           annual           G4
Target connectivity index value (area restored for                  (I)         IAP/PMU             annual           G4
connectivity purposes / fragmented area).
% of inspectors trained by year 4 in 23% of the        %           100             IAP              annual           G4
municipalites of the AIDP()
Management Plans implemented                                        06             lAP              annual           G4
Annual increase in legal enforcement actions against   %            10             IAP              annual           G4
transgressors of environmental legislation.
ATA - Environmental Technical Advisor
SAP - Parana Environmenrtal Institute
PMU - Pamna Biodiversity Project Management Unit
Prl2 - Paranh 12 Meses Project Coordination Unit (Parans Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources Management Project, Loan 4060-BR)
(1) Time frame and value will be defined as part ofthe Macro-Strategic Planningprocess.
The indicators listed above were classified into four groups, defined based on the frequency of
evaluations. Group G I is formed by indicators that will be evaluated at the end of the period
foreseen for reaching targets; group G2 refers to indicators that will be evaluated monthly; group
G3 are indicators that will be evaluated semi-annually; and group G4 considers indicators that will
be evaluated on an annual basis.
Continuous evaluation indicators will be used to monitor processes, evaluating their positive or
negative evolution. Reference values should be established by the baseline assessment. This set
of indicators will be measured annually through the end of the project implementation period.
- 70 -



TABLE 2 - CONTINUOUS EVALUATION INDICATORS
INDICATOR                                   UNIT        SOURCE          PERIODICITY
Percentage of fines assessed in relation to the number of properties that carried  %   IAP               annual
out burnings.
Censuses and Estimations of index of indicative species.                  #°           IAP               annual
Fines applied annually by municipality.                                   #I IAP                         annual
Animals seized annually due to illegal trafficking, by municipality.      #°           IAP               annual
Licenses granted annually by municipality.                                #0           IAP               annual
Properties located within the buffer zone of the Conservation Units with their  %     PMU                annual
productive system converted/adapted to biodiversity conservation.
Properties located within the buffer zone of the Conservation Units       %           PMU                annual
participating in the Agro-ecologic Module activities.
Fines assessed relative to the number of illegal clearing detected via remote  %       IAP               annual
sensing as part of environmental monitoring activities.
Citations/Fines assessed relative to the number of Legal Reserve and      %            IAP               annual
Pemianent Preservation Areas contraventions detected via remote sensing as
part of environmental monitoring activities.
Relative abundance of selected indicative species within the Conservation  index       lAP               annual
Units
Note that the most important product expected as a result of the monitoring procedure and the
managerial evaluation of the Project, will be the validation of several technical and institutional
interventions, and the possibility of replicating these models in other regions of the State.
Impact assessment indicators
The Impact Assessment Indicators Table, below, summarizes the principal indicators, their units
of measure, and their targets defined for the Project.
TABLE 3 - IMPACT INDICATORS
INDICATOR                                UNIT.                TARGET                  SOURCE
Coverage Indices
Percentage of Legal Reserve and Penmanent Preservation Areas that                    40°% by yr. 2            LAP - PMU
are restored in the microcatchments / total area to be worked on                     80°/O by yr. 4
Pecentage of properties in microcatchments that have production     %                20%/0 by yr. 2               PMU
systems compatible with the conservation of biodiversity. (# made                    400/o by yr. 4
compatible / total #) (area made compatiblie / total area)
Reduction in illegal clearing                                       %                                          lAP - PMU
Municipalities with decentralized inspectior                40%/6 by yr. 2
900/o by yr. 4
Municipalities without decentralized inspectio                10/. by yr. 2
25% by yr. 4
Reduction in use of buming                                          %                                          IAP - PMU
Municipalities with decentralized inspectio                 40°V by yr. 2
90%/o by yr. 4
Municipalifies without decentralized inspectio                 I 0/O by yr. 2
25% by yr. 4
Percentage of total coridor area that is re-forested or restored    %                1,2% by yr. 2             IAP - PMU
2,4% by yr. 4
Abundance Index
Relative abundance of selected species in project's priority areas  index              maintain                  TAP
- 71 -



Costs involved in the implementation of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
Identifiable incremental costs that may be assigned to the implementation of the M&E Plan are
assessed at US$189,000, resulting from specific activities which costs are included in Component
4. Other activities contributing to the implementation of the M&E plan, such as measurement of
coverage indices, are carried out as part of the routine tasks included in Component 3, and their
costs are included in the specific component.
ACTIVITY                     COST           SOURCE /
COMPONENT
(US$'000)
1. Management evaluation                    29.3      Project Managemeit (4)
2. Measurement of performance indicators    140.0     Project Management (4)
3. Measurement of impact indicators:
Relative abundance of specie  19.4  Project Managemert (4)
Other impact indicator  -      Control & Protection (3)
TOTAL                       188.7     _
- 72 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
Local       Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Component             US $million  US $million  US $million
I. Education and Capacity Building                     1.50         0.00        1.50
II. Biodiversity Management                           26.57        0.16        26.73
III. Control and Protection                            2.36        0.00         2.36
IV. Project Administration                             1.95        0.00         1.95
Total Baseline Cost                                   32.38         0.16       32.54
Physical Contingencies                                0.12         0.00        0.12
Price Contingencies                                   0.18         0.01        0.19
Total Project Costs'           32.68        0.17        32.85
Total Financing Required            32.68        0.17        32.85
Local       Foreign      Total
Project Cost By Category              US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                   0.92          0.17         1.09
Works                                                    0.63         0.00         0.63
Services                                                 2.75         0.00         2.75
Subprojects                                             23.62         0.00       23.62
Operating Costs                                         4.76          0.00         4.76
Total Project Costs'   32.68         0.17        32.85
Total Financing Required   32.68          0.17        32.85
Annex 3b: Incremental Cost Analysis
Under the baseline scenario, the two ecoregions would benefit from efforts aimed at biodiversity
management, incentives for biodiversity conservation, protection and regulation of threatened
species, and to a lesser extent from efforts at capacity building and education. Specifically, in the
fields of education and capacity building, government efforts to incorporate biodiversity
conservation objectives will be very limited under the baseline. A maximum of $297,000 would
be spent on: (i) government-funded courses related to decentralization of fiscal responsibilities for
IAP staff and municipal officers; (ii) government-funded training for EMATER officials located in
the project's interstitial area's municipalities; and (iii) Parand 12 Meses-funded development and
implementation of agroecological models that would at a very minimum be somewhat related to
environmentally benign systems and/or targeted to the two ecoregions under the GEF project.
Parana is perhaps the leading State in Brazil in terms of specific efforts aimed at biodiversity
management and incentives. Hence in the absence of the GEF project, there would be some
benefits from government programs and projects directly aimed at biodiversity management in the
two ecoregions. Specifically, the government would likely spend approximately $1.8 million in
the absence of the GEF project toward biodiversity management of the Conservation Units in the
corridors within the two ecoregions. In addition, no more than $4.7 million from the Paranai 12
- 73 -



Meses would be oriented toward rural development projects that could generate some co-benefits
for biodiversity conservation within the two ecoregions. This estimate of $4.7 million is quite
uncertain, bearing in mind that the Parand 12 Meses project as currently designed does not
incorporate biodiversity conservation objectives in its rural poverty alleviation strategy. Thus,
under the most optimal baseline scenario of $6.6 million for biodiversity management, benefits to
biodiversity conservation in these two ecoregions from Parand 12 Meses would at best be ad hoc
and government budgeted efforts would certainly not be optimal.
Also under the baseline, government efforts to regulate and protect threatened species in the two
ecoregions would be limited to $1.4 million, of which $800,000 would support efforts the process
of decentralizing the licensing and fiscal system, and $600,000 would support wildlife monitoring
and management.
Finally, about $150,000 of govermnent funds would be used to finance strategic studies related to
biodiversity conservation that would likely take place in the absence of the GEF project.
In contrast to the baseline scenario of sub-optimal efforts aimed at conserving the two top priority
ecoregions in Parana, the GEF Alternative would enable these highly biodiversity-rich ecoregions
to be recipients of a very targeted and systematic effort to conserve biodiversity through: (1)
education programs, training and other capacity building efforts; (2) biodiversity management of
high priority conservation units and their buffer zones; (3) strengthening existing incentives for
biodiversity conservation; (4) enforcing regulations and supporting fiscal reforms aimed at
protecting threatened species; and (5) special studies to improve the legal, policy and regulatory
framework for biodiversity conservation. The total cost of this effort (GEF Alternative) is
estimated at $32.8 million. With the baseline of $8.447 million, there are $24.410 of incremental
costs to finance: (1) $1.283 million in new education and capacity building efforts directly aimed
at biodiversity conservation; (2) $20.137 million in biodiversity management and strengthening
biodiversity conservation incentives; (3) $1.200 million aimed at regulating, managing and
protecting threatened species; and (4) $1.900 million in project management and to conduct
strategic studies.
The government is financing $16.671 million of the incremental costs, which includes their efforts
to reorient an additional $ 10 million (over and above the baseline of $4.7 million) from the
Paranci 12 Meses rural poverty alleviation program to explicitly incorporate biodiversity
conservation objectives into rural development projects. The bulk of GEF support is sought to
co-finance project activities focused on biodiversity management and incentives. GEF funds are
also sought to support project activities related to education and capacity building efforts;
protection of threatened species, strategic studies and project administration.
- 74 -



Incremental Cost Analysis ($000)
Baseline         GEF                        Increment
Components:                       Alternative       Total        Of which      Co-financed
GEF-funded
Education and          297            1,580          1,283          1,209            74
Capacity
Building
Biodiversity          6,600          26,737         20,137          4,925          15,212
Management
and Incentives
Regulation and         1,400         2,490           1,090          1,159            41
Protection of
Threatened
Species
Strategic Studies      150             377           227             227             0
Project                  0            1,674          1,674           330           1,344
Administration
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 32.86 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 24.35% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 75 -



Annex 4: Response to STAP Technical Review
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
The Technical Review is presented below in italics/bold fornat along with the Project Team's
response on specific recommendations.
Technical Review
Project Name:   Parand Biodiversity Project Biodiversity (GEF)
Reviewer:       Enrique H. Bucher
Date:           September 28, 2001
Proposal's global priority and relevance
This project deals with a vast, biologically rich ecoregion that is being threatened by several
human activities. Effective conservation actions to reverse the present negative trends are
urgently needed. The global priority of the area is high. Proposalfits very well with GEF
objectives. The project has the potentialfor becoming a leading case, replicable for similar
situations in Latin America.
Adequacy and cost-effectiveness of the project design
The project is in general scientific and technically sound (see below for specific comments).
In essence, biodiversity protection would be achieved through promoting a) corridor
management and expansion between conservation units, b) development and
implementation of alternative production systems for the non-preserved areas, c)
development of comprehensive conservation and management plans at the regional level,
and d) promoting law enforcement through improved environmental legislation and better
institutional structure and organization.
The proposed project costs seem in general adequate considering the proposed goals, the
size of the management area, and the range of activities and disciplines involved. The
proposed outcomes (benefits) include not only biodiversity conservation but also a
substantial component dedicated to environmental education and community development
(in coordination with other initiatives focused on rural poverty), which seems critical in
terms of achieving long term, sustainable results. The global environmental benefits and/or
drawbacks of the project are clearly identifled. The project fits well within the context of
GEF goals, as well as its operational strategies and program priorities. The regional context
is adequately analyzed. Certainly, the area proposed is particularly rich not only in
biodiversity, but also ecosystems and ecoregions.
- 76 -



The project has a clear potentialfor replicability in other tropical regions of South
America. It has also great potentialfor becoming sustainable well beyond its financed
period, considering the involvement and interest of the State of Parana and local
municipalities within the state. Education and training of a considerable number of
government agents and students is a valuable component that enhances long-term capacity
building and therefore sustainability. Involvement by stakeholders appears to be adequate.
Specific comments
The following aspects would require clarification
Coordination: Even if it were made explicit that the management in the proposed area will
be coordinated by Ecoregion Managers, more details would be necessary to understand
what kind of operational and practical mechanisms will be available for effective planning,
control, and monitoring of the proposed actions. More specifically, is important to show
whether Managers will be empowered at a sufficient degree to make their task truly
effective and operationaL It would be useful to know if there is previous experience in this
kind of management structure.
Response: The management structure established for this operation replicates the successful
model used by CGCC to manage other Bank and multilateral operations. It makes use of
participating agencies and their regional and local representatives to manage the project (IAP
and EMATER) and as Advisory Committee advisors and facilitators. The Ecoregion Manager
was included at the request of the project team to specifically address coordination issues. The
Project Team believes that the Ecoregion Manager, Technical Environment Advisors
(municipal interstitial programs) and IAP officials have sufficient authority to implement their
components effectively. Nevertheless, during appraisal, we shall one more verify that this is the
case.
Production systems: One important component of the proposal is the dissemination of
alternative production systems. The proposal assumes that alternative production models
for the region will be found, and that they will be economically feasible. In fact, this is not
the case today in most of Latin America today. There is growing evidence indicating that
any alternative production model that is ecologically sustainable require some kind of
economic incentive, at least at the initial stages. There is no indication that an economic
analysis will be developed, or that the financial sectors of the government are willing to be
part of the effort for developing new production alternatives for the local population.
Consideration to markets and demand should be an important component of this analysis.
Overall, my impression is that given its importance and complexity, the section on
development of alternative production systems should be expanded. This activity seems
under budgeted.
Response: The adoption of alternative production systems is of critical importance.
Inducements will include technical assistance and funding for rural producers' projects to
support conversion. There has been ample discussion during preparation regarding the possible
- 77 -



need to get involved in the marketing end for some new products and this will be monitored
closely and adjustments made during implementation. This facet of the interstitial program has
not been adequately developed and will be addressed and elaborated further during appraisal.
The budgetary allocation for interstitial work-about $25 million dollars ($1.6m GEF and
$23.rm counterpart) -should be sufficient but this will also be closely monitored.
Collaboration with civil society organizations: Several of the proposed activities include
activities that are highly technical, like wildlife monitoring, conservation units
management, conservation of selected species, etc. It would be desirable that at least local
universities and other research and academic institutions in Parana could contribute to the
success of the present project. Moreover, it is not clear in the proposal whether the local
government has the capability (both in terms of staff and infrastructure) to continue with
these technical activities beyond the project's life.
Response: NGOs were involved in project design and meetings and will continue to be
involved. The Education Component has a budget allocation to allow them to participate as
trainers and especially where the have a strong local presence. It is very likely that a university
will be identified to be host for the Wildlife Management Center in the Protection and Control
Component. NGOs will also likely be involved in the local surveillance teams in the same
component that will provide regular targeted fauna counts as part of project monitoring and
evaluation. And NGOs will participate in municipal and regional advisory committees and
invited to take part in local forums. This structure ensures that NGOs and academic
institutions will be involved and heard and those with the capacity to contribute to project
implementation can be identified and involved.
Regarding municipal capacity in the post project era, the project activities that require their
continued activity are few and structured in such a way as to address sustainability as indicated
below.
- 78 -



Activity Requiring Continued             Supporting Mechanism
Municipal Participation
General integrity of local parks,  Refinement of ICMS should result in a stronger
interstitial areas, connections,  municipal incentive to continue with these activities,
fragments and creation of RPPNs  especially in critical areas
Decentralization of fiscalization to Decentralization will be structured as part of the project
municipalities                and performance will be continuously monitored by IAP
which will have authority to revoke or not renew
convenios (agreements) with non-performing
municipalities. IAP will need to maintain an
education/training capacity with its own resources.
Continued rural producer      This activity will be run by the EMATER Technical
conversion to new production  Environmental Advisor and paid by the Grant. The
systems                       EMATER staff will continue in the municipalities after
the project closes and their activities depend upon
municipal contracts-if the municipalities decide to pay
for conversion support-and this might be supported by
the ICMS-Ecologico--then EMATER will have
competent staff to manage this business.
Sustainable use ofpalmito and araucaria: On page 24, it is stated that regulations for
certification ofpalmito and araucdria (production?) will be developed. However, on page
40 prohibition of cutting Araucdria is mentioned as a possible controversial aspect of the
project. This inconsistency should be corrected. Moreover, it is not clear why sustainable
exploitation ofpalmito and araucdria is not included in the listing of alternative production
systems to be developed.
Regarding sustainable exploitation of palmito, commercial production of (pupunha, palmito
real) is one of the production systems to be offered (see Annex 2). The scattered araucaria
forests that are targeted for biodiversity conservation are so reduced in size after hundred's of
years of unrestrained exploitation that cutting is likely not an alternative. The commercial
interests that are responsible for this devastation may protest the ban on cutting in these areas
and the settlement may allow for cutting in exploited areas that are not important for
biodiversity conservation. This and the feasibility of commercial planting of araucaria (i.e.,
Plantations) will be clarified during appraisal.
Cost-benefit of Environmental Interventions and ICM ecologico: These sections are not
sufficiently developed and would require expansion. As presented, it is difficult for the
reader to assess how cost-benefit analysis of environmental interventions (obviously is an
important tool) will be developed and connected with other activities. The same applies for
ICM.
- 79 -



Parana's ICMS-Ecologico is leading edge in Brazil. It takes a percentage of the ICMS tax
revenue and uses it to reward municipalities for compliance with laws and care of local parks,
especially those that have important protected areas within their boundaries. This funding can
be quite important for municipalities and an effective conservation incentive. The study to be
undertaken will look at how the ICMS-Ecologico can be revised to provide even greater
incentives. This might include payment of fiscalization officials in cases of decentralization,
rewards for incorporation of fragments and creation of RPPN, mobilization of local officials to
ensure the quality of connections, participation in fire-control campaigns, etc. Given the
importance of this reform and the fact that it requires a reform of a budget allocation law and
close, formal monitoring and evaluation means justifies the Project study. If an annex
explaining the ICMS-Ecologico is deemed necessary this can be added.
The Parana Government wants the environmental cost-benefit training as part of its effort to
mainstream biodiversity/environmental conservation within the Government and for the public
at large. Parana has decided that its environmental officials do not have the requisite skills to
do this. Once they are acquired it is expected that the internal Government 'debate' regarding
the desirability of enviromnental interventions will be greatly enriched as will the elaboration
and dissemination of justifications for an often skeptical and poorly informed public that tends
to view new regulations as an inconvenience or unjustified restriction of their hitherto
unconstrained use of natural resources. Studies will be done of important interventions to pilot
and affirm the utility of the new approach. The Project Team believes this activity is important
to sustaining the State's efforts to mainstream biodiversity conservation.
Summary and suggestions: Overall, I consider this GEF proposal viable, with very high
chances of having a positive impact on such an important bioregion as the Atlantic Interior
Forest. If the above detailed comments are taken into consideration, Ifully support this
project
- 80 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTATION PEFlIOD>                        l
| Year 1  | Year 2     Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5| Year 6    | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          9.1       12.4       8.0       0.8       0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            1.1       1.0       1.1       1.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs        10.2       13.4       9.1       1.8       0.0       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing            10.2      13.4       9.1       1.8       0.0        0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIDA                   3.8       2.4       0.9       0.9       0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                6.3      11.1       8.1        1.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial            0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    10.1      13.5       9.0       1.9       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 81 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
Procurement
All procurement will be done in accordance with the Bank' guidelines on procurement of goods, works,
and services, and using standard contract documents acceptable to the Bank (Guidelines, Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999 and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999) and the
provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
Procurement and financial management responsibilities would be vested in the PMU which is currently
providing similar services to the Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources Management
Project. A procurement capacity assessment of the PMU was conducted by the Project Team's
Procurement Specialist and was cleared by the RPA on September 20, 2001. The "Overall
Procurement Risk" was assessed as "LOW". The PMU has appropriate procedures, intemal controls,
technical and administrative support, is well organized and staffed, and its procurement performance
under the current loan has been consistently satisfactory. This assessment was ratified by a
procurement post-review conducted in early March 2002.
Procurement of Works
The proposed project would finance small works for the rehabilitation of several buildings in various
protected areas such as housing for the wardens, construction of a Wildlife Management Center, works
to mitigate the effects of land erosions, and installation of signs and landmarks for a total amount
(excluding Agroecological Subprojects) of US$629,000 equivalent. These contracts would be
procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from a
minimum of three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. If any contract
surpasses $ 100,000, it would be procured using NCB.
Procurement of Goods
The project would finance contracts for the purchase of vehicles, small boats, computers, software,
geodesic equipment, photographic, office and miscellaneous equipment. Contracts estimated to cost
less than US$350,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$680,000 equivalent may be
procured on the basis of the standard NCB documents agreed to by the Bank with Brazil. Contracts
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount (excluding
Agroecological Subprojects) of US$406,000 equivalent, may be procured following shopping
procedures in accordance with paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Should any contract exceed
$350,000, procurement will follow ICB procedures.
Consultant Services
- 82 -



The project would finance technical assistance, studies, and capacity building to support institutional
and policy reforms, environmental education and certification, and development of related strategies.
In addition, the grant will support consultants for project management and administration.
Direct Contracting. A contract costing US$136,000 for the expansion and adaptation of the existing
MIS (i.e. currently operated under the Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources Management
Project) for the purposes the present Project would be awarded on a sole sources basis to the system
developer, Sofiplan. This direct contracting is justified on the basis of the critical need for continuity
and consistency between the two complementary operations both in terms of software solutions and
technical assistance (the system is maintained with the assistance of an operator seconded on a full-time
basis by the developer), and interface with other participating agencies (i.e., EMATER and
CODAPAR). In addition, a direct contract would be awarded to the Universidade Livre do Meio
Ambiente (UNILIVRE) which will be responsible for implementing activities conceming the
organization, implementation, assessment and accountability of training events. The total cost of this
contract (including the costs associated with organizing and implementing training activities such as
travel of participants, renting facilities, production of materials, fees of facilitators, etc.) would amount
to approximnately US$1,164,000 equivalent. However, UNILIVRE's services are estimated to cost, as a
maximum, US$120,000. These training activities are much more specialized than those implemented
under the ongoing loan where training services are generally being awarded on a competitive basis.
The training program envisioned for the present project aims specifically at building the capacity of
institutions and stakeholders, including beneficiaries, through education on and dissemination of
biodiversity-related concepts and practices. UNILIVRE has unique qualifications and experience in
training related to environmental management, covering 90 percent of the market for such services in
Parana, and having a long-standing close cooperation with the State on the development of its
environmental capacity building strategy. Such experience and capacity were assessed during
preparation and it was agreed that a significant portion of the training program would be implemented
by UNILIVRE's permanent staff, while for the remainder of the program UNILIVRE would utilize its
extensive roster of consultants. This roster comprises an established network of environmental experts
throughout the state who cooperate with UNILIVRE on an ongoing basis. The PMU would negotiate a
contract on the basis of a detailed technical and financial proposal specifying UNILIVRE's approach,
workplan, key staff, and all inputs and associated costs required to carry out such services. The
proposal would be based on the training plan agreed upon by the Bank and incorporated in the Project
Operational Manual, and the contract would be subject to the Bank's prior review. In addition, the
plan's implementation would be monitored as part of the annual operating plans submitted by the
Project and through the MIS.
Least Cost Selection. Five contracts for the development of simple management plans estimated to
cost approximately US$30,000 each for the conservation units in preserved areas (design trails,
ecotourism, fencing and proper demarcation of the area, staffmg needs, and administrative issues)
would be procured following Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures. The preserved areas are disperse
in remote locations of the State and Project start-up requires for the simultaneous preparations of such
plans. Short lists would comprise primarily local qualified firms/NGO who are likely to be more
intimately familiar with the diverse characteristics of each protected area. However, the type of services
required are defined in detail in the TOR and are based on well established practices, standards, and
methodologies justifying the use of LCS for this contract.
Consultant Qualifications. A technical assessment of the practices promoted by the agroecological
modules estimated to cost US$30,000 would be awarded on the basis of Consultant Qualifications
(CQ) procedures. The simple scope of work envisioned for this assignment, which does not warrant
- 83 -



the need for comparing competitive proposals, and the small amount justify the use of CQ for this
contract.
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). All other consulting firms required by the Project would
be selected following a Quality and Cost Based Selection process, in accordance with Section II of the
Consultant Guidelines.
Individual Consultants. In addition to consultants required to staff the PMU, individual consultants
would be contracted up to aggregate amount of US$622,000 for assignments that meet the
requirements of Paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines. Consultants would be required for a
number of technical services, including development of management plans, ecotourism, M&E, and
environmental protection.
GEF would provide financial support to hire 5 (five) consultants who will work in the Project
Management Unit (UGP). Two of them will work within the Project Advisory Center - NAP and will
be in charge of the assessment, monitoring, studies and management report processes. The other three
will be directly responsible for the management of the biodiversity corridors.
Microcatchment Subprojects (financed with funds from the Associated Loan)
This category foresees the transfer of financial support, from the Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural
Resources Management Project amounting to US$21.8 million, to approximately 19,000 rural
producers. These resources will be aimed at the implementation of natural resources management and
conservation in the rural properties located within the microcatchments which make up the biodiversity
corridors.
These Subprojects are being supervised under the ongoing operation and follow procurement
procedures previously agreed under that loan. A recently completed procurement post review assessed
supervision of such subprojects as highly satisfactory. These actions will continue to be managed by
PCU of the Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources Management Project.
Agroecolozical Subproiects
This category involves financial support, amounting to US$1.81 million, aimed at 800 rural producers
living within the microcatchments selected by the project, for the implementation of environmentally,
economically and socially sustainable pilot demonstration subprojects, including farm equipment and
supplies, rehabilitation of small infrastructure, environmental sanitation, and tree seedlings. Selection
of sites, as well as implementation arrangements, would apply the rules and criteria included in the
Project Operational Manual. Procurement procedures and supervision arrangements would be the
same as for the Microcatchment Subprojects, including on-the-ground technical assistance and
supervision from EMATER, monitoring of comprehensive technical, procurement and financial
information on all beneficiaries through the MIS, and technical audits of the subprojects carried out by
CODAPAR.
Operating costs
Operating Costs for a total amount of US$500,000 equivalent would be financed on a declining basis
and include expenditures incurred by the PMU for recurrent incremental costs associated with the
implementation of the project, such as: (i) operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs, fuel and
- 84 -



spare parts; (ii) equipment and computer maintenance; (iii) office supplies; (iv) rent for office facilities;
(v) utilities; and (vi) travel and per diem costs for technical staff of the PMU carrying out training,
supervisory and quality control activities.
In addition, the project would finance at a 100 percent rate the recurrent incremental costs of
EMATER for the development and implementation of Microcatchment Plans and Agroecological
Subprojects as set forth in the EMATER Agreement, including, inter alia: (i) salaries; (ii) equipment
and computer maintenance; (iii) operation and maintenance of vehicles, repairs fuel and spare parts;
and (iv) travel and per diem of EMATER staff.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB          Other        N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00         0.629         0.00       0.629
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.503)       (0.00)     (0.503)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.680        0.406         0.00       1.086
(0.00)         (0.544)      (0.325)       (0.00)     (0.869)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00         2.749         0.00       2.749
(0.00)         (0.00)       (1.364)       (0.00)     (1.364)
4. Microcatchment                  0.00            0.00         0.00        21.810      21.810
Subprojects                     (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Agroecological                  0.00           0.00          1.810        0.00       1.810
Subprojects                    (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.810)      (0.00)      (1.810)
6. Operating Costs
EMATER Services                  0.00           0.00         1.732        0.00        1.732
(0.00)         (0.00)       (1.732)       (0.00)     (1.732)
Other operating costs           0.00            0.00         0.500        2.541      3.041
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.350)      (0.00)     (0.350)
7. Unallocated                                                                          0.000
.___________________________   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (1 .3 7 2 )
Total                           0.00           0.680         7.810        25.64      32.857
_ _ __   (0.00)      (0.544)       (6.340)      (0.00)     (8.000)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant All costs include contingencies.
21 lnternational bidding is not foreseen because the set of goods and works to be procured by the project do
not reach the contract value threshold of US$ 350,000.
- 85 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB     LCS      Co     Other  N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              0.62    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.03    1.30    0.00     2.10
(0.31)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.08)  (0.02)  (0.65)  (0.00)   (1.06)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.00     0.62
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.31)  (0.00)   (0.31)
Total  0.62    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.03    1.92    0.00     2.72
j (0.3 1)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.08)  (0.02)  (0.96)  (0.00)  (1.37)
1\ Including confingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 86 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method               (U5$ millions)
1. Works                        < 350                   NCB                  First contract
<100                  Shopping
2. Goods                        >350                     ICB                     All
<350                    NCB                  First contract
<100                  Shopping               First oontract
3. Services
Firms                           > 100                  QCBS                      All
<100                    QCBS                  Only TORs
Individuals                      >50            Chapter V of Consultant          All
Guidelines
<50             Chapter V of Consultant      Only TORs
Guidelines
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement supervision will be performed by a Procurement Specialist (PS) or Procurement
Accredited Staff (PAS) and will include a review of: (i) the PMU's capacity; (ii) the procurement plan
for the project, including a timetable for procurement actions anticipated during the next 12 months;
(iii) the PMU's monitoring system; and (iv) complete records for one in every twenty contracts (for
goods, works, and consulting services, respectively). hI addition the PS or PAS will perfonr selected
physical inspections of the goods received or works performed, and meet with selected
suppliers/contractors, whenever possible.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 87 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Works                                   0.50                         80%
2. Goods                                   0.87           100% Foreign Expenditures and local
ex-factory cost; 80% of local
expenditures
3. Consultant Services                     1.37                         50%
4. Agroecological Subprojects              1.81                        100%
5. Operating Costs
5.a EMATER Services                        1.73                        100%
5.b Other                                  0.35          Operating costs: 80% until withdrawals
reach $300,000, 60% until withdrawals
reach $400,000, and 40% thereafter
6. Unallocted                              1.37                         N.A
Total Project Costs                        8.00
Total                                      8.00
Financial Management Assessment
Country Issues
According to preliminary conclusions of the Brazil's CFAA currently under finalization process, "Brazil
has a well developed and centralized system of public financial management. Overall it is able to reliably
track budget expenditures. However the institutional arrangements and processes are complex. While they
achieve good results in terms of aggregate fiscal control, they are less successful in achieving good
expenditure prioritization and operational efficiency". The Brazilian system of public financial management
provides reliable information and adequate management and tracking of the receipt and use of funds at
national level, and is able to support Bank's lending programs.
This is a project funded by a Grant awarded directly by GEF to the State of Parana. There are no issues at
country level which could negatively affect the project financial management system and/or the fiduciary
responsibilities of the implementation unit.
Risk Analysis
A detailed risk assessment questionnaire has been filled in on basis of the observations made and is filed
together with the working papers. No major risks were identified as it can be seen by the matrix table
below.
- 88 -



Risk Assessment Matrix
Risk                                     High      Mioderate     Low       Remarks
1. Inherent risk
(a) country specific                                            x
(b) entity specific
- institutional and organization aspects                     X
- funds flow arrangements                                    x
- audit arrangements                                         x
(c) project specific
- staffing & training                                        x
- counterpart funds                                          x
2. Control of risk
(a) accounting and reporting system                             x
(b) budgeting system                                            x
(c) intemal control                                             x
3. Detection risk                                                 x
The PMU is a well-structured entity with adequate manpower to implement and manage the project with
past experience in managing Bank financed and funded projects. A well proven accounting/monitoring
system will be used, and some adaptations will be made which are included in the action plan to further
enhance its efficiency.
Financial/Administration Unit (NAP)
The Financial/Administration Unit (NAP) will be responsible for the execution and coordination of all
fmiancial administrative activities including the operation of the Project's Financial/Management System -
SAFF, the State System SIAF, preparation of budget and follow up of its execution, review of all payments
documentation and legal agreements with beneficiaries, expense reports, general accounting, reporting,
SOEs preparation/submission, Financial Statements and independent audit arrangements and relevant
support. They will also prepare the request and follow up all payments to the final beneficiaries, funds flow
both from the Grant extemal sources and from State counterpart, prepare the official documentation
required by the State procedures - "Commitment Bills" (Notas de empenho e liquidacao) to be sent to the
proper sector of the Finance Secretariat. The Financial administration staff is totally composed of public
officers and is already in place with a total of 4 people, all of them college graduated. Staff is adequate in
number and skills to perform the assigned duties, specially considering that many of them have already
experience with the Bank financed project - Poverty Reduction and Natural Resources Management
(Parana 12 Meses). All the administrative support as regards personnel administration, legal services,
information technology, supplies, office equipment and general services will be provided by the structure of
the Planning Secretariat. The Financial administration group officials are expected to participate in future
disbursement training seminars to be delivered by the Bank.
Financial/Accounting System
The PMU will operate with SAFF, an overall management system for monitoring and controlling project
execution and financial management, including project's accounting & monitoring, reporting, special
account control, disbursements, SOE. This system is being operated successfully for Parana 12 Meses and
in a number of other Bank financed projects, as for example the Parana Education Quality, Rio Grande do
Sul Rural Poverty and others. Recently this system was assessed and approved in Nicaragua for two
- 89 -



Projects:- Pension Reform, and Health Sector modernization. Minor adaptations will be made to adapt the
system to project requirements. The entire management, monitoring and financial administration, including
accounting, will be done through SAFF.
Initial data for each sub-program will be entered, including beneficiaries data, objective and goals, amount,
time table and plan and all other data necessary to efficiently monitor each program. SAFF is able to
record budgets, estimates and objectives as per PAD and/or POA and compare these with actual figures
and performance, and therefore complies with all operational and financial reporting requirements.
The State of Parana uses SIAF which is the State global financial management system which encompasses
budget execution, accounting and payments through the sole State Treasury Account. As all payments will
also be recorded in SIAF, this will enable a double control and checking on projects' investments. Adequate
internal controls will be implemented in the PMU including a financial administration procedures manual
for the subprograms administrations and proper limits of authority for payments and expenses approvals.
An adequate filling system will be implemented, with individual folders by project where all documentation
will be kept for inspection by the auditors and Bank's supervision missions.
Disbursements Arrangements
Disbursements will be made according to the Disbursement Letter instructions released by LOA after
compliance of all effectiveness conditions and completion of the action plan.
Project will use the traditional disbursement system via SOEs. All pertinent documentation will be filed at
the PMU for inspection by the Auditors and Bank's supervision missions.
Project Coordination will designate the personnel authorized to sign the applications and send in due course
the relevant signature specimens to the Disbursement Department in the Bank.
Despite the reliability of SAFF - the financial administration system to be used by the Implementing
Agency, and its capability to produce FMRs, the PMU does not intend to disburse on basis of cash
estimates considering certain features of the project which indicate that this is not the most appropriate
disbursement process in this case. Among these characteristics it is mentioned: a) the high degree of
decentralization with too many different programs with a great variety of objectives and interfaces during
the preparation phases of each program, making it very difficult to make a reliable expenses estimate; b)
the very close relationship between this program and the Parana 12 months, which is one of the counterpart
contributors and which disburses via SOEs.
Funds Flow
The Bank will deposit funds from the Loan account to a Parana State special account in a commercial bank
in terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with an authorized allocation of US$800,000. Counterpart
funds, which will originate mainly from the Parand 12 Meses project, will be applied directly from the sole
Treasury account of the State to implementing agencies accounts and will be dully documented in the
SOEs.
Replenishment requests will be submitted in periods to be stipulated in the disbursement letter. Counterpart
funds will be requested by the PMU for direct investment in the programs and will be dully documented in
SOEs. Eventual counterpart contributions from Associations and Municipalities in labor or materials will
be accounted and documented in the Financial Statements.
- 90 -



For subprojects the basis of disbursement will be signed subproject agreements. Advances to the
operational account will be made from the Special Account on the basis of payments to be made, in the
next 30 days, against signed subproject agreements. For all other activities, transfers will be made, on a
daily basis, from the Special Account to the operational account, of the Bank's share of payments to be
made on the same day or such longer period as agreed from time to time with the Bank.
Use of Financial Management Report (FMRs)
Direct Payments and Special Conmmitments should be clearly identified in the FMRs and shall include the
documentation required for these types of payments.
Financial Management Reports (FMRs) in a format acceptable to the Bank should be submitted to the
Bank every six months. These reports will be prepared 45 days after the end of each quarter.
Auditing Arrangements
TOR for auditing purposes will be issued on the basis of the "Guidelines and Terms of Reference for
auditing of Projects financed by World Bank in Latin America and Caribbean Countries." Independent
audits will be perforned by the Parana State Court of Accounts (Tribunal de Contas) since it is one of the
two State Public Institutions in Brazil accredited to perform audits in Bank-financed projects.
The following audit reports will be required:
Audit Report                                 Due Date
Project accounts                               Up to six months after closing of fiscal year
SOE                                            Up to six months after closing of fiscal year
Special Account                                 Up to six months after closing of fiscal year
Compliance with Legal covenants                 Up to six months after closing of fiscal year
Management Letter                              Up to six months after closing of fiscal year
The Tribunal de Contas will carry out an annual financial audit of the project, as required by OP/BP 10.02.
The auditors should be engaged at project inception, and prior of the commencement of each project fiscal
year thereafter, so that the interim audits can be performed throughout each year of project implementation.
The project financial statements, the Special Accounts, and the SOEs will be audited at the end of each
fiscal year during project implementation. An audit of the project financial statements will be submitted to
the Bank within 180 days of the close of the project's financial year. The "Guidelines and Terms of
Reference for Audits of projects with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin American and the
Caribbean Region" should be followed by the PMU when preparing the terms of reference for the audit and
these guidelines should be provided to the selected auditors.
- 91 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      15                           23
First Bank mission (identification)             04/10/2000                   04/10/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     03/25/2002                   04/10/2002
Negotiations                                    04/16/2002                  04/25/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   08/01/2002
Prepared by:
Project Preparation Unit comprised of experts from CCPG, LAP, and UGP.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Michael G. Carroll                Task Team Leader/Natural Resources Management Specialist
Chris Parel                       Co-Task Manager
Adriana Moreira                   Biodiversity Specialist
Marta Molares-Halberg             Legal Counsel
Alvaro Soler                      Agricultural EconomistlM&E Specialist
Enzo de Laurentiis                Procurement Specialist
Claudio Mittelstaedt              Financial Management Specialist
Claudia Sobrevila                 Peer Reviewer
Omowunmi Ladipo                   Senior Financial Management Specialist
- 92 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Plan is contained in the Project Manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Projeto Parana Bioiversidade:
* Relat6rio Principal, Dezembro 2001
* Manual dos Procedimentos Administrativos e Financeiros, Dezembro 2001
* Relat6rio - Anexos, Agosto 2001
* Componente Controle e Proteiio, Agosto 2001
* Componente EducacAo e Capacitacao da Sociedade para a Conservacao da Biodiversidade, Agosto
2001
* Componente Incentivos A Conservaca e Manejo da Biodiversidade, Agosto 2001
* Componente GestAo do Projeto, Agosto 2001
* Custos do Projeto e Operacionalizacao Financeira
* Manual Operativo - Versao Preliminar, Margo 2002
*Including electronic files
- 93 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility
24-Sep-200 1
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       lBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P055954        2002 GoiAs STATE HIGF-WAY MANAGEMENT                  65.00       0.00                 0-00      0.00      65.00       0.00      0.00
P0721192       2002 TA Financial Sector                               14.50      0.00                 0.00      0.00      14.46       0.00      0.00
P050881        2001 RURAL POVERTY REDUCTON PROJECT - Pi              22.50       0.00                 0.00      0.00      22.50       0.00      0.00
P050880        2001 Rural Povefty Reduction Project - PE             30.10       0.00                 0.00      0.00      30.10       0.00      0.00
P050875        2001 Rural Poverty Reducton Project - CE              37.50       0.00                 0.00      0.00      37.50       0.00      0.00
P050566        2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                        90.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      90.00       0.00      0.00
P059565        2001 BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHA~E I)               69.60       0.00                 0.00      0.00      61.10      -1.70      0.00
P072294        2001 BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt, TAL                        8.88       0.00                 0.00      0.00       8.88       0.72      0.00
P05C72         2001 LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I                202.10       0.0                  0.00      0.00     199.50       0.00      0.00
P057649        2001 Rural Poverty Reduction Project - BA             54.35       0.00                 0.00      0.00      5-4.35      0.00      0.00
P047309        2000 BR ENERG3Y EFFICIENCY (GEF)                       0.00       0.00                15.00      0.00      14.37       1.83      0.00
P035741        2000 NATL ENV 2                                       15.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      13.18       3.94      2.50
P0I76          2000 NE Microtnance Developmnent                      50.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      42.00      -8.00      0.00
P006449        2000 CEARA WTR MGT (PROGERIRH)                        136.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     130.91      35.16      0.00
P039199        2000 PROSANEAR 2                                      30.30       0.00                 0.00      0.00      30.00      -0.30      0.00
P062619        2000 INSS REF LIL                                      5.05       0.00                 0.00      0.00       2.64       1.42      0.00
P039200        2000 ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)                   43.40       0.00                 0.00      0.00      42.97       4.00      0.00
P043874        1999 BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE - VIGISUS               100.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      82.66      76.00      0.00
P055388        1999 ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO                             44.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      44.0)0     23.67      0.00
P054120        1999 BR- AIDS & STD Control II                       165.00       0.00                 0.00      3.50      60.40      38.00      0.00
P058129        1999 BR EM4ER. FIRE PREVB4MON                          15.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00      11.53      11.53      6.01
P050763        1995 BR- Fundescola 2                                202.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     68.91     -41.09      0.00
P048869        1999 SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                             150.00      0.00                 0.00      0.00     127.82      61.16      0.00
P048357        1998 CEN.BANK TAL                                     20.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       7.31       7.31      0.00
P05,701        1998 MIARANHAOR.POVERTY                               80.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      13.75      -8.71      0.00
P043421        1998 RJ M.TRANSITPRJ.                                186.00       0.00                 0.00      17.17    146.86     162.13      0.00
P038895        1998 FED.WTrR MGT                                    198.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     122.85     102.27     37.85
P042565        1998 PARAIBAR.POVERTY                                 60.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      32.53      12.17      0.00
P05'910        1998 BR PENSION REFORM LIL                             5.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00       3.33       3.33      -1.16
P03-5728       1998 BAHIA WVTR RESOURCES                             51.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      31.29      26.25      3.19
P006559        1998 IBF-RISP.TSP                                     45.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00      38.47      38.47      0.00
P006474        1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAUJLO)                       55.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     52.80      30.27      15.80
P038947        1998 BR- SC.,& TECH 3                                155.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     127.09     127.09      0.00
P043420        1998 WATER S.MOD.2                                   150.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     147.87     130.2      99.04
P006475        1907 LAND RPM PILOT                                   90.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     24.23      24.23       0.00
P006532        1997 FED HWY DECENTR                                  300.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    153.78     153.78       0.00
P038896        1997 R.POVERTY(RGN)                                    24.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      3.57       3.57       0.00
P006562        1997 BAHIA MUN.DV                                     100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     61.06      54.73      -6.13
P0438688       1997 RGS LANDU MGTIPOVERTY                            100.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     66.97      39.77       2.42
P043871        1997 IPIAUIIR.POVERTY                                 30.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      1.54       1.54       0.00
P043873        1997 AG TECH DEV.                                     60.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     35.88      31.56      11.88
P042566        1997 R.POVERTY(PE)                                    39.00       0.00                 0.00      0.0        4.52       4.52      0.00
P046052        1997 CEARA WATER PILOT                                 9.60       0.00                 0.00       0.00      4.24       4.24       1.69
P048870        1997 BR MT STATE PRIV.                                45.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      5.00       5.00       5.00
P034578        1997 RGS HWY MGT                                      70.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     54.97      47.31      27.31
P04002         1996 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                             350.00      0.00                 0.00      50.00     43.42      93.42      43.42
P006554        1996 BR- HEALTH SECTCR REFORM - REFCRSUS              300.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    132.51     132.51       0.00
P00610         1996 NATLBIODIVERSITY                                  0.00       0.00                10.00       0.00      3.70       4.83       5.45
P037828        1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                                 175.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00    100.30      93.84      14.41
P044597        1996 BR BIOIVESIWTY FUND                               0.00       0.00                20.,00      0.00      0.67       2.57       0.00
P0043          1995 Ceara Urban Development & Water Resource         140.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     22.68      22.68       5.94
P038882        1995 RECIFE M.TSP                                     102.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     34.~52     34.52       0.00
P006564        1995 BELO H M.TSP                                     99.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     22.48      22.48       0.00
P006558        1994 BR- PARANA BASIC EDUC                            96.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      1.01       1.91       0.00
- 94 -



Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                   GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P006522       1994 ESP.SANTO WATER                                154.00      0.00                0.00     54.00     18.29     72.29       6.67
P006524       1994 BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT                         150.00      0.00                0.00      9.70     20.75      30.45     25.45
P006543       1994 BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.                    150.00      0.00                0.00      0.00      9.13       9.13      0.00
P006541       1993 BR WTRQ/PLN(SP/PRIFED)                         245.00      0.00                0.00      5.15      6.05      11.20      1.57
P006454       1992 RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                           167.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     24.39      24.39      0.00
P006505       1992 MATO GROSSO NAT RES                            205.00      0.00                0.00      0.00     34.36      34.36      0.00
Total:    5755.88       0.00             45.00      139.53    2869.88   1799.85    308.35
- 95 -



BRAZIL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                           IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1987/96           Perdigao                    21.88    0.00    0.00   8.00   21.88    0.00    0.00    8.00
1989/95           Politeno Ind.                8.77    0.00    0.00   0.00    8.77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/00           Portobello                  16.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   15.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Puras                       5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Randon                       7.00    0.00    3.00   0.00    7.00 -  0.00    3.00    0.00
1991              Rhodia-Ster                  1.43    5.95    0.00   0.00    1.43    5.95    0.00    0.00
1995              Rhodiaco/PTA                12.50    0.00    0.00   9.00   12.50    0.00    0.00    9.00
1990              Ripasa                       0.00    5.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Rodovia                     31.11    0.00    0.00  63.60   31.11    0.00    0.00   63.60
S.A.I.C.C.                   0.00   0.00    6.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.87   0.00
1994/96           SP Alpargatas               20.00    0.00    5.00   0.00   20.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1987/97           Sadia                       24.00    0.00    8.00  128.00  24.00    0.00    8.00  128.00
1994/95/97        Samarco                     13.50    0.00    0.00   9.33   13.50    0.00    0.00    9.33
1997              Saunaritano                 20.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Saraiva                     12.69   3.00    0.00    0.00   12.69   3.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Sucorrico                   10.50    0.00    0.00   0.00   10.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              TIGRE                       17.31    0.00    5.00  10.68   17.31    0.00    5.00   10.68
1996              TRIKEM                       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Tecon Rio Grande             7.50    0.00    5.50  18.00    6.65    0.00    5.50   15.95
1998              Votorantim                   5.86    0.00    0.00   0.43    5.86    0.00    0.00    0.43
1993              Vulcabras                   20.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Wembley                      0.00   10.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Wiest                        0.00    0.00    8.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00
1999              Arteb                       20.00    7.00    0.00   20.00  20.00    7.00    0.00   20.00
1998              AutoBAn                     35.00    0.00    0.00   31.00  22.84    0.00    0.00   20.23
1999              BACELL                       6.00   15.70    0.00   16.20   6.00   15.70    0.00   16.20
1993              BBA                         40.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               BSC                         11.53   0.00    0.00    6.18   11.53   0.00    0.00    6.18
1998              Bahia Sul                    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/92        Banco Bradesco              13.00    0.00    0.00  16.77   13.00    0.00    0.00   16.77
1996              Bompreco                    20.83    0.00    5.00   0.00   20.83    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997              Bradesco-Bahia               1.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              Bradesco-Eucatex             5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              Bradesco-Hering              7.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Bradesco-Petrofl             7.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              Bradesco-Romi                0.00    0.40    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00
1991              Brahma - BRA                12.50    0.00    5.00   12.30  12.50    0.00    5.00   12.30
1995              CEVAL                        0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96           CHAPECO                     15.00    0.00    0.00    5.00  15.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1994/96           CODEMIN                      0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00
1973/78/83        CRP-Caderi                   0.00    0.68    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.68    0.00    0.00
1992              Cambuhy/MC                  11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.25   0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Copesul                     30.00    0.00    0.00  128.57  30.00    0.00    0.00  128.57
1997              Coteminas                    0.00    0.53    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.53    0.00    0.00
1993/97/00
Total Portfolio:     763.81   145.07  132.21  852.27  667.74  117.01  128.91  809.80
- 96 -



Approvals Pending Commnitment
FY Approval       Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000              Sepetiba                       27.00     0.00      6.00    18.00
2001              Tecon Salvador                  3.50     0.00      1.00     5.00
2000              BBA                             0.00     0.00      0.00    50.00
1997              CTBC                           35.00     0.00      0.00   150.00
1999              Cibrasec                        0.00     0.00      7.50     0.00
1998              FSA                            35.00     10.00     0.00    45.00
1996              Globocabo II                    0.00     0.00      0.00    38.00
1998              Ipiranga-RI 2                   0.00     0.00      0.09     0.00
1999              MBRLTDP                        20.00     5.00      0.00   115.00
Total Pending Commitment:     120.50     15.00    14.59   421.00
- 97 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: Parana Biodiversity Project (Global Environment Facility)
Latin   Upper.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       America   middle-
Brazil  & Carlb.  Income     Development dimond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                   170.1      516      647                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas mothod, US$)                3,590     3,680    4,620
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                  610.1     1,895    2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (96)                                     1.3       1.6      1.3
Labor force (9)                                     1.9       2.3      2.0     GNI                            Gross
per     -                     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                          capita                     enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationa poverty line)  22
Urban population (96 of total population)           81        75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                    67        70        69
Infant mortallty (per 1,000 lve births)             32        30       28
Child malnutrition (9% of children under 6)          6         9                    Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (96 of population)  87     85        87
Iliteracy (X ofpopulation age 15+)                  15        12       10
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  125   113      107
Maie                                                                 106             Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                               105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990     1999      2000
Economic ratloe
GDP (US$ billions)                       235.0    465.0     529.4    595.5
Gross domestic investmentlGDP             23.3     20.2      20.4     20.5                   Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP          9.1      8.2      10.6     10.9
Gross domestic savinosiGDP                21.1     214       19.3     19.3
Gross national savingslGDP                17.8     18.9      16.1
Current account balancelGDP                -5.5    -0.8      -4.8     -4.1     Domestic                  Investment
Interest payments/GDP                      2.7      0.4       2.5      2.5     savings
Total debt/GDP                            30.4     25.8      45.6     39.7
Total debt service/exports                63.4     22.5     112.3     77.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                    45.9
Present value of debt/exports                               403.7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999     2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                2.7     2.9      0.8       4.5      3.6              Brazil
GDP per capita                     0.8     1.5     -0.5       3.2      2.3              Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      7.5     5.5     12.0      11.0     13.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990     1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                     16
Agriculture                               11.0      8.1       7.2      74      10
Industry                                  43.8     38.7      27.5     28.6          _           _
ManufacturIngt                           33.5              23.1      24.0
Services                                  45.2     53.2      65.3     64.0
Private consumption                       69.7     59.3      61.8     62.5    -10
General qovernment consumption             9.2     19.3      18.9     18.2              -    G01         DGP
Imports of goods and services             11.3      7.0      11.7     121
(average annual growth)                1980-90  1990-00     1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                2.8      3.2       7.4      3.0    40
Industry                                   2.0      2.6      -1.6      5.0
Manufacturing                             1.6     2.1      -0.7              20
Services                                   3.3      3.0       1.3      3.9     o
Private consumption                        1.2      5.7       6.1      9.9           96   96    97   98         0r
General government consumption             7.3     -1.7      -9.3     -5.4   -20
Gross domestic Investment                  3.3      3.4      -3.0      5 0                 Exports  _   Imports
Imports of qoods and services              0.5     11.9     -14.8     13.8
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its Income-qroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-98 -



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999      2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                     zo
Consuer pces                                 .. 2,947.7       8.9      6.0    2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                      87.3  2,509.5      4.3      8.5    1,o
Government finance                                                              soo
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)                                               0            C
Current revenue                              ..      ..      19.5     20.0              95   96   97    98   9r
Current budget balance                       ..      ..       0.4      1.0                 GDP defator -    CPI
Overall surplus/defAt                        ..      ..       -.8     -3.2
TRADE
(USS millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Export and Import levels (US$ mIll.)
Total exports (fob)                              31,414    47,140    53,589    7
Coffee                                     ..    2,656     2,746    3,048
Soybeans                                   ..    2,854     1,593    2,188
Manufactures                               ..   19,624    35,312   41,027
Total imports (cif)                          ..  20,661    49,275    55,800         L_                  _
Food                                       ..    1,379     1,655    1,507 
Fuel and energy                            ..    4,354     4,258    6,362
Capital goods                              ..    5,932    13,570   13,593       o
94  95   96   97  59   96    oo
Export price index (1995=100)               80       81        91       97
Import price index (1995=100)               65       74       113      118                U Exports    * Imports
Temis of trade (1995=100)                   123     109        80       82
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services            21,857  34,615    55,205   64,470     0 
Imports of goods and services            27,788  26,708    63,443   72,741         94
Resource balance                         -5,931   7,907     4,238    9,271
Net income                               -7,044  -12,523  -18,848   -17,886
Net current transfers                       42      834     1,689    1,521
Current account balance                 -12,933  -3,782   -25,397   -24,636
Financinq items (net)                     8,990  -5,043    13,634   33,815
Changes in net reserves                   3,943   8,825     11,763   -9,179
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    5,853   9,175    35,725   33,011
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)       1.92E-1 I  2.48E-5     1.8      1.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composetlon of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     71,520  119,877   241,468  236,200                    A: 7,377
IBRD                                    2,035   8,427     6,822    7,377                            c: 1,768
IDA                                        0        0         0        0            G: 29,48   _
Total debt service                       14,757   8,168    67,522    53,200                                 0: 48,368
IBRD                                     275    1,975      1,381    1,351
IDA                                        0        0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                             E: 9,932
Official grants                           14       41        62        ..
Official creditors                       825     433        660    -2,037
Private creditors                       3,745    -427   -11,828   -32,675\/
Foreign direct investment               1,911     989    32,659
Portfolio equity                           0        0     1,961        ..          F: 139,279
World Bank program
Commitments                              820      905     1,863     1,593    A - IBRD                   E - Bllateral
Disbursements                            343      788     1,533     1,692    a - IDA   D - Other multilaterhe  F - Private
Principal repayments                      98    1,251       952      887      C - IMF                   G - Short-term
Net flows                                245     -463       580      805
Interest payments                        177      725       428      464
Net transfers                             68    -1,187      152      341
Development Economics                                                                                          9/17/01
- 99 -



- 100 -



