Report No. PID11106
Project Name             Brazil-Parana Biodiversity Project (GEF)
Region                   Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                   Natural Resources Management;
Other Environment
Project ID               BRGE70552
Implementing Agency
Address
Address: Secretaria de Estado do
Planejamento e Coordenabao Geral - SEPL
Centro de Coordenabao de Programas do
Governo -CCPG
Rua Maximo Joao Kopp, 274 - bloco 1 -
luandar
Santa Candida
CEP - 82630-900 - Curitiba-PR, Brazil
Contact Person: Ms. Yara Eisenbach
Tel: (55-41)-313-5290
Fax: (55-41)-313-5408
Email: yarabach@pr.gov.br
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        April 9, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      March 15, 2002
Bank Approval Date       May 16, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Both the Federal and Parana governments face similar issues that revolve
around balancing development interests and conservation.     The fact that
so little has been done to conserve the Atlantic and araucaria forests
despite their very visible devastation bears witness to the strong vested
lumber and development interests in Parana.    A second problem is the
inefficiency and lack of coordination between agencies that characterizes
most public bodies charged with conservation.     This has been exacerbated
over the last 5-7 years by the financial crisis that has affected Federal
and state governments. Parana has been no exception and the tight budget
constraints imposed by Federal debt renegotiations and legislation
governing the size of Government payrolls resulted in a dearth of
discretionary funding, a freeze on hiring and reduced resources for lower
priority environmental initiatives.    Federal Government Strategic
Initiatives. Despite this scenario, considerable progress has been made
in reforming legislation and regulations bearing on environmental issues
although implementation has often lagged. Since 1998, the Federal
Government has created over 1.2 million hectares of strict conservation
protected areas including four parks totaling about 50,000 ha. in the Mata
Atlantica. Major institutional reforms include n Approval of the
National Protected Areas System Law (SNUC) n Approval of a "Green
Protocol" requiring banks and lending agencies to consider environmental
criteria in project financen Preparation of an Agenda 21 for Brazil and
for the Amazonn Approval of a national water resources law (1997)n
Approval of an Environmental Crimes Law (1998)n Approval of legislation



allowing for forested lands to be considered to be "in productive use"n
Decentralization of environmental management to states and
municipalities.State of Parana Strategic Initiatives. The State of Parana
is an environmental leader in Brazil as evidenced by its groundbreaking
work on environmental incentives (ICMS-Ecologico) and tradeable
development rights (SISLEG). The State launched the "Biodiversity
Network Program" (Programa da Rede de Biodiversidade) in 1997 that is
intended to mainstream environmental conservation throughout the State
Government apparatus. The Government has used it own funds to support
project preparation and has since established a strong and well funded PBP
project preparation unit in the Planning Secretary. It is committed to
applying US$10m or more of the Bank's "Parana Rural Poverty Allevaiation
and Natural Resources Management Project" (Parana 12 Meses) to finance the
implementation of alternative production systems in PBP targeted
interstitial areas. Equally encouraging is its commitment to undertake
significant environmental reforms including elimination of the cutting of
natural stands of Araucaria, certification of araucaria and non-timber
forest products, and refinement and stepped-up implementation of the
ICMS-Ecologico and SISLEG.        The Government of Parana's current
strategy is to use the PBP to 'operationalize' and orient the Biodiversity
Network Program to better deal with environmental issues--to mainstream
biodiversity conservation. The Network is a program to coordinate
activities, introduce environmental considerations into public investment
and budget allocation decisions, better target resources and impose a
semblance of order and discipline on the multiplicity of agencies
impacting upon Parana biodiversity. Its ultimate objective is to conserve
and recuperate what remains of the State's natural resources. The program
includes numerous public agencies whose regulatory and other activities
impact the environment such as construction and water resource management.
The Network's effort to mainstream environmental considerations in
Government assures the collaboration of important secretariats and
agencies throughout Parana including state, regional and municipal
institutions concerned with sanitation, water supply, power generation,
and agriculture. The Network also includes other stakeholders: NGOs,
universities, labor unions, fisherman and community associations, and
small rural producer societies.    The Government of Parana is also
building upon a rich menu of environmental and related operations which it
intends to integrate into the Network's mainstreaming effort. These
include the following. Parana Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural
Resources Management Project (Parana 12 Meses). Referred to locally as
Parana 12 Meses, the operation is intended to alleviate rural poverty
through support to agrovilas, development of rural production
opportunities and introduction of technologically advanced and
environmentally   sound land management practices.    Project activities
include recuperation and preservation of vital watersheds and forested
areas. Parana 12 Meses is a statewide program that is able to operate in
each of the State's four globally significant ecoregions. At present, the
program does not explicitly target Conservation Unit (UC) buffer zones nor
are activities focused on conserving biodiversity. With the PBP resources
will be redirected to support interstitial activities in areas targeted by
the grant. Parana Atlantic Rainforest Protection Project--Pro-Atlantica.
This complementary operation, sponsored by the government of Germany
(KFW/GTZ) is active in portions of the Coastal Atlantic Forest where the
project will likely not penetrate. Components work with the Secretary of
Environment and Forestry Police targeting consolidation of existing
-2 -



protected areas. Municipal Forests. This State project works in 307
municipalities and has produced around 120 million seedlings for
reforestation, conservation and commercial raw material production. It
also aims to strengthen municipal forest services. The program will be
the main seedling supplier for PBP components addressing recuperation of
PBP degraded areas.State Reforestation System--SERFLOR. This State program
aims at guaranteeing raw material supply to industry on a sustainable,
environmentally benign manner. It is directed primarily to forest
plantations for industry and helps to reduce the pressure on native
forests.Guaraquecaba APA Development Plan. This state program is carried
out by the Government's environmental agency, IAP, with the collaboration
of leading NGOs--Wildlife Research and Environmental Education Society
(SPVS) and the Environment Free University (UNILIVRE). It is directed at
the Coastal Atlantic Forest region comprising communication and
enforcement activities. Iguacu National Park Buffer Zone Municipalities.
This is a joint effort involving the Ministry of the Environment, the
federal environmental agency (IBAMA), and UNILIVRE to implant sustainable,
environmentally benign development practices in the buffer zones of the
Iguacu National Park, the largest protected area in southern Brazil. This
PBP's Inland Atlantic Forest corridor will complement activities in these
areas.Ecological ICMS ("Green" Value Added Tax) and SISLEG. Parana is a
leader in developing economic instruments to support responsible
conservation practices, especially those bearing upon protected area
management, forest cover and watershed/public water supply. Accordingly,
municipalities with protected areas that satisfy state criterion for good
practice receive monetary payments from an ICMS set aside. The State has
also been implementing a tradeable development rights framework (SISLEG)
aimed as increasing compliance by private landholders with the minimum
(209) requirement for forest cover per property--the "legal reserve".
SISLEG allows private landholders who have reduced their forest cover
below the required 20% to compensate by purchasing and putting into
protected status important micro-catchments and forested and other areas
in the same biome. PBP will look closely at modifying these two programs
to increase the support for the four critical ecoregions.
2. Objectives
The primary objectives of the Parana Biodiversity Project (PBP) are to:
Support biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resource
management in two highly threatened ecoregions in the State of Parana
(Brazilian Inland Atlantic Rainforest and Araucaria Forest) with
sufficiently exceptional biodiversity to be classified among the world's
25 "Hotspots".   Design and implement a model for improving biodiversity
conservation in Parana that can be replicated throughout the State and
elsewhere. The project would achieve these ends through (i) mainstreaming
biodiversity conservation among targeted Government, rural communities and
civil society organizations, (ii) mitigating threats to biodiversity
through establishment of microcatchment-based corridors and the
consolidation of sustainable practices in target areas, (iii) monitoring
and enforcement functions, and (iv) reviewing and revising relevant
legislation, regulation, enforcement and incentive systems.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Without the Bank's involvement it is doubtful that any new environmental
project would be undertaken and the Government's ambitious Biodiversity
Network Program initiative would have very little impact upon
-3 -



environmental management. In addition to serving as a catalysts to help
mobilize and reorient the Government's environmental programs, Bank
participation in the PBP is adding value in the following ways. The Bank
serves as an "independent broker" among competing agencies, stakeholders
and interests which is especially important in a multi-sector
operation.The Bank has successfully pressed for the inclusion of
significant institutional and regulatory reforms cited above.The Bank has,
in a parallel effort, supported a collaborative effort by Government,
NGOs, and the private sector to identify important public and private land
holdings and develop a proposals as to how they might be incorporated into
protected areas.Bank experience with Brazilian, Latin American and global
environmental reform including Corridor consolidation and UC management
has helped to orient work on these components. Bank knowledge of
Brazilian initiatives, including the RFPP program and GEF ARPA work
provide important input to project design. The interstitial area
management component draws upon the Bank's Parana 12 Meses loan resources
and experience. T the loan's Task Manager is also co-TM for the PBP
project which ensures close coordination.    Other Bank staff working on
the PBP include an environmental specialist who is co-TM for the ARPA and
Ecological Corridors projects ensuring close collaboration and synergy
through design and implementation.The Bank's role as GEF executor
faciliatates Parana's access to the program's grant resources.
4. Description
I. Educational & capacity building
(i) Capacity building for project executors
ii) Education & dissemination for PBP beneficiaries/stakeholders
(iii) Promotional & capacity building materials
II. Biodiversity management & incentives
(i) Interstitial areas programs, connectivity and fragments
(ii) Macro-planning and Activities in Conservation Units & interstitial
areas
III. Control and protection
(i) Integrated fiscalization (eforcement, monitoring, licensing)
(ii) Protection of threatened species
(i) Project administration
(ii) Strategic studies
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $24.86
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $8.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY $0.00
Total Project Cost $32.86
6. Implementation
One of the key PBP features is that it would be implemented within the
existing institutional structure that has successfully been employed in
two previous Bank-financed projects, and is currently being used in
Parana 12 Meses. The structure allows PBP's different secretaries and
agencies to work together coordinating and implementing activities at the
-4 -



central, regional, and local levels. This is achieved by drawing upon key
officials from existing organizations at each government level to form
project management committees. The institutions that would participate in
project implementation are (i) the State Secretary of Planning (SEPL)
through the Center for Coordination of Government Programs (CCPG),
responsible for coordinating all existing state programs implemented with
external financing, where a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be
established.(ii) the Environmental Institute of Parana (IAP) of the State
Secretariat of Environment (SEMA); (iii) the Secretariat of Agriculture
(SEAB), through it's Unit responsible for the implementation and
monitoring of the Parana 12 Meses Project; (iv) EMATER, the highly
decentralized state agency responsible for assistance to rural communities
on natural resources management and production. The institutional roles
and responsibilities at the State, Regional and Municipal levels are
described below.     Center for Coordination of Government Programs
(CCPG). The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be located in the
Secretary of Planning and Administration and is part of the CCPG -which is
also responsible for project elaboration. The PCU will be responsible for
PBP implementation including the functions of planning and coordination of
project components, inter-governmental agency and civil society support,
and administration, finance and accounting. The CCPG is currently charged
with overseeing all multi-lateral investment and grant programs,
developing and coordinating multi-sector projects and providing
technical, financial and legal assistance for State project
implementation. It is a prestigious, efficient and well-staffed
organization overseeing operations supported by the World Bank, IDB, Bank
Kreditsanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), and the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF). The CCPG is thoroughly familiar with Bank
procurement, financial control and project supervision procedures. PCU
staffing would comprise a manager and two technical staff members.
Additional staffing would include consultants to assist with management
systems, logistics, monitoring and evaluation, and other technical
services. State Level Management: PCU, Advisory Body, Advisory Nucleus,
Technical ManagementThe PCU will be supported by an Advisory Committee
comprising representatives of the principal secretariats and agencies
involved in environmental management and participating in the PBP.
Membership includes IAP and SUDERHSA of the Environment Secretary, EMATER
and DEFIS from the Agriculture Secretariat, the Forestry Police from SESP,
and a representative of the Education Secretary. The Committee, in its
advisory capacity, ensures coordination of its subordinate regional and
local staff, advises on regional and municipal proposals and related
activities and consults on legislative and institutional reform
proposals.The PCU includes an Advisory Nucleus which performs the function
of administrative secretariat, assuming responsibility for general project
planning and administration, financial and accounting control, and
operational support. It is responsible for project support in the areas
of contracting, development of budgets and operational plans, M&E and
reporting on implementation, payments and ensuring that these functions
are performed smoothly across State, regional and municipal levels.A
Technical Management Unit (TMU), led by a high level operations
specialist, would be responsible for the implementation of each of the
four project components: (i) Education & Institutional Strengthening,
(ii) Biodiversity Conservation & Incentives Management, (iii)
Environmental Monitoring and Enforcement, and (iv) Project Administration.
The components are represented in the TMU by separate units. The TMU is
- 5-



responsible for the overall component coordination and supervision and for
providing technical assistance as needed.Regional Level Management:
Ecoregion Manager, Regional Project Management Committees and ForumsEach
of the ecoregions will have an Ecoregion Manager who will be the link
between PCU, regional and local bodies.    The manager will be responsible
for the ecoregion, vetting the priorities, work programs, and budgets
produced by PBP municipal staff, overseeing implementation and providing
technical assistance as needed. The Manager will be supported by a
Regional Project Management Committee, taking advantage of existing
regional organizations maintained by each of the state secretaries
participating in the Advisory Committee. The Committee would pass on
information from the State level secretariats, review program priorities,
oversee project implementation and provide liaison and support for
Municipal Commissions and activities. The SEMA/IAP regional
representative presides over the Committee. Regional Forums involving
public and private sector entities will also be convoked from time to time
by the Committee to inform stakeholders of progress and elicit their
views.Municipal Level Management: EMATER, Local Branches of State
Agencies, Project Management Committees and Forums Local PBP
implementation would be organized along municipal lines in accordance with
the organization structure of the participating State agencies and because
the municipalities are the appropriate implementation counterparts.
EMATER is the most decentralized of the State agencies with the largest
local presence. It is also the executor of Parana 12 Meses and hence
responsible for the interstitial programs. The local EMATER
representative, the Environmental Adviser, will run the project at the
municipal level and chair the local Project Management Committee. The
other Committee members would include representatives of DEFIS, IAP,
SUDERHSA, NGOs, and municipal counterpart agencies. The Committee would
oversee and report on implementation activities being carried out in the
field and liaise with the regional and State organizations on issues
germane to project execution. Municipal Forums may also be convoked by
the Committee from time to time to inform stakeholders of progress and
seek their views.
7. Sustainability
The Project is considered technically, institutionally and financially
sustainable. Long term sustainability issues have been adequately
addressed during project design. The technical sustainability of the
project has been described in the Section on Technical Analysis of this
document. Institutionally, it is expected that the comprehensive
strengthening of EMATER in biodiversity-related matters, promoting larger
awareness of diversity considerations among its staff and clients, would
be a key aspect to ensuring long-term sustainability of project
interventions. This, combined with the de-concentration of IAP activities,
resulting in an improved linkage with EMATER's regional offices and a
closer connection to the relevant institutional structure at the municipal
level, would also promote long-term sustainability of the project, mainly
through increased awareness of the target population regarding
biodiversity considerations. Sustainability considerations on specific
project elements are as follows:   Corridor Consolidation.     Corridor
strategic plans with prioritized interventions will be established during
the project period as regards such parameters as quality of park area and
species counts. Also, the quality of contiguous interstitial areas and
microcatchments will be addressed through (i) SISLEG, the enforcement of
- 6 -



Legal Reserve requirements, (ii) ICMS Ecologico, and (iii) UC outreach
which will be an integral part of the new management plans. A unit will
be established in IAP to (iv) evaluate Corridors and prioritize
interventions and a second to (v) monitor and evaluate the impact of these
interventions on biodiversity and Corridor consolidation. It is expected
that both of the units will become permanent pillars of IAP and their
regular reports and prioritization of interventions will continue to
orient biodiversity conservation following project closing. Furthermore,
mobilization of SISLEG/legal reserve enforcement efforts and the ICMS
Ecologico are expected to be permanent. UC Upgrade. The core UCs targeted
for management plans and equipment/infrastructure upgrade will establish
prototypes for UC management. The management plans will draw upon best
practice in Brazil and elsewhere and should serve as the blue print for a
more professional and comprehensive management of UCs that includes such
areas as interstitial management/outreach and financial
sustainability.Institutional Reforms. The regulatory refinements and
reforms contemplated by the project--SISLEG, ICMS-Ecologico, licensing,
decentralization of fiscalization, and araucaria and heart of palm
certification will be permanent. It is expected that the PBP supported
review of the legal framework will also contribute to permanent
reforms.Mainstreaming Biodiversity Conservation. It is expected that
EMATER involvement on a large scale in PBP will help to mainstream
biodiversity and conservation concerns and approaches in this important
body. Also, PBP should revitalize the Government's Biodiversity Network
Program and orient its activities including promoting closer coordination
("mainstreaming") among agencies whose activities impinge upon protected
areas and corridors.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Developing a strategic approach and policy framework. Given funds
constraint, political sensitivities and the need to focus conservation
efforts on critical, high biodiversity ecoregions there is a need for a
strategic approach to planning buttressed by a supportive policy
framework. Prioritization of areas and and the mobilization of resources,
including enforcement (eg. decentralization, Legal Reserves, SISLEG) and
incentive structures (eg. ICM Ecologico, decentralization of
fiscalization) to consolidate Corridors is an essential starting point.
GEF's PROBIO has been especially important in supporting the
identification of priority, high biodiversity areas throughout
Brazil.which have been incorporated into ARPA, the Ecological Corridors
operations.Consolidating UCs, interstitial areas and incorporating
fragments to form ecoregions sufficiently large to support biodiversity.
Fragmentation of protected areas and inattention to interstitial areas and
microcatchments must be addressed, especially in threatened areas outside
the Amazon where parks tend to be much larger. The many GEF and RFPP
operations address these issues and the Parana Rural Poverty and Natural
Resource Management has specialized in microcatchment rehabilitation which
will be critical to consolidating the two Parana Corridors.Strengthening
conservation units. Consolidated, well managed protected areas are at the
center of Bank, RFPP, GEF, KfW and other interventions designed to support
conservation. The 1990 National Environmental Project (NEP) targeted 32
conservation units with mixed success. Major lessons learned from this
and other operations are that success factors include (i) decentralizing
responsibilities to local levels is important (ii) participation in design
and implementation by interested stakeholders, particularly in local
- 7-



communities and among NGOs and the private sector, (iii) development of a
strategic policy framework and approach for biodiversity conservation,
(iv) focus on a few areas, (v) link institutional development to
infrastructure and equipment so that ID will not lag behind.Decentralizing
responsibility. A 1994 Bank study, Decentralization and Biodiversity
Conservation, found that decentralization is important but not a panacea
and requires long-term commitment to strengthening local institutional
capacity. The study and subsequent experience in Bank projects point to
the following prerequisites for realizing the benefits of
decentralization, (i) local participation and dissemination of project
information regarding sensitive issues like land management and tenure,
(ii) providing NGOs and local government units resources to enhance skills
and opportunities to work together on project design and implementation to
increase cooperation and accountability, (iii) subsidies or investments
where necessary to compensate for loss of livelihood or welfare, (iv)
countering powerful local or central intereests with appropriate
enforcement tempered by education and public relations, (v) providing for
ecoregion executives and stakeholder forums to ensure the authority to
take decisions, mediate conflicts, and procure help from central and other
authorities., (vi) ensuring enabling policies, laws, incentives and
institutions to provide a clear support framework.Engaging stakeholders.
A 1994 GEF report emphasized the importance of facilitating "direct"
biodiversity conservation activities by communities or conservation
stakeholders dependent upon conservation for their livelihoods and quality
of life. Specifically, the report found that (i) more attention needs to
be given local people, recognizing their expertise and views, (ii) more
meaningful involvement of NGOs throught the project cycle is needed to
ensure quality, avoid problems and create networks, (iii) more creative
cooperation is needed among implementing agencies and other global
organizations working in the area. Stakeholder participation and
sensitivity to beneficiary views are now an essential part of Bank
operational design and especially in environmental projects where
stakeholders' livelihoods are often affected and alternative,
environmentally benign production systems must be adopted.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michael G. Carroll
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-9528
Fax: 202-522-3132
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-8-



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:       (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
-9-



