                        Report NO.37248-BR




 The Inspection Panel




     ReportandRecommendation


Brazil: Paran6 Biodiversity Project
(GEFTF 051007)



          September 11,2006


                                     The InspectionPanel


                                Report and Recommendation
                                                   On
                                    Requestfor Inspection


                   Brazil: ParanaBiodiversity Project(PBP)
                                      (GEF TF 051007)



     1. On July 10, 2006, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
         Inspection (the "Request"), dated June 23, 2006, related to the Brazil: Parana
         Biodiversity Project (PBP)             (the "Project")      financed under the Global
         Environmental Facility (GEF Trust Fund 051007). The Request was submitted by
         a non-governmental organization (NGO)based inthe State o f Parana, Brazil. The
         Requesters have asked that their names and their organization's name be kept
         confidential. The Request for Inspection is composed o f a formal letter to the
         Panel, dated June 23, 2006, and a letter with annex', dated March 21, 2006, sent
         to the Inspection Panel and the World Bank by an umbrella NGO, the NGO
         Network o f the Atlantic Forest - RMA (Rede de ONGs da Mata Atlintica). The
         Requesters asked that the March 2006 letter with accompanying annex be
         considered an integral part of the Request. The Request for Inspectioni s attached
         as Annex Ito this Report.

     2. On July 11, 2006, the Panel notified the Board o f Executive Directors and the
         World Bank's President that it received the Request, which constituted
         Registration o f the Request under the Panel's Operating                           The Panel
         received Bank Management Responseto the Request for Inspectionon August 10,
         2006. Management Responsei s attached as Annex I1to this Report.




                              ~~



1The Annex accompanying the letter dated March21,2006, is titled "Deforestation inParana -Reports on
the Status ofRemnants ofAraucaria Forest andNatural Fieldsinthe State ofParanti, with Comments on
the Strategy ofthe Parana Biodiversity Project" (inoriginal Portuguese, Desmatamento no Parana-
Informap3es Sobre a Situaqfio de Area de Remanescentes de Florestas com Araucaria e Campos Naturais
N o Estado do Paran6 y Comentarios Sobre a Estratdgia do Programa Parana Biodiversidade), [hereinafter,
"Request, Deforestation inParanB"].
 The Inspection Panel, Operating Procedures, (August 1994), 7 17.


                                                                                                       1

A. The Project

   3. Brazil i s a mega-biodiversity country, and the State o f Parana makes a very
      significant, and in several ways unique, contribution to that biodiversity. The
      Atlantic Rain Forest o f Brazil (MataAtlGntica) originally ranged for thousands of
      kilometers through 17 States along the eastern coast o f Brazil. It was, and its
      remnants are, tropical and sub-tropical moist and wet forests, tall, closed canopy,
      and generally broad-leaved forests. As i s typical o f this type o f forest, the level o f
      biodiversity inall the different types of organisms i s very high. The relative lack
      o f storm events and excellent growing conditions harbored a forest o f exceptional
      structural grandeur. The Atlantic Forest was, and is, isolated by the ocean to the
      east and drier eco-systems to the west, north and south, so that its level o f
      endemismis also very high. The original rangeofthe Atlantic Forest is large, but
      biologically it i s an island, so that once it i s destroyed its unique biodiversity
      would be gone forever. Its original range along the coast also corresponds to
      Brazil's area o f original, and presently most intense, development. Over 92% o f
      the Atlantic Rain Forest has been cleared and replaced by agriculture and urban
      development.     Brazilian and international scientists have long appreciated the
      extremely precarious situation of the forests andtheir biodiversity.

   4. Parana, about 200,000 km2 in area, is bigger than many countries, and was
      originally mostly covered with part o f the southern extension o f the Atlantic
      Forest. The Atlantic Forest was quite diverse within itself. In Parana, and in a
      few of its neighboring states and countries (andonly there), the conifer Araucaria
      angustifolia mixes in with the broad-leaved species forming one o f the main
      dominant tree species o f the eco-systems. This mixing o f conifers and broad-
      leaved tropical species i s very rare.     Also there are only three species o f
     Araucaria, and the others occur only inChile and inand near Australia. They are
      conifers, like pines, but very different, having evolved in the Southern
      Hemisphere. Evolutionarily, they are very old. They are also large, striking and
      unique in appearance, and were adopted as the symbol of Parana. Their wood is
      very useful, like pine but harder and stronger. In Parana, the Araucaria were
     particularly concentrated inthe south-central part o fthe State.

   5. Large parts o f Parana also have very fertile soils in a very favorable growing
      climate.    These are among the most productive agricultural lands o f South
     America. In fact, early settlers used the presence o fAraucaria as an indicator o f
     soil fertility. Several o f the broad-leaved trees associated with Araucaria were
     also highly valuable as timber. For much o f the 20thcentury, Parana supported a
     booming timber industry based on these species. The cleared forest was almost
     all very good farmland, so it was converted, and the sustainability o f native forest
     was forgone. As an important aside, it should be noted that Parana has developed
     a large program of planting pines native to the Southeastern United States for
     industrial purposes. These exotics pines supply some o f the processing capacity


2

         that Parana built up for its native forests and are planted basically because they
         grow faster than the native species. There i s also a very serious corollary problem
         o f natural invasion o f exotic pines into natural grasslands. Invasions o f introduced
         exotic species can seriously harm or destroy the original biodiversity o f native
         eco-systems.

    6. Based on all the above, Parana has its own biodiversity crisis: o f the original
         76,000 km2o f Araucaria forest in Parana, 0.8 % (60,000 ha) remained in 2001.
         Although the Iguaqu National Park effectively protects 187,000 ha o f Atlantic
         Forest in the Southwest o f Parana, there i s no comparable protected area in the
         "Araucaria Zone" in Parana. It is estimated that less than 60,000 ha o f this
         unique eco-system remain, all of it inrelatively small andisolated fragment^.^

    7. Tropical forest ecologists have conducted many studies, and there i s
         overwhelming consensus that biodiversity, the genetic components o f an eco-
         system ylora andfauna), cannot sustain themselves long-term in small, isolated
         (fragmented) areas. Many individuals and some species may survive, but the eco-
         system as a whole, and the genetic populations, crash.                           What degree o f
         fragmentation i s critical depends on many things, and i s not known precisely, but
         there is, again, overwhelming consensus amongst specialists that Parana's forests
         have long beeninthe critical stage. Thus conservation o f biodiversity inParang's
         fragmented remnant Araucaria forest i s o f highest priority (although there are a
         fewjust as high, likeMadagascar or the east slope montane Andes).

    8. The Project aims "(a) to support biodiversity conservation and sustainable
         natural resource management in the Biodiversity Corridors with a view toprotect
         two highly threatened ecoregions in the Recipient's territory: the InlandAtlantic
         Rainforest and the Arauchria Forest regions; and (6) to design and implement a
         modelfor improving biodiversity conservation in the Recipient's territ~ry."~

    9. The Project's four components are as follows:

    o Component I:         Educationand Capacity Building-provides training in
         biodiversity conservation to Government officials, rural communities and civil
         society organizations to encourage active engagement inthe Project;




 Brazil, at the Federal level, and Paranh, as a State, have promulgated various decrees and regulations
requiring private land owners to conserve as forest a certain proportion o f their land. Several o f these
required20 %to remain forested. Even a general analysis o fthese decrees andtheir effectiveness is a
complex undertaking. This has not been an adequate conservation mechanism inthe Parana context. Less
than 1% o fthe Araucaria forest remains and it is fragmented into small patches.
4Global Environmental Facility, Trust FundGrant Agreement between the State o f Paranh and the IBRD
acting as implementing agency o f the GEF, (May 29,2002), Schedule 2 (Project Description).


                                                                                                           3

    o Component 11: Biodiversity Management -works with direct stakeholders to
         establish microcatchment-based corridors and encourage environmentally benign
         agricultural production systemssuch as organic farming;5
    o Component 111: Control and Protection -supports reform ofthe state's
         environmental monitoring and evaluation capacity, development o f norms for
         licensingactivities with environmental impact, and researchto develop programs
         for the protectiono f endangered species;
    o Component IV: Project Administration-includes the reviewand revisiono f
         relevant legislation, regulations, and enforcement and incentive systems.
         Additionally, it provides for monitoring o f the Project's physical and financial
         performance.

    10. According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Inland Atlantic
         Rainforest and Arauchria Forest ecoregions are considered "hotspots-highly
         threatened regions with exceptional biodiversity and                                Conservation
         o f this critical biodiversity i s pursued through the Project's four components
         which aim, inter alia, to create ecological corridors by connecting and upgrading
         protected and interstitial areas that consolidate the corridor and facilitate the
         protection o f biodiversity. Ecological corridors are defined as "a mosaic of land
         uses connecting fragments of natural forests across a landscape."' Corridors
         encourage the conservation o f biodiversity by facilitating the genetic flow
         between species thereby allowing for their recolonization and for increasing the
         density of the species within certain areas.' Two corridors inthe Inland Atlantic
         Rainforest and one inthe Araucaria Forest, covering a total o f 2.5 million ha, are
         to be created under the Project. The corridors in the Atlantic Forest ecoregions
         are: the Caiud-Ilha Grande Corridor which follows the Rio Parana between the
         Caiua State Ecological Station and the National Park o f Ilha Grande, and the
         Iguap-Parand Corridor, which includes two protected areas and links the Iguaqu
         National Park with the Poligonal Equivalente initiative to recover areas in and
         around the Itaipuhydroelectric dam. One corridor, the Araucaria Corridor, i s to be
         created inthe Araucaria Forest.

    11. The corridors are the largest planning and administrative units in the targeted
         ecoregions. They include microcatchments, the basic corridor planning units o f
         roughly 3,000 ha each comprising a drainage area and generally one or more
         water-courses. Within the microcatchments are private holdings (smallest
         operational units). Under the Project the three corridors are consolidated through
         activities carried out at the microcatchment andprivate holding levels.




5 Project Appraisal Document, Paranb Biodiversity Project, pg. 2, 52. The primary planningand
administration unit of each corridor is the microcatchment, an artificial construction which directs
rainwater drainage to one or more water-courses andhas an approximate area of 3,000 ha.
'*Management
  Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Paranb Biodiversity Project, pg. 8.
               Response, Annex 5.
  Management Response Bank Management Response to Request For Inspection Panel Review o fthe
Brazil: Paranb Biodiversity Project (GEF TF 051007) Annex 5.


4

     12. The Request primarily addresses the activities included inthe Project Component
          11, Biodiversity Management. This component provides four types of activities
          aimed at consolidating the corridors and safeguarding the biodiversity. These
          activities include incorporating `tfragments of natural vegetation into the
          corridors through the establishment of [privately and publicly owned] protected
          areas," by increasing "connectivity of existing fragments and protected areas
          through microcatchment management," and by recuperating "degraded areas.'"
          The macro plans for the development of microcatchments and connections
          between corridors are based on an initial evaluation of satellite images coupled
          with `on the ground' verifications, and are prioritized according to each areas'
          needs and characteristics.lo

     13. The achievement of the Project objectives i s evaluated according to key
          performance indicators measuring Project impacts, outcomes, inputs and outputs.
          The PAD initially presents four groups of indicators, or indices, to assess, inter
          alia, overall biodiversity and the biodiversity management component o f the
          Project." The PAD also includes detailed and specific indicatorsrelated to Project
          input, output, outcomes and impacts.12

B. Financing

     14. The Project i s supported by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant
          TF051007 for SDR 6.5 million, approximately US$ 8 mi1li0n.l~The Grant
          Agreement between the State of Parana, Brazil and the IBRD was approved by
          the Board o f Executive Directors on May 21,2002 and became effective August
          27,2002. The closing date is set for January 31,2007.

C.The Request

     15. Intheir submission to the Panel, the Requesters state that the approval o f the PBP

          generate action^"'^ aimed at preservingbiodiversity inseverely threatened natural
          Project carried "an unprecedented and very positive expectation that it would

          areas inthe State o f Parana, such as the Atlantic and the Arauchia Forest.


 PAD, p. 12.
loPAD, p. 52-53.
11PAD, p. 2. Overall Biodiversity Indices include the "maintenance o frelative abundance o f selected
species intargeted protected and interstitial areas;" the "Consolidationhehabilitation o f protected areas
(UCs) and buffer zones" and the "Increase of connectivity (linking o fprotected areas, recuperation o fLegal
Reserves and microcatchments, incorporation of fragments, consolidation o f interstitial areas) to constitute
corridors of adequate size and quality to effectively promote biodiversity conservation." Biodiversity
Management Component Indices are, inter alia, the establishment of a macro planning unit to develop
strategic plans for ecoregion intervention andthe Rehabilitationof 40% o f Legal Reserves inpriority
interstitial areas.
l2PAD, Annex 1, p. 38 and 68-71 (Table 1,2, and 3).
l3Global Environment Facility Trust FundGrant Agreement, Brazil ParanhBiodiversity Project, May 29,
2002, p. 7.
l4Request, Deforestation inParanh, p. 4.


                                                                                                            5

   16. The Request indicates that the conservation o f the biomass of the Araucaria and
       the Atlantic Forest is a"greatpriority" inthe State ofParanabecause studies have
       shown that the Araucaria Forest, which once covered 76,000kmz of the State and
       i s home to four endangered species o f flora, i s now reduced to 0.8 percent o f its
       original area.lS    According to the Requesters, deforestation has intensifiedinthese
       regions and these previously well-preserved areas are being "quickly converted to
       soybean jelds or tracts for planting pinus" in violation16o f national legislation,
       which prohibits conversions o f forests illegally cut down.

   17. The Requesters claim that "methodological changes" made to Project
       implementation after it was approved have resulted in a change o f Project
       activities, which will prevent the achievement o f the original Project objectives
       andwill worsen the current situation, thereby intensifyingthe loss o f biodiversity.
       The Requesters believe that the Project's original objectives are far from being
       achieved because the Project focus has shifted: the activities planned under the
       Project to protect against the destruction o f the last existing preserved natural
       areas in the State o f Parana, such as the Araucaria Forest, are currently not being
       implemented. Rather, they state that the Project resources are being used for the
       recovery o f degraded areas. The Requesters argue that a review o f the Project's
       current activities against the performance indicators established during Project
       preparation reveals the changes inProject implementation they complain about.

   18. According to the Request, Project implementation i s focusing on restoring
       degraded areas by focusing on planting seedlings "on properties that have been
       stripped of native areas (Legal Reserve and Permanent Preservation Area).""
       The Request claims that many landowners have reached agreements with the
       State to ensure that their degraded areas be restored. As a result, ifthis restoration
       work i s continued, these areas may achieve native vegetation areas, but there i s no
       guarantee that they will have significant biodiversity, the preservation o f which i s
       the original focus of the Project. The Requesters question the value of the
       Project's results if it continues to ignore the systematic destruction o f "the last
       areas that [are] still well preserved and rich in biodiversity."'8 The Requesters
       believe that the Project's priority focus should be on these last remaining areas
       containing natural formation - the ones still with the least altered o f the biome -
       because these natural areas maintain a more representative biodiversity than
       secondary or already degraded areas.

   19. The Requesters believe that the "misdirected implementation" o f the Project may
       miss the opportunity "to reverse or minimize the serious loss of biodiversity of the
       biomass in question, at least where the Project is implemented." Intheir view, this
       i s a "strategic error that could have grave consequences" because it could result
       inlosing not only substantial resources but also the "last opportunity to make an

                              ~    ~~




l5Request, Deforestation inParana, p. 1.
l6Request, Deforestation inParana, p. 2.
l7Request for Inspection, letter dated March 21,2006, [hereinafter "Request, March 2006 letter"] p.1.
18Request, March 2006 letter, p. 2.


6

       effort to preserve the region 's biodiversity." The Requesters believe that it would
       take decades to transform degraded areas with low biodiversity into mature
       environments, while the "destruction of natural areas is ongoing, in some cases
       with the endorsement of the Government of the State of Paranci through its
       licensing unit, the Paranci Environmental Institute (IAP)."

   20. The Requesters further claim that the destruction o f preserved areas i s also
       proceeding rapidly because o f four main activities: "illegal removal of native
       timber by local lumberyards;" "management that results in deforestation;"
       "implantation of monocultures of trees after clear cut deforestation," and
       "implantation of agricultural monoculture, after clear cut deforestation.'"' This
       deforestation was also "accelerated by the continuedpossibility of gainingproJits
      from the sale of timber [and by] market encouragementof theplanting of soybean
       monocultures.      J'20In light of this, the Requesters believe that the Project should
       work directly with the owners o f those lands that are crucially important for the
       conservation o f biodiversity. To do otherwise, they claim, leads the landowners to
       "seek alternative uses for their properties", which in turn may result in the
       destruction of the lands and may not achieve the conservation objectives for the
       biome. The Requesters state that "the absence of a policy for protecting these
       better-conservedareas indicates a trend that chronologically is not supported in
       terms of results."21 They emphasize the critical nature o f their concerns: "the
       biome affected by the Project is on the threshold of disappearance, and there are
       noprospects of other opportunities ... aspositive as this initiative ... could be."22

   21. In their previous correspondence with the Bank, the claimants requested the
       World Bank to conduct a technical audit to assess the results o f the Project with
       respect to its original objectives. They now request that an Inspection Panel
       process be initiated so that "the Project can be quickly redirected towards the
       achievementof its original objectives."

   22. The Panel notes that the above claims may constitute non-compliance by the Bank
       withvarious provisions ofthe following operational PoliciesandProcedures:

          OP/BP 4.01                      Environmental Assessment
          OP/BP 4.04                      Natural Habitats
          OP/BP 4.36                      Forestry (1993)
          OP/BP 13.05                     Project Supervision

D.ManagementResponse

   23. The preface to Management Response calls the Panel's attention to recent
       developments "stemming from the ongoing dialogue that includes the State of

''Request, Deforestation inParank, p. 5.
2oRequest,Deforestation inParank, p. 2.
? Request, Deforestation inParank,p. 5.
22Request,Deforestation inParank,p. 2.


                                                                                            7

        Parand and the Bank." These developments, Management states, reflect "recent
        understandings between the State of Paranh and the Bank.", which include
        carrying out a Technical Audit to evaluate the impacts of the Project on
        conservation o f biodiversity inthe Project's targeted ecoregions and the Project's
        institutional and management arrangements. Management believes that this
        course o f action has created opportunities for discussion between the Bank, the
        State and the Requesters to identify and adopt mechanisms that ensure the Project
        i s effective in achieving its objectives and in generating positive impacts on the
        ground. 23

   24. Management states that the PBP Project was designed to help demonstrate that
        ecological corridors are a useful means for the preserving biodiversity in
        productive landscapes, such as those inthe State o f Parani. It asserts that the PBP
        i s one among various government activities aimed at conserving biodiversity, and
        i s expected to contribute to establishing the necessary mechanisms to fight
        biodiversity degradation inthe State o f Parana. 24

   25. The Response notes that the PBP Project, designed by the State o f Parana,
        received about US$8 million from GEF funding, while most o f the Project's costs
        are sustained by an existing government project designed to improve natural
        resource management (NMR) in the State. This Project was partially financed by
        the Bank under the Parana Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources
        Management Proje ~ t . ~ ~

   26. The Response indicates that conservation of biodiversity can be achieved with
        different approaches, among which is the corridor approach, which was selected
        for the PBP Project after consideration o f other options.26 According to
        Management, the corridor approach was chosen because it allows strengthening
        the conservation units (UC - Unidades de Conservaqzo) previously established
        within the two ecoregions, which would, without the PBP,remain isolated, with
        consequent loss o f genetic diversity and ultimately extinction o f species.
        Management contends that connecting the UCs within each corridor, as provided
        underthe Project, ensures sustaining of greater bi~diversity.~~

   27. With respect to Project implementation, Management claims that "resources have
        been directed to activities consistent with the project designfinancing plan" and
        that "the PBP isfollowing the original PAD endorsed by the World Bank and the
        GEF."28However, Management acknowledges that duringthe first halfof Project
        implementation the execution of the biodiversity conservation activities under the

23ManagementResponse,Preface, p. 1.
24ManagementResponse,7 11.
25ManagementResponse,7 14. The Brazil: ParanhRuralPoverty Alleviation andNaturalResources
ManagementProject(IBRD Loanno. 4060-BR)closedonMarch31,2006.
26An alternative approachto the corridormethodis the "isolatedprotectedareas approachwhich
concentrateson conservingbiodiversityinthe existingisolatedpatches." ManagementResponse,7 15.
27ManagementResponse,7 20.
  ManagementResponse,7 21.


8

        PBP were postponed because o f an 18-month "delay in agreement over
        procurement procedures between the new state administration in Paran6 (which
        took oflce in January 2003) and the Bank."29The Response states that the impact
        of the delay on the "beneficiaries ' satisfaction [.         ..] was   noticeable", but it adds
        that the beneficiaries' concerns were noted during the supervision missions to the
        Project area and "broadly discussed with the PIU and relevant state agencies".30
        Because o f the mentioned delay, the Bank downgraded the Development
        Objectives and Implementationprogress ratings o f the Project inJune 2005. Once
        the procurement issue was solved, a four-month Action Planwith short-term goals
        was     finalized in September 2005.                Management          asserts that        Project
        implementation "accelerated gradually" to reach the performance indicators'
        target levels by December 2005, so as to allow, in June 2006, upgrading o f the
        Project rating to satisfactory.     31


   28. According to Management, the Project implementing agencies are about to
        commence the Mid-Term Review, inter alia, "to identi& lessons learned and
        mechanisms to advance the contribution of project activities to achievingproject
        development objectives." Management notes that "as an input to the Mid-Term
        Review, the Bank has commissioned a Technical Audit ofproject

   29. Management Response indicates that the Project supports "I0 core conservation
        areas within the corridors"33and partly finances infrastructure withinthese areas,
        such as visitors' centers, to ensure conservation management. Management states
        that the implementation o f the Project activities in the corridors created in the
        Atlantic forest has proceeded "according to plan". No complaint has been
        "registered' and "stakeholder feedback indicates satisfaction with progress
        toward project objective^."^^ The Araucaria forest, however, presents a different
        situation because the protected areas are limited and there i s a high level o f
        fragmentation of forest remnants. Thus, "an effective construction of the corridor
        involves a complexparticipatory planning process with many landowners in their
        microcatchments." Management believes, however, that Project "implementation
        is progressing well, following the arrangements set out in the PAD and the
        Project M a n ~ a l . ~ ' ~ ~

   30. In response to the Requesters' complaint that the Project does not work directly
        with private owners (who seek alternative uses for their lands), Management
        states that the Project has been working with 12,350 farmers within
        microcatchments and trained about 38,000 farmers in biodiversity issues.

29Management Response, 122.
30Management Response, f 23.
3'Management Response, f 23.
32Management Response, f 24.
33According to the Response, inthe two Atlantic forests's corridors there are 7 protected areas (3 inthe
Caiua-Ilha Grande Corridor and 4 inIguaGu-ParaniiCorridor) totaling 463,500 ha. The corridor inthe
Araucaria forest has 3 areas totaling 2,256ha.
34ManagementResponse, f 31.
" Management Response, 132.


                                                                                                         9

      Accordin to Management, this offsets their adoption o f conventional cultivation
      practices!6   Management Response also claims that the State o f Parana i s
      identifying inthe Araucaria forest small- and medium-sized properties to help the
      landowners establish privately owned protected areas (RPPNs) under the federal
      legal framework. Other innovative instruments, such as tax exemptions and
      "channeling of the "ICMS Ecoldgico" (Green Value Added Tax,) to farmers
      through environmental servicepayments", are also being evaluated. 37

  31. Management states that the Project i s in compliance with OPiBP 4.01 on
      Environmental Assessment. The Project was classified as Category B for
      environmental assessment purposes. Management also states that the EA found
      that the proposed PBP Project would have positive impacts in the targeted
      ecoregions, especially on the institutional setting, and that the regulations on

      touching vested lumber interest^.^
       cutting the Araucaria forest were a `positive step", although a contentious one for
                                               According to the Response, NGOs were
      consulted during the preparation o f the Project and continue to be involved in it.

      participation.
       The proposed39 Technical Audit will explore mechanisms for civil society


   32. Management claims that OP/BP 4.36, issued in 1993, on Forestry does not apply
      to the Project, because the PBP "does not fund any logging or deforestation
      activities"; it "does not include any provision to support tree planting for
       commercial use"; and it "supports the reforestation only of areas cleared before
       the project began."40 The Project "supports the operation of state-managed
       nurseries that produce high quality seedlings of local species, including
      Aruucdria" and "provides technical assistance to farmers regarding planting,
      spacing, and maintenance andprotection of the              Management also claims
       that the State o f Parana informed the Bank that there i s no evidence that
       deforestation has intensifiedinthe Project area.42

   33. Management Response contends that the Bank was aware that the Araucaria
       forest i s under threat, but, before the Requesters' March 21, 2006 letter, had not
       received any report from the Requesters or other parties about incidents o f
       destruction o f native areas described in the Request for Inspection. Management
       also states that it "has received assurances from IAP that two of the three
       incidents were outside of the project area. The third occurrence was a case o
       legal harvesting of dried out andor rotten trees in the project area."           l
       Nevertheless, Management states that this issue will be examined inthe Technical



36ManagementResponse, f 27.
37ManagementResponse,f 32.
38ManagementResponse,f 37.
39ManagementResponse,f 36-41.
40ManagementResponse,f 45.
41ManagementResponse,f 46.
42ManagementResponse,f 47.
43ManagementResponse,f 56.


10

        Audit to identify issues affecting the PBP Project and actions that could be
        taken.44

   34. According to Management, Project activities are aimed, among other things, at
        protecting native forest, in private properties as well. This i s achieved by, for
        example, planting seedlings o f native species in private areas to create
        connectivity among these areas, fencing biodiversity-important zones, and
        undertaking Rapid Ecological Assessment (currently underway) to identify
        actions that need to be taken in these areas. Other instruments to protect native
        areas include training of farmers and dissemination programs, creation o f
        Corridor Committees covering various municipalities and a Technical Corridor
        Manager for each corridor under the PBP. Management asserts that the Project is
        also supporting improvement o f monitoring and enforcement activities by training
        IAP staff and inspectors at the state and local levels, utilizing the GIS system.
        Thus, Management believes that inlight of the measuresprovided under the PBP
        to protect the natural habitats targeted by the Project, the Project complies with
        OP/BP 4.04 (Natural Habitats).45

   35. Management states that the Project complies with the policy on Supervision
        OP/BP 13.05. It asserts that this Project required "a special supervision effort"
        and that, as a result, an "intense supervision schedule" was adopted. A
        "multidisciplinary" team "involving professionals" with experience in, among
        other things, biodiversity issues and NRM, conducted nine full supervision
        missions and several partial and follow up visits.46 Management claims that
        during the missions the Bank team met with local authorities, beneficiaries and
        other stakeholders, including NGOs in the three corridors established under the
        Project. The Response emphasizes that "attention was given duringsupervision to
        assessing if theproject was being implemented with due diligence and within the
        requirements of the development objectives of the Grant Agreement [.,,I,"
        Management also claims that the Bank and Project officials met with the
        Requesters, who never raised the issues o f deforestation described inthe Request.

   36. In its Response, Management proposes "Next Steps" to address the Requesters'
        concerns, i.e. intensive supervision and assistance to the State for improving
        project implementation and for identifying mechanisms for biodiversity
        conservation inproductive areas. As already noted, Management emphasizes that
        a Technical Audit i s to be undertaken and completed by late September, "with
        consultation tof 0 1 l o w . ~The~results o f the Audit, according to Management, are
                                          ~ ~


44ManagementResponse, 7 57. ManagementResponsestates that the Terms ofReference(TOR) for the
TechnicalAudit were developedinconsultationwith the State ofParanhandother stakeholders and
consultantswere hired inJune 2006. The TOR are attachedto ManagementResponse as Annex 6.
45ManagementResponse, 7 63.
46ManagementResponse, 7 64-66.
47ManagementResponse, 7 70 and71. Annex 6 ofthe ManagementResponse, "Terms of Reference for the
  ManagementResponse, 7 67.
48
TechnicalAudit", further specifies that the work performedbythe consultantscarryingout the Technical
Audit shallbe endingon October 30,2006.


                                                                                                    11

        to be discussed with project stakeholders, including interested NGOs, to define a
        set o f complementary actions to allow the State o f Paranato "jiocus more sharply
        onforest remnants in theAraucciria corridor."49

   37. Management concludes that the destruction o f the Araucaria i s an issue to which
        the Bank will pay increasing attention inthe future, but also states that incidents
        o f deforestation raised in the Request "do not imply that the Bank has violated its
        operational policies, namely 4.01, 4.04, 4.36 and 13.05."50Management believes
        that the Bank has complied with the applicable policies and procedures and that
        the Requester's rights and interests have not been harmed, nor they are likely to
        be, by the PBP implementation.

E.Eligibility

   38. The Panel must determine whether the Request satisfies the eligibility criteria for
        an Inspection, as set forth in the 1993 Resolutions1establishing the Panel and the
         1999 clarification^^^, and recommend whether the matter alleged in the Request
        should be investigated.

   39. The Panel has reviewed the Request and Management Response. Panel Member
        Tongroj Onchan, Head of Panel Team in the eligibility visit, together with
        Executive Secretary Eduardo Abbott, Deputy Executive Secretary Peter Lallas,
        and Ralph Schmidt, consultant, visitedBrazil from August 26, 2006 to September
        2, 2006. During their visit, the Panel met the Requesters, with federal government
        officials in Brasilia, with state and local government officials in Curitiba, Sao
        Jorge do Patrocinio and other municipalities inthe State o f Parana, and with Bank
        staff inthe Bank Office inBrasilia.

   40. The Panel also met with other experts and interested persons during its visit,
        including Professor Marcos Pedlowski, Center o f Human Sciences, Northern
        Fluminense State University, Rio de Janeiro, Attorney V h i a Mara Moreira dos
        Santos, President o f the Institute o f the Guardians o f Nature in Prudentopolis,
        representatives o f local NGOs in the State o f Parand, and farmers, landowners,
        andother interested and affected individuals and experts.

   41, The Panel wishes to thank the Requesters and the NGO Network o f the Atlantic
        Forest - RMA. The Panel especially expresses its appreciation to the Requesters
        for their extensive efforts in showing the Panel the areas o f concern to them, and
        for providing additional documentation and information.




49Management Response, 7 75.
''ManagementNo.
"              Response, 7 78.
  Resolution     IBRD93-10 of September 22, 1993,hereinafter "the Resolution".
52The 1999 Clarifications to the Resolution (hereinafter "the 1999 Clarifications") are contained inthe
"Conclusions o fthe Board's Second Review o fthe InspectionPanel" dated April 20, 1999.


12

    42. The Panel also wishes to thank officials o f SEAIN from the Federal Ministry o f
        Planning, Budget and Management, and from the State o f Parana Secretariat o f
        the Environment and Water Resources (SEMA) and the Secretariat of Planning
        and General Coordination (SEPL) for providing information and documents to the
        Panel and for showing the Panel team biodiversity-related activities inthe field.53
        The Panel wishes to thank the Mayor and officials of Sao Jorge do Patrocino and
        other municipalities inthe State o f Parana for meeting with the Panel. The Panel
        i s grateful to Bank staff inthe Bank office in Brasilia for providing information to
        the Panel relating to the Project, and for assistance on logistical arrangements.
        The Panel would also like to thank Mr. Alvaro Milanez, Jr., for providing
        interpretation services to the Panel.

    43. Inthe context of the review o f the Request (which includes the March 21 letter to
        the Panel and the World Bank, as noted above), the Panel found that the
        Requesters felt unduly pressuredby Bank staff and others not to file a Request for
        Inspection and then to withdraw the Request. The Requesters have cited various
        arguments as having beenusedto exert pressure. The Panel finds that this practice
        threatens the integrity o f the Panel process, and may have a chilling effect on
        local people who genuinely feel harmed or potentially harmed by Bank projects.
        The Panel wants to call the attention of the Board of Executive Directors and
        Bank Senior Management to this matter, and trusts that these kinds o f practices
        will not occur inthe future.

    44. During the visit, the Panel confirmed that the Requesters are legitimate parties
        under the Resolution to submit a Request for Inspection to the Inspection Panel.
        The Requesters have a common interest and common concerns as required in
        Paragraph 9(a) o f the 1999 Clarifications.

    45. The Panel notes that the Request "assert[s] in substance that a serious violation
        by the Bank of its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have
        material adverse effect upon the requesters." (Paragraph 9(b)).

    46. The Requesters assert that the changing Project activities have contributed, and
        will contribute, to a worsening of the current situation of deforestation and loss of
        biodiversity. They believe that this i s resulting inlong-term adverse effects on the
        environment and the livelihood o f people inthe affected areas, and on sustainable
        development inthe State o f Parana. They highlight inparticular that the changing
        direction of the Project and some activities under the Project are contributing to
        the loss of the last remaining remnants of the unique Araucaria forests and their
        related biodiversity, and that the Project i s missing perhaps the last opportunity to
        protect these remnants.54They consider that the Project, by giving the impression
        that biodiversity conservation i s being achieved, i s obscuring the actual situation


53The Panelteam wishes to make a special note o fthanks to CCPG officials Erich G. Schaitza and Gracie
Maximiano for their special efforts in showing the Panelteam project-related activities inthe field.
54Indeed, both the Requesters and Management agree that there is 0.8% or less o fthe original area o f
Araucaria forest remaining inthe State.


                                                                                                       13

       that there i s a continuing and possibly increased rate o f deforestation o f the
       Araucaria forests, which may have the unintended consequence o f intensifying
       the problemofbiodiversity loss.

    47. The core o f the complaint underlying the Request i s that, although positive
        actions are being supported by the Project, the "advanced successional
       Araucaria forests, those small and scattered remnants that added up to 60,000 ha
        in2001, continue to becleared, converted, deforested anddestroyed.

    48. The Panel Mission observes that almost all ecologists and natural resource
        managers would agree that it i s critical to preserve and protect the last mostly
        undisturbedremnants of this unique forest ecosystem (now reduced to less than
        1%) if its biodiversity is to survive even in the short term. Other actions, even
        though they could be essential parts o f a comprehensive biodiversity conservation
        program, may be irrelevant and futile if the remaining old growth core is not
        protected.

    49. The Panel at this stage cannot make any definitive judgment on the extent o f
        current destruction o f the old growthAraucaria remnants. However, meetings and
        some field observation strongly indicate that this deforestation i s occurring at
        some scale and those mechanisms for protection of at least the largest o f these
        very special areas may not be appropriately designed or effectively implemented.
        At the same time, as discussed below, there are also clear indications that the
        Requesters and project management are in dialogue and that project orientation
        and priorities may soon change.

    50. The Requesters claim that they have brought their concerns to Management's
        attention on various occasions. The Panel i s therefore satisfied that the Request
        "does assert that the subject matter has been brought to Management's attention
        and that, in the Requesters' view, Management hasfailed to respond adequately
        demonstrating that it hasfollowed or is taking steps tofollow the Bank's policies
        andprocedures" as setforth in Paragraph 9(c).

    51. The Panel notes that the subject matter of the Request i s not related to
        procurement, as requiredby paragraph 9(d).

    52. The Request therefore satisfies the requirement in paragraph 9(e) that the related
        grant has not beenclosed or substantially disbursed.56

    53. Furthermore, the Panel has not previously made a recommendationon the subject
        matter o f the Request. Therefore, the Request satisfies Paragraph 9(f).




55One might say `old growth'.
56According to the Resolution, "this will be deemed to be the case when at least ninety-fivepercent of the
loanproceeds have been disbursed." Footnote to Paragraph 14 (c).


14

  54. The Panel notes, however, that this Request has special circumstances which
      affect the Panel's consideration o f whether an Investigationi s meritedat this time.

   55. In late July 2006, after the Request for Inspection was submitted to the Panel,
       Management agreed to carry out a Technical Audit o f the Project and the
       biodiversity conditions in the State. The Requesters had previously asked for a
       Technical Audit to help addresstheir concerns about the Project.

   56. As described in Management Response, the Technical Audit will be carried out
       by two consultants, a biodiversity specialist and a project management specialist,
       selected and employed by the Bank. The Technical Audit i s to be "based on an
       analysis of the status of conservation of ecosystems targeted by the project, with
       special reference to Arauchia forests, of the technical and operational
      procedures adopted, of the eflciency of instruments used, and of the level of
       execution of physical and financial targets, recommending adjustments, if
       necessary, in order to achieve project                      The Technical Audit is
       expected to produce a Work Plan, an initial diagnostic o f the Project's operational
       performance, and a Final Assessment Report. The work o f the Technical Audit i s
       to be performedbeginningAugust 1,2006 and ending October 30,2006.

   57. During its visit, the Panel learned that the consultants have already beenhiredand
       the Technical Audit is inprogress.

   58. In addition to this action under the Project, officials o f the State Government o f
       Parana recently prepared a draft proposal to re-orient strategic directions and
       activities under the Project to respond to concerns o f the Requesters. The State
       Government has provided this draft proposal to Requesters and other interested
       and affected parties for input and comment. Among its other elements, this
       proposal calls for increased focus and attention on actions to conserve the
       remainingremnants o f Araucaria forests.

   59. Duringthe Panel's visit, the Panel observed that this draft proposal has generated
       a constructive and potentially fruitful dialogue between government authorities,
       the Requesters and Bank staff regarding possible steps to change the direction of
       Project implementation in a manner that addresses the issues and concerns raised
       by the Request. The Panel notedan openness onthe part ofthe State Government
       and the Requesters to see if the current dialogue and the draft proposal, coupled
       with the anticipated results of the Technical Audit, can lead to changes in the
       approach in Project implementation that address the concerns raised by
       Requesters, including a substantially greater focus on conservation o f the
       remainingremnants o f Araucaria native forest.

   60. In light o f the foregoing and Articles 4 and 5 o f the 1999 Clarifications, and
       consistent with prior similar recommendations approved by the Board, the Panel
       recommends to defer the decision on whether to recommend an investigation until

57ManagementResponse,p. 54.


                                                                                        15

     further time has elapsed to determine if the issues and concerns raised by the
     Request can be addressed by the current dialogue among the Requesters,
      government authorities, the Bank, and other interested parties, as noted above.
     The Panel expects to be able to make a determination by February 2007 as to
     whether aninvestigationis merited.

F.Conclusions

  61. In light o f the foregoing observations and in fairness to all the parties concerned,
     the Panel, as it has done in a similar situation in the past with Board approval,
      does not take a position at this time on whether the Request merits an
      investigation.

  62. Since the Panel is not making a recommendation on this issue, the Requesters
      may still have recourse to the Panel later if they consider there are serious
      violations of Bank policies and procedures causing material adverse effect, which
      are based on specific acts or omissions o fthe Bank relating to the Project.

  63. The Panel, therefore, recommends to the Board o f Executive Directors that it
      approve the Panel's proposal to refrain from issuing a recommendation at this
      time on whether an investigationis warranted inthis case, but rather await further
      developments on the matters raised in the Request for Inspection. The Panel
      expects to be able to make a determination by February 2007 as to whether to
      recommend an investigation.




16

      ANNEX I

REQUESTFORINSPECTION


                                                                       Curitiba, June 23,2006
CONFIDENTIAL



Mr,EduardoAbbott
Executive Secretary
InspectionPanel
World Bank



Subject: Inspection request for project PO70552 (Parana Biodiversity Project -Global
Environment Facility)


Mr.Executive Secretary,

               The [                 3 i s a third sector organization founded in [    ] in
Curitiba, ParanaState, Brazil. Its mission is to work for the conservationof nature by
protectingnative areas by carrying out environmental educationprograms andby
developing models for the rational utilization of natural resources.

Inthe StateofParana, whereour activities are focused, thebiomassofthe Atlantic
Forest, as well as the biomass inthe Araucaria andNatural Forests, are subjects of great
priority. [                                                                          1

The purposeofthis letter is to submit formally aninspection request for the World Bank
ParanaBiodiversity Project-ID P070552-which is supportedby GEF, and has the
Government ofthe State of Paranaas executor. To substantiatethis request for
inspection, we refer to the letter and annexes [inits entirety] sent to the World Bankby
the'Atlantic ForestNGOsNetwork (letter 019/06/RMA/CG datedMarch21,2006) and
signed by its General Coordinator, Ms. MiriamProchnow. We hereby respectfully
request that the above-mentionedcorrespondence together with all its annexes be
considered an integral part of this request.

The main complaint is that methodology changesto the ParanaBiodiversity project that
occurred after moiect approval causeda redirectioning of activities, thus not allowing the
achievement of originally expressedgoals. This fact can be easily ascertainedby
checking the indicators establishedwhenthe project was prepared.

It shouldbenotedthat the Stateof Parananow has inits territory natural areas that are
extremely threatened, such as the Araucaria Forest (0.8% of what is left inadvancedstate

                                               2


o f conservation in2001-FUPEFY UFPr-PROBIO,             MMA),andthat the mainobjectives
o f the ParanaBiodiversity Project were:

          "Support biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resource management
in two highly threatenedecoregions in the State of Parana, the Brazilian InlandAtlantic
Rainforest and theAraucaria Forest.    "
          "Design and implement a modelfor improving biodiversity in Parand. "

Considering the objectives o fthe Parana Biodiversity Project and the activities now being
implemented, it could be easily concluded that activities aimed at effectively detaining
the destruction process ofthe last existingpreservednaturalareas are not being
implemented. Hence, the project objectives are far from being achieved.

Redirectingsubstantial project resources to the recovery o f degraded areas, instead o f
carrying out activities focused on areas still well preserved, represents an unacceptable
strategic error which could have grave consequences since it could lead to the loss o f
substantial resources duringprobably the last significant opportunity to make an effort to
preserve the region's biodiversity. It i s important to note that destructiono f natural areas
is still ongoing, insome cases even with the endorsement o f the Government of the State
o f Parana, through its licensing unit,the Parana EnvironmentalInstitute (IAP).

The largest social damage causedby the misdirectedimplementationo fthe project is the
loss of a unique opportunity to reverse or minimize the serious loss o f biodiversity
biomass inquestion, at least inthe areas where the project i s being implemented. This
was the only major investment already directed to the plateau region o f the State o f
Parana, where practically all natural areas o f this biomass have already been destroyed.
Besides, opportunities to implement new modalities o f public policy through innovative
andeffective activities for the conservation ofthe remaining natural areas, which would
influencethe behavior o f the State's inhabitants, are being lost.

Inthis respect, andbased onthe statements contained onthe annexes to the document
sent from the Atlantic Forest Network to the World Bank, we request that an Inspection
Panel process for this project initiated. With this, we hope that the project can be quickly
redirected towards the achievement o f its original objective.

To conclude, we would like to respectfully request that the name o f the [                  1
kept confidential by the Inspection Panel, giventhat the Atlantic Forest NGO's Network
o f which [           ] isleadingthis effort, anditispossiblethat retaliationcouldbe
taken against [               I.

Respectfully,

        '[Logo]
        Official CommunicationNo. RMA/CG
                                                                                            Brasilia, March21,2006


To:
        John Briscoe-Brazil Country Director, World Bank-Brasilia, DF
        Laura Tuck -ESSDDirector for LatinAmerica -Washington, DC
        Executive Secretary The InspectionPanel-WashingtonDC '

Subject: Reauestfor technical audit of the Parani BiodiversitvProiect-World Bank/ GEF/
         Governmentofthe State ofParani.


        Dear Sirs,
        The Parana Biodiversity Project is the result of an effort by agencies of the Government of the
State of Parana, Brazilto support initiatives aimed at preservingthis state's biodiversity. No assistance of
that magnitudehad been obtained untilthen for the indicatedregions, especially for the Araucaria Forest,
which in 2001 had less than 0.8 percent of remnants in an advanced stage of conservation. (Fupef-
UFPrRrobio-MMA).
        In its first phase, funds from the GEF (Global Environment Facility)/World Bank on the order of
approximately US$8 million were donated to the Parana government in the expectation that the historic
pressures on natural areas of the planalto regions of the state would be attenuated, so that real progress
would be made in the effort to conserve the biodiversity of the biomas occurring in these areas, all of
which are in critical condition and severelythreatened.
        During the technical preparation of the Project, a series of indicators was established to ensure
proper evaluation of the efforts made. Particularly, the attempt was made to construct a refined structure
of indicators capable of a reading focused on the biodiversity issue, the central theme addressed by this
Project. That way, execution would be conditioned to the focal point of its existence, and within GEF
objectives.
        Despite this, after four years of execution (the project was begun in 2002), there is an obvious
lack of synchronization between what was originally proposed and the orientation given to the Project.
Methodological changes were made soon after its approval and, from then on, two preponderant
developmentscame to reflect the inconsistencyinthe use of GEF/WB funds.
         1.       During the past four years, there have been hundreds of reports of destruction of the
remaining native areas in the biomas that were targeted by the Parana Biodiversity Project. To curb that
process, the Government of the State of Parana adopted a policy of inspection, arguing that this would
make it possibleto stem the attack on the last areas in an advanced stage of conservationthat still existed.
Even so, the areas continuedto be destroyed.
        2.        Independent of these events, the Parana Biodiversity Project is directing its efforts,
focusing on the restorationof degradedareas and acting directly on properties that have been stripped of
native areas (Legal Reserve and PermanentPreservationArea), and putting forth a broad effort at planting
seedlings. No project action, or only sporadic action, has been directed to properties that had well-
preservedareas either.
        To sum up, we can state that during the execution of the Parana Biodiversity Project, a significant
number of landowners have been reaching agreements with the state government that guarantee initial
                                                                               NGO Network of the Atlantic Forest - RMA

                                                          SCLN 210 - Bloco C, Rooms 207/208 -Brasilia DF CEP 70.862.530
                                                                                          Ofice of the Executive Secretary

                                                                             Telephones: 61.3201-7017 I Fax: 61.3349-9167
                                                                                                         wvw miaorc br

steps will be taken to restore degradedareas. And so, duringthe comingdecades, ifthe restorationwork
that has begun is maintained, those areas may become native areas, but without any guarantee that they
will haveatruly significantbiodiversity.
         During that same period, hundreds of native areas in an advanced stage of conservation were
systematicallydestroyed, some of them under licenses issuedby the state environmentalagency, the IAP
(InstitutoAmbientul do Purund- Parana EnvironmentalInstitute). This destructionwas accelerated by a
questionable interpretation of environmental laws, by the absence of a definition of the concept of
biodiversityconservation in the execution of the Project; by the strong political influence still present in
the State as regards the use of native forests; by the impracticalityof conductinga sufficiently effective
inspection; by the continued possibility of gaining profits from the sale of timber; by market
encouragement of the planting of soybean and Pinus sp. monocultures; and by the failure to take action
with landowners to make arrangements under which their lands would not be the target of these
conventionaluses, inasmuchas these are the last existingremnantsof biodiversity.
         One does not needto be an expert in biodiversity conservationto conclude that the US$8 million
has been used in a strategically mistaken manner. We emphasize that the biomas affectedby the Project
are on the thresholdof disappearance,andthere are noprospectsof other opportunitiesinterms oftime or
moneyas positiveas this initiativeby the GEF/WBcouldbe.
         Ifinthe pastfew years duringthe execution ofthe ParanaBiodiversityProjectenergy was spent
in planting millions of seedlings in the hopes of reconstitutingthe original landscape of areas that had
been completelydegradedand that exhibitedextremely low biodiversitywhile, at the same time, inthose
same regions, the last areas that were still well preservedand rich inbiodiversityare beingsystematically
destroyed, what will be the results of an evaluationofthis work that usesthe indicatorsformally defined
at the start of the Project?And with whom will the responsibility lie with respect to the results obtained
from that evaluation?
         Given this scenario, we ask that a Technical Audit be conducted without delay, to assess the
results and adherenceto the objectives of the ParanaBiodiversityProject, usingthe established indicators
for the Project, as well as to evaluate the current situation as regards nature conservation in the State of
Parana, in the expectation that these will be made public and measures to directthe programmedactions
will be implemented.
         The attached reference text and reports of deforestations that have occurred in Parana in recent
years are partofthis documentandwill aid in a betterunderstandingofthe facts.
         It should be explainedthat these reports, as well as a series of localinitiativesaimed at explaining
the situation and sensitizing the various levels of the state government and the World Bank team
responsiblefor coordinatingthe Projecthave been madethroughoutthe project's execution period.Those
parties are fully aware ofthe approaches and argumentsreportedabove.
         Therefore, we are askingyou to see that a technicalaudit be conductedofthe ParanaBiodiversity
Project- WorldBank/ GEF/ Government ofthe Stateof Parana.
         Certain ofreceivingyour attentionto this matter, we remainat your disposal for whatever may be
necessary.


        Respectfully,
         [signature]
        MIRIAMPROCHNOW, CoordinatorGeneral

                                                                                                                         2
                                                                              N G O Network of the Atlantic Forest - RMA

                                                           SCLN210 -Bloco C, Rooms207/208 - Brasilia DF CEP 70.862.530
                                                                                        Office of the Executive Secretary

                                                                            Telephones:61.3201-7017 I Fax: 61.3349-9167
                                                                                                         w\rw.rnia.orr.br

                                       DEFORESTATIONINPARANA
          REPORTSONTHE STATUS OF REMNANTSOF ARAUCARIA FORESTAND NATURAL
     FIELDSINTHE STATEOF PARANA, WITH COMMENTSONTHE STRATEGYOF THE
                                 PARANABIODIVERSITYPROJECT
         Summary
         The purpose of this document is to corroborate the abundant evidence of the continued
suppression, since 2001, of nativeareas of the ArauchriaForest ecosystem in Paranathat are in medium
and advanced stages of conservation. This finding should permitvisualizationof a scenario in which the
remnants of the ecosystem are being further and further reduced and the method of dealing with this
problem is not supported by the procedures now under way. This conclusionshould be usefulto foster a
more precise orientation of the current strategies of the Parana Biodiversity Project, begun about four
years ago in our state. A sample of news items that have appeared in the press in recent years, reporting
incidentsofdeforestation, supplementsthis document.


         General Scenario
         Since 1993, under a federal decree that was extensively debated with all the interested parties,
Brazil has prohibitedthe exploitation of vegetation whose function is to protect species of endangered
wild flora andfauna (Art. 7 ofFederalDecreeNo. 750 -2/10/93).
         That same decree provides that "primary forests or forests in advanced and medium stages of
regeneration shall not lose this classification in event ofjre and/or unlicensed deforestation. (Art. 8 of
Decree 750). This means that the area cannot be put to any use other than recuperation of the destroyed
forest.
         The Araucaria Forest, which once occupied 76,000 km2ofthe territory ofthe State ofParana, has
been reduced to 0.8 percent of the original area, according to a 2001 study by PROBIO/MMA-FUPEF,
Federal University of Parana. It is home to at least four species of flora that are officially considered
endangered: araucciria [needle-leavedpine], imbuia [Brazilianwalnut], canela-preta [Ocotea pulchella],
and'thexaxim tree fern.
         Reports of both illegal and licensed cuttings (even though prohibitedunder cufrent legislation)
have beena constantin Paranainthe past five years, evenwith the controltools that existtoday.
         Although it is awkward for the state government to acknowledge that the 0.8 percent of the
remnants that were in advanced stage of conservation in 2001 have now been partially destroyed, it is
impossibleto ignore the accusations and press reports that tell of cases, and more cases, of deforestation
occurringduringthis period.
         The situation today with respect to the Araucaria Forest is one of final elimination of its last
remnants, and there are no really compelling factors that would limit this. A more appropriate
conservation strategy should have been adopted by the Government of the State of Parana at least 30-40
years ago. Since that did not occur, current interventions should take into consideration the extreme
fragility ofthe situation.The neededchange inthis situationcouldbebroughtabout invery little time.
         Under these circumstances, there is no room for any superfluous expenditures of energy on
mistaken strategies. There is no more time for makingmistakes. The environmental cost of a poor choice
of a course ofactionis certainlyassumingever-greater dimensions as years go by.



                                                                                                         1

         Recentbackgroundon legalmeasuresand incidentsof deforestation
         In 2001, the National Council on the Environment (Conselho Nacional do Meio Ambiente)
 considering, among other issues, "the absence of consistent scient$c information that would ensure the
appropriate and sustainable management of species of endangeredflora" approved Resolution No. 278,
 suspending authorizations that had been granted either by its own act or by delegation of authority to the
 other agencies of the National Environment System for cutting and exploitation o f endangered species
that are on the list maintained by that body, in natural populations within the Atlantic Forest biome.
         That same resolution provided that "The potential exploitation, without a direct or indirect
commercial purpose, of native species of endangeredflora, for consumption on the rural properties or
 holdings of indigenous peoples and traditional population groups may be authorized when there is no
possibility of using other species,andprovided that thefollowing guidelines are observed:
         1.       No more than 15 cubic meters per property or holding may be removed over afive-year
period;
         2.       Priorityfor use of specimens of dead trees or thosefelled by natural causes; and
         3.       Removal of no more than 20percent of the stock of adult specimens.    'I


         In 2002, the Ministryof the Environment published Ministerial Directive No. 507 that identified
areas in Paranathat were to be given priority inthe creation o f conservation units inthe Arauchria Forest,
areasthat were supposedto receive special protection from environmental agencies.
         During field studies conducted in March 2004 to create the federal conservation units, a clear
intensification of deforestation in areas that had been included in the directive was observed. Most of
those deforestations were carried out with authorization from the IAP- Parana EnvironmentalInstitute. A
preliminary survey of the authorizations issuedby various regional offices of the IAP, conducted with the
support of the Technical Chamber created for this purpose, confirms the release o f volumes hundreds of
times greater than permitted by Resolution 278.
         Even so, the IAP continued, and is continuing (as of August 2004) to authorize forest
management and cutting o f araucciria and imbuia in quantities that far exceed the limits established by
the resolution, including cutting in areas whose boundaries were drawn by Directive No. 507. A recent
example, widely reported in the press, is the deforestation of an area in the municipality of Candbi,
consideled the best part o f the araucdria forest, and one that includes primary remnants. In that area,
more than 255 hectares o f forest was clear-cut. All the nearby lumberyards openly display enormous
inventories of araucciria, which they justify by exhibiting IAP documents attesting that the timber came
from planted forests. Areas like those in Cand6i are quickly converted to soybean fields or tracts for
planting pinus, all in violation o f Decree 750, which does not permit conversion when the forest was
illegally cut down.
         In March 2004, violations of federal forest protection legislation led the head of the inspection
service of the Office of the Executive Manager of IBAMA [Institute o f the Environment and Renewable
Natural Resources] in Parana, to ask for explanations from the IAP as to "the interpretation of the
following instruments: Decree 750193, CONAM Pational Commission for the Environment]
Resolutions 02/94 and 278/01, Ministerial Directive 507, and SEMA Resolution 031/98). " Among the
cases that provoked this consultation was Forestry Authorization 2.749, ProtocolNo. 56602925, issued to
Wilson Dissenha.
        On that property, in the village o f Santo Antonio do Iratim in the town of General Carneiro, a
huge deforestation had been found in February 2003. The removal o f secular imbuiatrees was authorized
by the IAP in Forestry Authorization 2.749, issued on March 21, 2003. The authorization permitted the
removal of 1,925.84 cubic meters of imbuia from an area o f 288.83 hectares. The authorization was valid
until April 17, 2004 and later extended for three more months. According to a description by the



                                                                                                         2

landowner, given in his application for authorization, these were 1,595 imbuia and araucuria trees that
were "dried out" and/or "rotten."
         The IAP also authorizedthe openingofroads inthe forest to removethe timber.
         On August 5, 2004, the president of the IAP, Rasca Rodrigues, in an interview published in the
Paran6 newspaper Gazeta do Povo (page 10) on the subject of complaints about the cutting and sale of
imbuia and araucciria in that area, stated that the removal of the timber was supported by law and that
"rational management is important, even to ensure that the green trees (sic) can remain standing."
         The IAP president had been informed that that same property was being evaluated since May
-2003 by personnelfrom the State Departmentof the Environment (SecretariaEstadual de Meio Ambiente
  SEMA)and from IAP itself for purposes of creatinga state conservationunit.
         On August 6, 2004, a meeting was held at the Office of the IBAMA Executive Manager in
Parana, with representativesof the Ministry of the Environment, to assess IAP's clear violation of federal
legislation. The issue was referred to the National Secretariat of Biodiversity and Forests (Secretaria
Nacional de Biodiversidade e Florestas), of the Ministryof the Environment.
         Also on August 6, the governor of the state signed Decree No. 3.453, declaring the area in
question to be in the public interest in order that it could be expropriated, along with two others, all
owned by Wilson Dissenha. ParagraphOne of One of Article 1 of that decree reads: "The expropriated
area shall constitute a full-protection unit intended to preserve a significant sample of the Mixed
Ombrhfila Forest, which is representative of the ecological region of the Guarapuava Planalto, and its
associated ecosystems, in addition to preserving the endangered genetic asset (Araucaria angustifolia),
promoting scientific research, environmental awareness, the pursuit of educational and recreational
activities, and improving the quality of life of thepopulations in the vicinity by encouraging sustainable
regional socioeconomic development. ''
         On August 24, 2004, a helicopter flight over the area-by    then declared as being of public utility
for purposes of expropriation by the governor of the state-revealed           trucks and tractors working
unimpededto cut down and removefrom the site a large number of imbuia trees. At a nearby lumberyard,
huge stocks of imbuia were found, as well as trucks unloading gigantic logs. That timber, sawn into
boards, was being sold at approximately R$2,000.00 per cubic meter. As of March 5, 2004, accordingto
information from the IAP office in UniTio da Vitoria, 343 cubic meters of imbuia had already been
processed and about 350 more cubic meters was stacked up awaiting the sawmill, all from "dried-out or
rotten" trees.
         The removal of a large volume of imbuia and araucciria completely ruins the Mixed Ombrofila
Forest, and distorts the intent of Decree 3.453 of August 6,2004, to ``preserve a significant sample of the
Mixed Ombrhfila Forest biome. Furthermore, it invalidates the bulk of the arguments used to justify
                                   "
cancellation of the payment for the area that was expropriated earlier for the same purpose. Arauchrias
State Park will be a significant sample only of the transgressions committed against the last remnants of
that forest inParanaand facilitated by the IAP.
         More recently, in 2005, an area of approximately 3,000 hectares of natural fields was destroyed
near Palmas. That area had already been selected by a federal governmenttask force for designation as a
ConservationUnit.
         These incidents represent only a very modest fraction of the volume of complaints observed in
this short stretch of time. Findings of deforestationnot authorized by the oversight bodies are common,
and supplementwhat has been being destroyedwith government consent. The existenceof a seriouscrisis
of ethical conduct in parts ofthe environmentalagencies themselves is undeniable.
         This situation is not of recentvintage, and it must be taken into consideration in making decisions
on any type of conservation strategy in Parana. How can we trust the licensing and inspection structure to



                                                                                                           3

ensure the untouchability of remnants that are protected by law if, inpractice, what occurs in many cases
i s exactly the opposite? Even if we recognize that the existing efforts at licensing and inspection are
partially effective, how can we believe they will be sufficient to curb landowners who are regularly
induced to shift to activities that are financially attractive and that entail the destruction o f their native
areas?
         Finally, how can we, using conventional and historically inefficient mechanisms, deal with the
continued increase in the clearing o f land for agriculture, the impressive push to plant monocultures o f
trees, and the traditional practice of removing native timber?


         Examples of innovativeactions inParani
         It is highly unlikely that the trend toward complete destruction of the Araucaria Forest, as
occurred with the ecosystems in northern and northeastern Parana that were eradicated in past decades,
can be altered unless innovative devices having short-term impact are implemented immediately and are
transformed into public policies that are unconditionally supported by the Government.
         Although very limited in terms o f scale, three examples o f initiatives that may come to represent
part of the agenda that needs to be developed deserve to be mentioned here. They are already being put
into practice.

    ,    1.      Creation o f RPPNs [Private Natural Heritage Reserves] worked out in negotiation with
mayors, so that some of the surplus revenues from the lCMS [state value-added tax] generated by the
creation o f the Private Conservation Unit can be allocated to the landowner to enable him to protect the
area;
         2.      Company adoption of areas in an advanced stage o f conservation o f the Arauchria Forest
biome for a period of at least five years, with the possibility of creating an RPPNduringthis period;
         3.      Adoption o f areas in an advanced stage of conservation by companies that need to
supplement their Legal Reserve areas, thereby assuring them of equal recognition for the acquisition or
leasing procedures - the System for Maintenance, Recovery, and Protection o f the Legal Reserve
(Sistema de Manutenqrlo Recuperaqrlo e Proteqrlo daResewa Legal - SISLEG).
         Multiplication in tsrms of ,scale of these procedures, or others that also could result in full
protection o f those areas still existing, would be an approach consistent with a strategy o f biodiversity
Conservation. Actions of this type complement the efforts by the federal government, which is responsible
for the establishment of some Conservation Units in Parana and Santa Catarina within the Araucaria
Forest biome.


         ParanaBiodiversity
         The advent of the Parana Biodiversity Project (GEF-WB-Government of the State of Parana),
created specifically to combat the loss of biological diversity in this state, represented an unprecedented
and very positive expectation that it would generate actions strategically oriented toward this end.
         Although it is carrying out activities o f importance for conservation, it is believed that the priority
focus of that effort should be the native areas of arauchria forest that are in an advanced stage o f
conservation.
         This reasoning is supported by the fact that those last remaining areas contain the natural
formations that are still the least altered o f the biome and, therefore, are able to maintain, even if only
partially, a more representative biodiversity than secondary areas or areas that have been completely

   degraded. This is also true because recent years have seen very heavy pressure from the market on those
   remaining areas. This pressure can be summedup infour main activities:
            1.      Illegalremoval of native timber by local lumberyards;
            2.      Management that results indeforestation;
            3.      Implantation o f monocultures o ftrees, after clear-cut deforestation;
            4.      Implantation o f agricultural monoculture, after clear-cut deforestation.
            Those economic demands are very seductive in this region and represent huge investments. They
   also have plenty of political backing. And they prove that not even the laws that have been enacted, or the
   inspection effort, or even the environmental education activities are sufficient deterrents to the short-term
   destruction of areas of the Araucaria Forest that are inan advanced stage o f conservation inour state.
            The absence oftools that would permit working directly with the owners of those lands of crucial
   importance to the conservation of biodiversity leads those owners to seek alternative uses for their
   properties in what is recognized as a more standard practice, thus resulting intheir destruction.
            Therefore, the efforts that the Parana Biodiversity Project is making outside the policy approach
   of working with private landowners who possess areas of extreme importance may not achieve the
   conservation objectives for the biome.
            The [accuracy of] this affirmation may be appreciated through the example o f the work o f
'  restoring degraded areas. Even though a successful effort made it possible to plant native species in
   Permanent Preservation Areas where the native canopy had been removed, and those restored areas are
   serving as a bridge among areas in an advanced stage o f conservation, the absence of a policy for
   protecting these better-conserved areas indicates a trend that chronologically is not supported in terms o f
   results.
            In other words, decades would be needed to transform the areas now in an initial phase o f
   restoration into mature forest environments. But that process is not keeping pace the uncontrolled trend
  toward summary destruction o f the last remnants that is going on right now, that has not been witnessed
   and does not need many more years before it is complete. These remnants will be destroyed before the
   areas under restoration are formed, which means that the measure adopted will no longer make any sense.
            To conclude, we see as a procedure of absolute priority a revision in the strategy o f the Parana
  Biodiversity Project that, although it i s unable to resolve the serious structural, economic, political, and
   cultural demands involving the nature conservation agenda in the State o f Parana cannot, on the other
   hand, fail to make its limited investments so that they focus on what is o f greatest pre-eminence in the
   battle for perpetuating the Araucaria Forest biome.


           NGONetwork o fthe Atlantic Forest -RMA
           Redede ONGsdaMataAtldntica -M A




                                                                                                               5




Olklo ne019IV6-RMAICG
                                                                       Brasilia, 2Ide marqo de 2006



JOHN BRlSCOE-Diretordo BancoMundialpara c) Brad-Brasilia,DF
A Suas Senhoriasos Senhores

LAURA TCJCK -DiretoradaESSDparaa America Latina-Washington, D.C.
EXECUTlVESECRETARY TheInspectionPanel-Washington, DC
                               -

Assunto: SolicitacHo de auditoria tkcnica do Proieto de PreservacIio da Biodiversidade no
         Paran&(ParanriBiodiversitv Proieet)     - Banco Mundial / GEF/ Coverno do Estado do
         ParanH.
                   e


PrezadosSenhores,

0 ProjetoBiodiversidade no Parana e h t o de urnesfareo de insthias do Govern0 doEstado do
Parani, Brad, paraapoiar iniciativasde conservaflo da biodiversidade deste Estado.Nenhum apoio
dessa magnitude havia sido obtido ate entiio para as regibes indicadas, em especial para a Floresta
corn Arauchia, em 2001 commenosde 0,8% de remanescentesem estagio avanqado de conservaeiio
(Fupef- UFPrProbio-hMA).

Os recursosdo GEFIBanco Mundial, em sua primeirafase, na ordem de aproximadamente 8 milhdes
de ddares, foram doados ao govern0 paranaensena expectativa de que as historicaspressbes sobre
areas naturais das regibes de planalto do Estado fossem atenuadas e, assim, houvesseum ganho real
na busca pela conservaqiio da biodiversidade dos biomas oconentes nestas areas, todos em situa@o
criticae fortemente ameaqados.

Durantea eiaboraqgotecnicado Projetofoi estabelecida umclserie de indicadorescapazes de garantir
uma avaliaqiio adequada aos esforqos reaiizados. Naadamente, procurou-se construiruma estrutura
refinada de indicadores capazes de uma leitura focada no quesito biodiversidade, tema central de
abordagem desse Projeto. Dessa maneira. sua execuglo estaria condicionada                     80      foco de sua
GxistZnciae dentro dos objetivos do GEF

Apesar disso, depois de quatro anos de execu@o (o projetofoi iniciadoem 2002), e evidente a falta
de sintonia entre o que foi originalmente proposto e o direcionamento dado ao Projeto. Mudanqas
metodolhgicas forarn estabelecidas logo apos a sua aprovaqBo e, a partir dai. dois fatos
preponderantes passaram a refletira incoerhcia na utilizaqi3o dos cecursos provenientes do
GEFnVB:

1. Ao longo dns ultimos quatro alios ocorreram cenlenas de registros de destruiGZo de &isasnativas
remancscentes nos biomas focados pelo ProjetoBiodiversidadeParana Como medida de contenqgo
desse processo, o Govern0 do Estado do Parani estabeleceu uma politics de tiscaiiza@o, alegando

                                                                            Ked? d c CI!GI dd i h t a Ai1Aniii.l QAA
                                                                                                    Setretxia Exeruti3;a
                                                            SC!Y 2 ? C U O i \JId\ 2Ll7!X8 6ld511id OF (FP 7D XL-532
                                                                              F0'e?51 J 2 ? ; X a ; ~ F 3 \ 61 jj59S11,-
                                                                                                          ~,LI+~.U~I
                                                                                                                 rwqg.b[

quc com isto seria possivd mnter o ataque as ultimas areas em estagio avansado de conservaHo
ainda existentes. Mesmoassim, as iireascontinuaram a ser destniidas.

2. Independentementede tais fatos, o Projeto Biodiversidade Paranadireciona seus esforqos. focado
no trabalho de restaiiraqiio de areas degradadas, agindo diretamente em propriedades destituidas de
are& nativas (ReservaLegal e h e a de Preserva@o Permanente), corn um amplo esforqo de plantio
de mudas. A@es do Projeto em propriedades que detinhani areas bemconservadasou n3o existiram
ouforam apenas pontuais.

De maneira resumida, pode-se atirmar que ao iongo da euecugilo do ProjetoBiodiversidade Yarani
uni numero significativo de proprietarios vem estabelecendo acordoscqm o Govern0 do Estado,
garantindo urn processo inicial de restauraqiio de areas degradadas. Assirn, nas proximas decadas,
cas0 seja niantidoo trabalho de restauraqiio iniciado, essas areas poderiiovir a se tornar areas nativas,
mas sem a garantia deque possamdeterbiodiversidade rnais significativa.

Nesse memo periodo, centenas de areas nativas em estagio avanqado de conservasiio foram
destruidas sistematicamente, algumas delas com licenciamento do orgiio ambiental estadual, o TAP
(Instituto Ambiental do Parana}. Esse processo de destmiq8o foi acelerado pela interpretaqiiodubia
da legislaqiio ambiental; pela carencia conceitual sobre conservaqiio 'da biodiversidade na
execuqiio do Projeto; pela forte infludnciapolitica ainda vigenteno Estadono que se refere ao us0 de
florestas nativas; pela inviabilidade de se realizar uma fiscalizaqiio suficientemente eficaz; pela
possibilidade de ainda se obter lucros com a venda de madeira,' pel0 estimulo do mercado para o
plantio de monoculturas de soja e Amrs sp.;.e pela inexisttncia de aq6es junto aos proyrietarios,
visando um arranjo no qual suas dreas nil0 sejam alvo destes usos convencionais, uma vez que se
tratam dos bltimosremanescentesde biodiversidadeexistentes.

NBo e precis0 ser especialista em consetvqiio da biodiversidade para se concluir que o us0 dos 8
milhijesde dolares vem sendo realizado de maneira estrategicamente equivocada. Ressalte-seque os
biomas atingidos pelo Projetoest50 no Ijmiar do desaparecimento, nlo existindo uma perspectivade
tempo nem de recursos para outras oporrunidades t b positivas quanto poderia ser essa iniciativa do
GEFMrB.

Se nos ultimos anos, durante a execuqiio do Projeto Biodiversidade Parani, gastou-se.energia para
que ttiilhijes de mudas fossem plantadas, visando a reconstitui@oda paisagein original de areas
totalmente degradadas e de baixissirna biodiversidade, e, ao mesmo tempo, nestas mesmas regiaes,
as ultimas areas ainda beni conservadas e ricas em biodiversidadevh sendo destruidas
sistematicamente, como seriam os resultadcsde avaliaqiio destetrabalho fazendo us0 dos indicadores
definidos formalmente quando.do inicio do Projeio?E de quem sera a responsabilidade em relaqiio
aos resu!tados obtidos nessa avaIiaqW

Dentro deste cenaric;, solicitainosque uma Attditoria Tecnica seja realizada sem demora para avaliar
os resuitados e o cumprimento dos objetivos do Projeto Biodiversidade Parad. a partir da
utilizaqaodos indicadores estabelecidos,para      D Projeto e do cenLio atual no que se refere a

conserva$?io da naturezano'EstadodoParana, naexpectathade que os mesmosse tomem piiblicose
que medidasvisando Q direcionamentodas a m s programadassejam impiementadas

0 texto' de referencia e noticias de desrnatanientos oconidos nos ultimos anos no Parank em
anexo, fazem partedestedocumentoe auxiliamnamelhor compreensiiodos fatos.

Cabe esclarecer que essas informafles, bem come uma serie de iniciativaslocaisvisando esclarecer
e sensibilizar o Governo do Estado em diferentes instincias e a equipe do Banco Mundial
responsive1pela coordenaqlo do Projeto, foram realizadas ao longo do seu period0 de execugio,
havendopleno conhecimentodos mesmmem reIa@oas abordagens e argumentosacima expostos.

Diantedo exposto, vimos solicitar deVossas Senhorias, seja realizadaauditoriatecnica doProjetode
Presentagio da Biodiversidadedo Parana (Parana Biodiversity Project)  - Banco   Mundial / GEF /
GovernodoEstadodo Parana

Certos de sua atenqiio, colocamo-nosa disposiqIode V Sas. parao quefor necessirio.


                                        Respeitosamente,



                                     MIR1Ah.lPROCHNOW
                                        CoordenadonGeral


                    DESMATAMENTO NO PARANA
     INFORMACdESSOBRE A SITUACAO DE AREAS DE REMANESCENTESDE FLORESTAS
      COM ARAUCARIA E CAMPOS NATURAIS NO ESTADODO PARANA E COMENTARIOS
               SOBRE A ESTRATEGIA'DOPROGRAMA PARANA BlODlVERSlDADE


   Resumo
          Este documento tem por objetivo comprovar as muitas evidencias acerca da
   continuada supressSode areas nativasnos estagios maio e avanpdo de consewa@o do
   ecossistema Floresta com Arauciria no Parana, depois do a m de 2001, Essa constataGGo
   deve permitir a visualiza@o de um cenario em que os remanescentes est30 sendo cada
   vez mais reduzidos e que a forma de enfrentamento deste problema nGo se baseia nos
   procedimentos atualmente em curso. Tal conclueo devera ser uti1 para subsidiar um
   direcionamento mais refinado das estrathias atuais do Programa Parana Biodiversidade,
   iniciadoha cerca de 4 anos em nosso Estado. Uma amostragemde materiasvinculadas na
   imprensa nos ultimos anos, abordando as ocorr6ncias de desmatamentos, complementa
   este documento. ,

   Cenario Geral
          Desde 1993, por forqa de urn Decreto Federal largamente discutido com todos os

   funqBo de proteger especies da flora e fauna silvestre ameaqadas de extinHo (Art.
   segmentos interessados, esia proibida no Brasil a exploraMo de vegeta@o que tenhado      a
                                                                                     7 O .
   DecretoFederaln0..750(10/02/93).
          0 mesmo decreto estabelece que "a florestaprimSria ou ern estdgio avanqadr, e
   rn6dio de regenerqao nao perderd esfa ClassificaGBo nos casos de mcgndio e/ou
   desrnatarnento nBo licenciados" (Art. 8 O do Decreto 750). lsso significa que a area n&io
   poderater outro us0 que nBo seja o de recupera@oda floresta destruida.

   Parana, foi reduzida a 0,8% da area original com base em esiudo do PROBIO/MMA -
          A Floresta com Araudrias, que jS ocupou 76.000 km2 do territOrio dcr Estado do
'
  ,
   FUPEF UFPr, de 2001 e abriga pel0 mencs quatro espkies da flora consideradas
   oficialmente sob ameaqa de extinHo. arauaria, imbuia, canela-pretae xaxim.
          As constataqdes de cortes ilegais e cortes lienciadm (mesmo a despeito da
   IegislaGo em vigor nao possibilitareste procedimento)foram uma constante no Estado do
   Parana.nosLiltimos cinco anos, mesmocorn os instrumentosde controle hojeexistentes.
          Apesar de se: desgastante para o governo estadual admitir que os entdo 0,8% de
   remanescentes em estagio avanpdo de conservaw em 2001 ja estgo parcialmente
   destruidos. e impossivel ignorar as dendncias e materias de imprensa relatando casos e
   nais casos de desmatamentosnesteperiod0
          0 momento vivido hoje em rela@o a Florestacom Araucaria e ae eliminaMo finai
   de seus ciltimos remanescentes, sem a existencia de limitadores realmenie contundentes.
   Urna estrategia mais adequada de conserva@o deveria ter side adotada peio Govemo do
                                                                                            I

Estadodo Parana pelo rnenos a 3040 anos atras. Como isso n8o ocorreu, as intetvenfles
atuais devariam estar leuando em wnsidera@o a extrema fragilidade da situa@o, que
demanda muito poucotempo para a necessaria mudanp da situaMo.
       Nesse cenario n8o ha espap para quaisguer gastos su@rfluos de energia em
estrategias equivocadas. Nao hB mais oportunidades para erros, a essa altura. 0 custo
arnbiental de urncaminho malditigido certamente esta tendo dirnensdes cada vez maiores,
com o passar dos anos.


Hist6rico recente de medidas legaise ocorrhcias de desmatamentos
       Em 2001, o Conselho Nacional do Meio Ambiente, considerando. entre outras
questties, "a inexist6ncia de informa@es cientificas consistentes que assegurem o
adequado e susfentdvelmanep das esp&jes da flora ameacadas de exfin@o",aprovou a
Resolugo no. 278, suspendendo as autorizapjes concedidas, por ato proprio ou por
delega@o aos demais orgBos do Sistema Nacional de Meio Ambiente, para code e
exploraqao de espkies ameatpdas de extineo, constantes da lista oficial daquele orgao,
em popu1ac;be.snaturais no biomaMataAtiantica.
       A mesma resolu@o estabeleceu que "A exploraea'o eventual, sem propdsito
comercial direto ou indireto, de esp6cies da flora nativa arneaGadas de extinego, para
consumo nas propriedadesrurais ou posses de povos indigenas e populagjes tradicionais
poderd ser auforizadaquandonSo hower possibilidade de us0 de outras especiese desde
que respeitadas as seguintesdiretrizes:
7 - Retirada ndo superior a quinze metros clibicos por propriedade ou posse, no period0
de cincoanos;
2 Prioridade para o aproveitamento de exemplares de tirvores mortas ou tombadas por
  -
camas naturais; e
3 Retirada ndo superior a vintepor centodo estoque dosexemplaresadultos'`.
  -
       Em 2002, o Ministerio do Meio Arnbiente edifou a Portaria no.507, estabelecendo,
no Parana, areas priorithriaspara a cria@o de unidades de conservacso na Floresta corn
Arauchria, as quais deveriamreceber protmo especial por parte dos orgaos ambientais.
       Nos estudos de campo para cria@o de unidades de conservagao federais,               '
realizados no mes do marGo de 2004, verificou-se Clara intensifica@odos desmatamentos
nas areas incluidas na portaria. A maior partedesses desmatamentos eram realizadoscom
autorizaG8o do IAP. Um levantamento preliminar das autoiizafles fornecidas por diversos
escritorios regionais do IAP, com apoio da Ciimara Tdcnica criada para este fim confirma a
IiberaHode volumes centenas de vezes superiores aos permitidospela Resoh@o 278.
       Mesmo assirn, o lnstituto hbiental do Parana continuou e continua (referhcia a
agosto de 2004) autorizando manejo de florestas e carte de araudria e imbuia em
volumes muito superiores ao limites estabelecidos pela resolu@o, inclusive nas areas
delimitadas pela Portaria no. 507. Urn exemplo recente, largamente noticiado pela
imprensa, e o desmatamento de uma area no munrcipio de Candoi, considerada a melhor
area de floresta corn araucAria, inclusive corn remmescentes primarios. Nessa area foi
                                                                                         2

feitcj corte raso da floresta em mais de 255 hectares Todas as madeireiras proximas
exibiam livrementeenormes estoques de arauciria, qpe justificavam com documentos do
IAP atestandoque se tratava de madeiraoriunda de florestas plantadas.Areas como as de
Candoi rapidamente s80 transfwmadas em terras de lavoura de soja ou de plantio de
pinus, contrariandoo Decreto750,que nao permite a conversaoquando houver derrubada
ilegal defloresta.
        0 descumprimentoda IegislaMofederal de prote@o a floresta levou a chefia da
fiscalizaHo da Gerencia Executiva do IBAMA no Parand a solicitar, em marrp de 2004,
esclarecimentos do IAP sobre "a interpretaMo dos seguinfes instfurnentos: Decreto
750193, As ResoluF6es CONAMA 02/94 e 2781'01, a Porta~a507 e a Resoluqso SEMA
031/98)? Entre os casos que suscitaram a consulta estava a Autoriza@o Florestal2.749,
protocolo56602925, em nomedeWilson Dissenha.
        Nessa propriedade,na localidadede Santo Antbnio do'Iratim, em General Carneiro,
havia sido encontrado, em fevereiro de 2003, um grande desmatamento. A retirada de
imbuais seculares estava autorizada pel0 IAP, na Autoriza@o Florestal2.749, emitida em
21/03/2003, A autorizat$o permitia a retirada de 1.925,84 metros cljbicos de imbuia,
numa area de 288,83 ha. A autorizagao tinha validade ate 17/04/2004e, posteriormente,
foi prorrogada por trAs meses. Segundo descripo do proprietario, em seu pedido de
autorizaMo,tratava-se de 1.595arvores de imbuiae arauciiria "secas" e/ou "podres".
        0 IAP tambem concedeu autorizaHo para abertura de estradas na rnata, para
retiradada madeira.
                                                                  4
        No dia 5 de agosto de 2004,.0 presidente do lnstituto Ambiental do Parana, Rasca
Rodrigues, em entrevista publicada pel0 jornal Gazeta do Povo (p5g.. 1OIParand) sobre
denunciasde derrubada e comercializaMode imbuia e araudria nessa area, afirmou que
a retirada de madeira estava legalrnente amparada. e que "0 manejo racional8 importante
afe para garanfir que as &votes verdes (sic)sejam rnantidas em p&.
        0 presidente do IAP estava informado de que essa mesma propriedade estava
sendo avaliada, desde maio de 2003,           para fins de criagio de uma unidade de
conservaq8oestadual,por funcionariosda Secretaria Estadualde MeioAmbiente (Sema)e       `
do proprio IAP.
        No dia 6 de agosto de`2004, foi realizadareunrgo na Gergncia Executiva do IBAMA
no Parana wm represzntantes do Ministerio do Meio Ambiente para avaliar o claro
descumprimento da legisla@jo federal pel0 IAP. A questao foi encaminhada a Secretaria
Nacionalde Biodiversidadee Florestasdo Ministeiiodo MeioAmbiente.
        Tambem no dia 6 de agosto, o governador do Estado assinw o Decreto no3.453,
declarando de utilidade p6blica para fins de desapropriaMo a 4re-a em questao, alem de
outras duas, todas pertencentesa Wilwn Dissenha. DE o decreto, no paragrafo linico do
artigo 1O.: "A &ea desapropriada mnstitukd unidade de prote@o integral destina-da a
preservar amostra significativa da Floresta Ombr&i!a Mista, representativa da regig0
ecol6gica do Planalto de Guaraouava e seus ecossisfemas associados, alkm da
presewacio do patrimb~iogenetico arneapdo (Araucaria angustifolia), a prorno@o de
pesquise cientifica, a conscientizaFao ambientat, o desenvolvimento de atividades
educativas e de lazer e a melhoria da qualidade de vida das populaq%s do ontorno,
                                                                                       ,

atravks do incentivodo desenvotvimentos6cio-econ6mico stistenthvel regional. `I
       No dia 24 de agosto de 2004, um v60 de helicCIptero sobre a area-ja declarada de
utilidade publica para fins de desapropria@o pel0 Governador do Estado     -   permitiu a
localiza@o de caminhbese tratores em franca atividade, dembando e retirando do local
um grande nlimero de arvores de imbuia. Numa madeireira proxima foram enwntrados
grandes estoques de imbuia e caminh6es descarregando troncos gigantescos. Essa
madeira, transformada em tabuas, e vendida por aproximadamente R$ 2.000,OO o metro
cubico. Ate 05/03/2004,segundo informaws prestadas pelo escritorto do IAP em Uni%o
da Vitoria, ja haviamsido beneficiados343 metros cljbicos de imbuia e estaleirados cera
de 350 metros cirbicos, resultantedas Arvores "secas ou podres"
       A retirada de grande volume de imbuia e araudria descaracteriza totalmente a
Floresta Ombrofila Mista e desqualifica a inten@o do Decreto 3.453, de 06/08/2004, de
preservar "amosfra significafiva do bioma floresta Ombr6fila Misfa". Mais ainda, invalida
grande parte dos argumentos utilizados para justificar o cancelamento do pagamento de
area anteriormente desaprppriada com essa mesma finalidade. 0 Parque Estadual das .
Araudrias sera apenas uma amostra significativadas transgressties cometidas contra os
ultimos remanescentesdessafloresta no Parana,facilitadas pelo IAP.                       \
       Mais recentemente,j i em 2005, uma area de aproximadamente3.000 hectares de
campos naturaisfoi destruidana regia0de Palmas. Essa area foi previamenteselecionada
por fop-tarefa do Govern0 Federalparaconstituir uma Unidadede Conservapo.
       Essas ocorrQncias representam apenas uma fra@o muito modesta em compara@o
com o volume de denunciasobservadas nestecurto period0de tempo. As constatar$es de
desmetarnentossem o amparo de 6rgdos de fiscalize@o sbo mmuns e complementamo
que vem sendo destnrido wrn a anuhncia publica. E incontestavel a existhcia de uma
seria crise de conduta em setores dos propriosQrgaosambientais.
       Esta nOo e uma situago recentee precisa ser ledada em considera@o ao se definir
qualquer tipo de estrathgiade conservaMo no Parana. Como e que se pode dar credit0 a
estrutura de licenciamento e fisc$iza@o        para a garantia da intocabilidade de
remanescentes protegidos por Lei se, na pratica, o que owrre em muitos casos e
exatamente o contrdrio? Mesmo reconhecendo-se uma eficiencia parcial nos esforps de
licenciamento e fiscaliza@o existentes, como acreditar que estes sejam suficientes para
coibir proprietarios sistematicamenteinduzidos a migrar para a pritica de atividades que
si30 atrativas economicarnentee que implicamna destrui@ode was Areas nativas?
       Finalmente, como enfrentar com mecanismos convencionais e historicamente
ineficienteso contfnuo aurnentoda abertura de Areas para a agricultura, o impressionante
foment0 para a instala@io  de monoculturasde arvorese a trzdicionalpratica da retiradade
madeira nativa?

Exemplosde A@es inovadoras no Parana
       E muito pouco provavel que a tendenda de destruieao cornpizta da Fioresta com
Araucdrias, a exernplo dos Ecossisternas das regides norte e noroeste do Parana,
erradicadosem decadas passadas,possavir a ser alteradasem que artificios inovadorese
de irnpacto n3 curto praro nao sejam imediatamente implantados e se transformem em
                                                                                        4

   politicas publicasincondicionalmentesuportadas pelo Governo.
           Mesmo que de rnaneira ainda muito limitadaematerrnos de escala, tres exemplos de
   iniciativas que podem vir a representar uma parte da agenda que precisa ser construida
   merecem referenciae ja est30sendo efetivados na pratica:
       1. Cria@o de RPPNs articulada com negocia@o corn prefeitos, para que parte dos
           recursos arrecadados a mais do ICMS pela criapo da unidade de ConservaGSo
           Privadaseja destinadaao proprietsriopara que ele conserve a area;
      2. Ado@o, por empresas, de areas em estfrgio avanpdo de consewa@o do bioma
           Floresta corn Araudria, durante um periodo minimo de cinco anos, com a
           perspectivade cria@o de RPPN ao longo deste periodo;
       3. Adoflo de areas em estagio avanpdo de conservapo, por empresas que estejam
           necessitando complementar suas areas - de Reserva Legal, garantindo-se as
           mesmas o reconhecimentoigual aos procedimentos de aquisiHo ou arrendamento
           (SISLEG).
           A rnultip/ica@oem escata desses procedimentosou de outros que tamb6m gerem
   proteqiiointegral a essas areas ainda existentes sera um procedimento coerente com uma
   estrategia de conserva@o da biodiversidade. A@es dessa natureza complementam o
   esforgo do Govemo Federal, responGvel pela cria@o de aigumas Unidades de
   Conserva@ono Paranae Santa Catarina, dentro do biqma FlorestacornAraucaria.

   Paranir Biodiversidade
           0 advent0 do Programa Parana Biodiversidade (GEF-WB-Govern0 do Parana).
   criado especificamente para combater a perda da diversidade biologica no Estado,
   representou uma expectativa inedita e muito positiva no sentido de gerar aqdes
*  estrategicamentevoltadasa estefim.
           Niio obstante estar realizando atividades de import5ncia para a conservaqao,
   entende-se que o foco prioritariodesse esforw deveria atingir as areas nativas de floresta
   com araudria em estagio avanpdode conservago.
       . Tal Idgica e sustentada pelofato dessas uttirnas areas remanescentesconterem as
   forma@es naturais' ainda menos alteradas do bioma e, portanto, serem capazes de
   manter, mesmo que parcialmente, uma biodiversidade mais representativa do que areas
   secundarias ou outras completamente degradadas. Tamkm pelo fato de estar ocmrendo,
   ao iongo dos 6ltimos anos, uma press30 de mercado muito forte sobre essas areas
   remanescentese que podemser resumidasem quatro atividades principais
   1. Retirada iiegalde madeiranativapor madeireiraslocais;
   2. Manejoque resuita ern desmatamento.
   3. Implanta@ode monoculturasde arvores apos desmatamentorasc,
   4. lmplanta@io    de monoculturasagricolas apbs desmatamento raso.
           Essas demandas econbmicas s80 muito apelativas regionalmente e representam
   investimentos de gracde porte, bem cOmo disp6,em de amplo lastro politico. E evidenciam
                                                                                            5




                                               .-        .. __                   .

                                                                                     I . I




 o fato de que nem a legisla@io em vigor, nem o trabalho de fiscaliza@o e nem
 procedimentos de educa@o ambiental sa0 capazes,de deter, de maneira adequada, a
 destrui@o no curto prazo de ireas de Floresta com Araudria em estagio avanpdo de
 conservapo em nosso Estado.
       A inexistencia de instrumentosque permitam um trabalho diretamente voltado para
 os proprietariosdessas areas de importanciacrucial para a conserva@o da biodiversidade
 destina os mesmos a buscarem altemativas de us0 para suas propriedades no que e
 reconhecidocomo procedimentomais padrao, implicandonadestrui@io das mesmas.
       Destaforma, os esforps que o Programa ParanhBiodiversidadeestiver realizando
 fora de uma linha de atendimento a proprietarios privados, portadores de Areas de
 relevanciaextrema, poderaon8oatingir objetivos para a conservaModo bioma.
       Tal afirma@o pode ser realizadatendo-se como exemplo o trabalho de restauraflo
 de Areas degradadas. Mesmo urn esforGo de sucesso que permita o plantio de especies
 nativasem Areas de PreservaMo Permanenteque tiveram sua cobertura nativa suprimida,
 e que estas areas restauradas estejam sendo um instrumentode conexao entre areas em
 estagio avanwdo de conservaHo,a inexist6nciade uma politicade prote@io   destas areas
 mais conservadasindica uma tendhcia que cronologicamenteRSOse sustenta em termos
 de resultado.
       Ou seja, ha necessidadede decadas para que areas em fase inicial de restaurago
 se transfonem em ambientes de floresta madura. E esse process0 nio acompanha a
 incontroladatendirncia de destrui@o sumariados ultimos remanescentesque ocorre neste
 momento, que nao vem sendo assistida e nso precisa de rnuitos anos mais para se
 completar. SerBo destruidas antes que as Areas em restaura@o sejam formadas,
'perdendoqualquer sentidoa medidaadotada.
       Concluindo, entende-se cOmo procedimento de absoiuta prioridade a revisao
 estrategica do programa Paranti Biodiversidade que, se nso tem como resolver as serias
 demandas esttuturais, ecan6micas, politicas e culturais envolvendo a agenda de
 conser?ra@oda naturezano Estadodo Parani, n3opode,por outro lab,deixar de realizar -
 seus investimentos limitados com foco nd que seja de maior premhncia na luta pela
 perpetuago do bioma F!oresta wm Araudtria.

 Redede ONGs da MataAtlBntim      -RMA.




                                                                                      ti

     ANNEX I1

MANAGEMENTRESPONSE


                      BANKMANAGEMENTRESPONSETO
             REQUESTFORINSPECTIONPANELREVIEW OFTHE
         BRAZIL: PARANA BIODIVERSITYPROJECT(GEFTF 051007)



Managementhas reviewed the Request for Inspectionof the Brazil: ParandBiodiversity
Project (GEF TF 051007), received by the Inspection Panel on July 10, 2006 and
registered on July 11, 2006 (RQ06/04). Management wishes to bring to the Panel's
attention informationon recent developments stemming from the ongoing dialogue that
includesthe State of Paraniiandthe Bank.

This process of dialogue, which was initiatedprior to the submission of the Request, has
resulted in the issuance of a joint Supervision Mission Aide Memoire of July 27 to
August 1, 2006, reflecting recent understandings between the State of Paranii and the
Bank, including an ongoing Technical Audit which will evaluate the institutional
arrangements and management of the project and the impact of the project on the
conservationof forest remnants.

In this manner, opportunities have been created for discussion between the State of
Parand, the Bank andthe Requestersregardingthe identificationof instrumentsthat could
ensure the effectiveness of the project in conserving Araucdria forest remnants. The
adoption of such mechanisms should have immediate positive impacts on the project's
aims inthe Araucaria corridor.


                                                                                        Paranci Biodiversity Project


                                             CONTENTS

Abbreviations andAcronyms            ...........................................................................................      4
I. INTRODUCTION            ....................................................................................................       5
11. THE REQUEST        ........................................................................................................       5
111. THE PARANA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT (PBP)                                              ............................................  6
IV. ISSUES     .................................................................................................................      8
V.   MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE                          ..........................................................................       26

Boxes
Box 1.   The World Bank andthe Atlantic Forestof Brazil
Box 2.   IncidentsReportedby the Requesters
Figures
Figure 1.ParanaBiodiversity Project OrganizationChart

Map
Map 1.   IBRDNo. 34965 ParanaBiodiversity Project Areas
Map 2.   IBRDNo. 34970 ParanaBiodiversity Project AraucariaCorridor

Annexes

Annex 1.    ClaimsandResponses
Annex 2.    Expenditures
Annex 3.    Input, Outputand OutcomeIndicators
Annex 4.    Intermediate Indicators
Annex 5.    The Theory BehindCorridors
Annex 6.    Terms of Referencefor the TechnicalAudit
Annex 7.    SupervisionMission Aide MemoireJuly 27 to August 1,2006
            (translationand original)




                                                     3

Brazil



             ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

APP        Area de PreservapbPermanente
           PermanentPreservationArea
BP         Bank Procedures
CCPG       Centro de Coordenapiiode Programasdo Govemo
           Center for Coordinationof GovernmentPrograms(project coordinating
           unit)
CEPF       Critical EcosystemPartnershipFund
Codapar    Companiade DesenvolvimientoAgropecuariodo Estadode Parand
           Agricultural DevelopmentCorporation
CONAMA     National EnvironmentalCouncil
EMATER     EmpresaParanaensede Assistsncia TCcnicae ExtenstioRural
           TechnicalAssistanceandRuralExtensionCompany of Parani
GEF        GlobalEnvironmentFacility
GIS        Geographic InformationSystems
GPS        GlobalPositioningSystem
IAP        Instituto Ambiental doParana
           EnvironmentalInstituteof Parana
ICMS       Impostosobre CirculapIo de Mercadoriase Servipios
           Tax on the Circulationof Merchandiseand Services(VAT)
IPN        InspectionPanel
ISR        ImplementationStatusandResults
NRM        NaturalResourcesManagement
OP         OperationalPolicy
PAD        ProjectAppraisalDocument
PBP        ParanaBiodiversity Project
PPG-7      Pilot Programto Conservethe Brazilian RainForest
PROBIO     National Biodiversity Program
RMA        RedeMataAtlbtica
           Atlantic ForestNetwork
RPPN       ReservaParticulardo PatrimonioNatural
           Privately owned protectedarea(recognizedby the government)
SEAB       Secretariade Estadoda Agricultura e do Abastecimento
           State Secretariat ofAgriculture and Supply
SEMA       Secretariade Estadodo Meio AmbienteaRecursosHidricos
           State Secretariatofthe Environmentand Water Resources
SEPL       Secretariade Estadodo Planejamentoe CordenacaoGeral
           State Secretariatof Planningand Coordination
SISLEG     SistemaEstadualde Conservapgoe Recuperapa0de ReservaLegale Area
           de PreservapBoqermanente
           State Systemfor ConservationandRecuperationof Legal Reservesand
           PermanentPreservationAreas
uc         Unidadede Conservapiio
           ConservationUnit (Brazilianterminology for ProtectedAreas)
UFP        UniversidadeFederalde Parana
           FederalUniversity of Parani
UGP        Unidadede Gerenciamentodo Projeto
           ProjectImplementationUnit




                                  4

                                                            Parand Biodiversity Project




                             I. INTRODUCTION

1.      On July 11, 2006, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection,
IPN Request RQ06/04 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the
Brazil: Parana Biodiversity Project (PBP) financed under the Global Environment
Facility (GEF Trust Fund051007).

2.     Structure of the Text. Section I1 o f this document outlines the Request.
Section I11provides project background. Section IV discusses issues raised by the
Request. Section V presents Management's response. Annex 1 presents the
Requesters' claims, together with Management's detailed responses, in table
format. Additional annexes include information on project expenditures (Annex 2)
and project indicators (Annexes 3 and 4), a discussion of biodiversity conservation
theory focused on the concept o f ecological corridors (Annex 5), the terms o f
reference for a Technical Audit o f the project (Annex 6), and the Supervision
Mission Aide Memoire o f July 27 to August 1, 2006 (translation and original,
Annex 7).



                              11. THE REQUEST

3.     The Request for Inspection was submitted by a non-governmental
organization (NGO) based inthe State o f Parana, Brazil. The Requesters have asked
the Panel that their names and their organization's name be kept confidential. The
Request for Inspection is composed o f a formal letter to the Panel, dated June 23,
2006, and a letter with annexes, dated March 21, 2006, sent to the Inspection Panel
and the World Bank by an umbrellaNGO, the Atlantic Forest Network (RMA). The
Requesters asked that the March 21, 2006 letter with annexes be considered an
integral part o fthe Request.

4.     The Request contains claims that the Panel has indicated should be
evaluated to determine compliance by the Bank with provisions under the following
policies and procedures:

       OP/BP 4.0 1 Environmental Assessment, January 1999;

    0  OPBP 4.04 Natural Habitats, June 2001;

    0  OPBP 4.36 Forestry, September 1993; and,

    0  OP/BP 13.05 Project Supervision, July 2001.




                                        5

Brazil


              111. THE PARANA BIODIVERSITY PROJECT(PBP)

5.       Project Objectives. The primary development objectives o f the PBP, as
stated in the Project Appraisal Document o f April 25, 2002 (PAD, page 2), are to:
support biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resources management
(NRM) in two highly threatened eco-regions in the State of Parani, the Brazilian
Inland Atlantic Rainforest and the AraucAria Forest;' and, design and implement a
model for improving biodiversity conservation in Paranb.

6.       The project is achieving these objectives in three project corridors through:
(a) mainstreaming biodiversity conservation among targeted Government agencies,
rural communities and civil society organizations; (b) mitigating threats to
biodiversity through establishment o f three ecological corridors' and consolidation
o f sustainable practices in target areas; (c) strengthening monitoring and
enforcement functions; and (d) reviewing and developing relevant norms,
legislation, regulation, enforcement and incentive systems.

7.       Three Ecological Corridors in Two Eco-regions. The PBP has supported
the creation o f two ecological corridors in the InlandAtlantic Rainforest eco-region
and a third in the AraucAria eco-region:

         Corridor CaiuaIlha Grande. Located on the northwestern border o f Parana,
         the corridor generally follows the Rio Parana and has its extremities in the
         Caiua State Ecological Station and the National Park o f Ilha Grande. The
         Rio Parana contributes to making this one o f the eco-region's richest
         repositories o f biodiversity. It includes an archipelago o f more than 300
         islands, varzeas (periodically flooded areas), alluvial forests and transitional
         areas between forest and savanna. The main State Parks targeted by PBP for
         Management Plans and modernization are the Caiua Ecological Station and
         the Silo Camilo State Biological Reserve. To consolidate the corridor,
         connectivity is forged with six additional protected areas.

         Corridor IguaGu-Parand. Located in the southeastern comer o f the State,
         this corridor is under pressure from the agricultural frontier owing to the
         richness o f its soils. It is important also because it links the Iguaqu National
         Park, the largest continuous area o f inland Atlantic forest, with a major
         initiative to recuperate areas (the "Poligonal Envolvente") in and around the
         lake formed by the Itaipu hydroelectric dam. Two protected areas, the State
         Park o f Rio Guarani and the Area de Relevant Interesse Ecol6gico (Area o f
         Relevant Ecological Interest) da Cabeca do Cachorro are targeted by the

' The areas are among the 25 global "hotspots"-highly threatenedregionswith exceptional biodi-
versity andendemismas definedby the Center for Applied Biodiversity Science o f Conservation
International.
* These corridorsare basedon micro-catchmentspreviously identified and delineatedby the State of
P a r d .




                                                 6

                                                                Paranri Biodiversity Project



      , PBP for management plans; upgrade and connectivity will be forged with
        three other protected areas to consolidate the Corridor.

        The third Araucaria Corridor has been established in the Araucaria eco-
        region in the center-south o f the State. It includes three PBP targeted
    *   conservation units (Unidade de Conservapo, or UC). Paranh has the largest
        Araucfiria (Araucaria angustifolia) forests in Brazil, which at one time
        covered roughly 40 percent o f the State's area. Less than 1 percent o f the
        original forest survives, in an extremely fragmented manner, exacerbating
        its fragility. The area chosen for the corridor represents among the most
        important surviving forests and those with the best chance o f achieving
        sustainability through increased connectivity and corridor consolidation.

8.      The three Corridors taken together cover an area of about two million
hectares; involve seven state protected areas, 280 micro-catchments and 63
municipalities. The corridors comprise over 40 percent o f the municipal land mass
in their relevant eco-regions. The rural population is estimated at about 300,000,          .
and a projected 20,000 farmers are targeted for participation in project investhent
activities. A review of the Request for Inspection indicates that the Requesters'
concerns focus on the Araucfiria Corridor.

9.      Project Components.

        Component I: Education and Capacity Building (US$l.58 million: GEF
        US$1.21million + State US$0.37million). The objective o f this component
        i s to: (i)
                  sensitize the population o f the State o f Parani to the importance o f
        biodiversity conservation,     mobilizing it to support the process o f
        recuperating and maintaining the quality o f the State's main ecosystems;
        and (ii) prepare project implementing agencies, beneficiaries and
        stakeholders to take part inthe Project.

    0   Component11:Biodiversity Management (US$26.74 million: GEF US$4.93
        million + State US$21.81 milfion). The objective o f this, the largest o f the
        components, is to work with targeted rural producers in interstitial areas and
        U C officials to assure that the production and conservation activities they
        undertake will improve the environmental integrity o f the three corridors
        and thereby safeguard biodiversity.

    0   Component 111: Control and Protection (US$2.49 million: GEF US$1.16
        million  +  State US$1.33 million). This component addresses reform o f the
        state environmental monitoring and evaluation, licensing and enforcement
        functions, and the protection o fthreatened species.       '




    0   Component IV: Project Administration (U32.05 million: GEF US$O.71
        million + State US$1.34 million). Component IV comprises two sub-
        components, Project Administration (US1.67 million) and Strategic Studies
        (US$0.38 million).



                                           7

`Brazil


 10.    The PBP was approved by the Board on May 21,2002 and became effective
on August 27,2002.



                                      IV. ISSUES

Project Context and Design

 11.    Paran6 is a large state with high biodiversity. Degradation o f biodiversity is
a long-standing issue, with very strong forces and interests driving this process. The
 State o f Parana has a number o f instruments and approaches for managing the
variety o f environmental challenges it faces. Among them, the PBP accounts for
roughly 10 percent o f the State's annual environment budget. As is befitting a
project o f this size, its scope and objectives are modest, namely to help demonstrate
that biodiversity corridors are a useful tool in enhancing biodiversity conservation
in productive landscapes. This demonstrative effect is expected to make a
contributionto establishing one o f the many mechanisms necessary for maintenance
o f selected Atlantic Forest ecosystems. While the PBP contributes to building the
necessary tools to address the long-standing challenge o f biodiversity conservation
in the state, its implementation by the State of Parana is one among many
government activities concerned with biodiversity.

 12.    The State o f Parand is responsible for the implementation o f this GEF
project, and the role o f the World Bank is to ensure, on behalf o f the GEF, that the
project is being executed in accordance with the terms o f the Grant Agreement and
in compliance with GEF and World Bank policies. In preparing this response,
Management has considered both: (a) the modest size, scope, and objectives o f this
GEF demonstration project relative to the overall goal of biodiversity conservation
in the State of Parana; and (b) the respective roles of the State.of Parana and the
World Bank.

 13.    The State o f Parana designed the PBP as an effective and efficient method
o f achieving the objectives o f supporting "biodiversity conservation and sustainable
natural resources management in two highly threatened eco-regions in the State o f
Parana: the Brazilian Inland Atlantic Rainforest and the AraucSiria Forest." As such,
it aims at identifying sustainable mechanisms to mainstream biodiversity
conservation in productive landscapes. In this way, the PBP is conceived to be a
demonstration project with a highly focused geographic scope (see Map 1). In both
eco-regions, the State o f Parana found consolidating and ensuring ongoing
protection for three extensive biodiversity corridors to be the most efficient and
effective method o f conserving biodiversity.

 14.    The PBP received financial resources from a GEF grant (US$8 million).
Most program costs were covered by an existing government project aimed at
improving the overall NRh4 in micro-catchments throughout the State o f Parana.
These NRM activities implemented by the Secretariat o f Agriculture (SEAB) and
partly financed by the Bank under the ParanBRural Poverty Alleviation and Natural


                                             8

                                                                        Paranh Biodiversity Project


Resources Management Project, Loan 4060-BR, provided the "baseline" elements
for those micro-catchments includedwithin the biodiversitycorridors.

15.      Design. The PAD notes that there are different approaches to ensuring
conservation o f biodiversity. In brief, the two main approaches are: (a) an isolated
protected areas approach which concentrates on conserving biodiversity in existing
isolated patches; and (b) a corridors3 approach which builds up interconnectivity
between specific areas with existing biodiversity. Both o f these were considered
during preparation, and the second option was selected. (This is discussed in the
PAD under the heading Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection,
and the corridors approach is covered in greater detail in the "Strategic Approach"
section o f Annex 2 o f the PAD. See also Annex 6 o f this Response.)

16.       Regarding project activities in degraded areas, the Requesters state (Annex
1, Item2) that ".ifthe restoration work that has begun is maintained, those areas
may become native areas, but without any guarantee that they will have a truly
significant biodiversity. Under the corridors approach, reforested areas themselves
                            "
are not expected to contain significant biodiversity. Rather, the objective o f a
biodiversity corridor is to facilitate the gene flow between populations in the
existing biodiversity-rich areas, enhancing the long-term survival probability o f                     *
biological communities and their component species. (Mosaics of multiple land
uses in a managed landscape can allow populations to move among proximate
forest "stepping stones.")

17.      Regarding the balance between conservation and restoration activities, the
Requesters also state that "energy was spent inplanting millions of seedlings in the
hopes of reconstituting the original landscape of areas that had been completely
degraded and that exhibited extremely low biodiversity while, at the same time, in
those same regions, the last areas that were still well preserved and rich in
biodiversity are being systematically destroyed.The PBP allocates 3 percent of the
GEF resources to restoration o f degraded areas, while 59 percent is focused on
conservation a~tivities.~The State o f Parana determined these allocations to be the
most effective in balancing preservation o f existing forests and restoration o f
degraded areas where this is necessary to create connectivity.

18.      Indesigningthe PBP, the establishment o fthree such corridors was targeted,
with additional support to ensure their proper maintenance and protection so that
they continue to exist following project closure. In the Inland Atlantic Forest eco-
region, two corridors have been developed (one with a total area of 987,000
hectares and one with a total area o f 575,000 hectares) containing a total o f five
UCs. Inthe Araucaria eco-region the project is developing one corridor (with a total

 A biodiversity "corridor" is defined as a mosaic of land uses connectingfragments of natural forest
across a landscape.
 The remaining 38 percent is allocatedto educationand capacity building, control and protection,
and project administration.




                                                 9

Brazil


area o f 589,000 hectares) containing four UCs. All o f the corridors are precisely
defined in maps (see Map 1.)

19.      Annex 2 o f the PAD lays out the scope o f project components in detail.
Component Itargets the raising o f awareness o f biodiversity conservation with state
go\;ernment, rural communities and civil society organizations. Component I1 is
limited to acting on certain chosen sites within the corridors. (In the case o f the
Araucaria corridor, these sites fall within an area covering 47 percent o f the total
area o f 11 selected municipalities - PAD, pp. 46-47). Component 111 has been
developed for the UCs within each corridor to ensure monitoring and enforcement
o f legislation, and Component IV funds five strategic studies, two o f which are o f
relevance to conservation o f Araucaria forests.

20.      For the State o f Parana, the PBP makes the difference in strengthening the
UCs. Without the PBP, the UCs would be isolated, containing small isolated
populations o f species susceptible to the inbreeding that can lead to loss o f genetic
diversity and ultimately local extinction o f species. Connecting such areas, as
envisaged under the PBP, provides them with the critical ability to sustain greater     '
biological diversity. (See Annex 5 for a detailed discussion o fthis issue.)

ProjectImplementationand Status

21.      The Requesters state (Matrix 2, Item 1) that "Methodological changes were
made soon after Project approval (Paragraph 4 of letter attached to the Request)
that caused a redirectioning of activities, thus not allowing the achievement of
originally expressed goals. Management reviewedthe implementation o f the PBP
                             "
and project indicators presented in Annexes 4 and 5 and considers that resources
have been directed to activities consistent with the project design financing plan.
The PBP is following the original PAD endorsed by the World Bank and the GEF.
Inparticular, project objectives continue to be those stated inthe PAD, the working
areas remain the same, the components are those stated in the PAD and the same
indicators are being used to monitor progress. This progress has been monitored in
every supervision mission (9 separate missions between September 2002 and July
2006) and the indicators together with key information on implementing
institutions, units o f measurements and goals were duly followed and formally
documented in all relevant supervision documentation.

22.      The Requester also states (Annex 1, Item 5) that, "After $our years of
execution (the project was begun in 2002), there is an obvious lack of
synchronization between what was originally proposed and the orientation given to
the Project  ". It true that
                  is         duringthe first half o fthe project implementation period
(September 2002-early 2005), the State o f Parana implemented the GEF-financed
biodiversity conservation activities o f the project more slowly than the NRM
activities. The relatively slower implementation o f the biodiversity conservation
element was caused by a delay in agreement over procurement procedures between
the new state administration in Parana (which took office in January 2003) and the
Bank. The delay did not affect the NRM activities o f the project, since it was



                                          10

                                                                      Paranci Biodiversity Project


designed to use community participation methods on which the Bank and the state
administration had agreed. Agreement on procurement procedures for the GEF
financed activities was reached in late 2004 when the Bank began accepting
electronic bid submissions, making the Bank and the administration approaches
consistent, and ensuring compliance with Bank procurement policies for fiduciary
and risk management. The result was an 18 month delay in the GEF-financed
activities, and different rates o f progress under the two parts o f the project.

23.      The impact of slower than anticipated implementation of the GEF-financed
activities o f the project on beneficiaries' satisfaction with the timing o f technical
and financial support for conservation sub-projects was noticeable. The Bank
missions noted beneficiaries' concerns in the field during supervision missions and
these were broadly discussed with the PIU and relevant state agencies.
Recommendations were formulated in supervision mission aide memoires and
agreed both with the PIU and the government. (Aide Memoires dated November
22-28, 2003, October 4-6, 2004, April 4-7, 2005 and September 12-15, 2005). Due
to the slow implementation o f the GEF-financed activities o f the project, the task
team downgraded the Develo ment Objective and Implementation Progress ratings
o f the project in June 2005. Following the resolution o f the procurement issue,
                                  P
execution o f the GEF-financed activities o f the project accelerated gradually,
balancing overall implementation. Most performance indicators reached their target
levels by December 2005. Annex 3 also shows all the original Input, Output and
Outcome Indicators for the PBP, their final target values, intermediate target values
-wheredefined-andtheir currentvalues as ofMarch2006.Takingintoaccount
the delay noted above, these indicators demonstrate that the achievement o f project
outputs is currently on track.

24.      As o f July 12, 2006, the PBP had disbursed US$3.95 million -just under
half the total amount o f the GEF grant o f US$8.0 million. This is less than the
originally envisaged target o f US$7.5 million due to the delay in agreement over
procurement procedures noted above. Following resolution o f this procurement
issue a four-month action plan was finalized in September 2005 with specific short-
term goals for certain output indicators. (See Implementation Status and Results -
ISR 9.) After the indicators showed over 90 percent achievement o f these short-
term goals over the period from September 2005 to March 2006, the PBP was
upgraded in June 2006 and is currently rated satisfactory, consistent with Bank-
wide good practice in supervision. The implementing agencies are in the process of
initiating the Mid-Term Review, which i s expected to provide the stocktaking o f
implementation to date, and to identify lessons learned and mechanisms to advance
the contribution o f project activities to achieving project development objectives.


'From   late 2004 throughearly 2005, the PIU's progresson increasingthe pace ofimplementationof
procurement per the agreementsoflate 2004 was insufficient.The Mid-Term Reviewwas postponed
due to these implementationdelays as well.




                                                11

Brazil


As an input to the Mid-Term Review, the Bank has commissioned a Technical
Audit o fproject status (discussed below inthe sectiononNatural Habitats).

25.     Decentralized Implementation. The PBP is a complex project mainly due to
the challenging institutional arrangements, which entail the effective coordination
and communication o f several State institutions, both at the central and municipal
level (see Figure 1 below).

26.     Decentralized monitoring has been enabled through the project's creation o f
Municipal Biodiversity Chambers (Cdmaras da Biodiversidade nos Municbios)
and Regional Councils (Conselhos Regionais). The involvement o f these chambers
and councils with the PIU has reduced the difficulty o f monitoring project activities
inthe field, especially as these extend to over 300 micro-catchments and more than
12,000 properties involved within the three project corridors. Approximately
528,000 hectares are currently monitored by these Chambers and Councils together
with the active participation o f field staff o f Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company o f Parana (EMATER) and the 9 regional offices o f the
Environmental Institute of Parana (IAP). In the particular case o f the IAP,
discussions on follow-up for law enforcement and biodiversity monitoring have
occurred. One example o f this is the project's support for establishment o f the           *
"Green Force (ForGa Verde)." This innovative enforcement initiative is led by the
Forest Police and is being strengthened by the project.

            Figure 1. Paranh Biodiversity Project OrganizationalChart



                                     Secretadat of Planning




       Seaelanat of Environment     ofCenterforCoordination
                                      GovernmentPrcgrnrns



               pEna            14              I
                               - l /                       1-1
                                                            \ /                       \
                                                                                      1
        EnvironmentalInsmutnof                PIU                       EMAER
                                    Pm@dIrnpkmnnlaUonUnit         Slate ExlendonAgency




              REGIONAL                                                EXTENSION
              OFFICES                                                   OFFICES

                 1                             1                            1
   f                                                                                   J
                                          CORRIWRS                                     J
27.    Corridors and Micro-Catchments. Implementation o f key project actions
requires direct involvement o f farmers, either individually or organized along

                                               ...

                                                              Parand Biodiversiv Project


micro-catchments. The Requesters state (Annex 1, Item 8) that "The absence of
tools that would permit working directly with the owners of those lands of crucial
importance to the conservation of biodiversity leads those owners to seek
alternative uses for their properties in what is recognized as a more standard
practice, thus resulting in their destruction ". Through a highly participatory
process, involving producers, State and municipal representativesand civil society
at the local level, the PBP has actively engagedto date a total of 12,350 farmers in
biodiversity Conservation activities within micro-catchments, and about 38,000
farmers have received training related to biodiversity issues. In this way, the PBP
provides a significant counterweight to the prevalent market pressures for adoption
of conventional cultivation practices (e.g., monoculture).

28.     Between February 2003 and March 2006, the project promoted over 900
meetings with local producers to begin working in land conservation and planning
within the micro-catchment vision. Results include 3,000 hectares of Permanent
Protection Areas (APPs6) recovered, 1,600 km of river banks (gallery forests)
protected and 1,400 properties planned for conservation. Training is another good
example of field presence of the project, with more than 100,000 people involved in
training and project funded activities in 800 schools and educational centers within
the corridors.

29.     Support to Protected Areas (UCs). The PBP also supports existing protected
areas within the three project corridors. There are 10 core conservation areas within
the corridors targetedby the project:

        Caiud-Ilha Grande Corridor, 3 areas (Area de ProtecaoAmbiental das Ilhas
        e Varzeas do Rio Parana and Parque Nacional Ilha Grande, Reserva
        Biologica de SBo Camilo, Estacao Biologica do Cai6a) totalling 276,000
        hectares;

        Iguagu-Paranu Corridor, 4 main areas (Parque Nacional do Iguazu, Parque
        Estadual Rio Guarani, Area de InteresseEcol6gico da Cabeqa do Cachorro,
        and Fazenda do Iguaqu) totalling 187,500 hectares. This corridor also holds
        important conservation sites under private ownership as private reserves
        (RPPN under Brazilian legislation) - Rubens Piovezan, Naude Prates,
        Almiro Liberali, Estancia SerraMorena; and

    e   Araucdria Corridor, 3 areas (Estaqiio Ecol6gica do Rio dos Touros, Parque
        Estadual de Arauchria, and Reserva Forestal de PinhBo) totalling 2,256
        hectares.

30.     Given the importance o f these protected areas for the maintenanceof genetic
diversity, the PBP has contributed to the funding of infrastructure for ensuring


 See APP definition infootnote 14.




                                           13

Brazil


conservation management in all o f these areas (e.g., visitors' centers, scientist
residences), and covered management expenditures for the protected areas in some.
In the protected areas' buffer zones, the project is providing biodiversity friendly
extension, training and dissemination work. The project has so far provided
technical services for the elaboration o f management plans for Rio dos Touros, S2o
Camilo, P i n h b and Cabega do Cachorro. Additional actions for supporting the
conservation o f these sites are underway for Rio Guarani and for acquisition o f
demarcation and fencing materials inRio Guarani and S b Camilo.

31.     Current Status. In the case o f the two corridors created in the Inland
Atlantic Forest, (Caiua-Ilha     Grande and Iguaqu-Paranh) implementation has
progressed according to plan thanks to balanced implementation o f all project
components and activities. There have been no complaints registered regarding
project implementation, and stakeholder feedback indicates satisfaction with
progress toward project objectives (as recorded during visits to the Municipal
biodiversity chambers and project beneficiaries duringsupervision missions).

32.     In the case of the AraucAria corridor, due to the very small coverage by
protected areas, and the high level o f fragmentation of forest remnants, an effective
construction o f the corridor involves a complex participatory planning process with
many landowners intheir micro-catchments. Nonetheless, project implementation is
progressing well, following the arrangements set out in the PAD and the Project
Manual. Intermediate indicators show that the originally planned prioritization o f
key areas for biodiversity conservation in the many micro-catchments has been
concluded. Currently, the State o f Parana is identifying a series o f small- and
medium-sized properties that could greatly contribute to the stepping stone
approach within the corridors (see Annex 5). Through the Mid-Term Review, the
Bank and the State expect to define mechanisms through which the project could
assist the State decision to support these landowners to create privately owned
protected areas (RPPNs) within the federal private land protection legal framework.
Also the strengthening of partnerships with RPPNs, with consortiums o f producers,
and with conservation organizations working in the corridor has been included in
the 2006 Implementation Plan.

13.     In addition, the project is evaluating the potential use o f innovative
instruments, such as awards for sustainable conservation experiences and practices
and funding for the preservation o f remnant tracts in good conservational status.
These include: tax exemptions to those who maintain forest to partially.offset the
opportunity cost o f not converting to crop production; the channeling o f the "ICMS
Ecol6gico" (Green Value Added Tax) to farmers through environmental service
payments; financing the up-front costs o f establishing RPPNs (i.e., for inventory
and administrative costs); and direct investment grant support for ancillary use o f
forest assets (e.g., eco-tourism). These additional instruments could be considered
for deployment if found to be useful by the Technical Audit.

34.    Summary. The Requesters state (Annex 1, Item 9) that "it could be easily
concluded that activities aimed at eflectively detaining the destruction process of



                                           14

                                                                       Paranri Biodiversity Project


the last existing preserved natural areas are not being implemented. Hence, the
project objectives arefarji-om being achieved". As noted above, implementation o f
the PBP by the State of Parana is following its original design, as set out in the
PAD. This design balanced the allocation o f activities between areas still well
preserved with recovery o f degraded areas (either through the promotion o f
connectivity or improvement o f gallery forest along river banks). The set o f these
activities targeted and executed does not deviate from those envisioned under the
PBP's original design, and these activities can achieve the PBP's development
objectives.

35.     As the PBP looks to the future, the PIU and its associated institutions have
been     discussing       various   mechanisms       to   improve       private    conservation
methodologies and further the innovative and demonstration nature o f this project.
Although involving landowners and the wider rural population in the conservation
o f biodiversity is complex, the PBP has implemented a full program o f training
aimed at stakeholder participation in the conservation o f biodiversity and natural
resources and thereby has helped increase the awareness o f people living in key
biodiversity areas regarding the benefits of conservation.

EnvironmentalAssessment, OP/BP 4.01

36.      Following the requirements o f OP 4.01, the project was classified as
Category "B". An Environmental Assessment (EA) summarizing the procedures for
subproject eligibility and screening was prepared and submitted to the Bank prior to
appraisal. (These eligibility and screening procedures have been systematically
applied by the PIU to all subproject applications, with post-review o f this system
made periodically during Bank supervision missions.) The EA found positive
effects o f the proposed PBP on the environment, noting in particular the following
institutional factors that allow for efficient application o f enforcement through
various incentive schemes:

     0   The existing legal framework allows for Legal Reserve' and micro-
         catchment preservation requirements to be adequately enforced.

     0   The operationalization of the Legal Reserve Compensation Mechanism
         (SISLEG)         mitigates the negative command and control aspects                    of
         enforcement, permitting a negotiation process that optimizes the legal
         enforcement.



'See  LegalReservedefinition in footnote 14.
 SISLEG is aprogramwhich allowsprivate landholderswho have reducedtheir forest cover below
the required`20percentto compensateby purchasingandputting into protectedstatus forestedareas,
importantmicro-catchment andother areas inthe same biome.
 This refers to the inefficiency andhigh costoftenassociatedwith traditionalenforcement methods.




                                                 15

Brazil



    0   Targeting o f the "ICMS Ecol6gico" (Green Value Added Tax distributed to
        municipalities on the basis o f good environmental practices executed)
        provides municipalities with greater incentives to help consolidate corridors.

37.     The EA noted that regulation o f cutting o f threatened Araucaria was a very
positive step, albeit one that is still contentious owing to vested lumber interests.
The Government took this step in light o f the devastation experienced in the few
remaining forested areas and negotiations are proceeding regarding the opening o f
other areas to compensate lumber interests for losses suffered. The EA also
concluded that decentralization o f the inspection function should be done only at
the request of municipalities.

38.     The final draft o f the EA was received by the Bank and disclosed in the
Infoshop on April 8, 2002. This EA is part o f the Project Manual dated July 2002.
The project's EA was widely disseminated among stakeholders and project
beneficiaries in local language via the project website and four meetings in the
project corridors (April-June, 2002).

39.     The PIU maintained close contact duringproject preparation with all o f the
main participating government agencies. IAP and SEAB, through EMATER, were
especially involved in designing the project and the state government's training unit
was responsible for the design o f the Education Component (Component I).

40.     An in-depth consultation on project objectives and components was held
with the State o f ParanQ Association o f Environmental NGOs (UNIAP) and four
additional NGOS''on August 24, 2000 and included ten representatives from eight
different governmental institutions involved in biodiversity conservation issues. All
recommendations o f the meeting were incorporated into the project design and
included: effective participation o f civil society in councils and fora, being sure to
pay attention to existing centers o f protection o f fauna and not just the new center
supported by the project; and using a holistic project focus and approach in the
region that is multidisciplinary in character, which ensures civil society
participation. Also discussed were issues o f environmental benefits, including
quality o f life, health, and access to use o f natural resources. In addition, in early to
mid 2001, meetings o f NGOs and potential beneficiaries were convened at the
regional and local level, in the target eco-regions, to ascertain views on project
design, especially as it pertained to interstitial area alternative production systems.

41.     NGOs have continued to be involved in the project. Component Ihas a
budget allocation to fund NGO's participation as trainers, especially where they
have a strong local presence. The Universidade Federal de Parana was identified in
2006 to host the Wildlife Management Center (in Component 111). Local NGOs are
also part of the surveillance teams in the same component; these provide regular


loCEDEA, MEECA, XAMA, andKOALA.




                                            16

                                                               Paran6 Biodiversity Project


targeted fauna counts as part o f project monitoring and evaluation. NGOs
participate in municipal and regional advisory committees and are invited to take
part in local forums. The existing project structure allows those with the capacity to
contribute to project implementation to be identified and involved, and NGOs and
academic institutions to be involved and heard. The planned Technical Audit for the
PBP will explore additional mechanisms for civil society participation.

42.      In light of the information above, Management considers that the PBP has
complied with all requirements under OPBP 4.0 1 on Environmental Assessment,
including those for the methodology and content o f the EA, the EA rating and
timing, andthe EA consultation process.

Forestry, OP 4.36

43,      Recent scientific studies have indicated that many existing Araucaria forest
areas are too small to maintain viable populations o f Araucdria and other flagship
species o f flora and fauna. Hence, a dominant focus on the protection o f the native
areas o f Araucaria forest, without construction o f corridors, would impede
attainment o f the goal to prevent the loss o f biodiversity associated with the
Araucaria forest, as the many current forest stands are not large enough to maintain
viable populations o f different species.

44.      OP 4.36, on Forestry (March 1993, in force at the time o f PBP preparation)
states that Bank involvement in the forestry sector aims at reducing deforestation,
enhancing     the environmental      contribution o f forested      areas,   promoting
afforestation, reducing poverty, and encouraging economic development. In pursuit
o f these objectives, the Bank has applied the following principles: (a) not financing
commercial logging operations in primary tropical moist forest; (b) using a sector-
wide approach to forestry and conservation work in order to address policy and
institutional issues; and (c) involving the private sector and local people in forestry
and conservation management. Bank policy also makes lending operations in the
forestry sector conditional on government commitment to sustainable management
and conservation-oriented forestry, distinguishes projects that are exclusively
environmentally protective or supportive o f small farmers from all other forestry
operations, and finances only preservation and light non-extractive use o f forest
resources in forest areas o f highecological value.

45.      In Management's view, OP 4.36 Forestry is not applicable to the PBP.
(Management's view could be different ifthe new OP 4.36 had been in force at the
time o f PBP preparation.) The PBP does not fund any logging or deforestation
activities, legal or illegal. It also does not include any provision to support tree
planting for commercial use, be it a monoculture or a mixed species field. Although
there are significant areas o f plantation forest in the project corridors (forestry for
pulp and paper) where logging is taking place, this loggingis not supported by the
project. The project supports the reforestation only o f areas cleared before the
project began. Such reforestation: (a) takes place in properties inside the corridor
necessary to ensure the connectivity between natural areas; (b) uses a mix o f more



                                           17

 Brazil


 than 20 local species; and (c) creates permanent forested areas, in which no
 harvesting is permitted.

 46.     The PBP supports the operation o f state-managed nurseries that produce
 high quality seedlings of local species, including Arauchria. Each farmer
 beneficiary o f the PBP receives sets o f seedlings already organized to ensure a good
 balance among species, including their characteristics (for example pioneer species
 surrounding slow-growing ones; large species planted at an appropriate distance
 apart). Through the PBP, the State also provides technical assistance to farmers
 regarding planting, spacing, and maintenance and protection o f the field.

 47.     The Request makes specific allegations o f destruction o f native vegetation
 inthe Araucaria corridor. Management has been in recent contact (July 2006) with
 State Authorities and has been informed that there is no evidence o f intefisification
 of deforestation in the project area (Arauchria Corridor). The specific incidents
 reported by the Requestor in their letter o f March 21, 2006 are discussed in Box 2
 below under the Natural Habitats section.

 NaturalHabitats, OP 4.04

 48.     The Atlantic Forest (or Mutu Atldnticu) o f Brazil is one the richest
 ecosystems inthe world. It is home to more than 20,000 species o f plants, i.e., about
 35 percent o f plant species found in Brazil. The Forest's endemic fauna is also
 extremely rich. Available information indicates that there are 73 species o f
 mammals and 160 species o f birds. Among the amphibians, there are 183 recorded
 species, over 90 percent of which are considered endemic. Compared with the
 Amazon Forest, the Atlantic Forest has, proportionally, greater biological diversity.
 (For example, in the case of mammals, there are 215 species recorded in the
 Atlantic Forest versus 353 in the Amazon, although the latter is four times larger.)
 Inaddition, the majority of the Brazilian population inhabits the area o fthe Atlantic
 Forest domain, which provides water to about 120 million people."

 49.     The original Atlantic Forest domain comprised 1.2 million km2 and
 remnants may still be found in 17 out o f 26 Brazilian States, all in different stages
 o f conservation. Today, an estimated 7 percent o f the original areas o f the Atlantic
 Forest remains. As a consequence, 'out of 202 animal species on Brazil's official
,threat list, 171 are from the Atlantic Forest. Agriculture and urban expansion,
 logging, an over-exploitation of natural resources, and air and water pollution are
 some o f the causes for the ecosystem's environmental deterioration. Such
 deterioration has been ongoing for centuries,12 but only started to receive enhanced
 attention from local authorities, civil society and the international community inthe
 past 25 years.

 'ISource: Documents from the Ministryo f Environment, Brazil.
 I2Dean, W. 1995. WithBroadax andFirebrand: TheDestruction of theBrazilianAtlantic Forest.
 Berkeley: University of California Press, 482 pp.




                                                  18

                                                               Paranci Biodiversiv Project


50.     To address this $andother environmental issues, Brazil has a vast and
complex legal framework for environmental protection. Modem Brazilian
environmental law can be traced to the Forest Code (Law 4.771 o f 1965) and the
adoption o f the National Environmental Policy Act (Law 6.938 o f 1981). In 1988,
the country's legal framework was substantially revamped with the adoption of a
new Federal Constitution. In it, an entire Chapter (Chapter VI, Article 225) is
devoted to the environment. In fact, Article 225, para. 4 singles out the Atlantic
Forest for special protection as it declares "The Brazilian Amazon Forest, the
Atlantic Forest, the "Serra do Mar'', the "Pantanal Mato-Grossense " and the
Coastline are part of the national wealth, and they shall be used, according to the
law, under conditions which ensurepreservation of the environment, including the
use of natural resources." The 1988 Federal Constitution also provided expanded
powers for the Federal and State Attorney General Offices (Ministdrio PzibIico).
These now have the status o f independent agencies and have played a significant
role in environmental enforcement, although optimal compliance is still to be
achieved.

51.     The legal framework for protecting the Atlantic Forest in Brazil has been the
subject of intense debate. A comprehensive bill has been pending approval in the
Brazilian Congress for 14 years. Recent information indicates that such approval
(the bill was approved by the Brazilian Senate earlier this year) could occur soon.
The current form o f the bill comprises about 50 articles, and its objectives regarding
the Atlantic Forest biome include sustainable development; safeguarding
biodiversity, human health, landscape, aesthetic and tourist values; hydrological
regime and social stability. The proposed billrequires that protectionand use of the
Atlantic Forest be undertaken in a compatible manner for present and future
generations. It is worth noting that the bill requires the National Environmental
Council (CONAMA) to issue, within 180 days o f the bill's passage into Law, a
definition of primary vegetation and secondary vegetation in initial, medium and
advanced stages o f regeneration. N o intervention in such areas may take place until
such definitions are officially issued. In addition to. regulating conservation
activities in the Atlantic Forest area, the bill provides detailed requirements for
forest management depending on the purpose of the exploration, intended
beneficiary o f the exploration, stage o f the recuperation o f the forested area in
question, etc. Finally, the bill proposes the creatim o f a dedicated fund to promote
conservation of, and scientific research in, the Atlantic Forest.

52.     Currently, the primary legislation guiding the use and protection o f the
Atlantic Forest is comprised o f the Federal Decree 750 o f February 10, 1993 and
the National CONAMA Resolution 278 o f May 24,200 1. Both pieces of legislation
prohibit the cutting, exploitation or suppression o f Atlantic Forest vegetation
(primary or in advanced stages o f regeneration), except for "public utility projects"
or on a small, non-commercial scale, as defined in the legislation. Resolution 278
also suspended authorizations for cutting or otherwise exploiting endangered tree




                                           19

Brazil


species. The 1965 Forestry Code, as amended over time, also has relevant
provisions regardingLegal Reserves, APPs and management o f planted forests.13In
the case o f removal or storage o f wood or timber, an authorization from the relevant
environmental authority i s required. Exploration o f planted forests is permitted
und,er Brazilian law, including the Forestry Code referred to above, but its
management, particularly in vulnerable areas such as the Atlantic Forest, requires
strict observance o f the applicable environmental legislation. Such requirements
may include the prohibition o f removing any vegetation in APPs (planted or native)
or vegetation with the function o f protecting endangered species o f flora or fauna,
andthe preparationo f specific technical studies.

53.       Specifically applicable to the State o f Paranb, Federal Regulation 507 o f
December 20, 2002 reinforces the restrictions set forth in Federal Decree 750 and
defines, inter alia, the geographic areas that are targeted to potentially become
Federally Protected Areas. Federal Regulation 507 cites as justification the results
obtained from the National Biodiversity Program (PROBIO), which was financed
with World BarddGEF support (now closed).

54.       The Bank has supported the government's long-term interest .in the
conservation o f the area, primarily through the Pilot Program to Conserve the
Brazilian Rain Forest (PPG-7) which has been in place since 1992. The Program
has included activities in the Atlantic Forest, including past and ongoing projects
where the representative o f the Requesters, the RMA, and several o f its affiliates
have had a leadership role in implementation (see Box 1 below for additional
information).

55.       The Requesters state (Annex 1, Item 11) that "...hundreds ofnative areas in
an advanced stage of conservation were systematically destroyed, some of them
under licenses issued by the State environmental agency, the U P " . While the Bank
has been aware that the Arauciiria forests have been under threat (hence the


13 Permanent PreservationArea (Areade Preservaqcib Permunente or APP) andthe LegalReserve
(ReservuLegu[) are conceptsintroducedby the 1965 Forest Code which, since particularlythe year
2000, have beenamendedseveral times. According to Article 1, paragraph2, I1ofthe Code, an APP
is a protectedarea regulatedby the Code, covered or not with nativevegetatioa with the environ-
mental function of preservingthe water resources, landscape, geologicalstability, biodiversity,the
flow of fauna andflora, soil protectionandthe well-beingof humanpopulations. ExamplesofAPPs
includeforests andother forms of vegetation found aroundwatersheds, rivers, lakesandreservoirs,
hilltops, hillsidesandwetlands.
The LegalReserve is definedby Article 1, paragraph2,111 of the Code as an area locatedwithin a
rural propertyor possession, necessary for the sustainable use of naturalresources, the conservation
andrehabilitationofthe ecologicalprocesses, biodiversity conservationor the protectionof native
fauna andflora. The vegetationinthe Legal Reservearea can only be usedunder asustainableman-
agement regime approvedby environmentalauthorities.Inanattemptto,reducethe alarmingratesof
deforestation inthe country, particularly in the Amazon region, the Code establishedthat the prop-
erty percentageto be allocated for LegalReservepurposes is 80 percent inthe Amazon Region, and
20 percent in the rest of the country, includingthe Atlantic Forestarea.




                                                  20

                                                                        Paranci Biodiversity Project


rationale for the PBP), the Bank has not been made aware o f specific reports o f
destruction o f native areas within the.project area. The Bank had not received any
reports from the Requesters, the State o f Parana, or other parties regarding the
specific occurrences noted inthe Requesters' Letter prior to its receipt on March 21,
2006 from the Requesters.

                     Box 1. The World Bank and the Atlantic Forest of Brazil
 In the last decade, World Bank support for conservationof the Atlantic Foresttook place primarily
 through the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest (PPG-7) which is partially
 financed by the RainForest Trust Fund, a fund administered by the Bank. In 1994, Demonstration
 Projects were launched, aiming at supporting local initiatives-of NGOs and municipal
 governments-for the conservation andsustainableuse tropical forests in the Amazon andAtlantic
 Forest regions. The DemonstrativeProjects supported 47 projects, with an investmentof around
 USS6 millions in the Atlantic Forest. Currently the Ministry of Environment is implementing a
 USS800,OOO preparation grant dedicated to launching the future bases of an Atlantic Forest
 Program, envisionedto be financed by other bilateralandmultilateraldonors.
 The PPG-7 also had a specific objective of supportingthe strengthening of regional networks of
 organizations from civil society. In Amazonia, that network was the Amazon Working Group
 whereas inthe Atlantic Forest, it was the Atlantic Forest Network (Rede Mata Atlhtica - RMA).
 Since 1996, the Rh4A has been the recipient o f multiple RainForest Trust grants with the primary
 objective of strengtheningthe organizationas apreferentialpartner in the policy dialogue relatedio
 the Atlantic Forest. InMarch 2004, the RMA participated, at the invitation of the World Bank, in a
 special session of dialogue between the World Bank,and civil society on the occasion of ESSD
 Week.
 Another relevant project of the.PPG7 in support of conservation of the Atlantic Forest is the
 EcologicalCorridorsproject. The Project, inthe amount of USS5 million, has as its main objective
 the promotion of large-scale conservation through establishment of ecological corridors in the
 States of Bahia and Espirito Santo, involving many civil society organizations in policy
 formulationand implementation.
 In addition, the Bank also supports conservation in the Atlantic Forest `through the Critical
 EcosystemsPartnershipFund (CEPF), which declaredthis "biodiversity hotspot" as a priority area.
 Since 2002, the fund has allocatedabout US$8 million to 48 conservationprojectsimplementedby
 non-governmental organizations inthe region.


56.      With regard to the Requesters' specific references to reported incidents o f
destruction o f native areas in three places: Candbi, Santo AntBnio do Iratim
(General Carneiro) and Palmas, Management has sought to learn more about these
incidents. It has received assurances from IAP (noted in detail below              i GBox 2) that
two o f the three incidents were outside o f the project area. The third occurrence was
a case o f legal harvesting o f dried out and/or rotten trees inthe project area.

57.      Management has engaged with the Borrower since the request was received
to identify issues that may have affected the project and actions that could be taken.
Management is proceeding with the Technical Audit (noted above in the
"Implementation"        section) in support o f the Mid-Term Review. Though
degradation o f native areas outside the Project Area does not affect the project and
is outside the scope o f the project, if widespread, it could affect the potential for
future replicability o f similar biodiversity approaches by the State o f Parana.




                                                 21

Brazil



                            Box 2 Incidents Reported by the Requesters
In the Cand6i case, the Request claims that in 2004 IAP authorized the clearing of 255 ha and that
all nearby lumberyardsjustified their inventoryof Araucariawith IAP documentation certifying that
the timber came from planted forests. The Request claims that this contravenes the law.
Management notes that this area is not located in the project area. In consultationwith the State,
Management was informedthat an authorizationfor clearing was granted in 2002 for a small area,
but that the owner logged a larger area and was sanctioned accordingly. Also accordingto the State,
there have beenno significantchanges inland use inthis municipality since project inception.
Inthe case of Santo Antonio do Iratim (General Carneiro), the Request claimsthat inMarch, 2003
IAP authorized the removal of imbuia trees from a particular area which was subsequently
expropriated(August, 2004) with the aim of establishing a StateProtectedArea. The Request further
contends that timber removal activity was taking place in August 2004. According to the Request,
the authorizationwas given on the basis,that the trees were "dried out and/or rotten." Management
notes that this area is located in the project area. In consultationwith the State, Management was
informed that an authorization to remove dead trees from the area was indeed granted in 2003
following a technically substantiated.process.The State further informedthat in 2005 the area was
transformedinto aState Park andis currently undergoingregularization.
Finally, the Request for Inspectionstates that "in 2005, an area of approximately3,000 ha of natural
fields (campos naturais) was destroyed near Palmas," further indicating that such area was
designatedby a federal task-force to become aUC. Management notes that this locationis not in the
project area. In consultationwith IAP, Management clarified that this area has been subject to fires
of unknownorigin, but that the area is in the process of regeneration. On April 3, 2006, the Federal
Government established a 16,582 hectare Wildlife Refuge in the area. The PBP has supported
discussion with farmers and civil society on the importance of the area's biodiversity, increasedfire
protectionandimprovedenforcementofthe new protectedarea.


58.      The findings and recommendations o f the Technical Audit are intended to
feed into the results o f the Mid-Term Review. The Technical Audit is examining,
among other issues, the extent o f the reduction or disappearance o f forest remnants
o f Araucaria (see Terms o f Reference for the Technical Audit - Annex 6). The
terms o f reference for the audit were developed in consultation with the State o f
Parani and other stakeholders in May and June 2006. Consultants were hired in
July 2006, and the Technical Audit is expected to be completed in late September
2006.

59.      The Requesters state (Annex 1, Item 11) that there is an ".. absence o f a .
definition o f the concept o f biodiversity conservation in the execution o f the
Project". The PBP has developed a well defined methodological approach to
biodiversity conservation (as elaborated in Annex 5 to this Response). Through the
activities implemented in the context o f improved management o f natural resources
inthe targeted micro-catchments, the project has established specific mechanisms to
engage with landowners and other stakeholders at the local level on biodiversity
issues. The PBP undertakes activities directed towards protection o f native forest.
Specific activities aimed at ensuring preservation o f native forests on private
properties include the following: identification o f well preserved forested areas in
the corridors; planting o f seedlings o f native species in privately owned areas to
create connectivity between these areas; fencing o f biodiversity-significant areas;
and Rapid Ecological Assessments aimed at identifying and prioritizing further
investments in privately owned areas inthe three corridors.



                                                  22

                                                              Paran6 Biodiversity Project


60.      Measures also include a comprehensive training and dissemination program
(with over 3,800 farmers trained since project inception), the establishment o f
transboundary Corridor Committees (covering several municipalities), collaborative
arrangements developed with the organization that promotes the establishment o f
RPPNs, and the designation o f a Technical Corridor Manager (recruited by IAP),
for each o f the corridors covered by the project. These activities, together with the
conclusions o f the Rapid Ecological Assessments currently underway, are expected
to generate the basis for establishment o f additional working arrangements with
landowners o f properties with remnants o f significant biodiversity value.

61.      Complementing the above activities focused on the selected project area, the
project is also contributing to the overall enhancement o f the functions o f
institutions involved in project implementation. In the context o f the institutional
strengthening component, the project has supported the establishment andor
improvement o f monitoring and enforcement tools such as geographic information
systems (GIs), the training o f IAP technical staff and inspectors at the State and
municipal level, and the purchase/provision o f field equipment (vehicles, boats,
GPS, etc.) for monitoring and enforcement. (Annex 3 demonstrates the following
progress towards meeting project targets in this area: all the purchases o f GIS
images targeted under the project have been made; all planned training courses for          *

IAP staff have been executed, with more than twice the targeted IAP staff trained
[475]; all the targeted IAP [135] and municipal [41] inspectors trained; and, all 9
regional IAP offices have been connected to the Central Environmental Monitoring
Unitthrough the information integration network.)

62.     In sum, the State of Parana and Management recognize the value o f the
Atlantic Forest as a global asset. Acknowledging that, historically,. economic
development has not taken place in a sustainable manner in the region, the State o f
Parana has engaged, through initiatives such as the PBP, in support for conservation
efforts and the identification and implementation o f alternatives aimed at making
endangered spaces compatible with existing and foreseen developmental pressures.

63.     The Notice o f Registration issued by the Inspection Panel cites the Natural
Habitats Policy (OPBP 4.04). Management underlines that the primary purpose o f
the OP 4.04 is to ensure that Bank supported projects help protect and enhance
biodiversity. The policy limits the circumstances under which any Bank-supported
project can cause harm to natural habitats, and prohibits support for projects that
would lead to the significant loss or degradation o f any critical natural habitats as
defined inthe policy. Considering the proactive measures to support natural habitats
and the absence o f identified project interventions that could cause any harm to, or
loss of, such habitats, Management considers that the project is in compliance with
OPBP 4.04.

 Supervision, OPBP 13.05

64.     Management considers that the project is in compliance with OP/BP 13.05
for the reasons set out below.



                                          23

Brazil


65.     Recognizing that project implementation is the responsibility o f the State o f
Parana, Management agreed with state authorities that the pilot and innovative
nature of the project required a special supervision effort. This decision resulted in
the adoption of an intense supervision schedule, both in terms o f frequency o f
missions and team composition. Management notes that:

    0   Since project effectiveness, to date over a period o f 45 months, a total o f 9
        full supervision missions have been conducted, complemented by several
        partial or follow-up supervisions that were conducted as part of supervision
        missions for the Parani Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources
        Management Project (Loan 4060-BR);

    0   The Bank's        supervision   team    was     multi-disciplinary,   involving
        professionals with relevant experience in biodiversity, NRM, economics,
        institutional arrangements, and operational aspects of decentralized project
        implementation. Specific team composition is detailed in each project ISR,
        and,

        The multidisciplinary team consistently attended not only to all due
        diligence and fiduciary aspects o f the project, but also provided considerable
        operational support and technical assistance.

66.     Given the special .nature o f the project, which aims at develdping
mechanisms to effectively mainstream biodiversity conservation in the productive
landscape (of which this project represents the first to be financed by GEF under
this Strategic Direction) supervision was carried out in collaboration with
representatives o f several State institutions involved in project implementation,
including SEMA, IAP, SEAB, EMATER, State Secretariat o f Planningand General
Coordination (SEPL), the Center for Coordination o f Government Programs
(CCPG), and the staff of the PIU. In addition, supervision missions carried out field
trips to the project area, which included visits to local authorities, beneficiaries and
other stakeholders, including NGOs in all three corridors targeted by the project.

67.     As documented in the aide memoires for each supervision mission, the
supervision team held working meetings with stakeholders at the state and local
level and undertook field trips. Attention was given during supervision to assessing
if the project was being implemented with due diligence and within the
requirements o f the development objectives and the Grant Agreement; identifying
implementation issues and possible solutions;           and monitoring performance
indicators. The specific findings of each mission are detailed in the relevant aide
memoires and ISRs. During 14 months o f the period in question, the Task Team
Leader was residing in Brasilia, allowing for closer and more'frequent interaction
with stakeholders.

68.     The Requesters state (Annex 1, Item 21) that "reports [on these issues], as
well as a series of local initiatives aimed at explaining the situation and sensitizing
the various levels of the State government and the WorldBank team responsiblefor



                                          24

                                                              Paranci BiodiversityProject


coordinating the Project have been made throughout theproject 's execution period.
Those parties are fully aware of the approaches and arguments reported above.          "
Throughout the project supervision period, up untilreceipt o f the Requesters' letter
o f March 21, 2006, no specific cases o f deforestation o f native areas were brought
to the attention o f the Bank, nor was this raised as an issue during field trips and
consultations with stakeholders in the region. With regard to the concerns expressed
by the Requesters regarding the three incidents (noted above in Box 2), the Bank
was made aware o f these particular incidents through the Letter o f March 21,2006,
as reflected inthe ISR filed subsequent to the supervision missionthat followed.

69.     InJune 2005, the project was downgraded to ModeratelyUnsatisfactory as a
result of the implementation delays described in paragraphs 21-23, and a
comprehensive Action Plan was prepared, including a subset o f 42 indicators
                                    '
considered key to demonstrate improvement in project implementation. The
substantial progress achieved between September 2005 and March 2006 on these
indicators allowed the Bank to upgrade project implementation to Satisfactory (ISR
dated June 29,2006).

70.     Next Steps. Management is committed to continuing intensive supervision
efforts to assist the State o f Parana to further improve project implementation and
identify mechanisms that could contribute to the objective o f mainstreaming
biodiversity conservation in agricultural areas. A Technical Audit is being
undertaken as part o f the Bank's stocktaking exercise with the Government of
Parana in preparation for the Mid-Term Review. The Technical Audit is expected to
be completed by late September 2006, with consultations to follow. The Technical
Audit will cost approximately US$30,000.

71.     Management expects that a specific set o f complementary actions will be
identified by the Technical Audit. Through a comprehensive dissemination and
discussion process, the conclusions and recommendations o f the Technical Audit
will be evaluated and finalized by the Bank, the State o f Parani, NGOs and other
project stakeholders.     The operational aspects o f implementing the final
recommendations o f the Technical Audit will be addressed by the Mid-Term
Review (scheduled for November-December 2006), establishing the terms and
conditions for the revised implementation schedule and allocation o f remaining
grant resources. Specific, planned short-term actions and their timeline are as
follows:

    0   Inceptiono f Technical Audit -August 1,2006;

    0   Completiono f first draft o f Technical Audit - September 30,2006;

    0   Dissemination and Workshop -by October 31,2006;

    0   Mid-TermReview -November-December, 2006; and,




                                           25

Brazil


       Amendments to Project Manual and Grant Agreement (if required) - by
       January 15,2007.

72.    Since mid-July 2006, the Bank has been discussing with the State o f Paranh
the identificationo f potential instruments that could further ensure the effectiveness
o f the PBP in conserving Arauchia forest remnants in advanced stages o f
succession. One possibility in this regard i s the more extensive adoption o f existing
mechanisms such as RPPNs. On July 31, 2006, the State o f Parana expressed its
agreement to this approach (Annex 7, Supervision Mission Aide Memoire o f July
27 to August 1,2006).

73.    Thus, the results o fthe proposed Technical Audit discussed inthis report are
intended to further inform choices to be made by the State o f Parana regarding
project investments that could focus more sharply on forest remnants in the
Arauchia corridor. Based on the final recommendations o f the Technical Audit
regarding the state o f native areas in or adjacent to the current project corridors, the
Bank andthe State o fParana are expected to discuss inthe context o fthe Mid-Term
Review potential additional project activities, including but not limited to the
following:

       Expanding the current boundaries o f the Araucaria Corridor and adjustment,
       as necessary, to include in the PBP's investment program areas o f
       significant forest remnants in advanced stages o f succession on private
       lands;

       Undertaking a review o f how the State o f Parani may further strengthen its
       environmental agency duringthe remaining project implementation period,
       with regardto enforcement and inspection;

       Increasing transparency through greater participation o f stakeholders by: (i)
       establishment o f an advisory project committee that includes private sector
       and civil society organizations; and (ii)improvement o f the project's
       communication strategy.



                       V. MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE

74.    The Requesters' claims, accompanied by Management's detailed responses,
are provided inAnnex 1.

75.    Management would like to highlight the challenge o f promoting
conservation in intensively developed areas with strong potential for agriculture and
other highly profitable economic activities. Differences among stakeholders in
conservation policy approaches, priorities, and trade-offs and uneven speed of
project implementation are unavoidable constraints. The PBP encapsulates these
challenges and proposes alternatives that fit the existing realities o f rural Parana.



                                           26

                                                              Parand Biodiversity Project


76.    The current Inspection Panel Request relates to the topic o f accelerated
destruction of native Araucaria areas. This is an issue to which the State o f Parani
and the Bank will pay increasing attention over the coming years. However the
existence o f circumstances in the State of Parani that have allowed the current
incidents raised by the Request to occur do not imply that the Bank has violated its
operational policies, namely 4.01,4.04,4.36   and 13.05.

77.    Evidence available to Management suggests that the Bank has consistently
and fully applied its policies and procedures and has systematically and concretely
pursued its mission statement in the context o f the Project. In Management's view,
the Bank has thus complied with the policies and procedures applicable to the
matters raised by the Request, and the Requestors' rights or interests have not been,
nor will they be, directly and adversely affected by the implementation o f the PBP.




                                          21


                                                                                           Paranci Biodiversiw Project




No.  Clalmllssue                                            Response

                        Natural Habitats -OF 4.04, Forestry    -OP4.36,     Supervision   ,-OPlBP 13.05

-
Des&
1.   Methodological changes were made soon after            Comment: The PBP is a pilot project aimed at identifying sustain-
     Project approval (Paragraph 4 of letter attached to    able mechanisms to mainstream biodiversity conservation in pro-
    the Request)that caused a redirectioning of activi-     ductive landscapes. It received financial resources from a GEF
    ties, thus not allowing the achievement of originally   grant (US$8 million), and was conceived to be a demonstration
    expressed goals. This fact can be easily ascer-         project, with a highlyfocused geographical scope (see Map 1).
    tained by checkingthe indicators established when
    the project was prepared (Paragraph 4 of the Re-        The PAD notes that there are different approaches to ensuring
    quest.)                                                 conservation of biodiversity. In brief, thes'e are: (a) an isolated
                                                            protected areas approach, concentrating on conserving biodiver-
                                                            sity in existing isolated patches; and (b) a corridors approach,
                                                            building up interconnectivity between specific areas with existing
                                                            biodiversity. Both of these were considered during preparation,
                                                            and the second option was selected. This is discussed in the PAD
                                                            under the heading ProjectAlternatives Considered and Reasons
                                                            for Rejection,and the corridors approach is covered in greater
                                                            detail in the "Strategic Approach" section of Annex 2 of the PAD.
                                                            See also Annex 5 of this Response.
                                                            Management has reviewed the imDlementationof the PBP and
                                                            proiect indicators and considers that resources have been directed
                                                            to activities consistent with the Droiect desian financing Dlan. The
                                                            PBP is following the oiiginal PAD endorsed by the World Bank and
                                                            the GEF. In particular, project objectives continue to be those
                                                            stated in the PAD, the working areas remain the same, the com-
                                                            ponents are those stated in the PAD and the same indicators are
                                                            being used to monitor progress.     .
-
2.  During the execution of the Paranh Biodiversity         Comment: By design, the PBP concentrates resources on ensur-
    Project, a significant number of landowners have        ina adeauate protection and manaaement of the native forest that
    been reaching agreements with the State govern-         alreadv contains sianificant biodiversitv more than on restoring
    ment that guarantee initial steps will be taken to     dearaded areas. The PBP does not suaaest that the reforested
    restore degraded areas. And so, during the coming      areas themselves will contain sianificant biodiversitv and does not
    decades, if the restoration work that has begun is      SUDDO~~  such an obiective.
    maintained, those areas may become native ar-
    eas, but without any guarantee that they will have      Rather, the aim of restoration, supported by the PBP, is to pro-
    a truly significant biodiversity. (Paragraph 7.of let-  mote connectivity and indirectly maintain viable populations of
    ter attached to the Request.)                           important biodiversity in the native forest areas themselves. As
                                                            such, restoration is an important method of ensuring that signifi-
    If in the past few years during the execution of the    cant biodiversity continues to exist in the large areas of native for-
    Parand Biodiversity Project energy was spent in        est.
    planting millionsof seedlings in the hopes of re-
    constituting the original landscape of areas that      The theory and evidence to support this approach as the optimal
    had been completely degraded and that exhibited        way to conserve fragmented habitats given limited resources is
    extremely low biodiversity while, at the same time,    explained further in Annex 5 to this Response.
    in those same regions,the last areas that were still
    well preserved and rich in biodiversity are being
    systematically destroyed, what will be the results of
    an evaluation of this work that uses the indicators
    formally defined at the start of the Project? And
    with whom will the responsibility lie with respect to
    the results obtained from that evaluation? (Para-
    graph 10 of letter attached to the Request.)



                                                             29

        Brazil
-
No.   Claimllssue                                         Response

3     No project action,or only sporadic action, has      Comment: Dueto limitedresources. the PBP necessarilv could
      beendirected to propertiesthat had well-preserved   not ensure interventions for increasedSUDDO~~   to all well-preserved
      areaseither. (Paragraph 6 of letter attached to the areas. Some areas receivedno PBPsupport,in order to afford
      Request.)                                           other priority areasadequate protection. The areas that were cho-
                                                          sen to be part of the Araudria corridor were chosento achieve
                                                          optimalconservationof biodiversity giventhe funds available.
                                                          The PBP undertakes activitiesdirectedtowards Drotection of na-
                                                          tive forest. Specific activitiesaimed at ensuring preservation of
                                                          native forestson privateproperties include the following: identifica-
                                                          tion of well preservedforested areas inthe corridors;plantingof
                                                          seedlings of native species in privately owned areas to create
                                                          connectivity betweenthese areas: fencing of biodiversity-
                                                          significant areas: and RapidEcologicalAssessments aimedat
                                                          identifyingand prioritizingfurther investmentsin privately owned
                                                          areas.
                                                          Inaddition, the State of Parana has already identifieda series of
                                                          small- and medium-sized properties that could greatly contribute to
                                                          the steppingstone approach within the corridors;through the Mid-
                                                          Term Review,the Bank and the State expectto define mecha-
                                                          nisms throughwhich the projectcouldassist the State decisionto
                                                          support these landowners to create RPPNs within the federal pri-
                                                          vate land protection legalframework.
                                                          This topic is coveredfurther in the responsesunder 'Implementa-
                                                          tion" below and treatedin moredetail inAnnex 6 to this Re-
                                                          sponse.

Implementation
      One does not needto be an exDert in biodiversitv    Comment: Recognizingthe threat to the Araueria biome, the
      conservationto concludethat the US$8 millionhas     Bank financed a ComDrehensivestudv under the PROBIO Proiect
      beenused in a strategically mistaken manner.We      focused on this biomein the State of ParanB (referredto in the
      emphasize that the biomesaffected by the Project    Request for Inspection as Fupef-UFPr/ Probio-MMA).This Study
      are on the thresholdof disappearance, and there     (2004) concluded that while there is no untouched primary
      are no prospects of other opportunities in terms of Araucaria forest in the State of Parana, there are still 66,000 ha of
      time or moneyas positiveas this initiativeby the    forest inadvanced successionalstage.
      GEFMIB could be. (Paragraph 9 of letterattached
      to the Request.)                                    Giventhe pilot and demons6ativenatureof the project, the areas
                                                          targetedare in biomes highlighted for their importance to biodiver-
                                                          sity conservation and also because of their potentialto demon-
                                                          strate an integrated approach to conservation in the State. The
                                                          PBPthus has generatedthe opportunitv to produceconcrete re-
                                                          sults in habitatconservation and restoration, and provide an ex-
                                                          ample of how differentState institutionsand society couldjointly
                                                          develop conservation actions.

      Afler four years of execution (the project was be-  Comment: Duringthe first half of the projectimplementation pe-
      gun in 2002), there is an obvious lack of synchro-  riod (September2002-early 2005), the State of Parana imple-
      nization between what was originally proposed and   mented the GEF-financed biodiversity conservationactivitiesof
      the orientation given to the Project. (Paragraph 4  the projectmore slowly than the NRM activities.The relatively
      of letterattached to the Request).                  slower implementation of the biodiversity conservation activities
                                                          was caused by a delay in agreement over procurement proce-
                                                          dures between the new state administration in Parana (whichtook
                                                          office in January 2003) and the Bank.The delay did not affect the
                                                          NRMactivitiesof the project, since they were designed to use
                                                          community participationmethods on which the Bank and the state
                                                          administration agreed. Agreement on procurement procedures for
                                                          the GEF-financed activitiesof the project was reached in late 2004
                                                          when the Bank beganaccepting electronic bid submissions, mak-
                                                          ingthe Bank and the administrationapproaches consistent. The



                                                            30

                                                                                            Parana Biodiversity Project



No.
-                                                            Response

                                                            result, however, was an 18 month delav in the GEF-financed ac-
                                                            -.tivities,and different rates of Droaress under the two Darts of the

                                                            As of July 12, 2006, the PBP had disbursed US$3.95 million just  -
                                                            under half the total amount of the GEF grant of US$8.0 million.
                                                            This is less than the originally envisaged target of US$7.5 million
                                                            due to the delay in agreement over procurement procedures noted
                                                            above. Following resolution of this procurement issue a four-month
                                                            action plan was finalized in September 2005 with specific short-
                                                            term goals for certain output indicators. (See Implementation
                                                            Status and Results     -ISR9.)    These indicators show over 90%
                                                            achievement of these short-term goals.
                                                            Annex 3 also shows all the original Input, Output and Outcome
                                                             Indicators for the PBP, their final target values, intermediate target
                                                            values     -where  defined -and their current values as of March
                                                            2006. Takina into account the delav noted above, these indicators
                                                            demonstrate that the achievement of oroiect outouts is on track.

6.  During the past four years, there have been hun-         Comment: The project area is small compared to that of the over-
    dreds of reports of destruction of the remaining        all Atlantic Forest in Parana. This is especially the case for the
    native areas in the biomes that were targeted by        Araudria Corridor (see Map 2 and description of the Araucaria
    the Parana Biodiversity Project.To curb that proc-      Corridor in Annex 5), which was defined as a result of an exten-
    ess, the Government of the State of Parana              sive preparatory process in which input from a'numberof experts
    adopted a policy of inspection, arguing that this       was received.
    would make it possible to stem the attack on the
    last areas inan advanced stage of conservation          Throuah the Reauesters' Letter of March 21, 2006. the Bank be-
    that still existed. Even so, the areas continued to     Game aware of the three Darticularincidents. noted in the Letter, of
    be destroyed. (Paragraph 5 of letter attached to        potential destruction of remaining native areas in some Araudria
    the Request.)                                           forest areas. Manaaement has looked into these incidents and to
                                                            its best knowledae, destruction of native areas has not occurred in
    [The three specific reports noted in the Request-       areas covered bv the PBP.
    ers' letter refer to the municipalities of Cand6i,
    General Carneiro, and Palmas.]                          Management recognisesthat degradation of native areas, even
                                                            those outside the Project Area could affect replicability of the cor-
                                                            ridor approach within the State. A Technical Audit, planned as an
                                                            input to the PBP's Mid-Term Review, is examining, among other
                                                            issues, the extent of the reduction or disappearance of forest rem-
                                                            nants of Araudria (see proposed Terms of Reference for the.
                                                            Technical Audit    -Annex    6). The terms of reference for the audit
                                                            were developed in consultation with the State of Parand and other
                                                            stakeholders in May and June 2006. Consultants were hired in
                                                            July, and the Technical Audit is expected to be completed in late
                                                            September.

7.  Independent of these events, the Parana Biodiver-       Comment: The project has focused on recreating connectivity
    sity Project is directing it., efforts, focusing on the between existing forests. The strategy to achieve this objective is
    restoration of degraded areas and acting directly       to enrich native forests and replant areas deforested to promote
    on properties that have been stripped of native         this connectivity. This strategy is based on micro-catchment areas,
    areas (Legal Reserve and Permanent Preservation         where forest on both sides of the water course provides the best
    Area), and putting forth a broad effort at planting     way, according to conservation theory, to repopulate degraded or
    seedlings. (Paragraph 6 of letter attached to the       depleted zones with native flora and fauna. For habitat restoration
    Request.)                                               and in particular for forest recovery, seedling availability is usually
                                                            a constraint owing to the insufficient number of nurseries, hence
                                                            the project`s activities to promote the propagation of native tree
                                                            species.
                                                            The PBP allocates 59% of its GEF resources to conservation ac-
                                                            tivities and 3% to restoration of dearaded areas. The remaining
-                                                           38% is allocated to education and capacity building, control and
                                                            protection, and project administration. The State of ParanB deter-



                                                               31

       Brazil
-
No.  Claimllssue                                          I   Response

                                                             mined these allocations to the most effective in balancing preser-
                                                           vation of existing forests and restoration of degraded areas where
                                                           this is necessary to create connectivity.
                                                              In the Araudria corridor, the PBP has allocated US$79,000 for
                                                             restoration of connectivity; these funds are being used to act di-
                                                             rectly on private areas that have been stripped of native forest.
                                                           This is because restoration of such areas is vital in order to form a
                                                             genetic link between native areas. In contrast, funding of UC ac-
                                                           tivities in the Araudria corridor totals over US$500,000, much of
                                                           which is focused on protection of native areas. An additional
                                                             US$316,000 is allocated for UC management.
                                                           Activities aimed at strengthening conservation and management of
                                                             existing forest and at restoring degraded areas to create connec-
                                                             tivity between existing forest areas have both advanced although
                                                             the implementationof the activities was slowed down by procure-
                                                             ment challenges. The PIU is making every effort to ensure even
-                                                            implementationof all project components.

8.   The absence of tools that would permit working           Comment: Implementationof key project actions requires direct
    directly with the owners of those lands of crucial       involvement of farmers, either individually or organized along mi-
    importanceto the conservation of biodiversity            cro-catchments. For this the project builds on the extensive ex-
     leadsthose owners to seek alternative uses for          perience gained through the two Bank-supported Land Manage-
    their properties in what is recognized as a more         ment projects, which worked with land owners in micro-
    standard practice,thus resulting in their destruc-       catchments in the State. To date, through a highly participatory
    tion. (Paragraph37 of "Deforestation in ParanB"    -     process, involving producers, State and municipal representatives
    attachedto the Request.)                                 and civil society at the local level, a total of 12.350 farmers have
     Therefore, the efforts that 'the Parand Biodiversity    become actively enaaaed in biodiversitv conservation activities
    Project is making outside the policy approach of         within micro-catchments, and about 38,000 farmers have received
    Norkingwith private landowners who possess ar-           training related to biodlversity issues.
    eas of extreme importance may not achieve the            With resoectto the PBP's strateav of orotectina better conserved
    sonservationobjectives for the biome. (Paragraph         areas, olease refer to resoonses in items 1.2 and 3 of this Annex.
    38 of "Deforestationin ParanB"-attached to the
     Request.)                                               ~
                                                             (Parque Estadual das AraucBrias, Reserva Florestal Estadual do
     The [accuracy of] this affirmation may be appreci-      Pinhao, Estapeo Ecobgica Rio dos Touros), and on establishing
     ated through the example of the work of restoring       connectivitvwithin defined corridors. Management believes that
     jegraded areas. Even though a successful effort       this is a coherent and technically sound approach to reach the
     made it possible to plant native species in Perma-      Project's objectives.
    lent PreservationAreas where the native canopy
    lad been removed, and those restored areas are           The results of the DroDosedTechnical Audit are intended to guide
    serving as a bridge among areas in an advanced           remaining oroiect investments so that thev focus as sharDlv as
    stage of conservation,the absence of a policy for      possible on critical areas for achieving Droiect obiectives. These
    wotecting these better-conserved areas ind[cates         could include privately held areas with Araudria forests in an ad-
     a trend that chronologically is not supported in        vanced state of succession. The results could also suggest adop-
    :erns of results. (Paragraph 39 of 'Deforesidiort in     tion of existing tools such as RPPNs and SISLEG.Should the
    'aranh"    -attachedto  the Request.)                  Technical Audit identify areas within the corridors critical for biodi-
                                                           versity conservation, these areas can be considered during the
     n other words, decades would be needed to trans-        Mid-Term Review for incorporation into the PBP's strategy for pri-
    'orm the areas now in an initial phase of restora-     vate conservation initiatives within the corridors.
    :ion into mature forest environments. But that
    Jrocess is not keeping pace the uncontrolled trend
    .oward summary destruction of the last remnants
    :hatis going on right now, that has not been wit-
    iessed and does not need many more years be-
    'ore it is complete. These remnants will be de-
    stroyed before the areas under restoration are
    'ormed, which means that the measure adopted
    Mill no longer make any sense. (Paragraph 40 of
     'Deforestation in ParanB"  -attached  to the Re-



                                                               32

                                                                                              Parand Biodiversity Project
-
No.     Claimllssue                                            Response

        quest.)
-
9.      To conclude, we see as a procedureof absolute          Comment: The State of Paranadevelopedthe project to advance
        priority a revision in the strategy of the Parand      the conservation of biodiversity in three key areas of the State of
        Biodiversity Project that, although it is unable to    Parand. Given limited resources, the Droiect cannot maintain all
        resolve the serious structural, economic, political,   the remaining Araucdria forest biome, and this was never the in-
        and cultural demands involving the nature conser-      tention of the project.
        vation agenda in the State of Parand cannot, on
       the other hand,fail to make its limited investments     As noted above. imDlementationof the PBP is following its oriainal
        so that they focus on what is of greatest pre-         design. as set out in the PAD in agreement with the State of
        eminence in the battle for perpetuatingthe             Parand. This desian balanced the allocation of activities between
        Araucaria Forest biome. (Paragraph41 of 'Defor-        areas still well preserved with recovew of degraded areas (either
        estation in Parand"  -attached   to the Request.)      through the promotion of connectivitv or improvement of gallew
                                                               forest along river banks). The set of these activities targeted and
        Considering the objectives of the Parand Biodiver-     executed does not deviate from those envisioned under the PBP's
        sity Project and the activities now being imple-       original design, and these activities can achieve the PBP's devel-
        mented, it could be easily concluded that activities   opment objectives. Annex 5 contains further information about
        aimed at effectively detaining the destruction proc-   project design.
        ess of the last existing preserved natural areas are
        not being implemented. Hence, the project objec-
        tives are far from being achieved. (Paragraph 7 of
        the Request.)
        Redirecting substantial project resources to the
        recovery of degraded areas, instead of carrying out
        activities focused on areas still well preserved,
        represents an unacceptable strategic error which
        could have grave consequences since itcould lead
        to the lossof substantial resources during probably
        the last significant opportunity to make an effort to
        preserve the region's biodiversity. It is important to
        note that destruction of natural areas is still ongo-
        ing, in some cases even with the endorsement of
        the Government of the State of Parand, through its
        licensing unit, the Parand Environmental Institute
        (IAP). (Paragraph 8 of the Request.)

10.     The largest social damage caused by the misdi-         Comment: The PBP is a pilot initiative, and as such takes up the
        rected implementation of the project is the loss of a  challenge to identify sustainable and innovative opportunities to
        unique opportunity to reverse or minimize the seri-    minimize the loss of biodiversity in the Araucdria biome by revers-
        ous loss of biodiversity biomass in question, at       ing this loss in the project areas. In pursuing this goal, the PBP
       least in the areas where the project is being im-       .has made significant innovative options available to farmers in the
        plemented. This was the only major investment          Araudria corridor, including: integrated planning within micro-
       already directed to the plateau region of the State     catchments, shift to biodiversity-friendly production systems and
       of Parand, where practically all natural areas of       farming infrastructure, direct financial incentives to contribute to
       this biomass have already been destroyed. Be-           biodiversity conservation (fencing, seedlings, etc), and specialized
        sides, opportunities to implement new modalities of    training and technical assistance.
        public policy through innovative and effective ac-
       tivities for the conservation of the remaining natural  The PBP will also use the results of the proposed Technical Audit
       areas, which would influence the behavior of the        to widen the use of existing tools such as RPPN and SISLEG and
        State's inhabitants, are being lost. (Paragraph 9 of   continue to focus on innovative public policy approaches.
       the Request.)

Natural Habitats
11.     Duringthat same period, hundreds of native areas       Comment: The legal framework for protecting the Atlantic Forest
        in an advanced stage of conservation were sys-         in Brazil has been the subject of intense debate for over 14 years.
       tematically destroyed, some of them under Ii-           A comprehensive bill is now pending approval in the Brazilian
       censes issued by the State environmental agency,        Congress. Currently, Federal Decree 750 of February 10, 1993
       the IAP (lnstitutoAmbiental do Parana Parand
                                                  -            and National Council on the Environment (CONAMA) Resolution
        Environmental Institute). This destruction was ac-     278 of May 24, 2001 prohibit the cutting, exploitation or suppres-



                                                                33

 Brazil



Clalmllssue                                            Response

celerated by a questionable interpretationof envi-     sion of Atlantic Forestvegetation(primaryor in advanced stages
ronmentallaws,by the absence of a definitionof         of regeneration), except for "publicutility projects"or on a small,
the concept of biodiversityconservation in the exe-    non-commercialscale,as defined in the law. Resolution278 also
cution of the Project;by the strong politicalinflu-    suspendedauthorizationsfor cuttingor otherwise exploiting en-
ence stil presentin the State as regardsthe use of     dangered tree species.
nativeforests; by the impracticalityof conductinga
sufficientlyeffective inspection;by the continued      Specificallyapplicableto the Stateof ParanB, Federal Regulation
possibility of gaining profitsfrom the sale of timber; 507 of December 20,2002 reinforcesthe restrictionsset forth in
by market encouragementof the plantingof soy-          FederalDecree 750 and defines, interalia, the geographicareas
beanand Pinus sp. monocultures;and by the fail-        that are targeted to potentiallybecome Federally Protected Areas.
ure to take action with landownersto makear-           FederalRegulation507 cites as justificationthe resultsobtained
rangementsunder which their landswould not be          from PROBIO,which was financedwith World BanWGEFsupport
the target of these conventionaluses,inasmuchas        (now closed).
these are the last existing remnants of biodiversity.  The Reauestfor Inspectionalleaesthat the above framework has
(Paragraph 8 of letterattachedto the Request.)         not been respected in the State of ParanB.While the Bank has
                                                       been aware that the Araudria forests have been underthreat
                                                       (hencethe rationalefor the PBP), the Bank has not been made
                                                       aware of specificreportsof destructionof native areas within the
                                                       proiect area. As noted above,the Bank had not received anv re-
                                                       portsfrom the Reauesters,the State of ParanB. or other oarties
                                                       reaardina the specificoccurrences noted in the Reauesters'Letter
                                                       priorto its receipton March 21, 2006 from the Reauesters.Addi-
                                                       tionallv. in consultationwith the State of ParanB.the Bank re-
                                                       ceived assurancesthat two of the three reportedoccurrencestook
                                                       place outsideof the proiectarea. The third occurrencewas a case
                                                       of authorizedharvestinaof dried out andlor rottentrees in the pro-
                                                       ject area. (Discussedin detail below in Items 13, 14. and 15.)
                                                       These assurances notwithstanding,Managementhas engaged
                                                       with the State of ParanBto identify issuesthat may have affected
                                                       the projectand actions that needto be taken. Manaaement is pro-
                                                       ceedina with the TechnicalAudit (noted above in the 'Implementa-
                                                       tion"section) in SUDDO~of~the Mid-Term Review,the purposeof
                                                       which, among other activities,is to establishwhether the valuable
                                                       remnantsof forests in advanced stages of successionare subject
                                                       to destructionor unlawfullogging authorizations.The findingsand
                                                       recornmendationsof the TechnicalAudit are intendedto feed into
                                                       the modificationssuggested during the Mid-Term Review.
                                                       Managementunderlinesthat the primary purpose of the Bank's
                                                       Natural Habitats Policy (4.04) is to ensure that Bank supported
                                                       projects take into account the conservation of biodiversity.In light
                                                       of the above,and taking into accountthe proactivemeasuresto
                                                       support naturalhabitatsand the absence of identifiedDroiectinter-
                                                       ventions that could cause any harm to, or lossof. such habitats,
                                                       Manaaementconsidersthat the Droiect is in compliancewith
                                                       OPlBP 4.04.
                                                       The PBP developed a well defined methodologicalapproach to
                                                       biodiversityconservation (as elaborated in Annex 5 to this Re-
                                                       sponse).Throuahthe activitiesimolemented in the context of im-
                                                       provedmanaaementof naturalresourcesin the targeted micro-
                                                       catchments,the Droiect has establishedspecific mechanismsto
                                                       gnaaae with landownersand other stakeholdersat the local level
                                                       on biodiversitvissue*.
                                                       These measures include a comprehensivetraining and dissemina-
                                                       tion program (with over 38,000 farmers trained), the establishment
                                                       of transboundary CorridorCommittees (coveringseveral munici-
                                                       palities),the collaborativearrangements developedwith the or-
                                                       ganizationthat promotesthe establishment of RPPNs, and the
                                                       designationof a Technical Corridor Manager (recruitedby IAP), for


                                                        34

                                                                                       Paranci Biodiversity Project
-
No.  Ciaidissue                                          Response

                                                         each of the corridors covered by the project.
                                                         These activities,toaether with the conclusionsof the on-ooing
                                                         RaDidEcolooicalAssessment (one Der corridor).are exDectedto
                                                         generate the basisfor establishment of additionalworkina ar-
                                                         ranaementswith landowners of DroDertieswith remnants of sianifi-
                                                         cant biodiversitv value.
                                                         Complementingthe above activities focused on the selectedpro-
                                                         ject area,the projectis also contributingto the overallenhance-
                                                         ment of the functions of all institutionsinvolvedin project imple-
                                                         mentation. Inthe context of the institutionalstrengthening
                                                         component,the projecthas supported the establishment and/or
                                                         improvementof monitoring and enforcement tools such as GIs,
                                                         the trainingof IAP technical staff and inspectorsat the State and
                                                         municipallevel,and the purchase/provisionof field equipment
                                                         (vehicles, boats, GPS, etc.) for monitoringand enforcement. For
                                                         example, 41 Municipal Inspectors, 475 IAP staff and 1,I14 Envi-
-                                                        ronmentalTechnicalAdvisors have receivedtraining.

 12. Even so, the IAP continued, and is continuing (as   Comment: In consultation with the State of Parana, Manaaement
     of August 2004) to authorize forest management      determinedthat IAP adopted an interpretationof existina laws and
      and cutting of araucdria and imbuia in quantities  reaulations that allowsfor the cuttino of olantedAraucaria trees.
      that far exceedthe limitsestablishedby the resolu- Management understands that this legalinterpretationcould unin-
      tion, including cutting in areas whose boundaries  tentionally provideincentives for the cuttingof nativeAraucaria
      were drawn by Directive No. 507. (Paragraph13of    trees, especially in the context of FederalGovernment initiativesto
     'Deforestation in Parana"-attached to the Re-       increase the size of UCs (private owners of nativeAraudria
     quest.)                                             stands may be tryingto cut such stands priorto their beinginte-
                                                         grated into UCs).
                                                         The results of the TechnicalAudit will examine the impact of the
                                                         current interpretationof the existing regulatoryframework for
                                                         Araudria logging and will be usedto engagewith Federaland
                                                         State Governments and other stakeholders, includingcivil society,
                                                         to identifyoptions and potentialapproaches to ensuring appropri-
                                                         ate regulation in the future.
                                                         In the Candoi case,the Request claimsthat in 2004 IAP author-
                                                         izedthe clearing of 255 ha and that all nearby lumberyardsjusti-
                                                         fied their inventory of Araucaria with IAP documentation certifying
                                                         that the timber came from Dlantedforests. The Request claims this
                                                         contravenes the law. Management notesthat this area is not lo-
                                                         cated in the project area. In consultationwith the State, Manage-
                                                         ment was informed that an authorizationfor clearingwas granted
                                                         in 2002 for a small area, but that the owner logged a larger area
                                                         and was sanctioned accordingly. Also accordingto the State, there
                                                         have been no significant changes in land use inthis municipality
                                                         since project inception.

     :...I removalofalargevolumeofimbuiaand
~
13.       The                                            Comment: Inthe case of Santo AntBnio do lratim (General
     sraucdriacompletely ruins the Mixed Ombr6fila       Carneirol,the Request claims that in March2003 IAP authorized
     Forest,and distoltsthe intent of Decree3.453of      the removalof imbuiatrees from a particulararea which was sub-
     4ugust 6, 2004, to 'preserve a significantsample    sequently expropriated (August 2004) with the aim of becominga
      3f the MixedOmbrdfila Forestbiome."     ...        State ProtectedArea. The Requestfurther contends that timber
     4raucarias State Park will be a significantsample   removalactivity was taking place inAugust 2004. According to the
     mly of the transgressions committed against the     RBquest,the authorization was given on the basisthat the trees
     last remnants of that forest in Parana and facili-  were "driedout andlor rotten."
     tated by the IAP. (Paragraph 22 of "Deforestation
      n Parand"  -attached    to the Request.)           Management notes that this locationis in the project area. Incon-
                                                         sultation with the State, Managementwas informed that an au-
-                                                        thorization to remove dead trees from the area was indeed
                                                         granted in 2003 following the necessary procedures. The State



                                                          35

         Brazil
-
No.   Claim/lssue                                           IResponse

                                                             further informed that in 2005 the area was transformed into a State
                                                             Park and is presently undergoing regularization.
-
14.
      3,000 hectares of natural fields was'destroyed .
      More recently, in 2005, an area of amroximatelv        Comment: The Reauest for InsDectionstates that "in 2005, an
                                                             area of approximateiy 3,000 ha of natural fields (campos naturais)
      near Palmas.That area had already been selected        was destroyed near Palmas," further indicating that such area was
      by a federal government task force for designation     designated by a federal task-force to become a UC. Management
      as a conservation unit. (Paragraph 23 of 'Defores-     notes that this location is not in the project area. In consultation
      tation in Parand"   -attached   to the Request.)       with IAP, Management clarified that this area has been subject to
                                                             fires of unknown origin, but that the area is in the process of re-
                                                             generation. On April 3, 2006, the Federal Government established
                                                             a 16,582 hectare Wildlife Refuge inthe area. The PBP has sup-
                                                             ported discussion with farmers and civil society on the importance
                                                             of the area's biodiversity, increased fire protection and improved
                                                             enforcement of the new protected area.

-
Fore!
15.   The advent of the Parani4 Biodiversity Project, cre-   Comment: Recent scientific studies have indicated that many
      ated specifically to combat the loss of biological     existing Araucaria forest areas are too small to maintain viable
      diversity in this State, represented an unprece-       populations of Araudria and other flagship species. Hence, &
      dented and very positive expectation that it would     oritv focus on the Drotection of the native areas of Araudria forest,
      generate actions strategically oriented toward this    as DrODOSed bv the Reauesters. would in fact CIO aaainst the aoal
      end. Although it is carrying out activities of impor-  of Dreventina the loss of biodiversitv associated with the Araucaria
      tance for conservation, it is believedthat the prior-  forest,as the many current forest stands are not large enough to
      ity focus of that effort should be the native areas of maintain viable populations of different species
      araucaria forest that are in an advanced stage of
      conservation. (Paragraphs 33 and 34 of 'Defores-
      tation in Parana"   -attached   to the Request.)
      This reasoning is supported by the fact that those
      last remaining areas contain the natural formations
      that are still the least altered of the biome and,
      therefore, are able to maintain, even if only par-
      tially, a more representative biodiversity than sec-
      ondary areas or areas that have been completely
      degraded. This is also true because recent years
      have seen very heavy pressure from the market on
      those remaining areas.

16.   This pressure can be summed up in four main ac-        Comment: The PBP does not fund anv loaaina or deforestation
      tivities:                                              activities. leaal or illeaal. It also does not include any Drovision to
      Illegal removal of native timber by local lumber-      S U D D O ~tree Dlantina for commercial use, be it a monoculture or a
                                                                         ~
      yards;                                                 mixed species field. Although there are significant areas of planta-
                                                             tion forest inthe project corridors (forestry for pulp and paper)
      Management that results in deforestation;              where logging is taking place, this logging is not supported by the
      Implantation of monocultures of trees, after clear-    project.

      cut deforestation;                                     The project supports the reforestation only of areas cleared before

      Implantation of agricultural monoculture, after        the project began. Such reforestation: (a),takes place in properties
      clear-cut deforestation.                               inside the corridor necessary to ensure the connectivity between
                                                             natural areas; (b) uses a mix of more than 20 local species: and
      (Paragraph 35 of 'Deforestation in Parana"-at-         (c) creates permanent forested areas, in which no harvesting is
     tached to the Request.)                                 permitted.

     Those economic demands are very seductive in            In liaht of these facts. ManaQement's considers that. OP 4.36 is
     this region and represent huge investments. They        not aDDlicable to the PBP. (Management's view could be different
     also have plenty of political backing. And they         if the new OP 4.36 had been in force at the time of PBP prepara-
      prove that not even the laws that have been en-        tion.)
     acted, or the inspection effort, or even the envi-      Degradation of biodiversity is a long-standing issue in Parana, with
-     ronmental education activities are sufficient deter-
      rents to the short-term destruction of areas of the    very strong forces and interests driving this process. The PEP is



                                                              36

                                                                                           Parana BiodiversityProject
-
No.  Clalmllssue                                            Response

    Araucaria Forestthat are in an advanced stage of        one of the instruments which the State of ParanB has for manag-
                                                  of 'De-   ing the variety of environmental challenges it faces. Although in-
    forestation in Parand"
     conservation in our State. (Paragraph 36Request.)
                             -attachedtothe                 volving landowners and the wider rural population in the conserva-
                                                            tion of biodiversity is not an easy task, the PBP has helped
                                                            increasethe awareness of people living in key biodiversity areas
                                                            regarding the benefits of conservation. Development of this
                                                            awareness and the PBP's support to institutional strengthening
                                                            have been key contributions to the process of limiting the destruc-
                                                            tion of native areas in the PBP's ecological corridors

17.  In 2002, the Ministry of the Environment published     Comment:As noted in the section "Natural Habitats" above,
     Ministerial Directive No. 507 that identified areas in results Droduced under PROBIO (financed with World BanWGEF
     Parand that were to be given priority in the creation  SUDDO~~)  were a major input into the definition by Reaulation 507 of
    of conservation units in the Araudria Forest, areas     the areas to be given priority in the creation of UCs in the
    that were supposed to receive special protection        Araudria forest.
    from environmental agencies. (Paragraph 4 of 'De-
    forestation in Parana"   -attached   to the Request.)

18.  During field studies conducted in March 2004 to        Comment: Since early Julv 2006. manaaement has been in con-
    create the federal conservation units, a clear inten-   tact with State Authorities and was informed that there is no evi-
    sification of deforestation in areas that had been      dence of intensification of deforestation in the Droiect area
     included in the directive was observed. Most of        {Araucaria Corridorl. With regard to the Requesters' specific refer-
    those deforestations were carried out with authori-     ences to reported incidents of destruction of native areas in three
    zation from the IAP    -Parana   Environmental Insti-   places: Candoi. Santo Antdnio do lratim (General Carneiro) and
    tute. A preliminary survey of the authorizations        Palmas, Management has sought to learn more about theseinci-
    issued by various regional offices of the IAP, con-     dents. It has determined with information from IAP that two of the
    ducted with the support of the Technical Chamber        three incidents were outside of the project area. The third occur-
    created for this purpose, confirms the release of       rence (noted in detail above in the "Natural Habitats" section) was
    volumes hundreds of times greater than permitted        a case of legal harvesting of dried out and/or rotten trees in the
    by Resolution 278. (Paragraph 12 of "Deforestation      project area. (The Technical Audit noted above is examining,
    in Paranti"  -attached   to the Request.)               among other issues, the extent of the reduction or disappearance
    [The three specific reports noted in the Request-       of forest remnants of Araudria.)
    ers' letter refer to the municipalities of Candoi,
    General Carneiro, and Palmas.]
-
19. These incidents represent only a very modest frac-      Comment:The issue of strengthening of inspection is covered in
    tion of the volume of complaints observed in this       the "Natural Habitats" section above. Here it should be noted that
    short stretch of time. Findings of deforestation not    inspection should be closely targeted at Araucaria areas under
    authorized by the oversight bodies are common,          consideration for inclusion into UCs.
    and supplement what has been being destroyed
    with government consent. The existence of a sen-        As noted in Item 10 above, through a highly participatory process,
    ous crisis of ethical conduct in parts of the envi-     involving producers, State and municipal representatives and civil
    ronmental agencies themselves is undeniable.            society at the local level, the PBP has to date actively engaaed a
    (Paragraph 24 of "Deforestation in Parand"      -at-    total of 12,350farmers in biodiversity restoration activities within
    tached to the Request.)                                 micro-catchments,and about 38,000 farmers have received train-
                                                            ing related to biodiversitv issues. In this wav. the PBF is makina a
    This situation is not of recent vintage, and it must    sionificant effort to counteract the usuallv Drevalent market Dres-
    be taken into consideration in making decisions on     m.
                                                            sures for conventional cultivation practices (monoculture and oth-
    any type of conservation strategy in Parana. How
    can we trust the licensing and inspection structure
    to ensure the untouchabilityof remnants that are        Additional financial incentivesto be offered to farmers could in-
    protected by law if, in practice,what occurs in        &&: tax exemptionsto those who maintain forest to partially
    many cases is exactly the opposite? Even if we          offset the opportunity costof not converting to crop production; the
    recognize that the existing efforts at licensing and    channeling of the Green ICMS to farmers through environmental
    inspection are partially effective, how can we be-      service payments: financing the up-front costs of establishing
    lieve they will be sufficient to curb landowners who    RPPNs (Le.,for inventory and administrative costs); and direct
    are regularly induced to shift to activities that are   investment grant support for ancillary use of forest assets (e.g.,
    financially attractive and that entail the destruction  eco-tourism).
    of their native areas? (Paragraph 25 of "Deforesta-



                                                             37

        Brazil



No. I Claimllssue                                          Response

      tion in Parand" attached to the Request.)
                       -
      Finally, how can we, using conventional and his-
     torically inefficient mechanisms, deal with the con-
     tinued increase in the clearing of land for agricul-
     ture, thB impressive push to plant monocultures of
     trees, and the traditional practice of removing na-
     tive timber? (Paragraph 26 of "Deforestation in
      Parand"  -attached   to the Request.)

-
Supe slon OPlBP 13.0s
            -
20.  Given the [current] scenario, [the Requesters]        Comment: Management considers that the project is in compli-
     ask[ed] that a Technical Audit be conducted with-     ance with OPlBP 13.05 for the reasons set out below. Recognizing
     out delay, to assess the results and adherence to     that project implementation is the responsibility of the State of
     the objectives of the Parand Biodiversity Project,    Parand, Management agreed with state authorities that the pilot
     using the established indicators for the Project, as and innovative nature of the project required a special supervision
     well as to evaluate the current situation as regards effort. This decision resulted in the adoption of an intense supervi-
     nature conservation in the State of Parand, in the   sion schedule, both in terms of frequency of missions and team
     expectation that these will be made public and       composition. Management notes that:
     measures to direct the programmed actions will be
     implemented. (Paragraph 11 of letter attached to               Since project effectiveness, to date over a period of 45
     the Request.)                                                  months, a total of 9 full supervision missions have been
                                                                    conducted, complemented by several partial or follow-up
                                                                    supervisions that were conducted as part of supervision
                                                                    missions for the Parand Rural Poverty Alleviation and
                                                                    Natural Resources Management Project (Loan 4060-BR);
                                                                    The Banks supervision team was multi-disciplinary, in-
                                                                    volving professionals with relevant experience in biodi-
                                                                    versity, NRM, economics, institutional arrangements, and
                                                                    operational aspects of decentralized project implementa-
                                                                    tion. Specific team composition is detailed in each project
                                                                    ISR; and,
                                                                    The multidisciplinary team consistently attended not only
                                                                    to all due diligence and fiduciary aspects of the project,
                                                                    but also provided considerable operational support and
                                                                    technical assistance.
                                                           A TechnicalAudit is being undertaken as part of the Bank's stock-
                                                          taking exercise with the Government of Parand in preparation for
                                                           the Mid-Term Review. The Technical Audit is expected to be com-
                                                           pleted by late September. Itwill cost approximately US$30,000.
                                                          Through a comprehensive dissemination and discussion process,
                                                          the conclusions and recommendations of the Technical Audit will
                                                          be evaluated and finalized by the Bank, the State of Parand,
                                                          NGOs, and other project stakeholders. The operational aspects of
                                                          implementingthe final recommendations of the Technical Audit will
                                                          be addressed by the Mid-Term Review (scheduled for October
                                                          2006), establishing the terms and conditions for the revised im-
                                                          plementationschedule and allocation of remaining grant re-
                                                          sources.
                                                          Specific short-term actions include: Inception of Technical Audit  -
                                                          August 1, 2006; Completion of Technical Audit September 30,
                                                          2006; Dissemination and Workshop by November 15, 2006; Mid-
                                                                         - December,            -          -
                                                           Term Review                 2006; and, Amendments to Project
-                                                          Manualand Grant Agreement (if required)     -by  January 15, 2007.




                                                            38

                                                                                       Parand Biodiversity Project



No. Clalmllssue                                            Response

21. [The Requesters'] reports [on these issues], as        Comment: The Bank has been closely supervising implementa-
    well as a series of localinitiatives aimed at explain- tion of the projectand has notedthe implementationasynchronies
    ingthe situation and sensitizing the various levels    across components as explained in severalitemsabove.
    of the State government and the World Bank team
    responsible for coordinating the Project have been     Throughout the projectsupervision period,up until receiptof the
    madethroughout the project`s execution period.         Requesters' letterof March 21, 2006, no specific cases of defores-
    Those partiesare fully aware of the approaches         tation of nativeareas were brought to the attention of the Bank,
    and arguments reported above. (Paragraph 13 of         nor was this raised as an issueduring field trips, consultationswith
    letterattachedto the Request.)                         stakeholders in the region. With regardto the concerns expressed
                                                           by the Requestersregardingthe three incidents (notedabove in
                                                           Box Z), the Bank was made awareof these particular incidents
                                                           through the Letter of March 21, 2006, as reflectedinthe ISRfiled
                                                           subsequent to the supervision missionthat followed.
                                                           Duringthe August 2005 Supervision Mission, the Bank organized
                                                           a meeting betweenthe PIU and relevantprojectstakeholdersto
                                                           discuss possibleactions to be implementedwithin the scope of the
                                                           project, to supportthe conservationof significant Araucgria rem-
                                                           nants and strengtheningthe partnershipwith RPPNs.
                                                           During this August 2005 meeting, projectstakeholders did not
                                                           raise the issueof intensifiedArauaria deforestation. A PIU-
                                                           drafted memorandum outlined a set of specific actions to bejointly
                                                           executed by the PIU and projectstakeholders although eventual
                                                           disagreements on the geographic scopeof these actions pre-
                                                           vented the full implementation of the plan. The Mid-Term Review
                                                           ways for the State of Parandto bring a to full implementation.
                                                           process will address the implementation of this plan and examine




                                                            39


Brazil


                                                  ANNEX2
                                             EXPENDITURES




2006 * is only expendituresupto June 30, 2006

                                Graph ** Yearly Expenditures by Source


        16F
        14



                                                                                         0 Counterpart
     f 10
     i  "F                                                                               0 NRM(Bank Loan)

                                                                                         rn Biodiversity (GEF
                                                                                           Grant)


                                                                                         0 Total




 I              Total       Mo2        2w3              am           2005
                                 Year  2006 only up to June 30,2006)



As can be seen from Table ** and the associated Graph ** above, expenditures have been stead-
ily increasing from the start of the project. In particular, the graph illustrates how, at the beginning
of the project, far greater expenditures were being made from the IBRD loan than from the GEF
grant. Following resolution of administrative issues in early 2005, this has been rectified and in
the future, concentration should be on expenditures from the GEF grant as the IBRD loan has
now closed. The graph also demonstrates the continuous provision of adequate counterpart fund-
ing.




                                                        40


                                                                  Paranci Biodiversity Project


                                             ANNEX3
                            INPUT, OUTPUT AND OUTCOME INDICATORS

-
#   Indicator                            Unit   I Final I Actual I  YOof    I    Comments      I
-                                                Target   by Mar    goal
                                                           2006   achieved
-   INPUTS
1.  Macro-strategic Dlans
                  - .               Plans        3       2        67%
-   produced
2.  Demonstration Projects          Projects
-                                                40      41       102%
    identified
-
3.  Micro-catchmentsplanned         Micro-       280     I79      64%
                                    catchments
-
4.  Productive Units planned        Properties   19,600  12,938   66%
5.  CentralEnvironmental Unit       Units        1
-                                                        1        100%
    Implementedin IAP
6.  Agreements signed with
    Municipalitiesto implement
    decentralized
    inspection/enforcement
-
7.  Riparian APPs identified
    (criticalareas mapped)

-
-
8.  Satellite images purchased

9.  Faunateams equipped and
-   trained
-
10. Studies commissioned
11. Concept Dissemination
12. Seminarscarriedout:
13.
14.



-
15. Meetingsto disseminate the
-   projectcarried out
16. Coursesto train the producers
    in the implementationof agro-
-   ecological modules
17. Seminars about replicationof    Seminars     3                -   ,      Planned for 2006
    the model implemented                                                    following imple-
                                                                             mentationof the
-                                                                            agrc-ecological
1a.                                                                          models
    Environmental Education and     Courses      20      26       115%
    SocialMobilization courses for
-   professors and leaders
19. Promotional contests to         Contests     63                          In progress re-
                                                                                          -
    support implementation of                                                quires subprojects
-   sub-project                                                              to first be well-
                                                                             developed.
20. Biodiversity folders printed    Units        16,000  1,000    6%
21. Slide collections produced(5    Collections  3       2        67%
-   copies each)
22. Videos produced (5 copies       Video
-                                                5       13       260%
    each)



                                               41

Brazil


#     Indicator                          Unlt       Final     Actual     %of      Comments
                                                   Target    by Mar      goal
                                                              2006     achieved
23.   Basic trainingcourses for all  Course       34        29         85%
      agencies involved in
      implementation
24. IIOperationaltrainingcourses    ICourse     I 1 2                I 108%


      advisors receiving 1
      trainingon agroecological
      modules (implementing



      Supervisors and municipal                                                 cators 24 and 25
      Environmental Inspection




      replicationof agro-ecological



      implanted                                                                 gress
31.   Fencing installedin UCs        Meters       12,200               143%
32.   Trails implanted               Meters       2,000     -17,500             Inprogresspend-




      restorationactivitieswithin


      DisseminationSeminars
      (technicians, leadersand




      catchments with their
      productionsystems adapted




      connected to the Central
      Environmental MonitoringUnit
      through the information
    I
42. I Biannual reports producedby I Report
      integrationnetwork
                                                I l a     I i a      I 100%
      the regionaladministrative
      unitsabout licensingand       I
      inspection
43. IIStudiesconcluded              IStudy     1 5       1 1        I 20%


                                              42

                                                                      Parank Biodiversity Project

-
#    Indicator                             Unit       Final I Actual I  %of    I    Comments

-
44.  Biannual project                 Reports
     implementation reports
-    produced
45. Trainers trained (executing       Trainers       380                         In progress
-    agents)
46.  Inspections carried out by the   Inspections    6,000   -              .    In progress
    decentralized municipal
     inspecting body in production
     units within the target micro-
-   catchments
-
47.  Municipal inspectors trained     Inspectors     30      41       137%
48.  Biodiversity technical units set Units          63
-                                                            62       98%
     up
49.  IAP staff (managers, UC          Trainees       200     475      238%
    managers, inspectors, etc.)
-   trained
50.  Environmental Technical          Trainees       540     1,114    206%
    Advisors and stafffrom other
    organizations
-   (NGOslMunicipalities) trained
-
51. Producers trained                 Producers
52. Producers and other involved      Producers
    parties trained in agro-
-   ecological modules
53. IAP inspectors trained            Inspectors     135     135      100%
54. Promoters from the Public         Promoters      a0      177      221%
    ministry of Environment
-   trained                                          ,
55. Content assimilated by            Promoters %    70      a0    ' I114%
    trainees, measuredthrough         Environ-       80      a0       100%
    questionnaires related to ihe     mental
    assimilation of project           Agents %
    precepts.                         Professors 'YO 70     Ia0      I114% '   I
                                      Rural
-                                                    70      a0       114%
                                      Producers %
56. Schools with projects             %              60      30       50%
    implanted that participate in
    courses
-   OUTCOME
57. Infrastructure implanted in the   M'             710                        To be completed
-   u c s                                                                       in later stages of
                                                                                project
58. Area involved in the              Ha.            800,000 537,000  67%
    implementation of the three
-   target corridors
59. Percentage of the total area      YO             40                         To be completed
    worked on that transformed                                                  in later stages of
    conventional production                                                     projed
    systems into production
    systems compatible with
-   biodiversity conservation
60. Percentage of producers           %                                         Tolaterbe completedstages of
                                                                                in
    receiving training or
    assistance that get involved
    (adopt) in restoring the Legal
-   Reserve or APP
61. Producers in surrounding or       %              I00                        To be completed
-   connecting microcatchments                                                  in later stages of
    that get involved in the                                                    project



                                                   43

 Brazil


 #      Indicator                            Unit       Final      Actual      %of           Comments
                                                        Target     byMar       goal'
                                                                    2006      achieved
        restorationeffolts
 62.    APPs restored                    Ha            53,000     -                       To be completed
                                                                                          in later stages of
                                                                                          project
 63.'   Target connectivityindex         %             Tobe       -                       To be completed
        value (arearestoredfor
        connectivitypurposesI                          defined                            in latterstagesof
                                                                                          project


I64. I % of inspectorstrained by
       1                                 %            I100                              I To be  completed
     I  vear 4 in23% of the      -     1I             I          I          I           I in later stages d  I
        municipalitiesof the AlDP                                                         project

        implemented                                                                      -5   are underway
 66.    Annual increase in legal         %             10                                 To be completed
                                                                                          in later stages of
        transgressorsof
        enforcement actions against
                                                                                          project
        environmentallegislation

 A look at the indicators in Table ** above shows that the project is progressing well towards meet-
 ing the Input, Output and Outcome goals laid out in the PAD. In particular, key indicators such as
 Macro StrategicPlans Produced (Indicator #1 67% complete), Demonstration.Projectsldenti-
 fied (Indicator#2   -102%                         -
                              complete), Micro-CatchmentsPlanned (Indicator#3 64% complete),
                                                                                    -
 Area involved in the lmplementation of the Three Target Corridors(Indicator #58 67% com-
                                                                                       -
 plete) show the progress made so far, although there is clearly still much that needs to be
 achieved with the remaining grant in order for the project to fully achieve its development objec-
 tives.
 A closer look at the indicators also illustrates the way in which the various components of the pro-
 ject have developed at different rates.
 For example, indicators concerning Natural Resources ManagementField Work are generally
 well advanced: Producers Trained(Indicator #51       -195%   complete), Courses to Train Producers
 in the lmplernentationofAgro-Ecological Models (indicator#16       -115%complete),      Agro-
 Ecological Modules Implanted (indicator #38
 Units (indicator#34    -143%complete)           -100%complete),     Fencing lnstalled in Production
                                            have already achieved their targets. These advances are
 because NRM activities benefitedfrom being financed under the IBRD component of the project.
 On the other hand, indicators concerning BiodiversityManagementField Work such as: Environ-
 mental Education and Social Mobilization Courses for Professors and Leaders (indicator #18
 115% complete), Training Coursesfor UC Staff (indicator#26        -100%complete),                     -
                                                                                       IAP Regional
 Offices connected to the Central Environmental Monitoring Unit through the Information lntegra-
 tion Network (indicator# 41     -100%    complete), Municipal lnspectors trained (indicator#47
 137% complete) or IAP inspectors trained (indicator #53      -100%complete)                        -
                                                                                 only began showing
 progress in 2005 when solution of administrative issues enabledthese components to be imple-
 mented.
 The field work activities form the groundwork for the secondary outputs in both NRM and Biodi-
 versity Management.These secondary outputs are essential if the project is to be successful. For
 instance under Biodiversity Management, RiparianAPPs Identified(critical areas mapped) (indi-
 cator #7  -In   progress) first requires the agro-ecological modelsto be developed and has only
 recently been able to progress. Under NRM, indicators such as Seminars about Replication of the
 Model Implemented (indicator #17        -Planned for 2006) also require agro-ecological models to be
 implemented before such dissemination and replication activities can be carried out.
 In sum, the project, as shown by its indicators, has made good progress laying the groundwork in
 both its NRM and Biodiversity Management components. Further implementation using the re-
 maining 51% of the GEF grant should ensure that this is consolidatedand built upon, that the



                                                     44

                                                                     Parana BiodiversityProject


project's developmentobjectives are achieved and that a replicable model for NRM and Biodiver-
sity Conservation is produced and implemented.




                                              45


 Brazil


                                                ANNEX4
                                      INTERMEDIATE    INDICATORS

 Intermediate Input, Output and Outcome Indicators for the 4-month Action Plan agreed with the
 borrower to accelerate project implementation over the period September -December   2005.




      plemented in IAP
 9    Faunateams equipped and          Teams              4        4         4           100%
      trained
 10   Studies commissioned             Studies            5 .      3         2           67%
 11-  Concept Dissemination Semi-                1 (Caiud 4        5         5           100%
 14    nars carried out:               -Corridor
                                         llha Grande)
                                        Corridor 2        4        6         6           100%
                                       (Iguacu  -Parand)
                                        Corridor 3        2        5         5           100%




 21   Slide collections produced (5     Collections       3        3         2           67%
      copies each)
 22   Videos produced (5 copies        Video              5         3        13          971%
      each)
 23   Basic training courses for all    Course            34        25       29          116%
'     agencies involved in implemen-
      tation
 24   Operational training courses for  Course            12,       13       14          108%
      implementing agents
 26   Training courses for UC staff     Course            11        3        9           100%
 28   Training courses for officers of  Course            5         4        4           100%
      SEMA -
 33   Elevated water tanks installed    Tanks             200       50       47'         94%
 34   Fencing installed in production   Km                2,500     2,000    1200'       60%
      units
 37   Participants in Concept Dis-      Participants      820       1407     37,311      2652%
      semination Seminars (techni-
      cians, leaders and authorities)



                                                    46

                                                             Paranri BiodiversityProject



                                                                  -ti
                                                                                 100%




                                                                                 273%
                                                                                 100%    I
                                                                               I
                                                                   475           238%




                                                                                 100%
                                                                                 177%
                                                                  30             100%




'OnlycalculatedinMarch2006aspartoftheclosingoftheassociatedIBRDprojectfaranaRu-
ral Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resources Management.




                                              47

Brazil


                                          ANNEX5
                              THETHEORYBEHINDCORRIDORS
1.       Over the pastcentury, humanpopulation increases haveledto substantialen-
croachmentintowild areas, forcingspecies out oftheir naturalhabitats and leavingonly
patchesofnaturalforest amidurbanor rural settings.Severalherbivorespeciesadapted
to this situation, such as deer, rabbitandparakeet, as they could graze inthe open fields.
However, a largenumberof species, such as close-canopybirds, monkeysandmarmo-
sets, do not ventureintothe open field.Hence,these animals have endedup confined to
the forest patchwhich,becomesknownas ahabitat island.
2.       Two pioneer conservationbiologytheories, islandbiogeographyandmetapopula-
tion, can be.usedto describewhat happens with the communitiesandspecies insuchfor-
est patches.The islandbiogeographytheory (MacArthurandWilson, 1967)established
the density of species (number of species) basedonthe size ofthe islandand its distantto
significantland, showingthat that numberincreasesexponentiallywith area. The meta-
populationtheory, first proposedby Levins (1969), establishedhow aggregationsof a
single species presentinmanypatchesof suitablehabitat andwith significantlyless
interactionbetweenpatchesthanwithina patchcan behave as a singlepopulation
through genetic flow betweenpatches.
3.       Meanwhile, as the field of genetics developed, manyspecies-relatedstudies
startedto calculatethe numberof individualsof a species in a population(or metapopula-
tion) that wouldbenecessaryto ensurethe long-termviability of the species with negli-
gible inbreedingandgenetic erosion.For example, a classic study (Kleimanet al., 1990)
by a group fromthe Smithsonian,Universityof Marylandandother researchcenters de-
fined2,000 individualsas the minimum sustainablesize of the GoldenLionTamarin(a
species endemic to the Atlantic Forestof Brazil)population inthe wild.
4.       Thus, the concept of linkingforest fragments,by establishing"biodiversity corri-
dors" to increase the genetic flow of isolatedspecies was proposed(WilsonandWillis,
1975; Souleand Gilpin, 1991) to improvethe chances of survivalof species that lived
isolatedin forest fragments andto increasethe density of species within those patches,
thereby improvingbiodiversityconservationinsidesuch areas.
5.       A biodiversity"corridor" is defined as a mosaic of landuses connectingfrag-
ments of naturalforest across a landscape.The objectiveof a biodiversitycorridoris to
facilitate the gene flow betweenpopulations, enhancingthe long-termsurvivalprobabil-
ity of biologicalcommunitiesandtheir component species.A corridor also is intendedto
ensure the maintenanceof large-scaleecologicalandevolutionaryprocesses.Mosaics of
multiplelanduses in a managedlandscapecan allow populationsto moveamongproxi-
mateforest "stepping stones."
6.       There is an emergingscientificconsensus that a regionallandscapescale for con-
servationplanningwill significantly improvethe chances for the long-termsurvivalof
biodiversity.Beier andNoss (1998) reviewed32 corridorstudies andconcludedthat,
"The evidencefromwell-designedstudies suggests that corridors are valuable conserva-
tion tools." Other specific studies indicatedthat species that have low mobilitybetween
patchessignificantlybenefit fromthe corridors, increasingmigrationbetweenpatches
includingthat of bird-dispersedplants(Hadaadet al, 2003) androdents(Mech andHal-



                                             48

                                                                     Parana Biodiversity Project


lett, 2001). Hadaad(1999) foundthat corridors not only benefitedthe migrationofbutter-
flies betweenpatchesbut also increasedthe density of the populations within the patches.
Situation of the Araucaria Forest in Parana
7.      A recent study (Castella andBritez, 2004), financedunder another World Bank-
GEEproject, provides the most comprehensive andup-to-dateinformationabout the con-
servation status of the Arauchria forest inthe State of Parana. Accordingto this study, the
Arauchria forest ("Floresta OmbrofilaMista" inthe Brazilianterminology) originally
covered8.3 million hectaresor 41percent ofthe state, but currentlythere is nountouched
primaryAraucMa forest remaininginthe state andthere are only 66,000 hectares of for-
est in advancedstage of succession(0.8 percent of the original area). Most of this forest
is highly fragmentedwith the more importantpatches concentratedin the South-Central
part ofthe State.
8.      The Stateof Paranhis responsiblefor 23 percentof the country's agriculturalpro-
duction, which takes place on about 370,000 properties.About 93 percent ofthese prop-
erties have less than 100hectares and42 percenthave less than 10hectares (Bittencourt
et al, 2004).
9.      The PBP's approach is to build"biodiversity corridors" in critical areas ofrnland
Atlantic Forest inthe StateofParanh. The PBP defines"corridors" as areas sufficiently
large and"connected" to allow maintenanceof existingbiodiversityinareas of native
forests or that are inan advancedstage ofregeneration. The corridorsare comprisedof:
(a) various types of protectedareas (public andprivate); (b) fragments of preservedareas
that are under privateownership; (c) "stepping stones" that are small, preservedor re-
stored interstitial areas sufficiently closeto one another to permit speciesto move freely
between larger protectedareas or fragments, thereby assuringbiological connectivity;(d)
contiguous forests alongriversthat are essential for connectivity(and are protectedby
existing legislation); and(e) legalreserveson privateproperties inthe interstitialareas
(which are also protectedby existinglegislation).
10.     The two eco-regionstargetedby the PBP, consideredas "global hotspots," were
chosenbasedupona carefulselection procedurethat looked at:

        (a)     global, regionalandlocal importanceofbiodiversity;
        (b)     diversityof ecosystemsandhabitats;
        (c)     number andsize of protectedareas within the potentialcorridor;
        (d)     degree of connectivityandproximity ofprotectedareas; and
        (e)     levels of endemismandrichness ofth2 species found inthe area.
11.     The largest planningand administrativeunit ineach targeted eco-region is the
corridor. The basic corridorplanningunit is the micro-catchment,an area ofroughly
3,000 ha, comprisinga drainage areaandgenerally with one or morewater courses. The
smallestoperational unit within the micro-catchment is the privateholding. The PBP
works with micro-catchmentsandprivateholdingsto consolidate three corridors.
12.     For each corridor,the PBP supportedthe developmentof strategic corridor man-
agementplans prioritizingareas andinterventions.Usingsatellite imagery, the PBP is
developing corridor maps that identify critical areas for intervention:(a) protectedareas;
(b) micro-catchmentsand other interstitial areas; and(c) identificationof fragments and



                                               49

'Brazil


 larger, fairly well conservedprivateholdings that can potentiallybe brought under a pro-
 tected regime.
 13.     Aiming at promotingconservation inthe Arauchia Corridor, the PBP is support-
 ingvarious interventions, as follows:
         A. Improveadministrationof the Public ProtectedAreas (UCs) that are the
              geographic core ofthe corridor:
               (i)   Develop and implement ManagementPlans-includingmanage-
               ment processesand outreach-to support biodiversityconservation
              withinthe UC and incontiguous areas;
               (ii)  EquipUCs to effectivelycarry out their biodiversityconservation
      '       responsibilities, includingsmallinfrastructureprojects andequipment;
               (iii) Review of the public access andeco-tourismpotentialof the UCs,
               includinginfrastructureneeds, anddevelopment anddisseminationof
              promotionalmaterialsandother marketingactivities; and
               (iv)  Carry out communications campaignsto reachpopulations living
               inareas contiguous to theUCsto acquaintthemwith knowledge on fire
               preventionandcontrol, recuperationof degradedareas, alternativesto
               agrochemicals,andother threats to the integrity ofthe UC.
         B. Assist transitionof ruralpropertiesinrelevant interstitialareasto envi-
              ronmentallybenign productionactivities:
               (i) Developandpilotalternative,environ*mentallybenignproductive
               systems inareas already clearedinsideeach property;and
              (ii) PromoteandsupporttheadoptionofthesesystemsbytargetedN-
              ral producersthrough dissemination, technical assistance andfunding o f
              individual andcommunityprojects inorder to reducethe interstitial
              damage doneby traditionalagricultureand livestock activities.
         C. Promoteconnectivityof forest fragments in interstitial areas betweenpro-
             tected areas through micro-catchment plans:
              (i)    Promoteadoption of RPPNs, incorporatingforest.fragments in
              privateproperties into the corridors;
              (ii)   Mobilize authorities responsMe for enforcingexisting laws cover-
              ingconservationof water sources, riverineforests, and legalreservesin
              targeted areas; and
              (iii)  Supportthe restoration of the forests protectedby law (legal re-
              serves, riverineforests, steep hillsides).




                                                50

                                                                         Parana Biodiversity Project



References:

Beier P., R.F.Noss. 1998."DOhabitat corridors provideconnectivity?' ConservationBi-
O Z O ~ V12: 1241-1252.

Bittencourt,J.V.M., A.R. Higa, M.C. Mazza, P.M. Ruas, C.F. Ruas, M.Caccavari,
H.Fasso1a.2004. Conservation, managementandsustainableuse ofAraucdria angustifo-
lia genetic resourcesinBrazil. In: B.Vicenti, W. Amaral, B.Meilleur (eds). Challenges
inmanagingforest genetic resourcesfor livelihoods:Examplesfrom ArgentinaandBra-
zil. IPGRI

Castella, P.R. andR.M. Britez.2004 (eds.). A FlorestacomArauciria do Parani:
Conservaq%oe Diagnbsticodos RemanescentesFlorestaisMMA.

HaddadN.M. 1999."Corridor anddistance effects on interpatch anddistance effects on
interpatch movements:A landscapeexperiment with butterflies." Ecological Applica-
tions, 9(2): 612-622.

Haddad,N.M.,D.R. Bowe, A. Cunningham, B.J.Danielson, D.J.Levey, S. Sargent, and
T. Spira.2003. "Corridor use by diverse taxa." Ecology, 84(3): 609-615.

Kleiman, D.G.; Beck,B.B.;Baker,A.J.; Ballou, J.D.; Dietz, L.A. andDietz, J.M. 1990.
"The ConservationProgramof the GoldenLionTamarin, Leontopithecus rosafia." En-
dangeredSpecies Update,8: 82-85.

Levins,R. 1969."Some genetic anddemographic consequencesof environmental het-
erogeneity for biologicalcontrol." Bulletin of the Entomological Society of America 15:
237-240.

MacArthur, R.H., andE.O. Wilson. 1967.The Theory of IslandBiogeography. Princeton
UniversityPress, Princeton, New Jersey, USA.

Mech.S.G., J.C.Hallett.2001. "Evaluating the effectiveness of corridors: A genetic ap-
proach." ConservationBiologv, 15(2): 467-474.

SoulC, M.E, and M.E. Gilpin. 1991. "The theory o fwildlife corridor capability." In D.A. Saun-
ders and R. J. Hobbs (eds). Nature conservation2: the role of corridors. Surrey Beatty, Chipping
Norton, New South Wales, Australia.

Wilson, E.O., andE.O.Willis. 1975."Applied biogeography." In M.L.Cody andJ. M.
Diamond(eds). Ecology andEvolution of Communities. Belknap Press, Cambridge,
Massachusetts,USA.




                                               S I

Brazil


                                         ANNEX6
                      TERMS OF REFERENCE    FOR THE TECHNICAL    AUDIT

1. INTRODUCTION
The.BiodiversityProtectionandConservationProject (ParandBiodiversity Project PBP)     -
is the result of Grant Agreement NoTF 051007, with resources donated to the Paranh
State Government by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) and signed by the State
Government and the InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD).
The projecthas an expecteddurationof five years, beginningin 2003 and ending in2007,
with the first disbursementat the endof 2002.
The PBP i s a project of the Parana State Government, financed by a GEF grant (US$8
million), with counterpartfindingby the ParanaStateGovernment(US$24 million) from
the Parana 12 Meses Project, It is aimed at sustainable development, integrating nature
conservation with the development of biodiversityfriendly modem agriculturaland live-
stock system with impact, promotingcross-cutting concepts associated with nature con-
servation, and generating a model of integrated action between environmental and agri-
culture institutions inthe agriculturalsector.
The project has defined work in three distinct areas: the first inthe heart o f the Araucaria
Forest (Mixed Ombrophyle Forest), the second inthe Atlantic Forest of the Interior (Sea-
sonal Semideciduous Forest), andthe third inan area with bothecosystems.Corridors are
Araucaria Corridor, Caiua-Ilha Grande Corridor, and Iguaqu-Parana Corridor,
respectively.
The project's objectives are to:
    1. Promote biodiversity conservation and the sustainable managementof natural re-
       sources intwo ecoregions of the State of Paranh:Forest, SeasonalSemideciduous,
       and MixedOmbrophyle Forest;
    2. Developand implement a modelfor the improvementofbiodiversityconservation
       inParana;and
    3. Establish biodiversity corridors, integratingconservation units among themselves
       and importantfragments.
These three general objectives were subdivided intothe following specific objectives:

    0  Conserveandrecoverbiodiversityinthe projectarea;
       Make existingproductivesystemscompatiblewith biodiversityconservation;

    0  Properlymanageconservationunits, buffer areas, connectionareas, and fragments
       of natural environments;

    0  Reduce threats to biodiversity through species protectionand environmentalcon-
       trol andmonitoring;

    0  Train the actors involved in the project, including technicians, producers, public
       promoters, and inspectors, so that they have a better understandingof the issue of
       biodiversityandits importance; and



                                             52

                                                                    Paranri BiodiversityProject



     0  Carryout a modelthat can bereplicatedstatewide at the endofthe project.
The project is beingimplementedthrough 4 maincomponents:

     0  Incentives for BiodiversityConservationandManagement: The focus is on reduc-

 I      ing threats to biodiversitythrough the introductionof good practices in managing
        rural properties, located in the project corridors with financial support to produc-
        ers, direct incentives for the formation of sustainable cooperative enterprises
        (called agro ecologicalmodules), andthe recovery of permanentpreservation and
        legal reserve areas, re-establishing connectivity between fragments of original
        ecosystems andprotected areas of environmental relevance. This component also
        calls for the implementation of management plans in state conservationunits and
        for a planningsystemthat allowsthe stateto define its conservationstrategy.
        Controland Protection. The aim of this component is to develop with greater effi-
        ciency and a broader scope, public efforts to control the state's environmental
        quality, encourage civil society to participate in biodiversity conservation proc-
        esses, and strengthen enforcement, licensing, and environmental monitoring sys-
        tems.
        Educationand Trainingof Society for BiodiversityConservation. The objectiveis
        to raise the awareness of Paranti's society with regardto the importance of biodi-
        versity conservation, training citizens to participate in and contributeto aprocess
        o f recoveringand maintaining the quality of ecosystems in the project's area of
        operation. It is a linking component whose function is to integrate management,
        incentive, control, and protection efforts, educating and mobilizing society with
        regardto a new development model.

     0  Project Management.This component foresees a set of studies aimed at outlining
        a legal frameworkand other informationessential for the establishment of a tech-
        nical, operational, legal, and sustainable strategy for biodiversity conservation in
        Paranti.
PBP is a multi-institutional project. The Project ImplementationUnit (UGP) is located
within the State Secretariat of Planningand General Coordination.The State Secretariats
of Environment(SEMA) andAgriculture (SEAB) are the project executors, throughtheir
affiliated institutionsCodapar,EMATER, andIAP.
SEMA is responsiblefor the project's environmental education program and for mobiliz-
ing leaders, working closely with the State Secretariat of Educationand with municipal
schoolassociations.
SEAB is responsiblefor the State's counterpart contribution, ensuringfinancial and tech-
nical.supportto small farmers inthe project corridors through the Paranti 12 Meses Pro-
ject.
EMATER, the Technical Assistance and RuralExtensionEnterprise, is in charge of plan-
ning rural space inbiodiversity corridors, so that agricultural and livestock activities can
be carriedout in a sustainablemanner, with minimum impact as possible on nature. It is
also responsible for promoting the recovery of gallery forests and of forests on steep
slopes and hilltops, negotiating with producers the allocation of the legal reserve, and
trainingfarmers inthe development of more sustainableactivities.


                                             53

Brazil


IAP, the EnvironmentalInstitute of Parana, is responsible for the development of a series
of activities aimed at the control and protection of flora and fauna, the management of
conservation units, and the training of project technicians and those of other institutions
on the importance of a new attitude towardthe environment. Codapar, the ParanaDevel-
opment Company, works as a financialagent, facilitating support to beneficiaries.
2. JUSTIFICATION
Project implementationbegan in October 2002 with the first transfer of funds by the
Bank (US$800,000) and an effectiveness date of October 31, 2002. On October 5, 2005,
the State Government, throughthe State Secretariat of Planningand General Coordina-
tion, established physical and fmancial targets for the last four months of 2005, in re-
sponse to the "unsatisfactory" implementationrating by the Bank. The Bank decided to
undertake a technical audit of the project and of biodiversity conservation conditions in
the state, in order to understandthe implementationof actions based on the original de-
sign, how it was implemented, the procedures adopted, the efficiency of the instruments
used, and the level of executionof physicalandfinancial targets. The state's independent
analysis of the status of conservation inecosystems targetedby the project inthe State of
Parana, the progress in achievingthe targets established by the project, and State Gov-
ernment actions, will therefore make it possible to analyze information on the project in
order to guide and make adjustments to operational mechanisms and to targets, if neces-
sary.
3. OBJECTIVE
To perform a technical audit of the ParanaBiodiversity Project by hiring two consultants
(one biodiversityspecialist,and one project management specialist), basedon an analysis
of the status of conservation of ecosystemstargeted by the project, with special reference
to Arauciiria forests, of the technical and operational procedures adopted, of the effi-
ciency of instruments used, andof the level of executionof physicalandfinancialtargets,
recommendingadjustments, ifnecessary, inorder to achieveprojectobjectives.
4. CONSULTANTS'ACTIVITIES
Using awork plan definedjointly with the IBRDproject managementteam, the consult-
ants should:
    1. Analyze project documents, including the Contract, Project Appraisal, Opera-
        tional Manuals, Annual Action Plans, project reports, aides-mdmoire, and other
        documentsthat the IBRDmay recommend.

   '2. Analyze the commitments assumed duringproject preparation, the targets and in-
        dicators establishedto make the project effective, and how these were met during
        implementation.
    3. Review the originally defined indicators and their efficiency in measuring and
        gaugingthe extent of impacts on biodiversity,with special referenceto originally
        establishedmethodologicalproceduresandtheir evolutionifchanges occurred.
    4. Analyze the conservation status of ecosystems targeted by the project, especially
        of Araucaria forests, andanalyze their evolutionfrom 2002 to thepresent.




                                            54

                                                                  Parana BiodiversityProject



       0   Define ingeneral terms the evolution o f forest remnants between 2002 and
           2006;

       0   C o n f m the existence o f reduction or disappearance o f forest remnants,
           especially inAraucaria forests, within corridors and inecosystem areas.

       0   Analyze state policies for ecosystem conservation and o f actions carried
           out as part o f the project and as part of the state's comprehensive policies
           for biodiversity conservation, use of native forest, efficiency o f enforce-
           ment, the granting of environmental licenses, encouragement o f produc-
           tion without environmental responsibility, citizens' understanding o f envi-
           ronmentallegislation, etc.

       0   Analyze the restoration o f habitats and landscapes sponsored by the pro-
           ject through the use o f saplings and isolation o f forest areas as a conserva-
           tion strategy, andthe feasibility o f conserving and restoringbiodiversity.

       0   Analyze efforts to restore degraded areas versus work in well conserved
           areas to ensure their functionality.

       0   Analyze the partnerships and alliances planned and established under the
           project's framework, aimed at addressingthe sustainability o f investments,
           especially agreements with private landowners.

       0   Analyze the current or future feasibility o f promoting biodiversity in de-
           graded areas where the project is restoring habitats.
5. Share and discuss the view o f conservation status with civil society and state and
   national academic institutions as well as international institutions with offices in      *

   the state.
6. Discuss the project's scopewith:

   0   The UGP and with implementing/executing                 agencies (IAP,       SEMA,
       EMATER), discussing the overall view of project execution and the progress
       o f work;

   0   The Secretaries o f Environment, Agriculture, and Planning; Managers o f
       EMATER, IAP, and EMATER, discussing the inclusion and cross-cutting na-
      ture ofthe project;

   0   The project's operational structure in the field, conversing with Regional
       Council Coordinators (Heads of IAP's Regional Offices), Regional Biodiver-
       sity Coordinators in EMATER, EMATER's Environmental Technology As-
       sistants and Presidents of Biodiversity Chambers, mainly discussing the pro-
      ject's operational model, and the integration and interaction in the field
       between environmental and productive stakeholders;

   0   Beneficiary farmers, teachers, local leaders, and NGOs in the corridors, and
       public environmental promoters, to analyze their view o f the project.
7. Analyze the results achieved by the Parana Biodiversity Project to date, using a
  matrix format to chart the actions of executors, state policies, and project compo-
  nents.


                                         55

Brazil


    8. Evaluate the reduction in threats to biodiversity in areas targeted by the project
       andthe role of strengthening and monitoring instate actions.
    9. Analyze strong and weak points in project execution, especially with regard to
       originally established targets and indicators, methodological procedures imple-
 `     mented, and the final view of conserving and improving biodiversity in the State
       of Paranb's three corridors.
    10.Analyze the work plan for 2006, projecting the results and impacts of the project
       in light of its closing in January 2007, in accordance with proposedtargets and
       indicators, and make necessary recommendations for the project's successful
       completion.
5. EXPECTEDPRODUCTSOF THE AUDIT
Throughout the consultancy, the following products will be required:
(a) A Work Plan which should contain a description of the work methodand a timetable
specifying the detailedactions to be carriedout. This document should be deliveredthree
days after the contract is signed and should be approved by the IBRDat a specific meet-
ingwith the project manager.
(b) An initial diagnostic of the project's operational performance, taking into considera-
tion its strategies, instruments, indicators, and current conditions of execution. This
document should be delivered following contract signing, within 30 days of project sign-
ing.
(c) Final Assessment Report. This report should be delivered upon completion of the
work and containat least the following:
       Commitments assumed by the project, in light of the state's political and envi-
       ronmentalsituation.
       Identification of establishedtargets andtheir evolution to date.
       Evolution ofthe environmentalstatus, inparticular of targeted ecosystems, within
       the state.
       Evaluationoftargets achievedby components, and the impact on the conservation
       status of the state's ecosystems.
       Evaluation of executors by component and institutional policies of executing
       agencies inthe ecosystemconservation.
       Identification of targets not yet executed and their impact on biodiversity conser-
       vation inthe state, particularly intargeted areas.
       Recommendationon necessary adjustments to physical and financial targets, or
       on other project strategies with the consequent proposals for adjustments to the
       project's operationalstrategies and OperationalManual.
6. PROFILEOF EXPERTS
In order to carry out the requiredactivities and obtain the expected products, the experts
should possess a highlevel of educationand broad experience in similar evaluations and
audits of environmental projects, particularly those dealing with biodiversity conserva-


                                             56

                                                                   Paranci BiodiversityProject


tion. Their experience should be provenby institutional and educational documents that
attest to their technical skills inthe evaluation of conservationandgovernmentalprojects.
It is also desirablethat experts be knowledgeableabout preparing evaluations of projects
financed by internationalagencies, particularlythe IBRD and GEF, and be familiar with
the biodiversityofthe Stateof Paranaandthethreats it is facing.
        Provenexperience will berequiredinthe following areas:

    0   Management of projects with multilateral resources in national public or private
        institutions(a minimum of five years);

    0   Participation and leadership in rural development and biodiversity conservation
        projects;

    0   Analysis, evaluation, and preferably formulation of projects for multilateral do-
        nors inthe area of rural development andbiodiversityconservation.      .
Hiring shall be carried out in accordancewith IBRD-World Bank regulations, under the
terms of paragraph 5.2 of the Guidelines for Hiring Consultants, through a short list and
an analysis of the candidate's curriculum.
7. AREA OF OPERATION
The evaluation work encompasses the project's areas of operation, with emphasis on the
priority areas of projectcomponents andsubcomponents,inaccordance with a Work Plan
proposed by the consultants and approved by the IBRD project manager at the time of
contract signing. The three biodiversity corridors are located in the west, northwest, and
southeast of the State of Parana: Caiua-Ilha Grande Corridor, Iguaqu-Paranh Corridor,
andAraucaria Corridor.
8. PERIODAND SUPERVISIONOFSERVICES
The periodfor the execution of services shall be 40 days, with the timetable of activities
definedjointly with the IBRDmanagementteam. The work shall be performed under the
supervisionof the IBRDmanagementteam, beginningAugust 1 and endingOctober 30.

Brazil


                                            ANNEX7
                          SUPERVISIONMISSIONAIDE MEMOIRE
                                 JULY 27 TO AUGUST 1,2006
                                        (TRANSLATION)


1.      A World Bank mission visited Curitiba, Paranh, on July 27 and 28, 2006, com-
posedof Mr.Albert0 Ninio (Lead Counsel) and Mrs.Adriana Moreira (Senior Biodiver-
sity Specialist); and from July 30 to August 1, 2006, composed of Mr.Michael Carroll,
Task Team Leader (World Bank, LCSER). Its objectives were to advance understanding
on the content and phases of the technical audit to be contracted by the World Bank for
the ParanaBiodiversity Project andto discusswith Stateauthorities the meansto address,
through the Project, aspects previouslyraisedby the Bank, and also reflectedinthe scope
of the inspection requestrecentlyregisteredwith the InspectionPanelofthe World Bank.

2.      The missionmet with State Secretary of Planningand General Coordination, Mr.
Nestor Celso Imthon Bueno, the State Secretary of Environmentand IAP President, Mr.
Lindsley da Silva Rasca Rodrigues, the CCPG Manager, Ms. Maria Inbs Cervenka de
Freitas, with Mr.Waldir Pan, andwith the Project ImplementationUnit(PIU) team.

3.      The missionwould like to thank State authorities, CCPG Manager, PIU's General
Coordinator, Mr. Erich Schaitza, and the technical teams from the PIU and CCPG for
their collaboration.

4.      T h i s aide memoire summarizes the main conclusions andrecommendations from
this mission, and, uponrequest,may be disseminatedto other interestedparties.

5.      During the mission various actions undertakenby the project towards addressing
specific situations faced by the Araucarias Corridor were discussed, aimingto buildcon-
sensus for the conservationof existingfragments.

AGREEMENTS REACHED

6.      Aiming at identifying instruments to improve the project's implementationproce-
dures, the State of Paranaagreedwith the Bank's proposaltowards implementingthe fol-
lowingactions:

                0  Accomplishment of an independent technical audit of the project, to be
                   carried out under Terms of Reference discussed and agreed upon with
                   the State, whose final report shall be deliveredby September 30, 2006.
                   Among other points to be assessed, the audit shall examine: (i) the pro-
                   ject's strategy and actions and their impact on conservation of remnant
                   of forest fragments in the Corridors' areas, and (ii)project management
                   and its institutionalarrangements.

                0  Discussion and public dissemination of results from the independent
                   technical audit.


                                              58

                                                                     Parand BiodiversityProject




              0   Assurance of wider participation from civil society in the implementa-
                  tion of the project by incorporating civil society representatives in the
                  project's Advisory Committee.

 7.      Parallelto conductingthe technical audit and implementingthe recommended ac-
tions, the State has agreed to promptly initiate a series of actions seeking to ensure effec-
 tiveness of the project with regard to conservation of forest remnants in the Araucaria
 corridor. Taking into account the project's budgetary constraints, several options were
 discussed, including: fmancial support for the creation, demarcation, regularization and
 sustainability of RPPNs (privately owned protectedareas); inventory and support for the
 protection of forest fragments in advanced stage of conservation; and monitoring and
.surveillance of existing fragments ina goodconservationstatus inthe area.


 By signing below we confm our agreement:


 Curitiba, July 31, 2006.


 Nestor Celso Imthon Bueno .                           Lindsey da Silva RascaRodrigues
 State Secretary of Planningand General                State Secretary of Environment
 Coordination



 Michael Carroll                                       Waldir Pan
 Task Team Leader of the Paran6Biodiversity            Coordinator CCPG - State Secretary
 Project - World Bank                                  of Planningand General Coordina-
tion



 Erich Schaitza
 General-Manager ParanhBiodiversity Project
 State Secretariat of Planningand General
 Coordination




                                             59

Brazil




                             PROJETQPARAMA RIODIVERSlDADE

                                           AJUDA MKM~RIA

                             07 DEJULHO A 1. DEACOSTO DE2001)


         1.    llma Misdodo B         m hiundidvisitou Curitiba, Paraninor dies 27-28 dejulho
       de 2006 eompwta do St. Alberto Ninio (Advogrrda Principal prn Mcio Ambimtc) +?
        Sra. Adrian8 Mmim(Ergccialista %niw cm Birwliuersidrde), e llosdias 30-3 I dejulho
        c 1' & agoso de 2006 pclo Sr. Michael Crumll. Gmntc do Rojcto (thm MudiaL
       LCSRR). 0 objdivuda midlo fui a v a w nos entcndinlcnloss o h a o cmaridacns

       Biodivcrsidede, bem corn dimtir oom IPS autoridads?, bJ P~~
        fasts da auditorin i h i c a a ser conrratada pdcr Banco Mundial para n h]ctr) Parad
                                                                                os mrias de
        encnminhar. aaOveS do Projeto. aspcros j&icvantador snlcriormmk pel0 Banoa e
       tambein refbetidmnohrnbitndu pcdidodc inspqib rcccntctnmkprotclciilladojunto 110
        Painelde Inspqlk,do banco Mudial.

        2.     A m     a rcuniu-sc c ~ n no !ku-eho de Estadado PLancjmtoc Chwkm#o
                                                    '
        Cml. Nemr Cdw I m h Bueno, cum o SecrefMode Estado do Meio Ambicntc c
        Pregientedo IAP. Sr. Lindslcy da Silva b r a Rodrigirescan a Chefcdu CCPG, SM
        Maria In& Ccrvcnkadc FrcitaamnSr. Waldir Ban, e e~ a equip d;r Unidadr de
        ciemciammtodo PrOjarrllCiP.

        3.     A MLdo d e j a apd-             w autoridrlles emduak. a Chefe do CC'K;. ao
        Ccnnte da Unidadr: dc Gcisnciamentodo PmjeteUGP, Sr. ErichSchaiw c as equips
        t6cnica da UGPe do CCM?peladabom@ Iffcbide.

        4.     Esta Ajuda Mcnlliria rcsumc as principais conclus&s c rccomcnda$ks &
         Missfinque,quandowlicitada.podrr$SET disxminadaparawtmp a mit-deressitrhs.

         5.    Dumtc a miss foram disculirlas as r h at$e.s              que Q Prbjeto vem
        desenvolvwtdo no sentindo de atender as situnipks especificas enfrenedasno Cmedo~
        das Araucaria* buscando mnstruir uni conscnw pars a conscrvaqb das fktgmentm
        eaistcntes.

                                        Paran6 BiodiversityProject




    Curitiba.31 dejulhode2006.




I '




                                  61

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 34965

                                                                     MATO GROSSO
                                                    54W                                        53W                                                 52W       Rio                         51W                               50W
                                                                                                                                                                   Paranapanema                                                                              BRAZIL                                                           48W


                                                                            DO SUL                                                                                                                                                      REQUEST FOR INSPECTION:
       BRAZIL                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PARAN BIODIVERSITY PROJECT
                         PARAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT AREA / ARAUCRIA CORRIDOR1                                        23S
 23S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11 MUNICIPALITIES WHERE THE ARAUCRIA CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IS LOCATED
                                                                      Paran                                                                                                                                                                                3 MUNICIPALITIES MENTIONED IN THE REQUEST
                                                                                                      Rio
                                                                   Rio                                   Iva                                                                                                                                               OTHER BIODIVERSITY CORRIDORS2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ARAUCRIA FOREST BIOME3
                                                                             CAIU  ILHA GRANDE CORRIDOR                                                                                       Rio
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tibagi                                                   RIVERS
     PARAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 STATE CAPITAL
Area of main map, right.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES4 WITHIN PROJECT AREA
   For detail, see IBRD 34970.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


 24S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1Source: Estado do Paran, Instituto Ambiental do Paran, mapa do               24S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   "Corredor Araucria  Vegetao."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                            Rio Piquer                                                                                                                                                            Source: Estado do Paran, Instituto Ambiental do Paran, "Mapa dos Corredores da
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Biodiversidade e Microbacias por Municpio."
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Source: "A Floresta com Araucria no Paran, Fundao de Pesquisas Florestais do Paran,"
                Y                                                                                                                                    PA R A N                                                                                    3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   p. 25.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4Source: "Governo do Estado do Paran, Secretaria de Estado do Desenvolvimento Urbano
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (SEDU)", http://www.parana.pr.gov.br/.




                 RAGUAAP                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rio Ribeira        do Iguape
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SO PAULO
                                                                         IGUAU  PARAN CORRIDOR                                                        A R A U C  R I A F O R E S T B I O M E
                            Itaipu
 25S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25S




                                                                                                                                                                     11 MUNICIPALITIES WHERE THE ARAUCRIA CORRIDOR IS LOCATED
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CURITIBA
                                                                                                             For Detail, see IBRD 34970.
                                                                                                                                                     CANDI
                                                                                  Rio Iguau                                                                                         INCIO
                                                                                                                                                     DO                              MARTINS
                                                                                                                                                  FOZ
                                                                                                                                                   JORDO           PINHO
                                                                                                                                                     RESERVA DE                                        PROJECT AREA / ARAUCRIA CORRIDOR
                                                                                                                                                      IGUAU                        CRUZ
                                                                                                                                                                                   MACHADO

 26S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26S

                                                                                                                                                         CORONEL
                                                                                                                     HONRIO                            DOMINGOS
                                                                                                                        SERPA         MANGUEIRINHA                      BITURUNA
                                                                                                                                                         SOARES
           ARGENTINA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ATLANTIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0        40      80                     120
                                                                                                                                                                              GEN.                                                                                                                      OCEAN
  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                            PALMAS         CARNEIRO                     SANTA CATARINA
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                          KILOMETERS
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                    54W                                        53W                                                 52W                                   51W                               50W                         49W                                                             48W


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JULY 31, 2006

                                                              BRAZIL
                     REQUEST FOR INSPECTION:                                                                                A R A U C  R I A F O R E S T B I O M E
           PARAN BIODIVERSITY PROJECT                                                                                               CANDI                                                                                                                     INCIO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MARTINS
                            PROJECT AREA / ARAUCRIA CORRIDOR1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              23,950
                            MICROCATCHMENT BOUNDARIES WITHIN PROJECT AREA                                                    6,830                                                                                                                             25%
                                                                                                                             29%
                            11 MUNICIPALITIES WHERE THE ARAUCRIA CORRIDOR                                                          16,809                                                                                                                          70,281

                            IS LOCATED                                                                               FOZ DO          71%                                                                                                                             75%
                                                                                                                     JORDO                                                                          PINHO
                            3 MUNICIPALITIES MENTIONED IN THE REQUEST
                            ARAUCRIA FOREST BIOME2
                                                                                                                                                                                                  98,843        100,849
                            RIVERS                                                                                          RESERVA DE                                                              49%            51%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      CRUZ
                            STATE CAPITAL                                                                                       IGUAU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MACHADO
                            MUNICIPALITY BOUNDARIES3 WITHIN PROJECT AREA                                                        16,655
                                                                                                                                 19%                                                                                                                                 28,498
                            STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19%
                                                                                                                                     71,042
                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                  81%                                                                                                                                 119,437
                                                                                         MANGUEIRINHA                                                                                                                                                                      81%

               1Source: Estado do Paran, Instituto Ambiental do Paran, mapa do
                                                                                             5,319
                "Corredor Araucria  Vegetao."                                             5%
               2Source: "A Floresta com Araucria no Paran, Fundao de Pesquisas                                                                                                                                                                                                                 26S

                Florestais do Paran," p. 25.                                                98,047
               3Source: "Governo do Estado do Paran, Secretaria de Estado do                  95%
                Desenvolvimento Urbano (SEDU)", http://www.parana.pr.gov.br/.                                                          CORONEL
                                                                                                                                     DOMINGOS                                                                                       Rio Iguau
                                                                           HONRIO                                                      SOARES                                                                          BITURUNA
                                                                             SERPA
                                                                                                                                         23,691                                                                           32,984

                                                                           13,974                                                         15%                                                                              27%

                                                                            28%                                                                                                                                                 90,958
                                                                                                                                            130,772
               0       5       10      15       20      25       30               36,372                                                                                                                                         73%
                                                                                                                                              85%
                                                                                   72%

                                  KILOMETERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Area of Corridor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         as a Percentage of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Municipality's Total Area:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Corridor area,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          in hectares     32,984
                                                                                                                                          PALMAS                                                                                            GEN.                           27%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CARNEIRO
                                                                                                                                          43,532                                                                                                                                  90,958

                                                                                                                                           28%                                                                                                                                     73%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30,327
                                                                                                                                                111,847                                                                                   28%                                             Non-Corridor
                                                                                                                                                  72%                                                                                          76,467                                    area, in hectares
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72%
                                        BRAZIL                                                  PARAN
JUL                                                                                          For detail, see IBRD 34965.                                 SANTA CATARINA                                                                                          % of microcatchment in the Corridor:     IBRD
   Y                                                                                          Area of main map, above.                                                                                                                                                          > 50%
    31,                                           PARAN
                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                        34970
                                                                                                                                                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                          < 50%
       2006                                                                                                                                            shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                            52W                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                   51W
                                                                                                                                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

