                                                                                               36773

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                        1818HStreet,N.W.         Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                           Washington, D.C. 20433   Fax :(202) 522-0916
                                                           U.S.A.                   Email: ipanel@worldbank.org



     Edith Brown Weiss
     Chairperson

                                                                              IPNREQUEST RQ06/04

                                                                              July 11,2006


         MER ORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND ALTERNATES OF THE
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                   SUBJECT: Requestfor Inspection
                  BRAZIL: ParansiBiodiversityProject(GEF TF 051007)




            Please be advised that on July 10, 2006, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a
     Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-mentioned Project. The Panel
     registered the Request for Inspection inthe Panel's Register on July 11,2006, as provided in
     paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures. It also delivered a copy o f the Request to
     the President of IDA pursuant to paragraph 17 of the IDA Resolution that established the
     Panel. Enclosed for your informationare:

            (1) a copy o f the Notice o f Registration; and
            (2) a copy of the transmittal Memorandum to the President.




     Enclosures

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTIONPANEL                                          1818 HStreet, N.W.        Telephone: (202) 458-5200
                                                             Washington, D.C.20433     Fax :(202) 522-0916
                                                             U.S.A.                    Email: ipanel@worldbank.org




          IPNREQUEST RQ06/04


                                                                                          July 11,2006




                                 NOTICE OF REGISTRATION

                                     Re: Requestfor Inspection
                     Brazil: ParaniBiodiversityProject(GEF TF 051007)


              On July 10, 2006, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for
     Inspection (the "Request"), dated June 23, 2006, related to the Brazil: Parana Biodiversity
     Project (the "Project") financed under the Global EnvironmentalFacility (GEF Trust Fund
     N o 051007). The Request was submitted by a non-governmental organization (NGO)
     based inthe State of Parana, Brazil. The Requesters have asked the Panel that their names
     and their organization's name be kept confidential. The Request for Inspection is
     composed o f a formal letter to the Panel, dated June 23, 2006, and a letter with annexes,
     dated March 21, 2006, sent to the Inspection Panel and the World Bank by an umbrella
     NGO, the NGO Network of the Atlantic Forest - RMA. The Requesters asked that the
     March 2006 letter with annexes be considered an integralpart ofthe Request.

             The Project aims "a) to support biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural
     resource management in the Biodiversity Corridors with a view to protect two highly
     threatened ecoregions in the Recipient's territory: the Inland Atlantic Rainforest and the
     Araucciria Forest regions; and (3) to design and implement a model for improving
     biodiversity conservation in the Recipient's territory."'           These objectives are to be
     achieved through four Project components: "Education and Capacity Building",
     "Biodiversity Management", "Control and Protection", and "Project Administration".
     These Project parts are "subject to such modzjications" as the Bank and the State of
     Parana, the recipient, may agree upon inorder to achieve the Project objectives.




      GlobalEnvironmentalFacility,Trust FundGrantAgreementbetweenthe State o fParanhandthe IBRD
     actingas implementingagency of the GEF, May29, 2002, Schedule2 (Project Description).



                                                                                                             1

        The Requesters state that the approval ofthe Project carried "an unprecedentedand
verypositive expectation that it would generate actions"2 aimed at preserving the State o f
Parana's biodiversity. According to the Request, the conservation of the biomass of the
Araucaria Forest and the Atlantic Forest i s a "greatpriority" inthe State o f Paranhbecause
studies have shown that the Araucaria Forest, which once covered 76,000km2of the State
and i s home to four endangered species of flora, is now reduced to 0.8 percent o f its
original area.3GEF funds (about U S 8 million) were thus provided for the conservation o f
the biodiversity ofthe biomass inthese severelythreatenednatural areas.

        However, according to the Request, "methodological changes" made to Project
implementation after it was approved have resultedina change o f Project activities, which
will preventthe achievement of the original Project objectives and will worsen the current
situation. The Requesters claim that the original Project objectives are far from being
achieved because the Project focus has shifted: the activities planned under the Project to
protect against the destruction of the last existing preserved natural areas in the State of
ParanB, such as the Arauchria Forest, are currently not being implemented. Rather the
Project resources are being used for the recovery o f degraded areas. The Requesters argue
that a review of current Project activities against the performance indicators agreed during
Project preparation can show the changes inProject implementation they complain about.

        According to the Request, Project implementation i s focusing on restoring
degraded areas by planting seedlings "on properties that have been stripped of native
areas (Legal Reserve and Permanent Preservation are^)."^ The Request claims that many
landowners have reached agreements with the State to ensure that their degraded areas be
restored. As a result, if this restoration work is continued, these areas may have native
vegetation areas but there i s no guarantee that they will have significant biodiversity, the
preservation o f which i s the original focus of the Project. The Requesters believe that the
Project's priority focus should be on the last remaining areas containing natural formation
- the ones with still the least altered of the biome - because these natural areas maintain a
more representative biodiversity than secondary or already degraded areas.

        The Requesters believe that the "misdirected implementation" of the Project may
missthe opportunity "to reverse or minimize the serious loss of biodiversity of the biomass
in question, at least where the Project is implemented." Intheir view, this is a "strategic
error that could have grave consequences" because it could result in losing not only
substantial resources but also the "last opportunity to make an effort to preserve the
region 's biodiversity."      The Requesters believe that it would take decades to transform
degraded areas with low biodiversity into mature environments, while the "destruction of
natural areas is ongoing, in some cases with the endorsement of the Government of the
State of Parand through its licensing unit, the Parand Environmental Institute (IAP)          ."




 Request for Inspection, letter dated March 21,2006, Annex 1 (Deforestation inParana), p. 4.
 Request for Inspection, letter dated March21,2006, Annex 1, p. 1.
 Request for Inspection, letter dated March 21,2006, p.l.



                                                                                                  2

    The Requesters further claim that the destruction of preservedareas is also proceeding
fast because o f four main activities: "illegal removal of native timber by local
lumberyards;" "management that results in deforestation;" "implantation of monocultures
of trees after clear cut deforestation;", and "implantation of agricultural monoculture,
after clear cut defore~tation."~In light o f this, the Requesters believe that the Project
should work directly with the owners o f those lands that are crucially important for the
conservation o f biodiversity. To do otherwise, they claim, leads the landowners to "seek
alternative uses for their properties", which in turn may result in the destruction o f the
lands and may not achieve the conservation objectives for the biome. The Requesters state
that "the absence of apolicy for protecting these better-conserved areas indicates a trend
that chronologically is not supported in terms of results."6

   Intheir correspondencewith the Bank, the claimants hadrequested the World Bank to
conduct a technical audit to assess the results o f the Project with respect to its original
objectives. They now request that an Inspection Panel process be initiated so that "the
Project can be quickly redirected towards the achievement of its original objectives."

   The above claims may constitute non-compliance by the Bank with various provisions
o fthe following operational Policies and Procedures:

    OPBP 4.01                              EnvironmentalAssessment
    OPBP 4.04                              NaturalHabitats
    OPBP 4.36                              Forestry (1993)
    OPBP 13.05                             Project Supervision


        Untilfurther notice, all communications withthe Requestersinconnection withthe
Request will be sent to the Executive Secretary o f the NGO Network of the Atlantic
Forest, whom the Requesters appointed as their representative.

        Pursuant to paragraph 17 of the Panel's Operating Procedures (the `Operating
Procedures'), Iam notifying you that Ihave, on July 11, 2006, registered this Request in
the InspectionPanelRegister.

        Inaccordance with paragraph 18 of the IDA Resolutionthat established the Panel
(`Resolution'), paragraphs 2 and 8 of the "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of
the Inspection Panel" (the `1999 Clarifications'), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating
Procedures, Bank Management must provide the Panel, no later than August 9,2006, with
written evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply, with the Bank's relevant
policies and procedures inrelationto the above-referenced Project. The subject matter that
Management must deal with in a response to the Request i s set out inparagraphs 3 and 4
ofthe 1999 Clarifications.




 Requestfor Inspection, letter dated March21,2006, Annex 1, p. 5.
 Requestfor Inspection, letter dated March21,2006, Annex 1, p. 5.



                                                                                           3

        After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as outlined inthe 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 12 to 14 [of the Resolution] and
shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should
be investigated."

        The Requesthas beenassignedIPNRequestNumberRQ06/4.


                                     Yours sincerely,




  Ms.MiriamProchnow, Executive Director
  NGO Network of the Atlantic Forest      - RMA
   SCLN 210 - Bloco C salas 2071208
  Brasilia  - Distrito   -
                      Federal-Brasil 70.862-530

    Mr.PaulD.Wolfowitz
    President
    International Development Association
    Room MC12-750

    The Executive Directors andAlternates
    International Development Association




                                                                                            4

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE INSPECTION PANEL                                       1818 HStreet,N.W.       Telephone:(202) 458-5200
                                                           Washington, D.C.20433   Fax : (202) 522-0916
                                                                                   Email:ipanel@worldbank.org

EdithBrownWeiss
Chairperson
                                                                       IPNREQUEST RQ06/04

                                                                        July 11,2006



                    MEMORANDUMTO THE PRESIDENT OF THE
                THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                                   Requestfor Inspection
                  BRAZIL: ParaniBiodiversityProject(GEF TF 051007)


        In accordance with paragraph 17 of IDA Resolution that established the Inspection
 Panel (the "Resolution") and paragraph 17 of the Inspection Panel's Operating Procedures
 (the "Operating Procedures"), Ihereby notify you that on July 10,2006, the Inspection Panel
 (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection (the "Request") related to the above-
 referenced Project.

       IhaveonJuly11,2006,whichisalsothedateofthedispatchofthisnotice,registered
 the Requestinthe Inspection Panel Register. Enclosed are:

        1. copy ofthe Notice ofRegistration; and
       2. copy o fthe Request for Inspection

       In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution, paragraphs 2 and 8 of the
 "Conclusions of    the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel" (the "1999
 Clarifications"), and paragraph 18 (d) o f the Operating Procedures, Bank Management i s
 hereby notified that it must provide the Panel, no later than August 9, 2006, with written
 evidence that it has complied, or intends to comply with the Bank's relevant policies and
 procedures inrelation to the above-referenced Projects. The subject matter the Management
 must deal with in a response to the Request is set out in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the 1999
 Clarifications.

      After receiving the Management response, the Parte! will, as outlined in the 1999
Clarifications and as provided by paragraph 19 o f the Resolution, "determine whether the
Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs i 2 to 14 and shall make a
recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter should be
investigated."

      The Requesthas beenassignedIPNRequest Number RQ06/04.




Enclosures:
      Requestfor Inspection
      Notice ofRegistration


TO: Mr.Paul Wolfowitz
President
International Development Association
RoomMC12-750

[By hand against confirmation]

cc:   The E,xecutiveDirectors andAlternates
International Development Association




                                                2

