Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7667-UR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Programmatic Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan) 
 
between 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 10, 2009 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7667-UR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated February 10, 2009, entered into between 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL 
URUGUAY (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Bank has decided to provide this financing on 
the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program 
and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s 
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank 
therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of $400,000,000 (four hundred million Dollars), as such 
amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in 
accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.07 and 2.08 of this Agreement
 (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one percent 
(0.25%) of the Loan amount.  The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 
sixty days after the Effective Date. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that upon a 
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest payable 
by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be determined in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains 
unpaid when due and such non-payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the 
interest payable by the Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.06. 
(a) 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the principal 
amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the amortization schedule 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may at the time of requesting a Withdrawal also request repayment 
provisions different from those set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement for such 
Withdrawal, provided that: (i) the average maturity of such Withdrawal does not 
exceed 18 years from the Withdrawal Date and the final maturity of such 
Withdrawal does not exceed 30 years from the Withdrawal Date (or such other 
average maturity and/or final maturity as may be generally applicable to loans 
made by the Bank to the Borrower at the time of such agreement); and (ii) such 
repayment provisions have been agreed between the Borrower and the Bank prior 
to the Withdrawal Date of any such Withdrawal. 
 
2.07. (a) 
Subject to the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement
,
the Borrower may 
at any time request any of the following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in 
order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of the Loan Currency of 
all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis 
applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the 
setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
2.08. 
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in Article II of this Agreement or Article 
III of the General Conditions, the Borrower may request that an amount withdrawn from 
the Loan Account shall be converted into Uruguayan Pesos (“UYU”) through the 
issuance by the Bank of UYU bonds in connection with such conversion (the “UYU 
Notes”).  Such withdrawn amount shall accrue interest, and the principal amount thereof 
shall be repayable, in each case exclusively on such terms and conditions as the Borrower 
and the Bank may separately agree, subject always to the Bank’s determination in its sole 
discretion that it can issue the UYU Notes for such amount on reasonable terms. 
 
2.09. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.10 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions 
of this Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
Page  4
-3- 
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  To this 
end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of either party, 
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the 
actions specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for 
its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any situation which would have 
the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any action 
taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent with 
the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program (including any action listed in Section I of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely 
affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
ARTICLE V 
—
TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the loan which expire on August 3, 
2010. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Economy and Finance. 
Page  5
-4- 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas 
Colonia No. 1089, Tercer Piso 
Montevideo, Uruguay 
 
Cable: 
 Telex: 
     Facsimile: 
MINECON 
269 MICECON UY, Montevideo Uruguay 
(59-82) 1712-2688 
 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145(MCI) 
 
Page  6
-5- 
 
AGREED at Montevideo, Uruguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPÚBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY 
 
By /s/ Alvaro García 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pedro Alba 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-6- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
A. 
(1) 
The DGI is leading and coordinating the IRPF collection efforts of different 
collection-retention agencies as provided in Article 8 of the Tax Reform Law 
(which amends
 Article 1 of Chapter I of Title 7 of the Borrower’s 
Texto 
Ordenado 1996
). 
 
(2) 
The Borrower has fulfilled the following implementation targets with respect to 
the Tax Reform Law: 
 
(a) 
DGI and BPS inspectors have been trained in the skills required for their 
jobs; 
 
(b) 
210 DGI posts outside DGI headquarters and a tax call center for 
consultations have been established; 
 
(c) 
a single tax registry is in operation; 
 
(d) 
IRPF tax files are being transferred monthly from BPS to DGI; and  
 
(e) 
DGI has consolidated taxpayer information into a single IRPF tax file 
combining income from different sources for each multi-employed 
contributor. 
 
B. 
The Executive has presented to Parliament for approval a draft capital markets law. 
 
C. 
(1) 
The Board of Directors of BCU has approved a plan that is satisfactory to the 
Bank for the implementation of an overall payments and securities settlement system reform. 
 
(2) 
The Board of Directors of BCU has submitted to MEF for approval by the 
Executive a new draft payments system law (
Anteproyecto de Ley sobre Compensación y 
Liquidación de Pagos y Valores)
.
D. The 
Borrower’s House of Representatives (
Cámara de Diputados)
 has approved a draft 
Insolvency and Enterprise Reorganization Law (
Ley de Concursos y Reorganización 
Empresarial
). 
 
E. 
(1) 
The Executive has issued Decree No. 266/07 establishing as obligatory from 
January 1, 2009 the International Financial Reporting Standards (
Normas Internacionales de 
Información Financiera) 
adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board as of the date 
of publication of said Executive Decree, which include: (a) the requirement for enterprises to 
Page  8
-7- 
 
consolidate financial statements; and (b) the requirement that enterprises provide information 
about related party transactions. 
 
(2) 
The Borrower’s House of Representatives (
Cámara de Diputados)
 has approved 
amendments to the Borr
ower’s Law number 16.060 of September 4, 1989, published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette on November 1, 1989 (
Ley de Sociedades Comerciales
)
to eliminate 
inconsistencies with the accounting standards referred to in paragraph E (1) above. 
 
(3) 
The Executive has adopted a resolution (
Resolución del Poder Ejecutivo 580/
07) 
that strengthens the composition of the CPNCA by adding representatives of BCU, DGI, private 
universities and the Association of Private Banks of Uruguay (
Asociación de Bancos Privados del 
Uruguay)
.
(4) 
The Executive has presented to Parliament draft legislation establishing a system 
of independent accounting oversight. 
 
F. 
The Borrower is implementing a new structural income transfer policy (
Plan de Equidad 
Social), 
which includes as a core component the new family allowances system established by 
Law No. 18.227 dated December 22, 2007 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on 
January 9, 2008. 
 
G. 
The Borrower is implementing tax reform legislation to eliminate exemptions to selected 
sectors and industries and to adopt a new unified social contribution rate for employers (Articles 
87-94 of the Tax Reform Law). 
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank may specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts.
 
The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds 
of the Loan from the Loan Account in support of the Program in various draw-downs of a 
Single Tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the 
table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Tranche 
Allocated 
(expressed in Dollars)
 
Single Tranche 
 
400,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
400,000,000 
C. Payment 
of 
Front-end 
Fee. 
 
No
 
withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account until 
the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-end Fee. 
 
Page  9
-8- 
 
D. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds.  
If, at any time prior to the receipt by the Bank of a 
request for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank determines that a review of 
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework or of its progress in carrying out the 
Program is warranted, the Bank shall give notice to the Borrower to that effect.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, no withdrawals shall be made of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance 
unless and until the Bank has notified the Borrower of its satisfaction, after an exchange 
of views as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, with: 
(1) the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program; and (2) the 
appropriateness of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
E. 
Deposits of Loan Amounts.
 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2.  
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
F. Audit. 
 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
have the account designated by the Borrower pursuant to Section E.1 of this 
Section audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case no later than four months 
after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
3. 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the account and its audit 
as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
G. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an 
amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request 
shall be cancelled.
 
H. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is January 22, 2012. 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2024 
 
through August 15, 2028 
 
9.09 % 
On February 15, 2029 
 
9.10 % 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
 
Page  11
-10- 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“BCU” means 
Banco Central del Uruguay, 
the Borrower’s Central Bank. 
 
2. “BPS” 
means 
Banco de Previsión Social, 
the Borrower’s social security entity. 
 
3. “CPNCA” 
means 
Comisión Permanente de Normas Contables Adecuadas, 
the 
Borrower’s Permanent Commission on Adequate Accounting Standards created pursuant 
to the Executive’s Resolution No. 90/991. 
 
4. “DGI” 
means 
Dirección General Impositiva, 
the Borrower’s General Tax Directorate 
under MEF. 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches an
d
w
atch cases) and 
Page  13
-12- 
 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is 
prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which 
the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or other 
recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower (or other such recipient) 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to address 
such practices when they occur. 
 
6. 
“Executive” means the executive branch of the government of the Borrower. 
 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through 
February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
 
8. “IRPF” 
means 
Impuesto a la 
Renta de las Personas Físicas, 
the Borrower’s personal 
income tax established pursuant to Article 8 of the Tax Reform Law. 
 
9. “MEF” 
means 
Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy 
and Finance. 
 
10. 
“Parliament” means the legislative branch of the government of the Borrower. 
 
11. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the 
letter dated December 15, 2008 from the Borrower to the Bank declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
12. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled “Single 
Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
13. 
“Tax Reform Law” means the Borrower’s law number 18.083 of December 27, 2006, as 
complemented by the Borrower’s law number 18.172 of August 31, 2007 and the 
Borrower’s law number 18.314 of July 4, 2008. 
Page  14
-13- 
 
14. 
“UYU” means Uruguayan Pesos, the Borrower’s local currency. 
 
15. 
“UYU Notes” means the UYU bonds referred to in Section 2.08 of this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted in their 
entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in 
Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and 
relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until 
two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s 
representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the Program, the performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Loan. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as 
follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to 
the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
Page  15
-14- 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted by 
the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of the 
Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix 
are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Fixed Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Fixed Spread” means, for each Withdrawal, the Bank’s fixed spread for the 
Loan Currency of the Withdrawal in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, D.C. time, 
on the Withdrawal Date; provided, that: (a) for purposes of determining the 
Default Interest Rate, pursuant to Section 3.02 (d), that is applicable to an amount 
of the Withdrawn Loan Balance on which interest is payable at a Fixed Rate, the 
“Fixed Spread” means the Bank’s fixed spread in effect at 12:01 a.m. 
Washington, D.C. time, one calendar day prior to the date of the Loan 
Agreement, for the Currency of denomination of such amount; (b) for purposes 
of fixing the Variable Spread pursuant to Section 4.02, “Fixed Spread” means the 
Bank’s fixed spread for the Loan Currency in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time on the Conversion Date; and (c) upon a Currency Conversion of all or 
any amount of the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance pursuant to Section 4.04 (a), the 
Fixed Spread shall be adjusted on the Execution Date in the manner specified in 
the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(e) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified 
to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”):  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support of 
which the Loan is made.” 
 
(f) 
The term “Variable Spread” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Variable Spread” means, for each Withdrawal and each Interest Period: (1) the 
Bank’s standard variable spread for Loans in effect at 12:01 a.m. Washington, 
D.C. time, on the Withdrawal Date; (2) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for the Interest Period, below (or above) LIBOR, or other reference rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by it to fund loans that carry interest at a rate based on 
the Variable Spread; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
Page  16
-15- 
 
percentage per annum. In the case of a Loan denominated in more than one 
Currency, “Variable Spread” applies separately to each of such Currencies.  
 
(g) 
A new term “Withdrawal” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal” means each amount of the Loan withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Loan Account pursuant to Section 2.01. 
 
(h) 
A new term “Withdrawal Date” is added to read as follows: 
 
“Withdrawal Date” means, for each Withdrawal, the date on which the Bank 
pays the Withdrawal. 
 
