CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 319 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Agricultural Estates Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 319 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fourth Agricultural Estates Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 28, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        June   28,    1972, between   REPUBLIC     OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the AssQciation).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "PNP X" means Perusahaan Negara Perkebunan, a state-owned
enterprise of the Borrower, established and so designated by Government Regulation
No. 14 of 1968, and any successor thereto.
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the subsidiary loan agreement
entered into between the Borrower and PNP X pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement.
(c)   "Inspectors" means the inspectors referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to timc.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1982 and ending February 15, 2022, each installment
to and including the installment payable on February 15, 1992 to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PNP X to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall provide to PNP X,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The financing to be provided to PNP X pursuant to the preceding
paragraph, including the proceeds of the Credit, shall be made available to PNP X
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
PNP X upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause PNP X to employ during such periods
as shall be required for the Project and upon such other terms and conditions
as shall be satisfactory to the Association the following specialists acceptable to
the Association:
(a)   two specialists in growing oil palm    and rubber, respectively, as
Executive Assistant responsible for Oil Palm Operations and Executive Assistant
responsible for Rubber Operations, who shall report directly to the President
Director of PNP X and who shall inter alia be charged with the implementation
of the oil palm and rubber rehabilitation programs of PNP X, including
rehabilitation and expansion of processing and storage facilities and the introduction
of improved agricultural management;
(b)   a  specialist in  business administration, as Executive Assistant
responsible for Commercial Operations, who shall report directly to the President
Director of PNP X and who shall be charged with the improvement of management,
financial, inventory and local sales controls, and with internal audits;
(c)   specialists in the growing of cloves, cinnamon, coconut and cocoa to
advise on, and assist PNP X during periodical visits with, the implementation of
the pilot programs for those crops included in the Project; and
(d)   specialists in foliar and soil analyses.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall employ upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association the following consultants acceptable to the
Association:


﻿6
(a)   a  consultancy  organization  qualified  and  experienced  in  the
management and operation of oil palm and rubber estates to provide to PNP X:
(i) the engineering advisory services required under the Project, and (ii) an estate
and factory inspection service consisting of periodic visits by inspectors (hereinafter
called the Inspectors) to monitor the progress of the Project;
(b)   plant-breeding consultants to recommend to PNP X suitable oil palm
and rubber planting material to be used under the Project;
(c)   marketing consultants to recommend procedures to be followed by
PNP X in the marketi-mg of its products; and
(d)   a  consultancy  organization  qualified  and  experienced  in  the
management and operation of tea estates to provide an inspection service and to
assist PNP X in preparing the rehabilitation and development program for the
Pagaralam tea estate included in the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause:
(a)   PNP X to surface with gravel or laterite during 1972 and 1973 about
fifty kilometers of connecting roads between the individual oil palm and rubber
estates of PNP X; and
(b)   to be made available to PNP X not later than 1975 such land at the
port of Pandjang as shall be required to accommodate the expanded palm oil
pumping and storage facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause PNP X:
(a)   to strictly adhere to the planting programs for oil palm and rubber
agreed with the Borrower and the Association for the planting included in the
Project and not to expand such programs by cultivating more land or planting
at a faster rate than provided for under such programs;
(b)   to use under such programs only oil palm and rubber planting material
which has been recommended by the plant-breeding consultants employed by the
Borrower in accordance with Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement: and
(c)   to refrain until the Closing Date from any planting other than planting
included in the Project (including but not limited to rubber, oil palm, tea, cloves,
cinnamon, coconut and cocoa), except for replanting under customary crop cycles.


﻿7
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause PNP X to insure, or to make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goocis to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by PNP X
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause PNP X to furnish to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules, for the Project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PNP X: (i) to maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) to enable the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) to furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PNP X at all times to manage
its affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on
its operations, all in accordance with sound business, financial, agricultural and
engineering practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management and supervisors, if any, assisted by qualified staff in adequate numbers.
(b)   The Borrower shall ensure that before an appointment is made to the
position of member of PNP X's Direksi (executive management) or to any similar
position, the Association shall be informed of the names, qualifications and
experience of the persons consideled for appointment to such position and shall
be afforded a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on
the qualifications and experience of such persons. If any supervisory board is


﻿8
established in the future, the same procedure shall be followed prior to the
appointment of its members.
(c)   Immediately after the presently ongoing national estate management
study shall have been completed, the Borrower shall consult with the Association
on which of the recommendations emanating from that study shall be implemented,
and, as soon as possible after agreement shall have been reached with the Association
on the implementation of any such recommendation, the Borrower shall carry out
that recommendation in respect of PNP X, unless the Borrower and the Association
shall determine that the recommendation cannot be suitably applied to PNP X.
(d)   The Borrower shall cause PNP X to appoint two counterpart inspectors
from its management to work alongside the Inspectors during their periodic visits
to the estates.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PNP X to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause PNP X to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of PNP X.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause PNP X to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of PNP X and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. (a) Before the 1974 annual budget for PNP X shall be prepared,
the Borrower shall have caused PNP X: (i) to adopt an improved budget format
which shall inter alia adequately show unit costs and productivity; and (ii) to
prepare a five-year program describing the planned activities of PNP X over that
period, their estimated costs and the expected revenues from which they are to
be financed. PNP X shall prepare similar five-year programs annually thereafter.


﻿9
(b)   The final drafts of said five-year programs and the 1973 and subsequent
annual budgets of PNP X, and any material modification thereof, together with
the comments of the Inspectors thereon, shall be furnished to the Association for
its comments not later than thirty days before they shall be submitted foi adoption.
Section 4.05. All oil palm and rubber products of PNP X shall be marketed
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause PNP X:
(a)   to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all such
rights and interests in land and all such other rights, powers, privileges and franchises
as are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business, and
(b)   at all times to operate and maintain its installations, oil palm  and
rubber plantings, equipment and other property, and promptly as required make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound business,
agricultural and engineering practices.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to relieve PNP X of its tax burden and other liabilities to the extent
that they concern lands (at present about 16,000 ha) which are occupied by
squatters and which PNP X does not intend to reclaim for cultivation or other
use.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of PNP X and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and


﻿10
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of PNP X and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connectioh with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿*                                11
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequLnt time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notw ithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   PNP X shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by PNP X or by others whereby
any of the property of PNP X shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(b)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PNP X or for the
suspension of all or part of the operations of PNP X.
(c)  The legislation and chaiter under which PNP X is incorporated, or
any provisions thereof, shall have been amended, suspended or abrogated without
the prior concurrence of the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified, namcly, that any event specified in
paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and PNP X, and has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate action;


﻿(b)  that PNP X    shall have made arrangements satisfactory to the
Association with independent auditors acceptable to the Association to carry out
the audits specified in Section 4.03 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)  that the Executive Assistants responsible for Oil Palm, Rubber and
Commercial Operations of PNP X have been duly appointed in accordance with
Section 3.02 (a) and (b) of this Agreement; and
(d)  that the Inspectors have been duly appointed in accordance with
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  that PNP X is a legal entity duly organized and operating under the
laws of the Borrower; and
(b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and PNP X,
and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and PNP X in
accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date November 30, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement and the provisions of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twelve years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
renresentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿13
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Sjarif Thajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / M. Shoaib
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equialent)       to be Financed
I.    Fertilizer, chemi-           11700000      100% of foreign expen-
cals, agricultural                          ditures, 95% of local
machinery and                               expenditures ex-factory
equipment and                               and 83% of other
vehicles                                    local expenditures
(off the shelf)
II.   Supply and erection         4,300,000       100% of foreign expen-
of oil palm and                             ditures and 40% of
rubber processing                           local expenditures
facilities                                  (representing the esti-
mated foreign expendi-
ture component)
III.  Services of In-              1,400,000      100% of foreign expen-
spectors, Chiefs of                         ditures
Oil Palm. Rubber
and Commercial Op-
erations and other
consultants and
specialists
IV.   New planting of oil          1)000,000      Such amounts as shall
palm and rubber                             be specified in the
Annex to this
Schedule I
V.    Unallocated                 2,600,000
TOTAL            11,000,000
0


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I and II on account of
expenditures incurred after December 31, 1971 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $200,000: and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in
paragraph I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable
net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds
of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category 1, 11 or III shall
decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer
required  therefor  will be  reallocated  by  the  Association  by  increasing
correspondingly the unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category 1, 11 or III shall
increase, the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1
above in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such
increase, and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the
request of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the
Credit, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by
the Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿16
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category I or
II shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿17
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawals on Account of New Planting
Withdrawals on account of expenditures made in plantings of new oil palm
and rubber shall be made only after the Borrower shall have furnished to the
Association a report of the Inspectors grading the plantings according to growth,
maintenance standards and costs in relation to budgets, on the basis of standards
for each grade satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association. The table below
sets forth the four grades to be used, the various performance categories and the
amounts expressed in dollar equivalent per hectare eligible to be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in respect of each performance category under each grade;
provided, however, that no grade shall be given to, and without limitation of the
provisions set forth or referred to in Article VII of the Development Credit
Agreement and Article VI of the General Conditions no withdrawals shall be made
on account of, unsatisfactory planting:
Standards of                  Unit Cost/
Roads/Super-      Pest and      Original
Weeding        vision Paths/     Disease      Budget/
Growth   Standards      Drains/Terraces    Control   PNP Average
(amounts per hectare expressed in dollar equivalent)
Grade 1       5          5                5             5             5
Grade 2      10         10               10             10           10
Grade 3     30          20               10             10           30
Grade 4     40          20               20            20            50


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a program of rehabilitation and development of the
agricultural estates of PNP X and comprises the following:
First Stage
The following investment program to be carried out over a period of nine
years:
1.    Rubber investments
(a)   Replanting of about 4,000 ha of uneconomic rubber land with rubber
and development of the young trees through programs of fertilization;
(b)   Rehabilitation of all economic mature and immature rubber (about
9,700 ha) through special programs of weed and disease control, drainage, selective
felling of uneconomic trees and corrective fertilizer application;
(c)   Foliar and soil analyses; and
(d)   Rehabilitation of existing rubber processing facilities, and construction
of two block rubber factories on Kedaton estate and Way Berulu estate including
laboratory facilities for quality control.
2.    Palm  Oil investments
(a)   Replanting of about 6,400 ha of uneconomic rubber land and
planting of about 1,000 ha of uncultivated land, with oil palms and development
of the young trees through programs of fertilization;
(b)   Rehabilitation of all economic mature and immature oil palms (about
2,000 ha) through special programs of weed and disease control, drainage, selective
felling of uneconomic trees and corrective fertilizer application;
(c)   Foliar and soil analyses;
(d)   Improvement of sterilizing, power and kernel extraction plants of the
palm oil factory on Bekri estate to increase its capacity and raise the quality of
its products;


﻿19
(e)   Construction of a new palm oil factory on Kedaton estate in stages
adapted to a gradual increase in crops; and
(f)   Rehabilitation and expansion of the palm oil storage and pumping
facilities of PNP X at the Port of Pandjang.
3.    Pilot programs for cloves, cinnamon, coconut and cocoa
(a)   A pilot program on about 300 ha to study the economic viability
of growing cloves;
(b)   Development of cinnamon nurseries on about 500 ha and the testing
of imported high-grade planting material under local conditions; and
(c)   Development on about 400 ha of high-grade coconut and cocoa
planting material from imported stock.
4.    Operational improvements
(a)   Introduction of improved agricultural management on the oil palm and
rubber estates;
(b)   Rehabilitation and expansion of housing and estate roads, bridges and
other estate infrastructure; and
(c)   Rehabilitation of old and placing into service of new agricultural
machinery, equipment and vehicles.
5.    Tea development
Preparation of a rehabilitation and development program for the Pagaralam
tea estate.
Second Stage
The completion of the investment program started under the First Stage,
including expansion of processing facilities to meet production demands when the
trees planted under the program have reached full growth.
The Project is expected to be completed by 1984.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods and associated services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom PNP X intends to award the contract and shall furnish to
the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Executive
Assistants responsible for Oil Palm and Rubber Operations of PNP X and the
consultancy organization referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said Executive Assistants and organization, and
the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for such goods and associated services,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for


﻿21
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    For the purpose of evaluating bids for fertilizers, chemicals and equipment
and associated services included in Categories I and II of the table set out in
paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, bid prices shall be determined and
compared in accordance with the following rules:
(a)   the term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid";
(b)   the bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)        inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation;
(c)   for the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price of such goods net
of any taxes on their importation, or, in the case of a Foreign
Bid for goods manufactured or processed in the territories of
the Borrower, the ex-factory price of such goods;
(ii)        in the case of a Foreign Bid for imported goods, an amount
representing any taxes on the importation of the goods into the
territories of the Borrower which generally apply to non-exempt
importers, or 15%   of the c.i.f. landed price of the goods,
whichever shall be the lower; or, in the case of a Foreign Bid
for goods manufactured or processed in the territories of the
Borrower, an amount computed by applying any taxes on the
importation of similar goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt importers to the ex-factory
price of the goods, or 15% of the ex-factory price of the goods,
whichever shall be the lower; and


﻿22
(iii)        an amount representing domestic freight, insurance and other
costs of delivery of the goods to the place of their use or
installation.


