Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
Repat No. 9616
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1103-SE)
MAY 31, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department V
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTSs
Monetary Unit s CFA Franc (CFAF)
Per US$ 1.00
Appraisal Date (April, 1980)   s   CFAF 210
Average over project duration  t   CFAF 329
Closing Year (1989)             s   CFAF 287
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:
Metric System
1 stere                         = 1 m3 of stacked roundwood
1 m3 (natural forest firewood) = 1.6 steres = 640 kg
1 m3 Eucalyptus firewooC       = 1.6 steres = 720 kg
24 Eucalyptus poles             - 1 m3
ABBREVIATIONS
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Coopsration Economique (France); French Loan Aid
Agency
CNRF      Centre  National  de  Recherche  Forestibre  (Senegal);  National
Forestry Research Centre
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation  (France);  French Governmental
Development Fund
FAO       Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
ISRA      Institut   Sdn6galais   de   Recherches   Agricoles;   Senegalese
Agricultural Research Institute
UNDP      United Nations Development Program



THE WORLD SANK                 FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
Waihingion. O.C. 20433
U.S.A
Ollie di Ovctmt.Gowal
OPMto ttt"Fki
May 31, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Forestry Prolect (Credit 1103-SE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Republic of Senegal - Forestry Project (Credit 1103-
SE)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
"2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performcace
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authoriation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1103-SE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
-Pate No.
PREFACE    ......................................  ..................a.....................a
EFALUATION SUMMARY ..............*......... *l1 ...
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ...............                     I
Project Identity ..........  .... .. ... .. *...*....  *.*... .. ..  ..       1
Background *............. .......* ...                             .................. 
Project Objectives and Description .......................                    1
Project Objectives ................               , . ..... .......        1
Components                                                                 2
Project Design and Organization                                               2
Implementation ....................              ..................           3
Executing Agency            3..................                            3
Credit Effectiveness                                                       4
Unforeseen Factors Affecting Implementation 5.......too                   5
Project Reorientation to ..... .....                . . ....              5
Financial Management and Accounts ........*..........                     5
Project Extension ***a*                    ..                .6
Project Results                  0000**..6
State-Managed Plantations   .see........                                  6
Rural Forestry ....................                                        7
Natural Forest Management                                                 8
Training                                                                  8
Applied Research                            ..................             9
Planning, Monitoring and Economic Studies  .........                      9
Impact .................................                                  9
Economic Rate of Return  .... ooote         ** ........                  10
Sustainability ....O1.1. ........
Bank and Borrower Performance .1..................so....1
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...............                     13
Relations with Donors                                                        13
Relations with IDA ...........................                           13
Relations with CCCE  ...............13
Relations with FAC          ....                                         13
Relations with UNDP/FAO                                                  13
Impact of the Project  ...................                                   13
Expansion and Protection of Senegal's Forest
Resources   ... **  *  *.***** ......... ......o---                    13
Forest Policy and Strengthening of Institutions                          15
Conclusions                        ......e ....                             ............. 18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tble, of Contents  (Cont'd)                                                                       Pare No.
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...................................................                21
Related BanikLoans/Credits  ..................................................          21 
IDA Credlt Disbursements  . . . .. .. . . . . .... . . . . . . . . .... . . . . . . ...*.... .  23
Project Implementatlon *.........*...........*..*...*.***
Project  Ccsts  and  Financing  .......~....................,                           26
Status  of Covenants  . ...*.....*...... ....*.*.. .*.*. *..                            30
Use of Bank Resources  .......................... .         ....... ..... ..........   32
ANNEXES       1  Calculation  cf Wood Yields  for Industrial
2   Calculation of Wood Yields  for Rural Plantations  .....................................  36
3   Rural Forestry  Component  - Village Nurseries  .......................................  37
4 Rural Forestry Component - Plantings by Tree Type and
Planting Arrangement  in the Kaffrlne Region  .......................................  38
ATTACHMET  1 Comments  from CCCE  . . .. .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...  39
ATTACHMNT  2 Comments  from FAC  . .. ... . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......  41
-HA~P - IBRD 15132



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1103-SE)
PRZFACZ
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Forestry Project in
Senegal, for which credit 1103-8S in the amount of US$ 9.3 million was
approved on February 10, 1981. The loan was cldomd on December 31, 1989,
three years behind schedule. Only US$ 7.99 million were diobtirsed and an
amount of SDR 806,437 (US$ 1.05 million) was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operatlons Division of the
Sahelian Department of the Africa Region. The Borrower did not prepare its
part tf the PCR (1I), although it had been requested to do so.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the President's Report, the credit agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and between the Bank and
Cofinancers, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1103-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The Senegal forestry project was designed against a background of rapidly
degrading natural forests in the areas around Dakar and in the groundnut basin.
Recognizing the environmental and economic threat posed by the rapid destruction
of the natural forest cover, the Senegalese Government developed a forestry
master plan which aimed at renewing and expanding natural sources of fuel and
service wood without further depleting natural forests. To help implement the
plan the Government requested Bank assistance for a ro- Aforestation and natural
forest management project.
2.    In line with the Government's forestry plan, the project aimed at
increasing the supply of fuelwood and other forest products to the urban center
of Dakar and the rural areas in the groundnut basin. Specific project objectives
were (a) the establishment of 2,000 ha of state-managed tree plantations; (b) the
creation of 1,500 ha of rural family and 1,500 ha of rural community tree
plantations; (c) improvement in management and productivity of 10,000 ha of
natural forests; (d) financing of applied forestry research relevant to the
project area, and (e) strengthening of .he Forestry Department's planning and
management capacity through the establishment of a training center and a
planning, monitoring and economic studies unit.
ImRlementation Experience
3.    The project was appraised in April 1980 and approved in February 1981.
Project start-up was slow.   After three reschedulings the project became
effective with a year's delay, in July 1982.  The original closing date of
December 1986 was postponed three times and the project closed on December 31,
1989. Two years into project implementation it became clear that lower-than-
expected rainfall and soil conditions unfavorable to the production of the fast
growing, but exotic Eucalyptus Camaldulensis, would not allow attainment of the
expected results in plantations. The project was therefore reoriented away from
pure production objectives toward the reconstitution and protection of the
natural vegetative cover in the forest reserves of the project area. Except for
chronic financial problems, project implementation was satisfactory after
reorientation.
Results
4.    The project failed to achieve the original production objectives, but it
also generated a number of benefits which are not directly quantifiable. These
include advances made in the development of techniques to reconstitute the
natural forest cover in the Sudano-Sahelian zone; excellent training of forestry



- iv -
technicians and extension workers, and the development of an innovative approach
to engage the rural population in rural reafforestation and soil management.
5.    After the initial failura of the state-managed Eucalyptus plantations,
project activities focussed on replanting unsuccessful Eucalyptus plots with
lower yielding, but more resistant local species, and on enriching depleted
natural forests with bands of local species. About 1300 ha of local species
were planted in full stands and 2,154 ha of natural forests were enriched.
6.    Although rural forestry Eucalyptus plantations were more successful than
state-managed plantations (mainly due to better soils in the lowlands), the
project increasingly moved away from planting a maximum number of hectares with
high yielding species toward teaching the rural population how to produce and
protect trees and appreciate their economic and ecological value.  Plantings
under this component proved to be more cost-effective than industrial planta-
tions. A full-stand equivalent of about 2,290 ha of various species were planted
and 240 village nurseries were set up.
7.    Performance  under  the  natural  forest management  and  the  planning,
monitoring and economic studies component was disappointing. Activities under
the natural forest management component never proceeded beyond the elaboration
of a management plan for one of the classified forests in the region.   The
planning, monitoring and economic studies unit suffered from an unclear
definition of its activities, little support and interest from the government
entity it was supposed to assist and the fact that effective project monitoring
and evaluation were rendered impossible by the lack of an analytical accounting
system.
8.    Activities carried out under the training component were among the most
successful of the project.   Almost 1,900 forestry and extension personnel
benefitted from well-designed, practical training sessions on a broad variety oi
topics pertaining to forestry and natural resource management.
9.    In contrast to the appraisal estimate of 13 percent, the ex-post economic
rate of return is estimated at 1 percent. The main reasons for this difference
are:   (a) all state-managed Eucalyptus plantations had to be replanted with
lower-yielding local species, (b) higher-than-expected costs for the initially
planted Eucalyptus trees, and (c) no directly measurable output from the natural
forest management component.
Sustainability
10.   Although the educational benefits of the rural forestry and the training
component will extend beyond project completion, it is questionable whether the
majority of directly-productive activities will be sustainable without further
assistance. Renewed depletion of the newly established forest resources can only
be prevented if they are managed as an integrated system of resources with the
participation of those who exploit them. Although the project has contributed
to a better understanding of the issues involved in natural resource management,
it is doubtful that the understaffed forestry service in the project region will
be able to manage effectively the newly-established resource base. Prospects for
the sustainability of activities of the rural forestry component may be better,
as indicated by the fact that 40 village nurseries were considered as autonomous
at project completion.



-v -
Findings and Lessono Learned
11.   The Senegalese forestry project has shown thats
pedological and climatic conditions in Senegal's Centre-Eat do not
allow for cost-effective wood production in industrial plantations;
other, more cost-effective ways to regenerate forest resources in
the Sudano-Sahelian zone do, however, exist.  They include tree
planting on farmland and enrichment of natural forest reserves with
local species;
these techniques  remain nevertheless  too expensive  to produce
fuelwood under the current Senegalese wood price system. They are
also unlikely to yield enough wood to address effectively the
problems associated with the rapidly increasing urban demand for
fuelvood;
planting in and around farmland to produce building poles for local
markets can be proritable, although these markets may quickly be
saturated;
in an environment where the degradetion of natural forests is caused
by logging and extensive exploitation of forest resources by
agricultural producers and pastoralists, forests cannot be viewed as
a mere wood reserve. They must be managed as an integrated system
of resources with the active participation of those who utilize
them;
the rural population is increasingly aware of the dangers of natural
resource degradation and can be effectively mobilized to contribute
to natural resource management.



PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
Names          Forestry Project
Credit no.:    1103-8X
RVP Units      Africa Region, Country Department V
Country:       Senegal
Sectors        Agriculture
2.   Backaround
2.01     In 1980 Senegal had a natural forest cover of about 14 million
hectares, amounting to approximately 70% of the land mass. The dLtribution
and quality of the forest cover was heavily influenced by climatic conditions
and population density. Clearings for agriculture and wood production had
lowered the forest cover to only about 50% of the land mass in the relatively
densely populated areas of the groundnut basin and to less than 30% in the
areas surrounding Dakar and Thies.
2.02     Firewood and charcoal met about 60% of Senegal's total energy
demand. Charcoal was the key fual for urban households. With over one third
of Senegal's 5.5 million people (at the time of project appraisal, 7 million
today) living in cities and an urban population growth rate of 4%, urban
fuelwood demand was estimated to increase by over 140% between 1979 and 1998.
Combined with a steadily growing demand for firewood and building poles in
rural areas, this daunting rise in urban fuelwood consumption put a heavy
burden on the forests surrounding urban areas. The natural forests in an area
of over 200 km around Dakar were being decimated and deforestation was
rapidly spreading to more remote areas in the East where it contributed to
erosion, loss of soil fertility, lower water tables and declining
agricultural productivity.
2.03     Recognizing the increasing onvironmental and economic threat posed
by the rapidly advancing destruction of the natural forest cover, the
Government of Senegal, assisted by FAC and CCCE, developed a forestry master
plan. The plan aimed at renewing and expanding natural sources of fuel and
service wood and sought to strengthen the Forestry Department's capacity to
implement effective forestry protection and production programs. In this
context the Government of Senegal approached the Bank in 1978 with a request
to help finance a reafforestation and natural forest management project.
3.       Project Objectives and Description
3.01     Project Objectives: Against thli background of increasing demand for
wood products and rapid degradation of the natural forest cover, the
project'o objectives were to increase the supply of fuelwood and forest
products to the urban center of D&kar and to the rural areas of the heavily
populated groundnut basin. The project also aimed at strengthenLng the
planning and management capacity of the Forestry Department.



- 2 -
3.02   Component:t  The project comkrised seven components.
(a)     establishment and maLntenance of 2,000 ha of state-managed
tree plantations 1n the forest reserves between Raffrine and
Koumpentoum and maintenance of 600 ha of previously
established state-managed tree plantations;
(b)     establibhment of 1,500 ha of rural famlly tree plantations and
1,500 ha of rural community tree plantations in Slne Saluum
and Eastern Senegal;
(c)     improvement in productivity and management of 10,000 ha of
natural forestsa
(d)     financing of an applied forestry research program dealing with
issues relevant to the project area;
(o)     establishment of a training center to provide refresher
courses for forestry agents and training of extension staff
in rural forestry;
(f)     assisting the Forestry DepartmentIs Planning Division with (i)
the elaboration and implementation of a regulatory system for
the explastation of natural forests, and with (ii) monitoring
and evaluating project activities;
(g)     provision of yearly project audits and consulting services to
carry out studLes in collaboration with the Planning Division.
4.     Project Design and organization
4.01     In light of the Government's increasing concern with defor:estation
and the growing gap between demand and naturally sustainable supply of
fuelwood, the timing of the project was clearly appropr'ate.
4.02     Initial project design, however, was overly optimistic and put too
much emphasis on rapidly achieving unrealistically defined production
objectives. While setting the objectLves, project designers had failed to pay
enough attention to ecological factors which subsequently influenced project
results. 1983 and 1984 were years with extremely low rainfall, causing many
seedlings to die. Project designers had looked at average rainfall, but
failed to ask the question of what the effects of rainfall shortage would be.
In addition, soil conditions in most of the area chosen for state-managed
plantations turned out to be unfavorable for the production of Eucalyptus
Camaldulensis, even though a soil survey had been carried out during project



preparation 1/. In 1985 theme shortcomings were rocognized and the project
was reoriented from pure production objectives towards the reconutitution and
protection of the natural vegetative cover.
4.03     Due to the  -ject's strong emphasis on wood productLon, the role
and activities of prFuuction oriented components (state-managed and rural
plantations) were more clearly defined and better understood by all parties
involvod than those of the forest management or the planning, monitorLng and
*conomic studies component. Consequently* neither of theme two components
were fully operational during tho whole project life.
4.04     In retrospect, it seems clear that the project, as it was initially
designed, focussed too narrowly on the value of forests as mere wood
reserves. Not enough attention was paid to the fact that forests (especially
in areas where extensive agricultural production techniques remain common
place) constitute an integrated system of reserves (e.g. wood, fodder, soils,
etc.) which must be managed as such. ThL became increasingly clear during
the course of the project and was at least partially taken into consideration
during reorientation. It must be highlighted that this shortcoming was not
unique to the project in question. The forestry project in Senegal was in
many ways a product of its time and reflected the approach which was then
taken towards deforestation.
5.       Implementation
5.01     Ex4cuting Agency: To assure efficient functioning of the project
within a relatively heavy administrative system, it was decided that the
project should be implemented by an autonomous project management unit
located in the project area (Kaffrine) and responsible to the Director of the
Forestry Department. The autonomy of the project unit proved to be decisive
during project implementation, as it allowed for flexibility and rapid
response when it became necessary to reorient the project. The manager of the
project unit had previously been in charge of the FAC/CCC'E financed pilot
project in the same region and could therefore assure a certain continuity
between the pilot project and the new cofinanced forestry project.
5.02     Because previous projects in Senegal, including the FAC/CCCE pilot
project, had experienced enormous difficulties and delays in obtaining the
funds necessary to cover their expenses, it was decided that the project
should be granted financLal autonomy over a revolving fund with a posteriori
governmental control over expenditures. This allowed the project to cover a
1/ Because the original soil surveys were not available when this PCR was
prepared, it was not possible to determine why the project wae carrled out in
an area where a hard lateritic crust prevented Eucalyptus roots from growing
deep enough. Possible explanations are that (i) ths soil survey had not been
carried out thoroughly enough to detect that there were only limited pockets
of soil deep enough for the production of Eucalyptus or, (ii) the soil
surveys had been carried out correctly but were interpreted from an agronomic
rather than a forestry point of view or, (iii) soil surveys were carried out
correctly but not used properly by the forestry staff in charge of the state-
managed plantations.



signifLcant share of lte cash needs which was particularly important at times
when it was difflcult to obtain dLsbureement of counterpart funds.
Availabillty of liquid funds was critical for the hlghly seasonal forestry
actLvities, as the planting period was limlted to about six weeks and the
whole season would have been lost if plantings could not be carrled out
during thli time period.
5.03     Credit  Effectlvenest       Project  start-up  was  slow.  Credit
effectiveness, whlch had been set for July 1981, was rescheduled three times
and the credit finally became effective in July 1982. Whlle problems with the
mobilization of counterpart funds slgnificantly contributed to the delays in
credit effectiveness, it must be recognized that the lnitial timetable,
settlng the effectiveness date only four months after credlt signature, was
unreallstic. Given previous experlence with setting up projects in Senegal,
lt is hard to see how one could have expected to meet the extensive llt of
effectiveness condltlone (LncludLng recruitment of expatriates) wlthin this
time frame.
5.04     Among the factors causlng extenslve delays ln offectlveness were
dlfflcultles wlth the completion of project preparation activltles, (soil
surveys and the deslgn of an adequate accounting system) and problems wlth
obtalnlng effective government guarantees regardlng the financial autonomy of
the project. The latter also affected the signature and effectiveness of the
CCCE credlt, itself a condltion for effectiveness of the IDA credlt. The
decree glvlng the project manager autonomy over the revolvlng fund (with
posterlor government control) was lisued with delays because of a
dLoagreement about whlch Lnstance in the Government should have the power to
authorlze project expenditures. Slow government action ln openlng a speclal
project account with the Treasury and in depositing the inltial counterpart
contribution further delayed credit effectiveness. The problem was finally
solved when CCCE agreed to finance the initial Government contribution
through an exceptional ald program.
5.05     In line with the projectes lnltial production orientatlon, the
state-managed plantation and the applled research components took up thelr
actlvities shortly after credlt effectLveness. The start-up of the state-
managed plantations component was facilltated by the aselgnment of local
staff who had galned experlence under the preceding FAC/CCCE project.
Maintenance of exlsting state-managed plantations was inltlally rendered
difficult by the lack of equlpment. The rural forestry component started
during the 1983 plantlng season, but its activities were severely hampered by
a shortage of staff during the first two years. Initial problems of the
plannlng, monitoring and economic studles component were due to the fact that
the role of the forestry economlc advisor, assigned to assist the plannlng
facility of the Forestry Department ln Dakar, had not been sufficiently
defined during project preparation.
5.06     The expatriate advisor to the project director left the project
after lese than two years. His pooltlon was canceled and replaced by two
expatriate field pooitions, one allocated to the natural forest management
component and another one assigned to the rural forestry component. The
natural forest management component did not effectively start operating until
1984.



-5-
5.07     Unforeseen factors affecting implementation: Two unforeseen factors
significantly influenced implementation of the production oriented project
componentst (i) a repeated shortage of rainfall in the project region and,
(Li) soil conditions which proved unfavorable for the cultivation of the fast
growing but exotic Eucalyptus Camaldulensis in most of the area chosen for
Lndustrial plantations. This severely affected the progress of the state-
managed plantation. component which had been doeigned with the assumption
that high wood yields could rapidly be achieved by planting this species. Two
years into project implementation it became clear that low survival rates
(around 40%), stunted growth of the surviving plants and excessively high
planting costs 2/ made industrial plantations in this part of Senegal an
uneconomic enterprise.
5.08     Protect Reorientation: After the 5th supervision mission (January
1985) the project was therefore reoriented away from unrealistic production
objectives for fuelwood and building poles towards the reconstitution and
protection of the natural vegetative cover in the reserve forests of the
project area. Project implementation succeeded satisfactorily after this
reorientation.
5.09     Both the Bank (and other cofinancers) and the project management
must be commended on their flexibility and ability to reorient the project.
Key questions are, however, why the risks of erratic rainfall were not more
realistically taken into account during project appraisal and why the areas
suitable    for    Eucalyptus    Camaldulensis    were    so    drastically
overestimated. 3/ The choice of Eucalyptus was based on encouraging
results obtained on small plots in the lowlands and on pilot plantations of
the FAC/CCCE project. Trials during this project were also limited to smaller
plots and not enough time was allowed to await and evaluate final results.
5.10     Financial Management and Accounts: During most of its duration the
project was plagued by financial problems of three kindss (i) inadequate
accounting and financial management, (ii) problems with counterpart resource
mobilization and disbursement and, largely as a result of the latter, (iii)
frequent mismanagement of the revolving fund.
5.11     Although an accounting system proper to the project had been
designed by a consulting firm during project preparation, significant
difficulties were experienced in implementing the system. This translated
into enormous delays in recording of expenditures, inadequate financial
management and the virtual absence of an analytical accounting which would
have allowed to monitor and analyze the costs of different project
components. The contract of the expatriate administrative and financial
expert was not renewed in 1985 and after an unsuccessful attempt of replacing
2/ Direct costs for Eucalyptus plantations amounted to about CFAF 450,000/ha,
while the SAR had foreseen a direct cost of only CFAF 168,000/hal High costs
for Eucalyptus plantations were mainly due to capital intensive planting and
maintenance techniques and difficulties with land preparation caused by
unfavorable soils.
3/ See Footnote 1/ for possible explanations of why the area suitable for
Eucalyptus plantations may have been overestimated.



him with a local expert his duties were assumed by the project's accountant
and his assistants.
5.12     The project experienced repeated problems with the disbursement of
counterpart funds. Disbursement regularly occurred with substantial delays,
even though CCCE had exceptionally assumed their financing during the first
two project years.
5.13     The shortage of government funding repeatedly led project management
to abuse the revolving fund, which in turn led to a general cash shortage.
Substantial delays were also experienced with tho submission of requests for
reimbursement from IDA and CCCZ and subsequent replenishment of the revolving
fund. This further aggravated the cash shortage problem and led to
significant delays in payments of local staff and suppliers. Combined with
delays in procurements, the postponements of payments rendered many local
suppliers reluctant to submit further tenders.
5.14     Project Extension:   Delays in credit effectiveness,  unexpected
financial and material contributions from the preceding FAC/CCCE project, the
appreciation of the dollar and slower spending than anticipated made for much
slower credit disbursements than estimated at appraisal. Slower spending was
largely due to the fact that planned project facilities were never fully
constructed and that less machinery needed to be purchased because production
techniques after project reorientation were less capital intensive. As it was
expected that some of the newer activities could be continued under a follow-
up project and implementation was satisfactory after the reorientation, the
project closing date was postponed three times. This allowed preparation of
a follow-up natural resource management project within the framework of the
ongoing project. Slow disbursement of the IDA credit and ensuing project
extensions rendered a redefinition of IDA and CCCI pari passu rates
necessary.
6.       Project Results
6.01     Evaluation of the project's output is rendered difficult by its
reorientation and the absence of newly-defined output objectives at the time
of reorientation. In addition, limited quantitative information is available
on actual achievements and their costs.
6.02     Evaluated against the original objectives, the project was clearly
not successful, as it failed to increase availability of fuel and service
wood to the extent projected. The project should, however, also be evaluated
in light of its benefits which are not directly quantifiable. Such benefits
include advances made in the development of techniques to reconstitute the
natural forest cover in the Sudano-Sahelian zone, training of local forestry
technicians, and the development of an innovative approach to engage the
rural population in rural reafforestation and soil management. Finally, it
must also be recognized that the forest which was reconstituted in the
project area has had a positive impact on the ecological stability of farming
systems surrounding it.
6.03     State-managed plantations: operation of this component occurred in
three phases: (i) planting of full stands of Eucalyptus on freshly-cleared



- 7 -
land during the first two project years, (Li) limited plantation of full
stand Eucalyptus and trials with local species durlng the third and fourth
project years and, following project reorientatlon, (iii) reconversLon of
initially planted Eucalyptus plots with slower growing but more robust local
p ciae and enrichment of degraded natural forests with bands (rather than
full stands) of local species.
6.04     Because of insufficient rainfall and unfavorable soils almost all
1,200 ha of full-stand Eucalyptus planted during the first four project yei-S
had to be replaced with local species. Where possible, dead Eucalyptus tress
were cut to produce poles and av attempt was made to sell them on the local
market. No stock was taken of the number of poles produced this way, but
there were reports that they were selling slowly. a total of 1,300 ha
(including 240 ha from the previous FAC/CCCZ project) were reconverted from
Eucalyptus to full-stand plantations of local species between 1986 and 1989.
About 2,154 ha ef depleted natural forests were enriched with bands of local
species and, during the last project year, 300 ha of plantings on farm fields
(bands at a distance of 50 m) took placo.
6.05     Increasing efforts were made to associate the rural population
adjacent to these piantations with the work carried out. Farmers were
contracted to cultivate the spaces between tree bands during the first,
second and sometimes even third year after planting. This arrangement
permitted to save on maintenance costs of newly planted trees 4/, taught
farmers that it was possible to cultivate in the forest without destroying
it, and allowed for higher crop yields than on ordinary fields.
6.06     Five tree nurseries were created under the plantations component.
Three of them were active until project completion. They produced over three
million plants of Eucalyptus and local species.
6.07     Rural ForestrX: Although rural Eucalyptus plantations were more
successful than state-managed plantations (mainly due to richer and deeper
soils in the lowlands) the project's reorientation also affected the approach
taken to rural forestry. The objective of planting a maximum of hectares with
high yielding species increasingly gave way to the objective of teaching the
rural population how to produce and protect trees and appreciate their
ecological and economic value.
6.08     This translated into a move away from handing out a maximum number
of Eucalyptus seedlings to teaching individuals and groups how to grow a
variety of seedlings in their own nurseries. No physical targets were set,
because it was decided that farmers had to recognize and define their own
needs. Production of seedlings in village nurseries started in 1986t by 1987
all seedlings used in the rural forestry program were produced in village
nurseries, and by 1989 village nurseries were able to sell seedlings to the
project for use under the natural forest enrichment and reconversion
component.
4/ Allowing farmers to cultivate between the tree planting lines helped
reduce plantation costs by almost 50% from CFAF 149,000/ha to CFAF 78,000/ha.



- 8 -
6.09     After project reorientation significant efforts were also made to
diversify the activities under the rural forestry component. Besides
production and plantation of tree seedlings, activities increasingly included
interplanting of vegetables and trees, construction of firebreaks, plantation
of tree strips on agricultural and fallow lands, erosion control and
protecting the regeneration of the natural vegetative cover. First steps
towards village land management were taken in two villages. One of the rural
forestry component's principal merits thus clearly is the innovative
participatory approach which it developed to introduce the rural population
to effective methods of rural forestry and natural resource management.
6.10     While the project operated through its own extension workers in the
Kaffrine region, attempts were initially made to work through local
development organization. in the Department of Tambacounda. These
organizations gave, however, priority to other activities and rural forestry
results remained unsatisfactory. It was therefore decided to open a project
branch in Tambacounda in 1987.
6.11     Little quantitative information exists on rural forestry activities
and the benefits they yielded. A full-stand equivalent of about 2,290 ha were
planted under this component (initial project objective was 3,000 ha, but
ignored other activities), about 240 village nurseries were set up of which
40 could be considered autonomous at project completion and about 200
villages were reached by the project's activlties. Rural plantations proved
more cost effective than industrial plantations: the costs of planting a
hectare of full stands on farmland amounted to under CFAF 80,000 per hectare,
while those of industrial plantations (local species) amounted to almost CFAF
150,000 per hectare. Farmers used most of the wood from Eucalyptus planted on
their land to produce building poles for the local market.
6.12     Natural Forest Management: Performance under this component was
disappointing. One of the reasons for this was the lack of a readily
available framework for the management of forests under the ecological
conditions prevalent in the project region. The project was not given formal
authority to proceed with the management of the Koumpentoum forest until the
vast majority of the area had been extensively exploited. After some
preliminary work it was decided that field activities should be put on halt
until a management plan had been established. Inventory work proceeded so
slowly that the actual forest management plan was not completed until
September 1989. During the elaboration of the forest management plan, complex
technical  studies  (e.g.  overly  sophisticated  forestry  and  pasture
inventories) were given preference over the search for a multisectoral and
participatory approach to natural forest management.
6.13     Training: Although the activities and scope of this component had
not been clearly defined at the outset, it turned out very successful. The
seminars and refresher courses for forestry personnel in and outside the
project were of high quality and extremely practice oriented. They covered a
wide range of topics, including traditional forestry techniques, economic,
sociological and extension issues related to forestry policy and new
approaches to involving the rural population in natural resource management.
Almost 1,900 forestry technicians and extension workers benefitted from this
component during the course of the project.



- 9 -
6.14     Applied  Research:  Although  this  unit  produced  some  useful
experiments and technical notes, it was lacklng a coherent operational
framework and failed to join efforts with other research institutions in the
area (notably ISRA and CNRF). During the first half of the project the unit
mainly focussed on experiments with Eucalyptus and local species. After the
reorientation it increasingly assisted the plantations component with the
selection  of  appropriate  local  *pecies  and  planting  sites  and  the
establishment of project nurseries. The unit also carried out an inventory of
the plots planted under the state-managed and rural forestry components. It
failed, however, to produce a synthesis of this information and thus did not
allow conclusions to be drawn on such important issues as relative importance
of different species planted, average survival rates, expected wood yields or
cost effectiveness of different operations.
6.15     Planning, Monitoring and Economic Studies: This unit suffered from
an unclear definition of its activities and little support and interest from
the government entity it was supposed to assist. In addition, its
relationship to other project components was never clearly defined. The
unit's major task consisted in monitoring and evaluating the activities of
other components, especially with respect to their cost effectiveness and
sustainability. This task was rendered impossible by the project's
unsatisfactory accounting system and the absence of detailed analytical
accounting. The unit's main achievement was a study on fuelwood prices which
later served as a basis for a new decree on prices for wood cutting permits.
The unit ceased to exist after the departure of the expatriate economist and
the reorganization of the Ministry of Nature Protection. The remainder of the
funds which had been allocated to it were used to finance the preparation of
a follow-up natural resource management project.
6.16     Impact: The project resulted in the reconstitution of a full-stand
equivalent of about 2,226 ha of natural forests (1,589 ha of full stands in
local species and 2,154 ha of enriched forests) and rural plantations of a
full-stand equivalent of about 2,290 ha. However impressive these figures
might be, it is clear that they only had a small impact on the reconstitution
of Senegal's forest cover. The full-stand equivalent of 2,226 ha
reconstituted natural forests amounts to less than 2% of the total area of
reserve forests in the project area (the actual area touched by the
operations amounts to about 7% of the natural forest reserves in the area).
6.17     In the absence of information on actual wood yields of the project
plantings, the following example with relatively optimistic wood yield
estimates of 2m3/ha/year for local species and 5m3/ha/year for successful
Eucalyptus plantations shows that the project's impact on wood production is
minimal compared to growth in demand. Under the above assumptions project
plantations would yield about 13,800 m3 5/ of wood per year compared to an
expected annual increase of urban fuelwood consumption of about l00,000m3.
The message is clear: large-scale industrial wood plantations are too costly
5/ The 4,043 ha planted under the plantations component amount to a full-
stand equivalent of about 2,226 ha of local species. 71% of the 2,290 ha
full-stand equivalent of rural pLantations are Eucalyptus and 27% are local
species.    Total    wood    yields    would    thus    be    about
2,226x2+0. 71x2,290x5+0.27x2,290x2-13,818.



- 10 -
to address the rapidly increasing demand of household energy in Senegal.
Other strategies, such as promoting alternative household energy sources and
a wood price policy consistent with the economic value of wood must be used
to address these issues. 6/
6.18     On the other hand, the reconstitution of the natural vegetative
cover and the rural plantations have had a poeltive ecological impact and
prevented the forests ln the project region from being totally depleted. The
enriched forest reserves have yielded direct )snef its to the rural population
in the area in terms of higher crop ylelds on land cultivated between tree
lines, increased availability of forest products and the acquired know-how in
rural forestry.
6.19     The project has also had a positive  impact on human resource
development among local forestry technlcians and extension workers. It has
contributed to a better understanding of the iesues involved in natural
resource management and to the development of a more global and participatory
approach to resource management in the rural areas of Senegal.
6.20     Economic Rate of Return: Calculation of an ERR comparable to the one
at appraisal is rendered difficult by the aboence of project data on wood
yields from any of the planted species and enormous differences in project
cost data from different sources. Because of the poor quality of the
accounting system, it was not possible to determine project costs by
component, so that the calculation of rates of return by project component is
not possible. Table 6b in part III shows that the ERR taking only into
consideration increased wood production (and thus ignoring all other benefits
due to lack of data) is about 1% under the most reasonable (but probably
still optimistic) wood yield assumptions. 7/   The main reasons for the
difference between the projected (12.8%) and the actual ERR are (i) all
state-managed Eucalyptus tree plantations had to be replanted with lower-
yielding local species; (li) higher-than-expected costs for the initially-
planted Eucalyptus trees and; (iii) no directly measurable output from the
natural forest management component.
6/ Although project specific data to calculate the minimum necessary price of
charcoal which would allow full coverage of wood production costs do not
exist, data from the Urban Household Energy Strategy Study give an
indication: production costs of wood range from 11 to 21 CFAF per kg of
standing wood, depending on whether this involves rural reforestation,
development of natural forests or state-managed plantations. This would
require a Dakar retail price of charcoal between 77 and 133 CFAF per kg of
charcoal. Under the now decree regulating wood cutting permits, retail prices
for charcoal are expected to amount to about CFAF 64 to CFAF 68 only.
7/ ERR calculations assume wood yields of 2m3/ha/year for local species and
5m3/ha/year for successful rural Eucalyptus plantations. The SAR had assumed
wood yields of 6m3/ha/year for state-managed Eucalyptus plantations and
4m3/ha/year for rural Eucalyptus plantations.



- 11 -
7.       Sustainability
7.01     Future productivity of the state-managed and rural tree plantings
will to a large extent depend on the quality of maintenance and management to
be provided by a local forestry service which remains understaffed and
underequipped. In an environment where extensive agricultural techniques and
wood cutting are common practice, higher yields on forest lands, availability
of fodder for livestock and, of course, wood reserves are likely to reinforce
depletion unless a global and integrated resource management strategy is
developed. Although the forestry project ha. contributed to a better
understanding of the issues involved in natural resource management, it is
questionable whether the current resources of the Senegalese Forestry Service
will allow to manage effectively the newly-established forest resources.
7.02     To what extent the rural population which participated in the rural
forestry component will be able to keep it. activities up without further
assistance is not known. The fact that 40 village nurseries were autonomous
at project completion suggests that prospects for surtainability of the
activities under this component are better than for the state-managed
plantations.
8.       Bank and Borrower Performance
8.01     The Bank (together with other cofinancers) bears responsibility for
overly optimistic project objectives and a somewhat inappropriate assessment
of project risks. The SAR mentioned the danger that the rural population
might not be motivated to participate in rural plantations as the main risk.
No mention was made of the risks of drought (or at least inadequate rainfall)
and the rlike involved in replicating on a large scale reforestation
techniques which had been successful on some pilot plantations.
8.02     Once it became clear that the conditions in the project area were
not conducive to large-scale industrial plantations of fast-growing exotic
species, the Bank and cofinancers were quick to respond and showed
commendable flexibility with respect to the development of less conventional
techniques and redefinition of project objectives.
8.03     Supervision missions generally followed up well on the production
oriented activitiee but seem to have put less emphasis on issues like
effective monitoring and evaluation or assessment of various techniques
developed during the course of the project. Similarly, not enough emphasis
and follow-up was given to the urgent need to develop a pricing policy for
wood products consistent with the scarcity value of this resource.
8.04     The borrower provided very proficient and highly motivated staff for
project management and for field work. The Government also showed great
willingness to abandon unsuccessful project activities and reorient the
project. However, problems with disbursement of counterpart funds emerged
frequently and led to severe cashflow problems at the project level. In
addition, slow proceseing of requests forwarded to the Ministry of Planning
often made it difficult to effect timely procurements and obtain quick
replenishment   of  the  revolving  fund.  An  unclear  definition  of
responsibilities among different government bodies associated with the
construction of project facilities prevented regular follow-up on these



- 12 -
constructions and led to procurement delays, problem with governmental
quality control and poor performance of some contractors. As a result, some
planned buildings were never constructed and others (for example the training
center) remalned half-finished at project completion.



- 1.3 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIE1W FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
IX.   Relations with Donors
9.1   Relations with IDA
Until September 1989, the Project Operations Unit had every reason
to congratulate itself on its relations with IDA, even at the critical point
which preceded rewriting of the objectives and working methods of the project.
However, difficulties emerged the following month with regard to
payment of the initial advance, with eight months elapsing before seasonal
workers received their final wage payments.
9.2   Relations with CCCE
Relations with CCCE were excellent at all times.
For example, all credits made available to the Project Unit under
the "guaranteed borrowing arrangements" were very closely monitored by CCCE,
and this explains how the Unit, in late 1988 and again in late 1989, had the
agreeable surprise of finding its Treasury deposit account replenished with a
total of CFAF 80 million, the sum it had lost through a reallocation of the
proceeds of the Credit. Without this financing, the Unit would have had a
difficult time of it as the project came to a close.
9.3   Relations with FAC
In order to be able to meet the obligations it assumed under its
agreements with the Government of Senegal, FAC contracted with CTFT for
consultancy services to be made available to the Project Unit.
Relations with FAC were very satisfactory at all times and
especially from 1985 onward, after the second team of technical assistants
arrived.
9.4   Relations with UNDP/FAO
These relations were very satisfactory throughout the project and
made it possible to operate the Training Center under the best possible
conditions.
X.    Impact of the Project
10.1 Expansion and protection of Senegal's forest resources
The following areas were reforested in the course of the project:
approximately 5,050 ha of government-run plantations and 2,540 ha of



- 14 -
plantations run by individuals ,r communities in rural areas -- altogether a
total of 7,590 ha. It is not yet known what yield can be expected from them.
Assuming that the 2,540 ha of rural plantations will yield
7 m3/ha/year (the figure recorded for the best eucalyptus stands) and that the
5,050 ha of local species will yield 2 m3/ha/year, then the 7,590 ha can be
expected to give approximately 28,000 m3 of wood annually.
However, the most recent estimates indicate that annual
consumption of fuelvwood and construction wood in Senegal will total
3.4 million m3, of which 1.6 million m3 will be wood fuel consumed in urban
areas, the main culprits as far as inroads into the country's forest capital
are concerned.
The figures given in this paragraph and the following one are
taken from the study S6negal: Energie domestique, 616ments de strat6gie,
issued by the Ministry of Industrial and Artisanal Development in August 1987
(pp. 25, 35 and 71).
Urban consumption of wood fuel is likely to increase at a rate of
about 100,000 m3 per annum, totaling 2.7 million m3 in the year 1998.
The country is usually regarded as possessing 14 million ha of
forests, but the stands from which urban demand can be met total about
3 million ha (regions of Koalack, Tambacounda, Kolda, Ziguinchor and Saint
Louis).
These 3 million ha produce an estimated natural surplus of
2 million m3 a year (0.94 m3/ha/annum, a 70% offtake rate).
Fuelwood consunption in urban areas in the coming years is
therefore going to exceed the natural surplus produced by exploitable forest
reserves to a greater and greater degree.
In 1992, demand is expected to total 2.2 million m3, exceeding the
natural surplus by 200,000 m3 -- and so resulting in the destruction of an
equivalent proportion of forest capital.
The 28,000 m3 of wood produced annually on the project plantations
would reduce this deficit by 14%, a figure that is a long way from being
negligible.
The four systems of forest management tested in the course of the
project show that there are other ways of reconstituting forest resources in
the Sudano-Sahelian type of zone than by resorting to state-managed
plantations of eucalyptus.
Reforestation in agricultural zones and enrichment of natural
forests with local species are other alternatives. Although it remains to be
seen just how productive they are, they certainly cost less.



- 15 -
Furthermore, whatever their value in terms of wood yield, these
plantings have led to the appearance of new forest, similar in composition to
the original forest, over an area of more than 5,000 ha.
However, this reconstituted capital is clearly threatened by the
same types of degradation as caused the loss of the original forest, and it
should therefore be protected in the course of the new PICOGERNA project.
The signs of this degradation are numerous: massive clearing and
the presence of charcoal burners in the immediate vicinity of the new
plantings, damage to local species in areas where there is excessive presence
of livestock, and persistent brush fires all around.
Millet and groundnut yields obtained without fertilizer from
forest soils also give an idea of the attraction these forests are likely to
have for farmers in search of fertile land but without the financial resources
to buy fertilizers.
Although it clearly gives cause for concern, this situation in any
event demonstrates that the value of a forest and the returns to be obtained
from it cannot be measured merely by the volume of wood it produces. Given
the still very extensive types of cropgrowing and stockraising systems used in
this region of Senegal, the forest is first and foremost a collection of
resources in reserve -- soil, wood and fodder (to mention only the most
important) -- and it is very difficult for the moment not to manage it as
such.
10.2 Forest Rolicy and strengthening of institutions
The means of direct action on Senegal's forest policy available to
the Project Unit were comparatively limited, although they were instrumental
in implementation of the desired reforms.
In the field itself, the project also helped show that it was not
unrealistic to hone that the rural population could manage its forest
resources more economically.
Backed by the project, farmers who engaged in intercropping
operations in the newly planted forest areas were able to prove that crops
could be grown in a forest without destroying it.
More importantly, the extension programs included in the project's
rural forestry component, which focused on tree cultivation and the various
techniques of natural resource management, provided individuals in rural areas
with skills they may not have needed previously but which ecological
degradation has made necessary from now on.
The Project Unit chose to explain and to instruct, taking the
chance that there were individuals in the rural world concerned at the
degradation of natural resources or motivated by the possibilities afforded by
the new knowledge being disseminated.



- 16 
There is every sign that such concern does indeed exisc.  Although
it has not given rise to any comprehensive vision of natural resource
management on a national scale, it is manifesting itself in the voicing of
very specific needs arising out of concrete problems.
The continuous presence of project extension agents in the field,
their awareness of development problems, and the confidence created by
successful experiments both on plantations and in nurseries encourage
awareness of needs and lead to the acquisition of new skills.
All the same, there is room for improvement:  simplification of
nursery materials and techniques; takeover by nurseries of the business of
supplying seed and equipment; and adaptation not only of planting techniques
(indirect seeding early in the season appears to be the most practical
solution for small farmers) but also of the choice of species (not all of them
are satisfactory as hedges). Further room for improvement will doubtless be
discovered and instruction will hqve to be provided for farmers in such areas
as tree management (size of hedges, size of forage trees), fire prevention,
keeping down of grass, and erosion control.
This gradual type of approach, which respects the freedom of
initiative of rural communities and individuals, appears to be the natural
path toward more appropriate management of natural resources (although in the
early stages it is inevitably selective, since some communities and
individuals remain untempted by such change).
It can also be regarded as paving the way for regional development
plans, founded on what is doubtless a more realistic way of proceeding than
using studies and surveys as a basis for intervening suddenly and massively to
create a new setting which the rural target groups would hardly have time to
comprehend.
The instruction-based approach is also preferable to that of other
projects, which, to counter the lack of interest in reforestation among the
rural population, multiply the benefits they offer (distributior. of plants,
reimbursement of planting costs, food-for-work programs, and equipment) in
order to encourage local people to plant trees.
These two approaches, whose one goal is the reforestation of more
and more land, trade on the distressed economic situation of the target
groups, which they remedy temporarily. However, they have no lasting
educational impact, since the rural population does not really plant for
itself, nor does it abandon those very habits which lead to the squandering of
natural resources.
The damaging of ecological resources and the economic difficulties
faced by the rural world clearly go hand in hand. Project staff were
constantly reminded of this, either when new forests suffered at the hands of
impatient users or when communities preferred to have help with the problems
they saw as most urgent (e.g. water supply, soil fertilization, development of
off-season crops).



- 17 -
Marketing conditions and prices, the terms of trade, the vagaries
of the climate, and soil deterioration have come together in recent years --
more in some areas than in others -- to impoverish farmers and undermine their
chances of achieving higher standards of living.
Although reforestation was its chief goal, the project also helped
bolster local economies to some degree: planting programs created numerous
job opportunities, both seasonal and permanent; food-for-work programs were
set up; and growers were given subsidies on plants and nursery materials
(under the rural forestry component).
Reconstituted forest areas, approximately 5,000 ha, are a
potential new source of land, pasture and trees which neighboring communities
should shortly be able to profit from under better management conditions,
especially as a result of the Koumpentoum forestry development plan. On
plantations established since 1986, growers have already had an opportunity to
put in crops among the trees, achieving significantly higher yields than on
regular farmland.
Finally, the nurseries established (approximately 250 each year
since 1986) and the 1.6 million trees planted by project beneficiaries have
brought some of them gross gains of up to CFAF 100,000 a year from the sale of
eucalyptus plants or poles.
Eventually, these new activities and new plantings will prove to
be sources of higher incomes (orchards, fuelwood, enclosure of bottomlands,
soil fertilization, animal feed, etc.).
In this way, the project has helped in the quest for immediate
solutions at economic strangulation points.
In Kaffrine Department, since SODEVA has now disappeared, the
rural population can count only on NGOs (16 subproject loan applications were
presenced in 1988, channeled through the Centres d'expansion rurale) and on
various grant programs.
In the Tambacounda Department, SODEFITEX has expanded its
operations to include all crops and stockraising, and is also supporting
producer associations and their public-interest projects.
The possibility that rural communities may eventually be made
accountable for the management of forest areas makes it all the more necessary
that the rural economy should be set on a firm footing.
In both direct and indirect ways, the project has also provided an
opportunity to reinforce the abilities of those institutions in Senegal which
are responsible for its forests.
The importance of the Training Center at Kaolack, the only
institution in Senegal specifically concerned with refresher training for
forestry agents, is recognized by everyone. Its existence is fully justified



- 18 -
not only by the isolation in which foresters work but also by the level of
their initial training.
The project components focused on government-run and rural
forestry gave the Forestry Department the opportunity to acquire new skills.
As well as being an important gain, the approach developed to rural forestry
is also an asset that can be built on further in the course of other
operations.
The plantations which were reconstituted and enriched with local
species of trees are also very important in the sense that chey provide
Senegal with initial experience in the cultivation and management of these
species.
The plantation areas affected by the project constitute a capital
fund of knowledge, of which every possible advantage should be taken.
On this score, it may be noted that the very extensive involvement
of se Applied Research Division in monitoring activities in government-run
forest areas and in the execution of project works, while possibly not
indispensable, undoubtedly reduced the time devoted to the business of
evaluations -- for instance, of village plantation cost prices, success with
local tree species, and the future value of forest stands.
Forest development is obviously a long-term business, but this
project has provided lessons on which tue eventual success of the venture will
depend.
Finally, the Koumpentoum fo:est program has thrown new light on
one field of knowledge, namely the manarement of natural forests, which must
obviously be a fundamental part of any .   forest management policy suited to
the conditions existing in Senegal.
XI.   CONCLUSIONS
Given the scale of its government-run reforestation component,
this project was highly labor-intensive. At its peak periods, 600 workers a
month were needed for an entire quarter.
The payroll for seasonal and contractual workers alone amounted to
CFAF 1.206 billion, over 90% of it spent in Kaffrine Department.
The completion of the project will therefore have a severe impact
at all levels of the population in this Department.
Thanks to the project, a high proportion of rural inhabitants, and
particularly women's groups, have become sensitized to the need for
reforestation.



- 19 -
Community or individual niurseries, and community or family
plantations, have been established almost everywhere, and the income they
produce has begun to improve living standards for certain communities.
Throughout 1990, despite the completion of the project, the AVAFs
who were kept in their jobs (with a view to the requirements of the PICOGERNA
program) oversaw the establishment of 147 nurseries (107 in Kaffrine and 40 in
Tambacounda) expected to produce over 200,000 plants, consisting of all
species (and more than 7,000 fruit trees). This is proof of the
sustainability of sensitizatior. and extension programs.
Because of its systematic protection of all man-made forest stands
and their associated natural stands against bush fires and excessive
encroachments by outsiders, the project has contributed largely to the
repopulation of the forests by game birds. Even large carnivores have been
seen. Forage and thatching materials for roofs are available to communities
occupying an area extending as far away as Birkelane, and livestock can be
watered at the Malem Hodar and Kaffrine tubewells. These improvements can be
ascribed to the impact of the project on just three forest areas, namely
Kaffrine, Sagna and Malem Hodar.
Priority has to be given to preserving project gains through the
PICOGERNA program, in particular by monitoring the last plantations
established, in 1988 and 1989, and protecting them against fires.
In conclusion, it should be noted that failure of the eucalyptus
plantations led the Project Unit to experiment with new stands consisting of
local species, better adapted -- as far as both their cost and their
characteristics are concerned -- to the conditions prevailing in eastern
Senegal.
To these stands, which helped reconstitute some of the natural
forest cover, can be added the new tree plantations established by rural
communities and individuals at reasonable cost and with good yield potential.
The rural forestry experiment conducted through the project has
demonstrated that it is possible to teach the rural population how to manage
natural resources more economically.
However, at the same time, it highlighted the need for a
development program that will consolidate the overall rural economy, otherwise
production activities will continue to involve exploitation of natural
resources on an unsustainable scale. The integrated approach adopted through
the PICOGERNA program meets this need.



- 21 -
PART UII
STATISTICAI INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loans/Credit Title             Purpos                              Year of
Approval
Drought Relief Project         Bushfire control sub-                     1973
Cr. 446-SE                     project to conserve dry
season pasture and retain
tree cover.
Sine Saloum Agricultural       Promote intensification of                1975
Development Project            agricultural practices. Also
Cr. 549-SE/                    provided financing of rural
Ln. 111-SE                     tree plantations.
Eastern Senegal Livestock      Promotion of pastoral groups and          1976
Project                        assistance for improved grazing
Cr. 633-SE                     and water management techniques
and development of firebreaks.
Small Rural Operations         Provision of funds to                     1980
Project                        small groups of rural
Cr. 991-SE                     producers for a variety
of productive activities,
including establishment
of woodlots.
Second Agricultural            Development of various applied            1990
Research Project               research programs, including
Cr. 2107-SE                    a research program for natural
resource management.



- 22 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                           Date           Date                Date
Planned        Revised            Actual
Identification                                                    1979
Preparation                    1979-1980                          1979-1980
Appraisal Mission              1/1980          4/1980             4/14-5/4/1980
Credit NegotLatlon             1/1981          11/1980            11/21/1980
Board Approval                 3/1981         2/1981              2/10/1981
Credit Signature               3/1981                             3/11/1981
Credit Effectiveness           7/11            3/1982             7/1/1982
5/1982
Completion                     6/86                               12/31/1989
Credit Closing                 12/1986         12/1987            12/31/1989
12/1988
Comments:
Identification:
The Government of Senegal first approached IDA with a request to assist it
with reafforestation efforts in 1972. A project identified by FAO in 1977 was
not deemed adequate for Bank financing because it focussed too much on
exploitation rather than afforestation and forest management. In 1978 the
Government of Senegal asked IDA to help finance a project for reafforestation
and natural forest management. A joint IDA/CCCE reconnaissance mission
visited Senegal in February 1979 and recommended that preparation work be
started on a project for possible external financing.
Preparation:
A Project Preparation Facility of US$50,000 was approved in September 1980.
It provided financing for soil surveys and the establishment of an accounting
system.
Effectiveness:
Credit effectiveness had to be rescheduled three times because effectiveness
conditions were not fulfilled in time. Particular problems arose with the
effective establilhment of an accounting system and the initial deposit of
counterpart funds.
Completion:
The project's reorientation, the appreciation of the USS and the fact that
supplementary financLal sources became available from the preceding FAC/CCCE
pilot project made for a much slower disbursement of the IDA credit than
foreseen. Because project implementation was satisfactory after the
reorientation and because it was deemed that a follow-up natural resource
management project could be effectively prepared within the framework of the
ongoing project, credit completion was postponed three times.



- 23 -
3.   IDA Credit DLiburs-mnts
Cumulative EstLmated and Actual Dlaburements
Bank FY and           Estimated       Revla d Zat.    Actual               Actual as %
Quarter               Cumulative      Cumulatlve       CumulatLve          of Natimated
from BAR       March, 1983
(US$ million)
FY81       1         0.05 (a)              0.05 (a)        0.05 (a)        100%
2         0.05 (a)              0.05 (a)        0.05 (a)        100%
FY82       1          1.20                 0.05 (a)        0.05 (a)        4%
2         2.25                  0.05 (a)        0.05 (a)        2%
FY83       1          3.37                 0.27            0.30            9%
2         4.82                  0.50            0.37            8%
FY84       1          5.07                 1.50            0.60            12%
2         5.97                  2.00            0.85            14%
FY85       1          6.92                 3.00            1.14            16%
2         7.87                  4.00            1.29            16%
FY86       1          8.82                 5.50            1.57            18%
2         9.30                  6.00            2.02            22%
FY87       1                               7.00            2.38            26%
2                               7.50            3.01            32%
FY88       1                               8.00            3.48            37%
2                               8.50            4.37            47%
FY89       1                               9.00            5.13            55%
2                               9.30            6.06            65%
FY90       1                                               6.73            72%
2                                               7.99            86%
Date of Last Dlsbursements May 11, 1990 (b)
Notest    (a) Project Preparation Faclilty
(b) An undlibursed balance of SDR 806,437 (US$ 1.05 mllion)
was cancelled ln May 1990.



- 24 -
4. Project Implementation
Indicator                                         AppraLeal       Actual
Estimate
State Managed Tree
Plantatlonst (a) (e)
Land prepared and
planted (Zucalyptum)(ha)                            2000           1200
ReconversLon (ha)                                     (b)          1300
Pure stands of local
specLes (ha)                                          (b)           289
Enrichment (ha) (c)                                   (b)          2154
Llne plantatLons (ha) (d)                             (b)           300
Pure stand equLvalent of
local species                                                      2226
Pilot State-Managed                                  600            360
Tree Plantations (f)
maintenance
Rural Family and Communlty
Tree Plantations (g) (h)
ha of full stand plantation equLv.                  3000           2290
of which eucalyptus                                 3000           1638
Natural Forest Management
Prelimlnary Works (ha)                            10,000           (i)
Firebreaks and Tree Marklng                       10,000           (i)
Forestry works                                    16,000           (i)
Notes:   (a) After three plantlng seasons lt became clear that persiatent
drought and unfavorable soLls wouldn't allow to achleve the
estimated results with industrial Eucalyptus tree plantatlons.
Consequently, the project was reorlented from fuelwood and
bullding pole production to the reconstLtution and protection of
the natural vegetatlve cover ln the gazetted forests of the
project area.



- 25 -
(b) Due to thls reorlentatlon roplantlng of unsuccessful Eucalyptue
stands wlth local species and enricbment of natural forests with
local specles became important activities which had not been
foreseen at the time of project appraLsal. Consequontly no
appraLsal estLmates exlst for these actlvltles.
(c) gnrichment consists of plantlng strips of local specLes at a
dlitance of l4x4 metors (as opposed to plantlng ln full stands
wlth a dlitance of 4x4 metors).
(d) Line plantations are plantatlons on farmed fields with a
dLstance of 50x4 meters.
(e) No revised estimates for plantlng and reconverslon were made at
the time of the project reorlentation, as it was decided to
proceed on an experimental basls.
(f) The project was expected to maintain the 600 ha of Eucalyptus
tree plantations grown durlng the FAC/CCCE pllot project.
However, 240ha of these plantatLons also had to be replanted
wlth local species.
(g) At the time of appraLial lt was estLmated that each cm of thne
two components would result ln 1,500 ha of plantlng. Actual
project results do not allow to dlfferentiate between community
and family tree plantations, as the data for the Tambaco mnda
regLon was not kept separately for the two components. Data from
the RaffrLne region lndlcate that approximately half of a 1 1
plantings were executed by famliles between 1985 and 1987.
(h) At least 1,684,000 seedlings were distributed over the duratlon
of the project. Accounting for losses and following the BAR
assumption of 625 plants/ha, one arrives at an estLmate of 2,290
ha of full-stand equivalent. In reallty, however, a signlficant
share of rural planting was realLzed as strip, infarm and other
plantings. Also note that about 2% of trees planted under the
rural forestry component were frult trees, not necessarily
planted for wood production.
(i) This component didn't effectively start working until 1985.
Durlng thli year 234 km of fLre-breaks were reestablished and
187ha of natural forests were enriched. After these LnitLal
activities it was, however, declded that further plantlngs
should not be undertaken untll a management plan for the
Koumpentoum forest was elaborated. The plan was barely fLnished
at the time of project completion, so that no further plantings
took place under this component.



- 26 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
___________________________
A. Project Costs
Appraisal     Actual (b)        A/E
Estimate (a)
US$ million
Civil Works                           1.62        0.64           402
Machinery and Vehicles                1.62        1.05           65X
Field Forestry Works                  4.86        7.28         150?
Expatriates and Consultants           4.28        2.99           70Z
Other Operating Costs                 4.72        4.15          882
Total Project Costs                  17.10       16.12          94Z
Notest (a) Contingencies included in each expenditure category
(b) Best estimates based on project balance sheet upon closure.
Project accounts and audits do not allow to separate costs
into domestIs and foreign currency components.
B. Project Financing
Appraisal       z           Actual         X
Estimate                      (a)
US$ million
Government                            1.80        10.5?       1.71         10.6?
IDA Credit                            9.30        54.4Z       7.99         49.6?
CCCE Credit                           3.40        19.9?       2.17         13.4?
FAC                                   1.80        10.5?       2.05         12.7?
UNDP/FAO                              0.80         4.7Z       1.39          8.6Z
Carried over from                     0.00         0.0?       0.37          2.3?
previous projects (b)                 0.00         0.0?       0.43          2.7?
PAM program (c)
Total Financing                      17.10       100.0      16.12        100.0?
Notes: (a) Actual financing based on 1989 audit report. The average
exchanges rate of the project duration (FCFA 329/$) was applied.
(b) Machinery, Equipment, Furniture and inputs from FAC/CCCE pilot project.
(c) Value of food from world food programs distribured to participants
of rural forestry program.



- 27 -
6. Proiect Results
a. Direct Benefits
Indicator                 Appraisal       Xstimated at        ZFtimated at
Zstimates      ClouLng Date         Full Development
Rural Forestry area         3,000 ha            2,290 ha              2,290 ha
planted (ha of full
stand equivalent) (a)
Industrial Plantations      2,000 ha            2,226 ha              2,226 ha
ha of full stand equi-
valent planted (b)
Natural Forest Manage-    10,000 ha                 0 ha                  0 ha
ment (ha managed) (c)
Wood Production:
- Rural Forestry (d)      192,000 m3           27,330 m3            147,165 m3
- Plantations (e)         192,000 m3           28,447 m3             96,306 m3
- Natural Forests         285,000 m3                0 m3                  0 m3
Total                   669,000 m3           55,777 m3            243,471 m3
Village NureerLes
established                       NA                 240                   240
of which autonomous               NA                  40                    NA
Training Seminars                 NA                 112                   112
No. of particlpants in
seminars                          NA                1867                  1867
Notes:     (a)  The appraisal estimate foresaw mainly plantlngs of Eucalyptus trees. The
actual plantings in the rural forestry component consist of 71%
eucalyptus, 27% local species and 2% fruit trees.
(b)  The appraiLal estimate foresaw plantings of Sucalyptus tress. The aecual
plantlngs conslst of local species. The 1200 ha of Sucalyptus trees
whlch were planted and subsequently were replanted wlth local specLes
are not lncluded in the above flgure.



- 28 -
(a) The natural forest management component never got beyond the
establishment of an inventory and a management plan for the Koumpentoum
forest. No incremental wood production can thus be expected from the
work carried out under this component during the project period.
(d) No figures of actual wood production are available. The above estimates
assume a wood yield of 5m3/ha/year for Uucalyptus and 2m3/ha/year for
local species. Fruit trees are assumed to have been planted for fruit
production, not for wood production.
(s) Wood yields for local species are assumed to be 2m3/ha/year. Wood yields
from the early harvested Eucalyptus tr-ee are assumed to be 2m3/ha/year
over 3 years.



- 29 -
b.  Economic Rate of Return of Productlon Oriented Compononts
(State-Managed Plantations, Rural Forestry and Natural Forest Meonagomnt)
Wood Yield Assumptions (1)                               ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN IF
State-monaged     Local Specloo     Euealyptus        s Eucalyptus Cutting          Eucalyptus Cutting
Euclyptuo        state-oanaged     Rural                In Yoers 5 10,15            In Years 6 11,16
Plantations (2)   nnd rural         Plantatlons          Locel Specleo  In          Local Sp eoe  In
plantations (3)   (3)               t yoer 20 (4)                 year 20
d8/ha/yr          m8/ha/yr          m3/ha/yr
2                 2                 5                  0.7#                        1.0X
2                 2                 a          s       1.7X                       2.0#
2                 8                 6                  2.1X                       2.8x
2                 8                 6                  2.9X                         .2X
8                 2                 6                  0.8X                       1.1#
3                 2                 6                  1.8X                       2.21
a                 8                 5                  2.2X                       2.4#
s                 8                 6          :       8.1X                       3.S#
Notes:   (1) No project date on actually achlevd or expected wood yllds Is available
therofore the ERR'is calculated under various assumptions.
Likely scenarios appear to bo wood yields of 2,2,658/he or 2,2,e 8/ha
for each of the above categorlo. The most likely ERR Is thus about 1X.
(2) It Is assumed that Eucalyptue treo  planted In state managd plantations
at the beginning of the project yielded 2a8/ha/yoar for three years before they hod to be replaced.
(3) Wood yields per ha of full-stand equivalent (625 plants/ha).
(4) Scattered observations In the project ares see to indicat, that thie Is the
more likely cutting schedule. The other schedule (6,11,16) was assoumd In the SAR.
(5) Project costs of tho forestry components were derived fro audit reports. They are likely to
be understimated becauso audit reports only account for amortization of vehicleo machinery,
equlpment and infrastructure, not actual expenditure.  CGenrally, the some forofgn exchange
compononts as In the SAR were assumed. The foreign exchange premium ued is 401.
(6) The data avallablo do not allow to calculate ERRo for individual components. The overall ERR
io obviously quite heavily Influenced by expenditure on the natural forest *onagement
component which did not yield any directly measurable output during project lmpleentation.
(7) Due to lock of data the above calculations Ignore benofits other than wood yields.
The above calculotions also assume that fruit tres were planted for the fruit
and not for wood production. Their wood ylolds are thus not taken Into
consideration. Fruit troe plantations amount only to 1.90 of rural plantations.
Foregone production on land on which farmers planted their tree In Ignored, but It
can be arguod that benefits from incroosed yields from production between newly planted
tree line  my just about net out forgone production on other land.
(8) It Is assumed that 80X of wood yields from Eucalyptus are used for building poles
and 20X for firewood. In the case of local species it Is assumed that 90X of wood yields are ue d for
firewood and 10X for building poles.
(9) Due to lack of project data the economic price of wood io adjusted from the SAR. It io calculated
In 1989 prices with a for*'gn exchange premium of 40X whero rolevont.
All othor assumptions pertaining to the economic price of wood are unchanged from tho SAR.
The adjusted economic price of building poles Is about CFAF 20,600 per mg and CFAF 14,200 per m3 of
fu-lwood.
,-W



7. Status of Covenants
Section No.
of Credit                  Covenant                                     Status
Agreement
Sect. 3.01     The borrower should carry out the Project through       Complied with
the Forestry Department.
Sect. 3.02
(a)      Director of Forestry Department assisted by an          Complied with until 1985 when expatriate
economist.                                            economist left and was not replaced.
(b)      Project Operations unit at KAFRINE                      Complied with
(c)      Project provided with:
- Operations Manager                                    Complied with
- Forestry Technical Adviser                            Complied with until 1983, when position
was abandoned with agreeient of donors.
- Finance Expert                                        Complied with until June 1985.
- Natural Forest Management Specialist                  Complied with.
- Workshop Manager                                      Complied with.
- Forestry Researcher                                   Complied with.
(d)      - Counterpart to the Economist                          Complied with
- Counterpart to the Expert in Charge of Finance        Complied with.
and Administration.
- Counterpart to the Forestry Researcher                Complied with.
- Counterpart to the Forestry Training Specialist       Complied with.
(e)      Borrower makes annual budgetary allocations to          Partially complied with, often significant
cover operating costs                                   delays in disbursement of counterpart
funds, leading to cash flow problems in
project unit.
Sect. 3.03
(a)      Project account within the Borrover's Treasury.         Complied with
(b)      Initial deposit                                         Complied with, after CCCI financing.
Sect. 3.04     Consultants                                             Complied with.
Sect. 3.05
(a)      Insurance                                               Complied with
(b)      Goods and services to be used exclusively for the       Complied with.
Project.



7.  bPratus of Covenants (Cont'd.)
Section No.
of Credit                  Covenant                                    Status
Agreement
Sect. 3.06     Borrower provides IDA with;
(a)      Plans, specifications, reports, contract documents    Mostly complied with.
work and procurement schedules
(b)      Program of the works and documents in connection        Complied with
with studies
(c)      Records, visits and information                         Partially complied with.  Frequent delays
and incompleteness in record keeping.
(d)      Half-yearly progress report                             Complied with.
(e)      Completion Report                                       Not complied with.
(f)      Publicity on awarded contracts                          Complied with
Sect. 3.07     Acquisition of land necessary to carry out Project.   Complied with
Sect. 3.08     Seedlings provided to farmers at cost                   Only complied with towards end of Pro;ect.
Sect. 3.09     Provision of machinery and equipment to rural           Partially complied with.
comaunities upon partial repayment from
proceeds of wood sales.
Sect. 4.01                                                                                                           H
(a)      Separate accounts for POU                               Partially complied with, often significant
delays and inexactitude. Establishment
of accounts often left to auditors,
absence of analytical accounting.
(b)      Retention of all records                                Complied with.
Sect. 4.02     Auditing                                                Complied with
Sect. 4.03     Maintenance of roads, facilities, equipment and         Complied with.
vehicles.
Sect. 4.04     (i) Review of the stumpage pricing policy not           Study on price/tax policy completed,
not later than December 1982.                      though with delays.
(ii) Raise of the current prices of wood cutting        Price raised in 1987, but significantly
permits by the end of the project to               less than stipulated.
approximately 302 of sale price.



- 32 -
8. Use of Bank Resources:
______________________
A. Staff Inputs
FY80 FY81 FY82 FY83 FY84 FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90 FY91 Total
Preparation     4.1                                                             4.1
Appraisal      32.1 14.6                                                       46.7
Negotiation           0.7                                                       0.7
Supervision           1.5 11.0  7.3  7.3  7.8  5.3  9.5  8.2  6.7  2.5  0.1  67.2
Other           0.9  7.9  0.4  0.1              0.8  0.7                       10.8
Total          37.1 24.7 11.4  7.4  7.3  7.8  6.1 10.2  8.2  6.7  2.5  0.1 129.5
Note: No MIS .nformation is available for FY79 during which the identification mission
and other preparation work took place.



D. MISSIONS
Perforeance Rating
mbnthl    No. of     Days in    Specialization         Pyp. of
Year     Persons     Field      LeDresented (a)    Status (b)    Trend tc)    Problems (d)
Identification       02179         1           8       PS
Preparation 1        09175         1           3       PS
Preparation 2        11/79         1            7      FS
Preparation 3        04180         1           1       VS
Appraisal             04180        4           20      PS, VS. FT. E
Post Appraisal 1      02/81        1           2       PS
Supervision 1 el     07181         1           3       VS                     -
Supervision 2        10/81         1           3       VA                     -
Supervision 3 e/     06/82         2           3       VS. PA                 -
Supervision 4        11/82         1           4       E                      -
Supervision S el     03/83         1           7       FS                    2               2             MV
Supervision 6 el     11183         2           9       FS, VA                 2              2             HFT
Supervision 7        11/84         1           1       VS                     -
Supervision 8 e/     01/85         2          11       PS, FA                2               2             MFT
Supervision 9 el     12/85         1           7       VS                    2                             MV
Supervision 10 e/    01/87         2           6       FS, VA                2                             FT
Supervision 11       04/87         2           4       VS                    2
Supervision 12 el    12/87         1           7       VS                    2                             MY
Supervision 13 f/    05/88         2           7       VS, LS                2                            MV
Supervision 14 el    12/88         1           7       VS                    _
Supervision 15 e/    01/90         1           6      VS                     2                            MF
(a) FS - Forestry Specialist                 VT - Forestry Training Specialist
E - Economist                           VA - Financial Analyst
LS - Livestock Specialist
(b) Statuss 1 - Problem Free or Minor Problems
2 - Moderate Problem
3 - Major Problems



(c) Trend: 1 - Improving
2 - Stationary
3 - Deteriorating
(d) Types of Problems: F - Financial          H a Managerial
T - Technical         P - Political       0 - Other.
(e) Full Supervision Mission; carried out jointly with CCCE. Above figures only include IDA staff time.
(f) Combined mission for identification of follow-up project and supervision of ongoing project.
c:\wpSO\doc\mhsenpcr.tab



Caleulation of WVod Ytolds for Industrial Plantations
Total wood production (full grown):
Eucalyptus yields:         2 aS/ha/year for 3 years                  Eucalyptus:        7,248
Local species yiolds:      2 m3/ha/yoar for 26 years                Local specioe:    89,058
Total:            96,366
Year                    1982   1983   1984   1986   1986   1987   1988   1989    Total
Eucalyptus (ha)          266    442    458    116                                       1,208
wood yield yr1                   400    884   9g0        232                            2,416
yr2                                      400    884    906    232                       2,416
yr3                                              406    84    906    232                2,418
7,248
Reconverted                                              28J    820    460    2d6    1,806
(diet. 4x4)
Local species                             so    166       10     11      32               289
pure tands
(dist.404)
Enriched                                         196    618    56m    56        340    2,154
(diet. 414)
Form Plantfag                                                                   306       3'
(diet NWx4)
Full stand equivalent      a       *      Go    242    408    473    024    371    2,226
of local species
Wood yield local           0       *    106    44       932    947  1,249    742    4,45U
species yrl                        0       a    200    967  1,864  1,894  2,498    7,423
yr2                                        *      0     206    967  1,864  1,894    4,926
yr8                                               0       0    206    907  1,864    3,031
yr4                                                       0       6    20       967    1,167
yr5                                                               0       6    206        206
yre                                                                       6                0
Total wood loel op.                                                                   21,199
Total wood yield                                                                      28,447
-----------    -----------------------------~~1



Calculation of Wood Yields for Rural Plantations
Total wood yields (full grown)
Eucalyptus wood yiold:              6 .3/ha/year for 15 years         Eucalyptus:       122,828
Local wood yiold                    2 .3/ha/yoar for 20 years         Local Species      24,337
Total             147,165
Year                             1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989     Total
no. of sedlings                61,600 320,0W 287,006 190,000 285,000 261,000 310,000 1,664,000
ha equlvalent                      83    436      390     268     860     341    422      2,290
(625 plants/ha.,
85X of sedlings planted) (1)
X of Eucalyptus                   106s    95X      8SX     76X     esx    s0X       6eX    71.5X
ha equivalent                      83    413      332     194    234      171     211     1,688
incr_mental wood production               415   2,087   1,869    969   1,171      853     7,136
(ass. 5.3/ha/year)
X of local species                  es      5X     13X     23X     33X     47X    471        27X
ha equivalent                       0      22      61      S8     117    161      199       608
incremental wood production                 0      44     101     117    236    323         820
(ass 23/ha/yer)
X of fruit t                      0.0       OX    2.061    2.4X  2.41    2.7X    2.9X       1.9X
he equivalent                       0       0       a       6       9       9      12        44
Total wood production               0     415   2,526   4,28S   6,872   6,778   7,964    27,330
Notes:   (1) Ihile it is known how many plants were actually planted in the Krffrine
region, It Is only known how many were distributed in Tabacounds, to account
for losse only 65X of seedlings *r, considered.
1xl



37                            ANNEX 3
PARCE PROJECT
RURAL FORESTRY COMPONENT
VILLAGE NURSERIES
1985     1986     1987      1988      1989
Kaffrine:
No. of Nurseries                    8       90      157       186       204
No. of Plants Produced          8228   155059   244651   229000   270500
X of Eucalyptus                   85        76       69        50        50
Tambacoundas
No. of Nurseries                    0       NA        33       50        NA
No. of Plants Produced              0    17499    49487    62300         NA
I of Eucalyptus                    0        71       48        54       NA
Total:
No. of Nurseries                    8       NA       190      236        NA
No. of Plants Produced          8228   172558   294138   291300          NA
v of Eucalyptus                   85        75       65        51       NA
Note:   The rural forestry program started in 1983 but production of plants
in village nurseries ald not start until 1985.



RURAL FORESTRY COMPONENT
Plantings by Tro. Type and Planting Arrangemnt in the Kaffrino Rogion
Year    EUCALYPTUS                 LOCAL SPECIES              FRUIT TREES                   TOTAL
Co_munity    Fnmily       Coemunity    Family        Coemunity    Family       Comunity    Family
1983  18,600       34,600a                  0      I            0            0        28,6"        34,60
1964      NA           NA           NA            NA           NA           NA       168,760       88,126
1981 185,882       93,419        22,576       2e,262            0            0       k2S,178      113,7W1
196   70,484       46,348        21,448       14,528          544        1,307       92,476        61,183
1987  94,69W       64,900        34,400       22,700          G6M        2,300       129,960       89,886
1968  68,411       63,866        44,449       34,679        2,723        2,998       156,683       91,633
1960  71,742       06,813        62,817       68,096        8,630        2,603       127,689      128,412
w
w
l



ATTACHMENT 1
- 390
Page 1 of 2
COMMENTS FROM CCCE
World Bank                                              Paris, March 15, 1991
Washington, D.C.
Attention: Mr. Graham Donaldson
Division Chief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human Resources,
Operations Evaluation Department
Refs.: Your letters of February 25 and March 14, 1991
Re:     Project Completion Report, Forestry Project (Credit 1103-SE)
Dear Sir:
I read your draft Project Completion Report on the PARCE (Project
for Forest Management and Reforestation in Senegal's Centre-Est) with
interest.
CCCE evaluated this project at the end of 1988, and the resulting
April 1989 report will have been forwarded to you. In the main, we concur
with your conclusions.
It could have been indicated under "Background" that the PARCE was
preceded by two generations of forestry projects. Like these, it focused on
reforestation using exotic species and applying the results of tropical
forestry research which, in Senegal as in other Sahelian countries, revealed
their shortcomings in the following two areas:' the behavior of eucalyptus
when grown in the soils of the region, and planting cost control.
Like subsequent projects, PARCE also provided for forest
management activities and rural forestry. The former were unsuccessful
because of a lack of experience with the preparation of simplified management
plans, and the latter served to confirm how important extension activities
were to tree-growing in farming areas.
1/    These errors have been partly offset by timely experiments with Sahelian
forest species for restocking plantations.



- 40 -                           ATTACHMENT 1
Page 2 of 2
The project also foreshadowed future projects, which nowadays
emphasize multipurpose forest management (i.e., agrosylvopastoralism) and the
involvement of local communities. This is currently viewed as the most
promising approach for the long-term management of the remaining forest stands
in Africa.
Nevertheless, it requires changes in forestry policy with regard
to legislation (with local authorities assuming real responsibility for the
forest resources on their lands) and the various subsectors (i.e., wood
processing, the self-financing of management areas, and the termination of
extraction outside the management areas), following the pattern applied. in
Niger, for example. Currently, this approach is ruled out in the case of
Senegal (possibly because of the charcoal producers' lobby, which is not
referred to in the report by the Directorate of Water Resources and Forests).
Finally, the example of the PARCE shows that henceforth land use
planning (am6nagement du territoire) must be regarded as an essential basis
for the management of forests as ecological reserves (safeguarding watersheds,
water resources, farmland, timber, etc.), in view of current trends toward
overpopulation and the degradation of natural resources.
Very truly yours,
/s/ J.C. Deveze



- 41 -                              ATTACHMENT 2
COMMENTS FROM FAC
DATE: March 12, 1991
FROM: Ministry of Cooperation and Development: DEV/RUR-H
TO:    World Bank
ATTENTION:  Mr. C. Donaldson
Division Chief,
Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human Resources,
Operations Evaluation Department
RE:         PARCE Project Completion Report (Senegal)
We have received your Evaluation of the forestry project
implemented in eastern Senegal, and have no particular comments to make. As
regards the conclusions referring to the desirability of a shift from
production activities toward a forest management approach involving local
communities and taking account of other users (i.e., pastoralists), these
issues are addressed in the PICOGERNA (Natural Resource Conservation and
Management Project), which we are cofinancing.
Is/ Courtant



)__ A    ___                                -                                           1?OO                     ~1430    SENEGAL                                                                    '330
iJ                   > ttMAURITANIA                                                                          FORESTRY PROJECT -  PROJET FOREST/ER
PROJECT AREA - ZONE DU PROJET
r)   /  wt  /"* rt                               Project area boundurl                                                              Sylveapostorol reser,,es                      f      Deport nent coSPtOs
SENEGAL                                                                    Lise/p dueeitr olet                                                                Reservessy/vopostord/es                             C        dte/niudi   OrtrSet
Forest reservee selected for the stte -mnaiaged tree piartatconcopocct             National park                                        Regonral copitals
.13-00'      m    ~ ~~Forks clssdis d1iosies poor/ie vowpsiptiotttns foresftires on regle               Role no/oal l'-    Cheft /,i, dip region
M _tALi                                 Forest reserve selected for thenalwural forest moanagement componensi      j        Forest reserves                               _     Detorrtenent bouadones
7RCtJOCT  l                           _F       ofte   clssee chosie pour /i v'tetf  egiminteja forit naturefe            sl w          ieserves ftorestires                             4ence/es  di *Patri,nenf
\7d  AREA  t)                             )     Project headquarters                                                         _    Main roads                                   -        Regmonal bosundaries
siege du proeti                                                                    Routes princpae/is                                   -cc',IesC d  rei,on
A&    Project training center                                                  *           Raitlwa                                 n_ernstcon 1 boundary
N.                 ~~~~~~Cintre du format toO du pro/if                                                 ChoIncn 0di fir                                     intro9natio,cnalbouna/ry
GUINSA   SISSAU               "~~~~~~~~~~~      o ~Project tree nurseries                            ~,Rivers 
'    ^._.-   T  w    r }              *             O    a<,.,#e,ffesegeutesset,.ee,s    ~ ~ ~~~~~ip\    :                         ,c        ors de ou,,           
>  GUINEA   BISSAU      /  GUINEA             _*;*
n 16r00'olft>*1tl/tt4=                             <     $ t   <                    ~        t- -                                             is          0lr-ecr         20      20      30      *0       So      oO      72    e8
x~~~i~lb M,1sdto7 b*sc,c,deWr.rct ,,cc,,Ae 'MM    ~-             's _ft      ,                          _                                               L
a,.aa,/cccc\c.'aS ha,..,eo ahe~fs/rW-Wc io 5   !M., ,O                                                                                                                                 20            30          40            50
N  'Of,  ,S t N Et SAOU
'KA                                                                                                                                                RE G I 0N FEGAO N  O$  StNE-SALOUM  .     r RNSE
ZOwB,rkelane    / -    r                                                                                               R EGI ON  OF EASTERN  SENE9AL
-c >4dEjl           AA                               Departemenl of  ron6ocoundo
HODAR   AO
NIORO
Mo a
R EGION  OF CASAMANCE                                                                                                                                            1
WOor                nezce~~~neheW    1S30,                                    ISoaor                                     trw30                                      14et



