Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3120a-SE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
January 15, 1981
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Agriculture III Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
\    Currency Unit       =       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1      =       CFAF 210
CFAF million             US$4,762
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 stere                         =  1 m3 of stacked roundwood
1m3 (natural forest firewood)  =  1.6 steres  =  640 kg
1m3 Eucalyptus firewood         =  1.6 steres  =  720 kg
24 Eucalyptus poles             =  1.0 m3



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ATEF        -    Agent Technique des Eaux et Forets
CCCE        -    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CIDA/ACDI   -    Canadian International Development Agency/Agence Canadienne
pour le Developpement International
CILSS       -    Comite Inter-etats de Lutte contre la Secheresse au Sahel
CNRF        -    Centre National de la Recherche Forestiere (Senegal)
CTFT        -    Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (France)
DEFC        -    Direction des Eaux, Forets et Chasses (Senegal)
FAC         -    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
FAO         -    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
IBRD/BIRD   -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/Banque
Internationale pour la Reconstruction et le Developpement
IDA         -    International Development Association/Association
Internationale de Developpement
IEF         -    Ingenieur des Eaux et Forets
IDRC/CRDI   -    International Development Research Center/Centre de Recherche
International pour le Developpement (Canada)
INDR        -    Institut National de Developpement Rural (Senegal)
ISRA        -    Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (Senegal)
ITEF        -    Ingenieur des Travaux des Eaux et Forets
MDR         -    Ministere du Developpement Rural (Senegal)
MES         -    Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur (Senegal)
NGO/ONG     -    Non-Governmental Organization/Organisation non Gouvernementale
SEEF        -    Secretariat d'Etat aux Eaux et Forets  (Senegal)
SERST       -    Secretariat d'Etat a la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique (Senegal)
SODEFITEX   -    Societe de Developpement des Fibres Textiles  (Senegal)
SODEVA      -    Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole (Senegal)
UK          -    United Kingdom
UNDP/PNUD   -    United Nations Development Programme/Programme des Nations-
Unies pour le Developpement
UNSO        -    United Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office
USAID       -    United States Agency for International Development (USA)
VITA        -    Volunteers in Technical Assistance/Voloutaires d'Assistance
Technique
WFP/PAM     -    World Food Program/Programme Alimentaire Mondial
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BACKGROUND ...............................................              1
A.  Project Background         ........................................  1
B.  The Rural Sector ........................ . ...    .......... .    1
C.    The  Forestry   Subsector      ........................... .........  3
Natural   Forest   Cover   ....... . ........... *.*. .............  3
National Forest Estates and Tree Plantations        .......       4
Role of Forestry in the Economy.                                  4
Consumption of Forest Products.                                   5
Exploitation of Forest Products                                   6
The Task Ahead...                                                 7
Substitutes and Better Uses of Wood.              . . .           7
Alternative Sources of Fuelwood . . .......... 0 .............    8
Forestry Institutions. ..                                         9
Organization ..                                              9
Resources ...........................................        9
Training                      . .9
Research  ..............................      ..........    10
Ongoing Projects    ..10
Objectives and Strategies .il
II THE PROJECT AREA .12
Introduction .12
Physical Environnent .13
Human Environment .13
Rural Participation in Forestry Programs .13
Economic Environnent .14
III THE PROJECT .14
A. Objectives and Brief Description .14



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
B.   Detailed Project Description                                         ..... ..         15
State Managed Tree Plantations   ......  ...............                            15
Rural Rainfed Tree Plantations  .- ........ -                    .       .           16
Natural Forest Management ...                            ...........  ......         17
Applied Research Unit  .............           e...                                  18
Trainini, ........ ....... .....  -- ....o........                                  a  DD ae   ee@et 18
Planning, Monitoring  and Economnlo  Studies Unit  ...........                       18
Studies and Audits  .............                 o ....... .........               19
C.   Project lmplementation  ................. .o............                              20
D.   Project Cost Estimates                   .................... ..                      21
E.   Proposed Financing   .             .. .........e...                                   23
F.  Procurement and Disbursemient                                    ............          25
G.   Accounts., Audit and Reports  ...............   .........                             27
IV    ORGANIZATION AND MA2NAGEMENT   - .......                             ............           27
A.  Org3anizat.ion  ..........   ...................... ........                           27
B.   Staffing  ................................ o..29
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation  .....                              .........               30
V     PRODUCTION, IMRKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS                                                 30
A.   Production  ..........................            ......e..  oG o 0eo e               30
B.  Marketing3. ..                          ........... ..................................  32
Markets    ................ -   .............. ..   ............                    32
Prices  .... .....             ....... 0........ -- ........                        32
C.   Income and Financial Results  ...                  .....................              33
Income    .......... ......... .   ...  -  . ......... .........                   33
Rural Community Tree Plantations                               ......000  0....    34
Govermaent Cash Flow  .... ......                   ..................             34
VI    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ......O 0.. .. O                                                34
A.   Benefits  ..............e.0e  ...                       0    ...................      34
Direct benefits  ....... e            o........ o..                                34
Indirect benefits                                                 ........ a 0  C00   35
B.   Economic Analysis and Rates of Return ................ .                     .35
C.   Risk and Sensitivity Analysis   ...... .................. ...                         36
VII   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMI4ENDATIONS                             . a: O 00000            37



- iii -
ANNEX 1 (Tables)
I.        Total Costs Per Year and Per Component
II.       Total Costs Per Year and Per Category of Expenditure
III.      Total Costs Per Component and Per Category of Expenditure
IV.       Total Costs Per Year and Per Component
1.   State Managed Tree Plantations
2.   Rural Tree Plantations
3.   Natural Forest Management
4.   Applied Research Unit
5.   Training Center
6.   Planning, Monitoring and Economic Studies Unit
7.   Studies and Audits
V.        Yearly Distribution of Project Financing
VI.       Staff Requirements
VII.      Machinery and Vehicle Requirements
VIII.     1.   Direct Costs and Labor Requirement per ha of State
Managed Tree Plantations
2.   Direct Costs and Labor Requirement per ha of Rural
Community Tree Plantations
3.   Direct Costs and Labor Requirement per ha of Natural
Forest Managed
IX.       Total Production
X.        IDA Credit Schedule of Disbursement
Xi.       Government Cash Flow
ANNEX 2
Economic Analysis Assumptions
Table 1: Retail Prices of Different Fuels Per Useful KWH
Table 2:  Comparison of Costs of Production of Charcoal - Senegal and Liberia
Table 3:  Price and Marketing Structure for Firewood
Table 4:  Economic Price of Imported Charcoal
Table 5:  Price and Marketing Structure for Building Poles
Table 6:  Price and Marketing Structure for Timber



- iv -
Table 7:  Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(i) State Managed Tree Plantations
(ii) Rural Tree Plantations
(iii) Natural Forest Management
Table 8:  Sensitivity Analysis
Charts    1.  Forestry Department Organization Chart
2. Project Organization Chart
Maps:     Situation Map # IBRD 15131
Project Area Map # IBRD 15132
LIST OF SUPPLEMENTARY TABLES AND ANNEXES (Available in Project Files)
1.   Unit Costs                     Labor, Local Supervisory and Support
Staff, Expatriates and Consultants
2.   Unit Costs                     Machinery and Vehicles
3.   Unit Costs                     Nursery and Seedlings
4.   Unit Costs                     State Managed Tree Plantation -
Roads, Tracks and Firebreaks
5.   Unit Costs                     State Managed Tree Plantation -
Clearing and Land Preparation
6.   Unit Costs                     State Managed Tree Plantation -
7.   Production m3!ha               Planting and Maintenance
8.   Unit Costs                     State Managed Tree Plantation -
Cutting
9.   Unit Costs                     Rural Tree Plantation
10.  Unit Costs                     Natural Forest Management
11. Implementation, Costs and
Production                  State Managed Tree Plantation
12. Implementation, Costs and
Production                  Rural Tree Plantation
13. Implementation, Costs and
Production                  Natural Forest Management
14.   Total Project Costs          Infrastructure



15.   Total Project Costs          Machinery and Vehicles
16.   Total Project Costs          Staff
17.   Total Project Costs          Operation
18.   Economie Analysis
1.  Estimate of firewood prices from natural forest
2.  Estimate of firewood prices from plantation
3. Estimate of charcoal prices
4. Estimate of building pole prices
5. Estimate of timber prices
19.   Working papers
1. Technical aspects of the project
2. Training aspects of the project
3. Economic and Financial aspects of the project
20.   Terms of reference



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT
I.   BACKGROUTND
A.   Project Background
1.01      In October 1978 the Government of Senegal submitted a request to
the Bank to help finance a reafforestation and natural forestry management
project and also to help strengthen the Forestry Department of the Ministry
of Rural Development. 1/ A joint Bank/CCCE reconnaissance mission visited
Senegal in February 1979 and recommended that a forestry project be pre-
pared. Since much of the data considered necessary for project preparation
was already available, the mission's report was expanded to the status of a
draft preparation report issued in August 1979. After further elaboration
of the report and detailed review by Government services, IDA, CCCE, and
FAC, the Government in November 1979 requested that the project be ap-
praised.
1.02      This appraisal report is based on the findings of an IDA/CCCE/FAC
appraisai mission consisting of Messrs. J. Gorse and J. Baah-Dwomoh (IDA),
J. Bailliez and P. Marset (CCCE), J. Bathany (FAC), A. El Krief (UNESCO) and
C. Bailly (IDA Consultant) which visited Senegal in April 1980. The appraisal
mission was assisted by Mr. Issa Faye, a Senegalese sociologist/geographer;
the FAO representative in Dakar, Mr. J. Dubreuil, participated as an observer.
B.   The Rural Sector
1.03      Senegal has a total area of about 196,200 km2 and a total estimated
population of 5.5 million. The urbanized population represents about 30% of
the total, the main towns being Dakar (1 million inhabitants), Thies (120,000)
and Ziguinchor (70,000). The urban population is increasing at 4% per
year against 2.1% for the rural population (total 2.7%). About 60% of the
rural population is concentrated within about 150 km of Dakar in the Centrdl
Groundnut Basin.
1.04      Despite poor soils and erratic rainfall, and although its contri-
bution to GDP is much lower than in most countries of West Africa, the
rural sector remains a key sector in the Senegalese economy. In the last
f ive years, the sector accounted for about 35% of GDP; of this contribution,
crops accounted for about 60%; livestock, 18%; fishing, 15%; and forestry, 7%.
1/   The Forestry Department is now under the responsibility of the recently
created State Secretariat for Forestry and Inland Fisheries (see para
1.24).



Much of the rest of GDP is in the form of processing arid r:rade of commodii
ties from the rural sector.  The sector also produces about hal£ of export
income (of which groundnuts represent 90%), and employs about 70% of the
labor force.  Basic foodcrops are millet, sorghum, ric,,  and mai°ze.  Ground-
nuts and cottorn are the major cash crops.
1.05      Almost all rural sector output is produced by small-scale farm
units from rainfed agriculture, but there is much divers1ty in farm size,
labor availability, ownership of agricultural capital, productivity and
revenues. Large; areas in the northern and eastern parts of the country are
suitable only for livestock production under extensive grazing.
1.06      Because of agriculture's importance to the economy, Government
has been increasing its investment in the sector. Efforts to develop
the rural sectar and agriculture have been directed toward: (a) increasîng
groundnuts and millet production through the "Programme Agricole"; (b)
diversifying production through promotion of new crops, development of
livestock, particularly in Eastern Senegal, and encouraging migration to and
farm settlements in, suitable under-populated areas; (c) seeking to develop
the country's irrigation potential especially in the Senegal River Basin and
in the Casamance Regions to reduce reliance on imported food grains; (d)
stepping up research into farming and crop production systems to improve
technical information available to farmers and; (e) encouraging afforesta-
tion and forestry production to provide wood for fuel and building.
1.07      To achieve these objectives, Government strategy has been to
improve the efficiency of the public institutions involved in the rural
sector, to involve farmers directly in decision making, and to provide
incentives for farmers to increase their production. Government is now in
the process of reorganizing the regional development agencies and is taking
steps to make important changes in their top management to make them more
effective. A study on farming incentives has also been commissioned that
will for the first time examine in depth the problem of urban/rural terms of
trade. To involve farmers in rural decision making, Government in February
1972, launched a major administrative reform program to encourage greater
popular participation in local affairs and development, through the crea-
tion of Rural Community Councils or "Communautes Rurales". These are the
smallest administrative units above the village level, and generally cover
about 40 villages with a total population of 10,000 people. Each Rural
Community is governed by an elected council, which has the power to allocate
land, raise revenue and spend local as well as central Government grant
revenues. Typically, their expenditures are heavily oriented to village water
supply, but also include construction of feeder roads, primary schools and
dispensaries, as well as tree plantations. Rural Communities have been
demarcated and zouncils duly elected throughout seven of Senegal's eight
provinces, and the administrative reform is scheduled to be extended to
Oriental province by 1982. The project would work through these Rural
Community Councils to establish the community plantations (see para. 3.05).
It is expected that, through the influence of the project, the Rural Community
Councils in the long term, would form the institutional unit through which a
wooded landscape could be established.



C.   The Forestry Subsector
Natural Forest Cover
1.08      The distribution of the natural forest cover (about 10 million
ha) is heavily influenced by rainfall (see maps). With the exception of a
few areas (coastal dunes and mangroves) the vegetation can be described
according to the major climatic zones, and the wood production in each zone
is influenced by the amount of rainfall:
(a) the Sahelian zone (20% of the country's area) characterized by:
(i) the Sahelo-Saharian Sector (annual rainfall 300-500mm)
along the Senegal river valley with scattered bushes
of ACACIAS spp outside the valley, while some relic
stands of ACACIA NILOTICA ("Gonakie") grow with diffi-
culty in the valley; and
(ii)  the Sahelo-Sudanian Sector (annual rainfall 500-700mm)
a Sylvopastoral area with tree steppes and shrub savan-
nas of ACACIAS spp and BALANITES AEGYPTIACA ("Sump") in
the northern part and ACACIA ALBIDA ("Cadd") in the
southern part.
Annual wood production in the zone [s below 0.3m3 per hectare
of forest cover.
(b)  the Sudanian zone (60% of the country's area) characterized
by the Sudano Sahelian sector (annual rainfall 700-90Omm)
and the Sudanian sector (annual rainfall 900-1200mm) in the
central and eastern part of Senegal with wooded savannas,
of which the main species are PARKIA BIGLOBOSA ("Nere"),
TAMARINDUS INDICA ("Tamarin"), ANOGEISSUS LEIOCARPUS
("Guediane"), BOMBAX COSTATUM ("Kapokier") POUPARTIA BIRREA
("Beur"), BORASSUS AETHIOPIUM ("Ronier") STERCULIA SETIGERA
("MBep") and COMBRETUM spp. Annual wood production in the zone
is 0.3-1.0 m3 per hectare of forest cover.
(c)  the Guinean zone (20% of the country's area) characterized by
the Sudano-guinean sector (annual rainfall 1200-1500mm) and
the Guinean-sudanian sector (annual rainfall 1500-1800mm) in
the remote southern parts of Senegal with dense wooded
savannas and woodlands of which the main species are PROSOPIS
AFRICANA ("IR"), AFZELIA AFRICANA ("Linke"), DANIELLA OLIVIERI
("Santan"), KHAYA SENEGALENSIS ("Calicedrat"), CEIBA PENTANDRA
("Fromager"), PTEROCARPUS ERINACEUS ("Ven") and CORDYLA
PINNATA ("Dimb"). Annual wood production in the zone is above
1.0 m3 per hectare of forest cover.



- 4 -
National Forest Estates and Tree Plantations
1.09      The forest and fauna reserves, parks, and controlled forestry
areas cover about 7 million ha:
Million ha   % Senegal area
Forest reserves                1.3              6.5
Fauna reserves                 1.2              6.1
Sylvopastoral reserves         1.5              7.7
Controlled hunting areas       2.0             10.1
National Park                  1.0              5.2
7.0             35.6
1.10      Forest plantations cover some 15,000 ha, planted mainly with
GMELINA ARBOREA, Teck, Neem (AZADARICHTA INDICA), ANACARDIUM and Filao
(CASUARINA EQUISETIFOLIA). With the exception of plantations for cashew nut
production (Anacardium), matchwood production (Gmelina) and sand dune
stabilization (Filao), most of the plantations are for fuelwood and building
pole production. Numerous woodlots have been planted by villagers, schools,
youth organizations, and other groups but many of them are in poor condition
due to lack of maintenance; however, as wood becomes more scarce, it is
expected that people would take better care of their plantations. There are
encouraging signs that the situation is already improving (para 2.04).
Role of Forestry in the Economy
1.11      Fuelwood and other forest products form an important element
of household consumption.  Firewood and charcoal account for a high propor-
tion of both rural and urban energy resources, supplying basic needs for
cooking and heating.  Poles and sawn lumber are used for house construction,
furniture manufacture, farm buildings, ox carts, truck bodies, etc.  The
forest areas are a significant dry-weather grazing reserve and supply an
important part of the fodder required for sustaining nomadic populations.
Subsidiary forestry products such as gums, various fruits and nuts, as well
as thatching and weaving materials, and other forest products, are widely
used by the rural population. The forests have pronounced climatic effects:
mainly through the provision of shade which helps to reduce the range of
daily temperatare variations, these effects are of particular importance in
the drier areas by lowering the saturation and evaporation deficits of the
soil and aiding temperature regulation in both human and livestock popula-
tions. The fo-rests provide a habitat for a wide range of animal and plant
life which cannot survive outside a woodland environment. Tree and shrub
roots fix the soil and protect it against wind and rain erosion, and in some
areas, improve soul fertility by tapping soil nutrients at appreciable
depths and returning them to soil surface layers through the shedding of
leaves. SeveraL arid species, such as certain Acacias, fix nitrogen.
Traditionally, the forests have also provided the basis for shifting cul-
tivation, and part of the Senegalese agricultural economy continues to
depend on this system of farming.



- 5-
Consumption of Forest Products
1.12      Firewood and charcoal represent about 60% of the total energy
supply in Senegal, providing fuel for a large number of households. For
example, in Dakar, about 85% of household energy requirements are met by
charcoal and wood. In 1977, the officially controlled fuelwood supplies to
Dakar (800,000 inhabitants) were estimated at about 83,000 tons of charcoal
and 39,000 "steres" (15,600 tons) of firewood. These figures show that,
unlike other Sahelian countries, charcoal is used in large quantities in the
main urban centers in Sene2al. The average fuelwood equivalent consumption
in 1979 was estimated at 0.6 m3 per person per year (384 kg) in rural
areas, and 0.9 m3 (576 kg) in the urban areas. Thus, the 1979 total
fuelwood requirements for Senegal were estimated at 3.7 million m3 of
roundwood equivalent (2.4 million tons) of which 1.2 million m3 (0.8
million tons) were in the urban areas. To produce this volume of fuelwood
from indigenous forests managed on a sustained basis would imply setting
aside about 5 million ha of natural forest or sylvopastoral reserves for
fuelwood production alone, a figure which significantly exceeds the existing
area of such reserves, equivalent to about 4 million ha (para 1.09). This
highlights the need for additional fuelwood plantations.
1.13      Building pole consumption represents some 10% of total national
consumption of wood products. A large part of building pole use is in the
rural areas and does not come under the control of the Forestry Department,
since rural dwellers do not need licenses to cut poles for building purposes.
Up to now, mangrove trees and Borassus palm have represented the most
popular marketed products for building construction, although other local
tree species have been used. These two principal products are, however,
disappearing rapidly given the increasing demand for them; and in recent
years, imports from neighboring countries have increased. Some farmers
have started planting Neem and Eucalyptus to meet their building pole
requirements.  These plantations are however on marginal lands not parti-
cularly suited for food or cash crop production and therefore do not con-
flict with the aim of increasing crop production.
1.14      Some sawmills operate in Senegal, but 90% of industrial and con-
struction wood needs are covered through imports.  Imports were estimated at
about 15,000 m3 in 1979 (valued at US$1.8 million), representing a doubling
of imports during the 1970s, and are expected to keep increasing to more
than 60,000 m3 by 1990. Reafforestation with appropriate species in the
Guinean zone in lands not suitable for other agricultural uses but with
sufficient rainfall for establishment of industrial species, could help
to reduce dependence on imports.
1.15      As a result of the population growth and rising demand for forest
products as well as extension of farming and grazing areas, the forest
resources are being decimated in an area of some 200 km around Dakar and, in
the last 30 years, the natural forest cover has been reduced by 30% all over
the country. Future fuelwood supplies for Dakar will, of necessity, have to
come from remaining areas of natural forest in Sine Saloum, Eastern Senegal,
and Casamance, and will require increasingly long truck hauls. Fuelwood and
building pole consumption could reach about 7 million m3 by the year



- 6 -
2000.  This impl:ies that the remaining areas of forest prcduction (which
have a potential production of 0.5 - C.0 m3/ha per annum', would be
virtually exhausi:ed. If that happened , the situatîon would be similar to
that already evident arounid Niamey In NI4ger and other parts of the Sahel -
increasing desertizfication, loss of top soi! through wind erosion, decline
in crop yîelds, and loss of potential livestock fodder supplies   and all
these events wou:Ld adversely affect rural incomes. The remedy is establish-
ment of large-scale, fast growîng tree plantations as close as possible to
Dakar, but outside of the heavily populated parts of the Groundnut Basin
because of the lack of avaîlable land, and better management of natural
forests.  Such forestry operations can only be undertaken in the forest
zones of Thies and the "Centre Est"' part of Senegal.  USAID is financing a
forestry project around Thies and the proposed project operations would be
in the "Centre Est;.
1.16      Wood products take about 10% of the average household's budget in
the urban centers; this percentage is much lower than in the other Sahelian
countries because a large part of Senegal's urban consumption is based on
charcoal, which, per efficiency unit, is much cheaper than firewood (see
Annex 2, Table 1). The officially fixed retail price per ton is CFAF 20,000
(US$95) though through weight manipulation by retailers the effective price
averages CFAF 35,000 (US$160). This price compares with retail prices per
ton of charcoal of US$125 in Bamako (Mali) and US$200 in Ouagadougou (Upper
Volta) and Kano 'Nigeria).
Exploitation of ]Forest Products
1.17      Unlike other West African countries, marketing of forest products
is well organize,l in Senegal. Exploitation of the forest may be done by
forestry cooperatives, forestry companies 1/, or private individuals.
These groups need to obtain licenses for wood cutting and çollection from
the Forestry Department.  Each year, the Department sets a quota of forest
products to be cut and distributes the quota in the proportion of 60% to
cooperatives, 25% to forestry companies, and 15% to individuals. As of
April 1980, there were 25 forestry cooperatives, 12 forestry companies, and
640 private individuals who had received quotas for forestry exploitation.
1.18      These loggers (including cooperatives) employ laborers to eut
and process the lwood products for marketing. The majority of fuelwood
so produced is sold in the urban markets, wlth about 80% going to Dakar.
The loggers contract with private transporters to deliver the fuelwood
to private distributors in the urban centers, who in turn retail the pro-
ducts. Both the cost of the permit and retail prices for firewood and
charcoal are fixed by government, with the consequence that in periods of
high demand or low supply the wholesale price in Dakar exceeds the official
retail price, especially for charcoal. In such cases, retailers adjust by
reducing by as mach as half, the quantity sold at the officiai unit price,
thereby doubling the effective price of charcoal.
1/   The forestry companies are the sawmills and the match-producing com-
pany CAFAL.



-7-
The Task Ahead
1.19      On the conservative assumption that each person in Senegal would
consume 0.7 m3 of fuelwood in the year 2000 of which 0.1 m3 could be
substituted by other energy sources Senegal would need 6 million m3 of
fuelwood by the year 2000 to meet the demands of its 10 million people.
This would imply the establishment of about 500,000 ha of tree plantations,
assuming an annual yield per hectare of 5 m3 for state managed and rural
tree plantations plus annual wood production of about 3.5 million m3 from
natural forests. This would be an extremely ambitious target that cannot be
achieved under present conditions. A target area of 500,000 ha of fuelwood
plantations would imply an annual planting program of something in the order
of 25,000 ha a year from now until the turn of the century, representing more
than a tenfold increase in the current level of planting. Thus, the country
would need to look at substitutes as well as ways to improve efficiency in
fuelwood use in addition to the plantation programs.
Substitutes and Better Uses of Wood
1.20      Despite the increasing prices of fuelwood, demand and consump-
tion remain high both in the urban and rural areas. The Governnent in re-
cent years has tried to reduce the rate of urban fuelwood use (and hence
decrease the rate of deforestation) by instituting a butanization campaign
in the Dakar area through a large subsidy (62%) on butane gas. This policy
has assumed, a priori, that butane gas substitutes for fuelwood. Available
data from Senegal and elsewhere, however, indicate that the substitutability
may be far from perfect especially at relatively low levels of per capita
income. As shown in Annex 2, Table 1 there exists a large price differential
between butane gas and fuelwood. Despite this differential, the progress to
butanization has been slow. Observations in Senegal and data from elsewhere
(especially the Middle East) indicate that there is a high consumer preference
for fuelwood and, even when butane gas prices are several times lower than
fuelwood, consumers would still purchase the latter in large quantities.
The apparent explanation is that gas is not very suitable for the style of
cooking of the majority of households and some of them also perceive
it as dangerous; its use has therefore been limited to the relatively
better-off families. Thus though gas use in Senegal has increased from a
virtual zero base some few years ago to about 6,000 tons in 1979/80 1/, and
despite the large price differential between wood and gas (gas being 2-6
times cheaper per efficiency unit), there are strong reasons to believe that
social constraints exist on the substitutability of gas for wood products.
Its use will therefore be limited and, at best, progress slowly with in-
creases in per capita income. Besides, gas is a non-renewable fossil fuel,
the price of which would certainly increase in real terms over the coming
decades and such price increases would further reduce its wide use. Other
fuels, like kerosene and electricity are even less widely used for cooking
in Senegal and their substitutability for fuelwood would be subject to the
same constraints.
1/   This figure represents about 116,000 m3 of roundwood equivalent
- about 3% of the total fuelwood consumption in the country. In
total energy use however, it is less than 2 percent.



1.21      In the rural areas.  rhe fuelwood shortage has not been acute up to
now and the use cf possible sui-Jst`tutes such as millet stalks, crop residues
and animal dung is not widespread. If eontînued deforestation reduces
available fuelwood supplees 9 hoever, rural households can be expected to
turn to these farm products as has already happened in other West African
countries.  The use of such products as fuel would reduce fodder for live-
stock, stalks for housing, and animal manure for fertilization.  The use of
manure for fuel especially could affect crop production, because manure
serves as an impcrtant fertl½..zr on the fields adjacent to village compounds
("champs de case").
1.22      In ordE.r to meet household energy demands, therefore, in the near
future, Senegal intends not only to improve forestry production but also the
efficiency of converting firewo3d to charcoal as well as the energy yields
of cooking stoves. This questi.on has not been addressed in this project
because it is the. subject of a detailed ongoing USAID/VITA renewable energy
project which is aiming towards a 50% reduction in fuelwood usage through
development of mcre efficient cooking stoves and which, if successful,
would significantly reduce per capita wood consumption and the area of new
planting needed. Whether or not this more efficient stove program meets its
objectives, and taking into account the maximum feasible replacement of wood
by other renewable energy sources such as solar energy or biogas, the
residual energy demand to be met by firewood or charcoal is so large that
there is no risk of overplanting over thLe planned five-year project period.
Alternative Sources of Fuelwood
1.23      Given the increasing energy requirements of Sahelian countries
in general, and the rapid deforestation in these countries, one alternative
which theoretically appears attractive would be for the less wooded sahelian
countries to import fuelwood mainly in the form of charcoal from their more
wooded neighbors where, because of high rainfalls, artificial plantations
and natural forests would have yields about three to four times higher than
in the Sahel. In. the context of this project a financial analysis was made
of importing charcoal from Liberia and comparing it with that produced in
Senegal. Liberia has been c5hosen because it is the nearest country which
has data on costs of industrial charcoal production and, although not yet a
charcoal exporter, it is the most likely source of supply to Senegal. On a
financial basis, imported charcoal would cost at the wholesale level in
Dakar about the same (CFAF 80/kg) as charcoal in Senegal from plantations
(for details, see Annex 2, I'ab]e 2); in economic prices, the cost comparison
moves in favor of domestie production, Thus, given: (i) the uncertainty in
imports, because of a lack cf a well established international charcoal
market; (ii) the absence of any well organized charcoal producing and
possible export enterprises in the potential export countries; and (iii) the
absence of any comparative disadvantage in producing fuelwood domestically,
it would make sense for SenegaL to have its own fuelwood plantations.



-3 9 
1.24      Notwithstanding this conclusion and in view of:  (a) the size of
the afforestation program needed to assure future self sufficiency in fuel-
wood supplies (para 1.19), (b) the poor prospects for achieving this level
of afforestation in the near future, and (c) the apparent preference of the
population for fuelwood over other energy sources (para. 1.20), a future
energy strategy based partly on charcoal imports Twould seem to be a viable
option for Senegal. The Bank is already financing an export-oriented fast
growing tree plantation project in Liberia and planning other such projects
in some of the higher rainfall West African countries like Ghana. Further
studies are also planned of the potential for charcoal production for export
to Senegal and elsewhere. It should be noted that though the option exists
for charcoal imports into Senegal, it is far from certain that such trade would
materialize in regular, large quantities. Thus the existence of the import
option would not preclude the establishment of local plantations to meet part
of the demand.
Forestry Institutions (see Chart 1)
1.25      Organization.  The Forestry Department ("Direction des Eaux, Forets
et Chasses" - DEFC) was one of several technical institutions of the Ministry
of Rural Development ("Ministere du Developpement Rural" - MDR) with respon-
sibility for (a) natural forest cover and natural ecosystems; (b) inland
fisheries; and (c) soils protection. Government, increasingly concerned
with the need for conservation and management of natural resources, has
recently created a permanent State Secretariat for Forestry and Inland
Fisheries ("Secretariat d'Etat aux Eaux et Forets" - SEEF) within the
MDR to facilitate coordination and better integration of these activities in
the rural sector. The Forestry Department has four divisions at headquar-
ters concerned with; (i) planning and training, (ii) reafforestation, (iii)
production, and (iv) fishing and wildlife, and is organized into eight field
districts, for protection and development of natural forests.
1.26      Resources.  In 1979 total staff consisted of 337 agents, including
three level A ("Ingenieurs des Eaux et Forets" - IEF), 77 level B ("Inge-
nieurs des Travaux forestiers" - ITEF) and 189 level C ("Agents Techniques
des Eaux et Forets" - ATEF). Given the magnitude of the forestry problems
in Senegal, the Forestry Department is understaffed and thus unable to
fulfill a large part of its responsibilities. There is little planning and
inventory control, and management of field operations is generally weak. The
situation is considerably worsened by an insufficient allocation from the
government budget of funds, materials, and operating supplies. As a result,
the Forestry Department is unable to provide the necessary surveillance and
protection to the forest cover against poaching, overgrazing, overclearing,
and fires, and to carry out necessary reafforestation on a significant
scale. Through the supply of equipment and vehieles, training, and opera-
tional inputs, the Project would improve resources available to the Depart-
ment.
1.27      Trainipg.  Forestry education is provided in Senegal at the "Ecole
Nationale des Cadres Ruraux'! at Bambey for level B (ITEF) and the "Ecole
Nationale des Agents Techniques des Eaux et Forets" at Ziguinchor for level
C personnel (ATEF); these training institutions are under the Ministry of
Higher Education ("Ministere de lEnseignement Superieur" - MES). Forestry



- o -
education currîcula need to be modified to fit the n-eed for an eventual
shift ir. emphasis towards reafforestation as wel! as state management of
natural forest. There is also a clear need to provide field staff with
refresher courses on state-inanaged and rural reafforestation as well as
management of natural forest. The proposed Project .ir>kes appropriate
prov^isions for such trainîng.  Senior forestry officers (IEF) have been
trained abroad until now and would in future be trained at the "Institut
National de Developpement Rural" - INDR to be establ-lshed under the IDA/
CCCE   financed third Education Project (Cr 908 SE).
1.28      Research.  The National Forestry Research Center ("Centre National
de la Recherche Forestiere" - CNRF), part of the Senegalese Agricultural
Research Institute ("Institut Senegalais de la Recherche Agronomique" -
ISRA), is formally linked to the State Secretariat for Scientific and Tech-
nical Research ("Secretariat: d'Etat a la Recherche Scientifique et Techni-
que" - SERST) which is responsible directly to the Prime Minister. Four
major research programs aimed at improving forestry technical packages
are being carried out satisfactorily in Senegal by CNRF: (a) reafforesta-
tion in the "Centre Sud" area; (b) eucalyptus plantation in the Sudano-
Sahelian Zone; (c) management of natural forests in the Sudano Sahelian
zone; and (d) management of natural forests and reafforestation in the
Casamance area. There is however, a shortage of qualified local staff at
all levels and a lack of operational means such as funds, equipment, and
facilities
'.29      O   ing Projects.  Within the framework of its Fifth Development
Plan and with the assistance of several sources of foreign aid, Government
is carrying out several small or medium-scale pilot or experimental forestry
projects, inclading inter alia:
(a)  Gum arabic and fodder tree plantations in the north - IDRC
(Canada), West German Aid and USAID;
(b)  Sand dune stabilization and tree fodder plantations along
the north west coast - FAO/UNDP; USAID, and CIDA (Canada);
(c)  Bushfire control - CIDA (Canada);
(d)  Natural forest management in Casamance - Dutch aid/UNSO;
(e)  State-managed rainfed tree plantation in Casamance, Thies,
and Sine Saloum - FAC and USAID;
(f)  Irrigated tree plantation in the Senegal River Delta - FAC;
(g)  Rura:L forestry schemes - NGO (Non-Governmental Organizations)
and 'IDA (Sine Saloum Project);
(h)  Roadside tree plantations; and
(i)  Anacardium plantations and processing - West German and UK
aids,



- il -
Most of these ongoing projects have only recently started and it is difficult
to draw definite conclusions either on the results or the best technîcal
package to implement. Nevertheless preliminary results are encouraging
though they have not been uniform. Thus, for example, the competitîon
between forests, cropping and grazing requirements in some areas has given
the rural populations little incentive to participate in forestry projects.
Despite the unevenness of the results, the Forestry Department has enough
information to start large scale state-managed and rural family plantations.
The strengthening of the Department, through the project, should improve its
operational means and hence ensure better success.
1.30      The Bank Group has financed forestry activities within the frame-
work of four previous credits. First, the Drought Relief Project (Credit
446-SE) provided financing for a bushfire control subproject to conserve
dry season pasture and retain tree cover (construction of 600 km of fîre-
breaks). This subproject, completed in 1977, was a successful operation
and permitted control of about 60% of the fires reported in 1975/76 and
1976/77, a significant improvement over pre-project periods. This finding was
confirmed in the Project Performance Audit Report of July 2, 1979. Second,
the Sine Saloum Agricultural Development Project (Credit 549-SE/Loan 1113-SE)
has provided financing for a rural tree plantation component aimed at promot-
ing the planting of trees for windbreaks and fuel through the distribution of
planting materials. Tree planting has had varied results: high planting
rates for Eucalyptus for building poles and fruit trees, successful imple-
mentation of family neem nurserîes, but an average planting rate for wind-
breaks. Third, the Small Rural Operations Project (Credit 991-SE), to be
implemented soon, will provide financing to establish woodlots, half as wind
breaks (60 ha), within the framework of the small rice perimeters subpro-
ject. Fourth, the Eastern Senegal Livestock Project (Credit 633-SE) is
providing financing for the construction of 2,400 km of firebreaks to protect
the range, and consequently trees and shrubs, against bushfires.
Objectives and strategies
1.31      Government's current forestry subsector development strategy
has three main objectives:
(a)  renewal and expansion of natural sources of fuelwood and
building poles;
(b) strengthening the capacity of the Forestry Department to implement
effective forestry protection and production programs;
(c) better uses of wood and promotion of substitutes.
1.32      The Government's highest priority is to contain and eventually
reverse the decline of the natural forest cover while developing sustained
supplies of fuelwood, building poles, tree fodder, and minor forest products
for the rural and urban population and especially for the Dakar and Groundnut
Basin areas, through (i) improvement of productivity of existing forests, and
(ii) establishment of new tree plantations. The main problems facing the
implementation of these measures are: (a) the difficulty of protecting forest
cover from bushfires, overclearing, and overgrazing; (b) the difficulty of



- 12 -
obtaining popular participation in rural forestry schemes; and (c) the lack
of well-adapted forestry technical packages suitable for the arid and
semi-arid zones of the north and central regions. Nevertheless within these
constraintsD technical knowledge available in Senegal is sufficient to start
establîshing state-managed and rural plantations as well as to manage
natural forests in the Sahelo Sudanian and Sudanian zones of Senegal, and
the FroJect is designed to help Government achieve these objectives.
1.33      The second objective would be to strengthen the Forestry Depart-
ment's capacity in training and planning as well as monitoring and research
activîties to iriprove management and controi of Senegalese forest resources.
1.34      Despite the efforts which ongoing forestry projects are making to
counter the destruction of the forest cover, there is evidence of an increas-
îng shortage of fuelwood and building poles. Government is therefore
planning to g'Ve high priority to encouraging efficient wood usage such as
better charcoal processing methods and improved wood stoves, as well as to
promoting the use of substitutes and alternative energy sources such as
biogas, kerosene, butane, and solar energy.  The ongoing USAID/VITA project
(see para 1.22) is addressing the issue of efficient wood use and the proposed
IDA project alsc, provides for further study into the question (see para 3.12).
135      The Gcvernment of Senegal has recognized the importance of the
iorestry subsector in the economy and the need to assure regular future
supplies of wood products without destroying the existing forest cover. As
part of its strategy for this subsector, Government has, therefore, asked
FAC and CCCE to finance, under a Sahelian emergency fund, the elaboration of
a forestry master plan. The objectives of the project are in line with the
master plan priorities as defîned by government. The study of this master
plan has just begun and shoulci be completed by late 1981.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Introduction (see maps in Annex)
2.01      The Project's main forestry operations--state-managed and rural
tree plantations, natural forest management and applied research unit--would
be carried out in the "Centre Est" part of Senegal between Kaffrine and
Koumpentoum, 200-350 km east cf Dakar. The state-managed tree plantation,
which would be a follow-up to the ongoing FAC/CCCE pilot state-managed tree
plantation in the Kaffrine forest reserve, would be established in several
blccks in the forest reserves located in the project area (forest reserves
of Kaffrinae, Maleme-Hodar, Maka-Yop, Pate and Koumpentoum which cover about
50,000 ha). The natural forest management component would be carried out in
the forest reserve of Koumpentoum (10,000 ha). The planning, monitoring and
economic studies component would be carried out at the Forestry Department's
headquarters at 3akar, and the training center would be established in a
location close to Kaolack (Kahone).



Physical Environment
2.02      The "Centre Est" area is located in the East Groundnut Basin
and belongs to the Sudano-Sahelian and the Sudanian zones. The climate
of the area is characterized by a seven-month dry season (November-May)
and has an annual rainfall of 700-900 mm. The relief is relatively flat
and easily accessible by all weather roads and the Dakar-Bamako railway.
This area, which balongs to the continental terminal, is mainly comprised
of gray ferruginous soils with concretîons. The vegetative cover is a
mix between the Sudanian and Sahelian flora. Based on experience gained
with the exploitation of these "Forets du Rail", during the 1940's to supply
firewood to the railway, the potential of the forest cover is estimated
at 1.0 m3/ha/year in the East Central area. However, because of the
erratic climatic conditions prevailing in the area, it would be necessary to
establish the proposed state-managed tree plantations on the most suitable
parts of the forest reserves. Soil surveys would therefore be carried out
under PPF financing to determine the best initial plantation sites (see para
3.18).
Human Environment
2.03      The project area covers approximately 25,000 km2, about 13%
of the country, and has a population of about 350,000. The western part of
the area is more densely populated because of water supply problems and
lack of good cultivable soîls in the East. The average population densi-
ties are about 21/km2 in the West and about 9/km2 in the East. There
is as yet no fuelwood shortage either in the principal towns, Kaffrine,
Koungheul, and Koumpentoum, or in the rural areas, though there have been
occasional building pole shortages in the more populated western part. The
majority of the loggers who supply Dakar and the Groundnut Basin with
firewood and charcoal are located in the project area, and work in the
forest reserves, according to working plans set up by the Forestry Depart-
ment, and there have been no problems between them and farmers. Land
tenure problems are, therefore, not expected to arise if state-managed tree
plantations are established in the forest reserves.
Rural Participation in Forestry Programs
2.04      Many farmers are already conscious of the need for reafforesta-
tion on an individual family basis as well as on a village or rural commu-
nity basis. Through the support of the rural development agency, SODEVA
("Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole") as well as the
network of rural extension centers ("Centres d'Expansion Rurale - CER") and
the newly established rural communities ("Communautes Rurales"), the rural
populations are increasingly taking up tree planting. SODEVA, which has
provided tree and fruit seedlings against cash, has not been able to satisfy
all the requests from farners.  Farmers, already used to establishing and
operating family nurseries with neem (Azadarichta Indica), are keen on
eucalyptus seedlings for building poles production, and the first rural
community tree plantations supported by the Forestry Department are pro-
mising. However, several constraints exist that limit participation of the



- 14 -
r-`,.î'a fapU 2iaL   These include, inter alia.  land availaiuity lasuas
-.e 5aveIlv popu1ated areas, where only marginal lands are  eser-ved for  re,
'i sn.tati&as5 a:id compfetition for labor resources with farai-Jg activities anfd
1-tenrcs c4a plantations. Because of these constraints, 5  he size of th-
pa ject  Erurl p.lanting component has been kept fairly suai  and f2exlh
enau,gh to te' '-ternative approaches to overcoming suoh constraints    The
rtral f:oreEsry studies planned under the project are alse desigrned to help
r-ind   lutfensto t.ese constraints.
'o2an<}OiLC Env. frfi.»arett
2 25      The  aro 7ect area is served by both the railway and paved roads and
ao prowleams would be encountered transporting the wood produced ta the main
urbai cansunptlon centers like Dakar.  About 70% of the culti vated area in
`he proiect zone is covered by cash crops (groundnuts arid cotton), while the
remainîng 30% :ls for food crops, mainly millet, sorghum and maize.  The
cult,  ated area represents about 26% of the total area in the West and only
5% în the East,  Livestock population in the project area is not too high
and. grazing res-uirements in the near future can be met from existing forest
resources and crop residues. Land to be used for the forestry operations,
therefore, wout;d not affect pasture for grazing. Thus the poterntial for
forestry operaitions ils very high in the project zone and the Forestrv
Department, awCtre of this potential, is concentrating on improvîng produe-
tian in this zone.
If:I. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives and Brief Description
3  01_    The Project would aim at improving supplies of fuelwood, building
poles and tree fodder for rural and urban populations.  Since demand for
fuelwood and forest products has been rising in line with the steady popu
lation growth3 and deforestation around Dakar and the big tewns has become
serzous. it SJL'  not be possible to meet future needs onyv from the re-
maining natural farests.  Thus establishment of tree plantations, improved
management o' natura'l forest and promotion of better uses of w0ad and
substitutes should receive priority.
3.22     T'he Project has the following seven components
(a)  Stat!-managed rainfEed tree plantations -  The Projec_ would:
(4v establish and maintain 2,000 ha of rainfed tree plantations
in tle forest reserves between Kaffrine and Koaupentoum in Sire
Salcum, and (iî) maintain 600 ha of pilot state-managed tree
plant:atîons establ:ished in the Kaffrine forest reserve under
FYjCfOCCCE financing in 1979 and 1980;
(b')  Rural- rainfed tree plantations - 3,000 ha of rural rainfed
tree ,plantations would be established in Sine Saloum and



- 15 -
Eastern Senegal, of which 1,500 ha would be family planta-
tions and 1,500 ha rural community plantations;
(c) Natural forest management - The Project would set up and imple-
ment procedures to improve the management of the forest reserve of
Koumpentoum (10,000 ha) in Sine Saloum and Eastern Senegal;
(d) Applied research - Under the Project, applied forestry research,
which would concentrate on research directly related to the
situation in the project area, would be carried out;
(e) Training center - The Project would establish and operate a
forestry training center in Kahone/Kaolack to provide refresher
courses for forestry staff, with special emphasis on training
of extension staff for forestry work in rural areas;
(f) Planning, monitoring and economic studies - The Planning division
of the Forestry Department in Dakar would be strengthened, under
the project to improve its planning and economic work; and
(g) Complementary studies and audits - The Project would provide con-
sulting services to assist the planning division of the Forestry
Department to carry out: (i) a study aimed at improving govern-
ment's knowledge of the receptivity of rural populations to
alternative approaches to rural reafforestation; (ii) a study on
economic aspects of forestry production; and (iii) a feasibility
study for a possible follow-up project. The project would also
provide financing for annual audits.
B.   Detailed Project Description
3.03      State-Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations (see Annex 1, Tables IV.1
and VIII.l) 2,000 ha of rainfed tree plantations would be established,
mostly with Eucalyptus Camaldulensis, in several blocks already exploited by
private loggers (see para 2.03) in the forest reserves between Kaffrine and
Koumpentoum. The plantation sites would be selected on the basis of the
preliminary soil surveys being carried out under FAC/CCCE financing and
under PPF (see para 3.18). The first results of these soil surveys were
provided prior to negotiations. Without prejudging the final conclusions of
these surveys, it can safely be estimated that at least 30% of these forest
reserves would be suitable for the planting of fast-growing tree species and
that land availability problems are therefore unlikely to arise. Plantation
works, as well as all the other field forestry works, would be carried out by
force account under the Project with material provided by the ongoing pilot
FAC/CCCE forestry project in Kaffrine as well as from the STABEX fund and
additional machinery and equipment provided under the Project (see Annex 1,
Table VII). The work program would include: a) the improvement of the
Kaffrine forestry nursery; b) complementary clearing and destumping;
c) land preparation; d) ripping to improve the water holding capacity of the
soil and facilitate the development of the root system of seedlings in the
clay pan of the soil; e) planting; and f) weeding for two years after planting.



- 16 -
__ uitaneul; Project management would, also by force account, finance
construcLion and maintenance of access roads, tracks, firebreaks and accom-
îaodations for laborers, supervisory and support staff. Since the Project
would     e  as part of its aims, the improvement of knowledge on state-
managed plaiatations, it would maintainf under this component, the plantations
established în the Kaffrine area under the FAC/CCCE financed pilot forestry
p rOJa    6 30 ha)C
3.l plantation establishment works have to be done during the
ran y season, and only six weeks per year are suitable for the planting of
seedlings, Experience to date has demonstrated better survival and faster
gro,,rth rates nhen land preparation has been carried out with machinery
rather than manual labor because of: (a) the very tight work schedule;
(b) the need to deeply rip the clay pan; (c) the fact that during the rainy
season fe-w workers are available for hire due to peak labor requirements for
cropping; and (d) the lack of manpower around plantation sites, which to
ov-ercome, would require costly transport and accommodations. It is esti-
mated that only about 55 man-days per hectare of labor input would be
required over the first four years, without taking into account preli-
mînary ciearing and cutting which would be carried out by private loggers,
and heïce Ilabor availability is not expected to be a problem.
3eO5      Rural Rainfed Tree Plantations (see Annex 1, Tables IV.2 and
VIIti.2Y)  About 3,000 ha of rural tree plantations would be established in
Sine SaIaou  and Eastern Senegal of which 1,500 ha would be family planta-
tiGns ard 1,500 ha rural community plantations:
(a)  Family Plantations.  Seedlings, mostly Eucalyptus Camaldulensis
andi neem (Azadarichta Indica), would be provided at cost to
rural families from the nursery of Kaffrine in Sine Saloum to be
împroved under the state managed tree plantation component (para
3 03 , and from the nurseries of Koumpentoum and Tambacounda in
Eastern Senegal which would be rehabilitated under the Project.
The Project would also provide nursery and fencing supplies to
1mprcve and develop the family neem nurseries established under
the IDA/CCCE financed Sine Saloum Project (see para. 1.29).
Seedlings would be provided through established extension services
sa that technical advice could be given and results followed up.
Wbrking agreements on seedling distribution and extension support
should be reached between the Forestry Department and the rural
development agencies involved (first SODEVA and later STN/
"Societe des Terres Neuves" and SODEFITEX/"Societe de Developpe-
ment des Fibres Textiles"), and the agreement with SODEVA, accept-
able to IDA, should be signed before providing the first seedlings
to farmers in Sine-Saloum. An assurance to this effect was
obtained during negotiations. These extension services would be
responsible for distributing seedlings and giving technical advice
to farmers on plantation maintenance.
Çb)  Rural Community Tree Plantations.  The Project would assist rural
populations through Rural Communities (para 1.07), in establishing
niedium scale tree plantations.  The work program would be similar



- 1.7 -
to that of the state-managed tree plantation component.  These
rural community tree plantations should, ln the medium term,
constitute in the relatively populated areas, the main element of
a network whereby a usoded landscape would be re-established.
Project management would provide tree seedliîns, at cost, and
machinery to carry out ripping and land clearing as well as to
construct firebreaks. It is intended that part of the operating
costs (about CFAF 30,000 or IJS'I40/ha', would be recovered from
wood sales taking into account the degree of success of plantation
establishment.  The project unit, through the Forestry Department,
would enter into agreement, acceptable to IDA, with the Rural
Communities, before providing them with machinery and other
services, that 20% of all wjood sales from mature community plan-
tations would be paid to the Forestry Department as the community's
contributior towards the cost of establishing their plantations.
Assurances to this effect were cbtained at negotiations. The
Project would finance about 75% of the manual labor required,
while rural communities would provide 25% as free labor. But
project management would pay special attention to increase the
umremunerated participation of the population of rural communities
as the Project progresses. It is expected that wood produced
from the rural community tree plantations wculd amount to 64
m3/hectare over sixteen years of which 80% fuelwood and 20%
building poles (see para 5.02). It is also expected that part of
the fuelwood and building poles produced (50 to 75% of total
amount) would be used by participating villagers in the respective
rural communities and that the remainder would be sold by these
comnimunities to derive resources for repayment to the forestry
department and for theïr own investments (see para 5.11).
3.06      The rural tree plantation component and its cost recovery mecha-
nism would be the most important component for setting the stage for a
possibly larger second-phase project and would be given special attention.
Project results would allow an accelerated preparation of a second phase
project emphasizing rural tree plantations and improved participation of the
rural population in the reafforestation effort.
3.07      Natural Forest Managemen  (see Annex 1, Tables IV.4 and IX.3).
The remaining natural forests of the Senegalese Sudano-Sahelian and Suda-
nian zones could, if upgraded. continue to be a significant source of wood
products in the next decades. Therefore, the Project would introduce new
measures in the management of the Koumpentoum forest reserve (10,000 ha)
in Sine Saloum and Eastern Senegal. The management would be on a large
scale experimental basis under the Prc,ect in order ta define efficient
natural forest management techniques. Better natural regeneration and
regrowth are expected to result from: (a) protective measures, against
encroachments, bushfires, and overgrazing; (b) canopy manipulation through
intermediate and regeneration cuttings, and (c) complementary seeding, har-
rowing and weeding. The application of these techniques would be preceded
by the setting up of a working plan including division of the forest reserve
into compartments, forestry inventorv, marking of trees and construction of
access roads, tracks and firebreaks as well as building of accommodations



for laborers, super-visory and supp.i-r4: uff   Promfi        ; eou;lr.s have been
obtained froe. simiîlar natural  Woraots .s 5eet Afr&a, ultIc   susîairec y ields
increasing fron, 05 Li3 /ha/year titi to      ïP ,L.       s tJ mata!  tEhat
about 15 mancdays per hectare of .abo- inp.L   vev be  r£cr:wired over f-`v
years.
3.08       The natura. forest oSa-rjem : a5 wel. a. i,       r st-e--rnoan aged a, ,ne
rural tree plantations conivonert   .   requrr.e     a ,;ri-tmsnt OL an J.ter-
nationally recruitced w,orkshep J`crap   ior a tota 1of 5 ars  arid (,V(  âlt
annuai provision of two nan.OthS of aeiara.Qcoe  {total 10 I arV
months over the project perioe>.; as support ror t   :- OLt  Operatilons
3.09       Appliec Reseacc  13 t       Ec   oe-. nex I. .r e « .   i..  Inder lhe.
Project, an appLied forestry resear:h programn %e')uld      carried out   Th is
program, twhich would operate in close  wLîsen wfth  SRA/CNRi. would con,
centrate on research directly related to the prDject area.  Given the lack
of well adapted forestry technical pac1ages for ar-id and sem'larid ~ones,
special emphasis would be gîven to trials with fatgro.ring species, seed
selection, plantation and natural forest maanagement techriques. Since the
research component would be strictlyr relatea to the Pr-Or * the researcher
to be seconded by ISRA to the Project would be based at the Project hecadc
quarters at Kaffrine.  The Forestry Department would cigu., an. agreemeMnt with
ISRA for secondment of the researcher and would elaborate jointly v.-th ISRA
a well defined research program a,praiate to th.e Pr3 oet ne--ds andi ,r4-hl
the framework o:- the nati-onal research effort.  The agreem.re i3      ll'd al e,O
provide for thre continuation cf thae forestry xesearch eefort after the
project implemen-tation periocl.  The agreement vith IS>P±. acceptable to IDA,
should be signedl before establishfng tire applioed researcri unit.  An. as -
surance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.  This applled
research program would be headed bDy an internationa::y-recruited foreastry
researcher for a total of 4.5 years,
3.10       Train:.   (see Annex I. Table IV.5).  The Project would establish
and operate a training center at ïKahone to provide ref-resher courses on
state-managed and rural reafforestation techniques for the Project staff
dealing with field forestry activities.  The training center would also
provide, occasionally, traini.ng failities for Other fcesrry staff not
directly relatedl to the Project as welç as tranae-eu  nf  us  fore.sory sciorls
of Bambey and Ziguinchor.  Annual training currieula wouild be agreed upon
with IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtaîned durîng negotiatîoansc The
forestry training center -vould be headsd by an i-L.tLo-..eall-  recrulted
forestry training specialist for a total of 4 5---rs   ?rainc wau.lu `e
provided for extension persorLnel of the rura  daevelogeent agencies th:rQoJgh
the training center.  Supervisor-y s-aff wo-I_d Dryo vicie      he-ob j   rac-no
Provision  has been made urnder Cahe -pro-.ct fr f      ig rliovsips f--
forestry officers.
3.11       Planning, Monitorir _an,qdE Eor. c_Staie.s.  osa .ca-x  1, Tabl1
IV.6).  The Project weuld provide sr su,gpo -or rrprcvPiDg tihe Planning
Division at the Forestry Department iheadquarters fan Dakar-,  lis division
would assist the Ferestry Department to plan aid instaIl a regul atory system
that would permit a balanced and economic exploitation of Senegal's forests



- 19
and ensure a sysLematic renewal and extension of forestry resources in the
country within the framework of the forestry master pi. / ee para 1.35).
The division would be responsible for monitoring the progress of the Project
through analysis of recurrent costs and yields of the Project, as well
as monitoring the economic aspects of rural forestry schemies (see para 4.11).
The division would also assist the Forestry Department to ske detailed
analysis of existing data on the costs of wood production. s§ as to permit
the Department to define optimal pricing policies that vruld encourage
promotion of forestry activities.  The division would be assisted by an
internationally recruited economist, with a forestry back!gr ond, for a total
of five years. The division would be helped in its work by consultants to
be recruited for the rural forestry study and the econoric stuidy (see para
3.12).
3.12      Studies and Audits (see Annex 1, Table IV.7)>  Tlhe project would
provide 18 man-months of consulting services to assist the Planning Division
of the Forestry Department to carry out these complementary studies,
which would rely on existing forestry sector data and ongoing forestry
schemes:
(a) A Rural Forestry Study: Rural participation in forestry schemes
is increasingly becoming necessary and indispensable in the
effort to arrest deforestation. Receptivity of rural popula-
tions to afforestation in Senegal, however, has been limited
by several constraints tied to land availability and tenure
systems, competition with crop production, and the institutional
support given to such activities. Recent evidence however sug-
gests that rural people are interested in establishing tree
plantations to meet their own fuelwood and building pole require-
ments and also, as a source of cash income. To assure that
future large scale rural plantations can be undertaken, the
project would finance 12 man-months of consultant services to
carry out a study aimed at identifying and overcoming the con-
straints of large-scale rural reafforestation. The study, which
would not necessarily be limited to the project area, would inter
alia: (i) survey and comparatively evaluate past and ongoing rural
forestry projects including assessment of the institutional
arrangements used in such projects, the local reactions to diffe-
rent fast-growing tree species, inter-relationships between
grazing, cropping and forestry, etc.; (ii) collate information on
better and more efficient uses of wood especially in the rural
areas (improved wood stoves, improvement of charcoal processing,
wood treatment methods, etc.); (iii) focus on economic effects of
deforestation including negative impact on agricultural producti-
vity of continued deforestation and propose ways of passing on
such information to farmers by extension agencies; and (iv)
prepare recommendations for an expanded rural forestry component
in a second-phase forestry project.



- 20 -
(b) An Economic Study: To strengthen the Forestry Department, the
Project would finance three man-months of consultant services to
assist the Planning Division in its work on economic aspects of
the forestry subsector, including optimal pricing, marketing
structures and policies for forestry production, and recurrent
cost implications of all forestry activities in the country. To
enable Government tc, make informed judgments on future forestry
activities, the division would also study the cQmparative benefits
and costs of state-managed and rural forestry operations in
different parts of the country.
(c) A Project Preparation Study: The Project would finance three
man-months of consultant services to prepare a second phase
forestry project which would be carried out in the last two
years of the Project, taking into account the f ndings and recom-
mendations of the above studies.
(d) Audits. To ensure proper accounting and financial control,
the Project would finance one man-month of audit services each
year over the project period (see para 3.24).
In addition to the 18 man-months of consultant services envisaged for the
studies, 10 man-months of consultant services would be provided to support
forestry operations (see para. 3.08) and some of it could be used to help in
the studies. It should be noted that complementary soil surveys and a pre-
paratory accounting survey are being carried out by consultants under PPF
(see para 3.18). The terms of reference of the above studies, which are
in the project files were agreed upon at negotiations, but would be reviewed
in consultation with IDA during project implementation. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Government and IDA would from time to
time, exchange views on the progress of the rural forestry and economic
studies, and on how best to implement the recommendations made by the
studies.
C.   Project Implementation
3.13      Several project activities would be carried out by the Forestry
Department prior to project implementation and would be financed under PPF
(see para 3.18): complementary soil surveys of the forest reserves between
Kaffrine and Koumpentoum and a preparatory accounting survey. Procurement
procedures for machinery and vehicles would be initiated in July 1981 so
that the equipment could be delivered to the project in January 1982.
Implementation cf the directly productive components of the Project would be
scheduled as follows (in hectares):



- 21 -
PY      PY       PY      PY       PY       Total
Component                   0        1        2       3        4
State-Managed Tree
Plantations
Land preparation          400      400      600     600        -       2,000
Planting &
Maintenance PY1            -       400     400      600       600      2,000
Maintenance PY2            -        -       400     400       600      1,400
Maintenance PY3             -       -        -      400       600      1,000
Pilot State-Managed
Tree Plantations
Maintenance              600       600     600      600       600      3,000
Rural Family Tree
Plantations
Seedling supplies        100       200     300      400      500       1,500
Rural Community Tree
Plantations
Land preparation         100       200     300      400       500      1,500
Planting &
Maintenance PYl           -        100     200      300       400      1,000
Maintenance PY2           -         -       100     200       300        600
Natural Forest
Management
Preliminary works      2,000    4,000   4,000        -         -      10,000
Firebreaks and
Tree Marking              -      2,000   2,000   3,000      3,000    10,000
Forestry works Series 1  -       1,000   2,000   2,000       3,000     8,000
Series 2  -         -    1,000   2,000      2,000      5,000
Series 3  -         -       -    1,000      2,000      3,000
D.   Project Cost Estimates
3.14      The cost of the Project is estimated at CFAF 3.6 billion or
US$17.1 million of which US$8.6 million (about 50%) are foreign exchange
costs. The costs are summarized below and detailed in Tables I-IV of
Annex 1.



- 22 -
Summary of Project Costs
Share of
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total    total   Foreign
CFAF million           ---- US$ million ----    cost    Exchange
(%)       (%) '
Lo    FORESTRY OPERATIONS
Civi1 Works                  80.2      68.1    148.3        0.4      0.3      0.7        4       46
Machinerv and Vehicles       27.2    179.1    206.3         0.1      0.9      1.0        6        87
-Fîe d Forestry Works
Operating Costs              88.9    194.9    283.8         0.4      0.9      1.3        8        69
Seasonal Labor              356.0       -       356.0       1.7       -      1.7        10        -
Permanent Staff              56.9       -        56.9       0.3       -      0.3         2        -
Supervisory and Support
Staff                     90.0       -        90.0       0.4      -       0.4        2         -
Expatriates and Consultants -         255.3    255.3         -       1.2      1.2        7       100
Other Operating Costs       101.9      52.1    154.0        0.5      0.3      0.8        4       34
Subtotal                    801.1    749.5  1,550.6         3.8      3.6     7.4       43        48
II.   TRAINING CENTER, APPLIED
RESEARCH AND PLANNING UNITS
Civil Work.                  51.1      43.4      94.5       0.2      0.2     0.4        3        46
Machinery and Vehicles        3.5      22.8      26.3       p.m.    0.1       0.1        1       87
Supervisory and SuppDrt
Staff                     69.6       -        69.6      0.3       -       0.3        2         -
Expatriates and Consultants -         341.7    341.7         -       1.7      1.7        9      100
Operating Costs             200.3      41.9    242.2        1.0      0.2     1.2         7       17
Subtotal                    324.5    449.8    774.3         1.5      2.2     3.7       22        58
III.   STUDIES AND AUDIT
Costs                        15.0    87.4    102.43         0.1      0.4     0.5         3       86
Refunding PPF                 0.6      7.5       8.1
Subtotal                     15.6    94.9    110.5          0.1      0.4     0.5       _3        86
TOTAL BASE COSTS          1,141.2  1,294.2  2,435.4         5.4      6.2    11.6       68        53
CONTINC-ENCIES
Physical                  56.6      61.3    117.9        0.3     0.3      0.6        3        52
Price                    578.0    452.5  1,030.5         2.8     2.1      4.9       29        44
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS       1,775.8  1,808.0  3,583.8         8.5      8.6    17.1      100        50



23 -
3.15      Project costs have been calculated net of all identifiable taxes
and duties   Go-vernment policy is to exempt rural development projects
from duties and taxes. This project would also benefit from such exemption,
and this was confirmed prîor to negotiations. Unit costs are based on
prices and quotations during appraisal in early May 1980.  Total costs
include physical contingencies equal to 10% of estimated costs for civil
works, machinery and vehicles, forestry works operating costs and inputs,
and other operating costs. The allowance for expected price increases over
the five years of the Project is about 40% of base costs plus physical
contingencies.  This vas calculated by compounding annual price increases
over the implementation period as follows:  for foreign costs, 10% for 1980,
9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983-85; for local costs, 15% for 1980
and 10% annually thereafter.
3.16      The average costs of consultant services are estimated at US$11,900
per man-month (including benefits and subsistence). The average costs of
expatriates are estimated at US$100,000 per year, of which about US$60,000
represents salary and benefits.
E. Proposed Financin
3.17      The proposed financing plan would be based on a combination of
parallel and pari-passu financing scheduled as follows:
(a) FAC would provide three expatriates (Workshop Manager, Techni-
cal Adviser, and Researcher for a total of 13.5 man-years)
valued at about US$1.8 million or 10.5% of total costs;
(b)  CCCE would finance through a credit, the terms and conditions
of which are yet to be negotiated, about 19.9% of the total
costs (or 40% of infrastructure, all light machinery and vehicles,
and 40% of forestry works), which would amount to about US$3.4
million;
(c)  UNDP/FAO would provide one expatriate training specialist (4.5
man-years) and consultants for the rural forestry study (12
man-months) valued at a total of about US$0.8 million or 4.7% of
total costs;
(d)  The Senegal Government would pay salaries of civil servants
(US$0.7 million), support staff (US$0.5 million) as well as
part of the operating costs (US$0.5 million). The revenues
from sales of seedlings and forestry products from the project
area (US$0.1 million) would be refunded to the Project and an
assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
The total Senegal Government contribution, including receipts
from seedlings and wood sales, would amount to about US$1.8
million or 10.5% of total costs;
(e)  IDA would finance the remaining project costs amounting to
about US$9.3 million or 544.4% of total costs.



- 24 -
The su=.mary o0f the proposed financing plan by category of expenditure is as
follaws
LTNDP/
FAC CCCE FAO IDA GOVERNMENT TOTAL
US$ million o
1» Infras84 l2^.itur-    0.5   -   0.7                 -        1.2
2.   Machinery and vehicles       -    0.4   -   0.7         -        1.1
3.   Field forestry works         -    1.3   -   2.0         -       3.3
4.   Local supervisory and
support staff salaries    -       -    -    -        0.8       0.8
5.   Expatrîate and
consultant salaries        1.3         0.6  1.2       -        3.1
6.   Other operating costs        -      -    -   1.6       0.4      2.0
7.   Refusd'ng IPF                -      -         0.1               0.1
Total base costs            1.3   2.2  0.6  6.3       1.2      11.6
Contingencies         0.5   1.2  0.2  3.0        0.6       5.5
Total                 1.8   3.4  0.8  9.3        1.8     17.1
Percentage %         10.5  19.9  4.7 54.4    10.5    100.0
Foreign costs       1.8   1.4  0.8  4.6         -       8.6
Local costs          -    2.0   -   4.7        1.8      8.5
Meetir.g ail the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CCCE credit
and agreement with FAC and UNDP/FAO for appointment of the first FAC and
UNDP/FAO experts would be a condition of effectiveness. Government also
confirmed at negotiations, that:
(i)  seedlinigs would be sold at cost to rural communities and farmers,
and the revenues from sales of seedlings and forestry products in
the project area would be refunded to the Project; and
;ii) salaries of support staff and the part of operating costs to be
paîd by Senegal will be appropriated in the "Budget d'Equipement".
3.18       Project: Preparation Facility.  To accelerate project implementa-
tion qcheduled tc begin in July 1981, some preliminary project works are
beînr  urdertaken in 1980 and early 1981D  Therefore, the Government has
applied for an advance from the Project Preparation Facility of US$50,000,
which IDA has agreed to make available by letter dated October 1, 1980.
These funds, to be used under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, are
tc £la*e
(a)  complementary soil surveys in 1980-81 of the forest reserves
located between Kaffrine and Ko-umpentoum and not covered by
tne ongoing FAC/CCCE financed soil surveys (see para 2.02).



These surveys,  t'esn       e: trg o m-w-months O. consultant services, are
being carried out i r    t  determine the location of the first
plantations to be es abLihed and the preliminary results were made
available before negotiatîe;nt; anrJ
(b) financial consultiag servi.ces   man-month) to prepare the
Project accounting systemà prior to Project împlementation (see
para. 3.23).
3.19      Project Revolving Eund,  The project's financial procedures would
be similar to those set up for the Smaall Rural Operations Proiect (Credit
991-SE). Since the Government has little capacity to prefinance expendi-
tures to be reimbursed under the !DA credit, and due to the short prepara-
tion and planting period during the rainy season, a revolving fund of US$0.5
million would be established jointly by IDA and CCCE (IDA 60%, CCCE 40%) and
financed as an advance from the Credits, to avoid any delays when the rains
begin; this fund would be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA through a special account to be opened at a bank in Dakar into which
payments could be made directly for specifîc expenditures, from the Credit
Account without passing through Government's Treasury Department. The
special account would be managed by the operations manager and the head of
finance and administration of the Project. A Project account would also be
opened at the Government's Treasury !or handling the Government's contribu-
tion. For both accounts, Government-s Chief Financial Controller would
exercise a posteriori controa cf expenditures, not a priori; confirmation by
Government of this point was obtaîned before negotîations (para. 4.06).
Opening of the two project accourts as well as Government's payment of its
initial deposit of CFAF 8.4 million (US$40,000), representing its estimated
quarterly contribution to project costs, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the project's
Government account would be replenished at least quarterly on the basis of
supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and cash forecasts made
by project management in order to have sufficient funds to meet project
expenditures for the following three months. IDA would replenish the
revolving fund upon receipt of evidence of disbursements from the special
account for allowable expenses. Should any disbursements be made from the
special account that are not acceptable to IDA, the Government would deposit
the corresponding amount into this account. An assurance to this effect
was obtained at negotiations.
F. Procurement arid Disbursement
Procurement
3.20      Procurement of heavy machinery and tractors, to be financed under
the Credit, that are similar in nature and tîme of purchase, would be grouped
in packages of over US$100,000 where nassIble and would be awarded on the
basis of international compettiîve bidding (ICB' in accordance with IDA



-  6 
g.}iddesins   ITCB is expected to cover about US$0.5 million.  Domestically
m t<an -sir e.ture gOûr-.s -çould be al lwed a preference of 15%, or the applicable
evrei~ of import  u      hites whvihever is lower.  Contracts for these items less
tban USS$100300      for more than US$25,000 (US$0.25 million) would be
p_ocured ori the !eeasLs of compeî itive bidding procedures advertised locally,
a j.a-, d con t r ao --,- less  -ban US"25,00C0 (US$0.15 million) would be procured
by direv t sh-apJing os t-le basis of at least three quotations.  The amount
.n zol7ed Ï,r e eC teto be about US$0S4 million.  These local procurement
pr eedures        Lforeign part:icipation through local agents.  All light
veY-îcles, motorcvcles and trucks éUS$0.7 million) would be financed under
the (CfCE crediita Froma experience because of their location and small size,
4ont' r&ts F   o     work5 houses, offices and workshops (a total of US$1.6
million of which US$1 0 millionl would be financed by IDA), would not be
attractlve to international contractors and would be awarded on the basis
of competitîve bidding ad-.ertîs,ed locally.  Services of expatriates and
consultants rUS$4.4 m1i9iOï  of which US$1.8 million to be financed by IDA
would `be obtained ln accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.  Field
forestry works (totao OC US$5.2 million of which US$3.1 million to be
f in.anced by TDA)i would be done through force account.  The remaining
prolect costs (US<4.3 million of which US$2.5 million financed by IDA)
woulel invo½ v 3   wages, salaries and allowances, (b) operating costs of
maslQrSeryX ~ eq:xip-t9 rehicles and offices, (c) scholarships and training
and would not be  uitabla for competitive bidding.
risbursemer.t
3.21      The !DA Credit of US$9.3 million would be disbursed over five
years under the foJlowing categories:
Categoryj7    I  -   60% of civil works costs (US$0.8 million);
Category   I  -   100% of heavy machinery and tractors (US$0.9
million);
Category  III       60% of field forestry works including operating
costs and inputs, seasonal labor and permanent
staff (US$2.8 million);
Category    I'l    100% of expatriate and consultant salaries
exeluding salaries paid by FAC and UNDP/FAO
(US$l.45 million);
Category    V  -   80% of all project operating or supervisory
staff costs not directly related to the field
foirestry works (US$2.1 million);
Category   V   -   Revolving Fund (US$300,000);
C.ategory  VII  -   Refundîng of PPF (US$50,000); and
Category VIII  -   ÏUnallocated (US$0.9 million)



3.22       ppl.i.atïons f or cred it tiiJ d ï!d a J o Ni u, td C b 'i _1iy docdmeied.
except for applications under Caleg  les IfY and V Eh2Ch wouid be.
certified statements of expenditures, the su,pporting documelntation for
which would i:e verified by the îndepmndent auîitoers as welL as reviewec bd   IDA
supervision mdssoi s.
G. Accounts, Audi ts and Report s
Accounts and Audits
3.23      The Project Operations Unit (sce para 4.02) would keep separate
accounts for the Project, maintained in accordance with acceptable accounting
practices to reflect the operations aad finaciail position of the Project.
The accountîng system would be prepared by a financial consultant prior to
Project implementation and its establishment would be a condition of effec-
tiveness for the proposed Credit (see para 3.18). The accounts would be
kept by the Administration and Finance Divisîon of the Project Operations
Unit (para. 4.03).
3.24      All Project accounts would be audited annualiy by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and the IDA credit would finance the audit fees
(see para 3.12). Audited financîal statements and reports, of such scope and
in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, would be submitted to IDA
within six months after the end of each fiscal year.  The auditors' report
would include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and
internal controls, the operation of the revolving fund, and as to whether or
not IDA funds had been used for their intended purpose together with a
confirmation that summary statements of expenditure correctly reflect
detailed records kept by the Project Operations Unit. Assurances to thîs
effect were obtained during negotiations.
Reports
3.25      The Project Operations Unit would also submit a semi-annual report
on the physical progress of the Project within t-o mont.hs after the end of
each semester, to include such performance indicators as would be determined
in the course of the Project's early supervision by IDA. Such reports would
also include interim cash-flow statements for previous quarters and projec-
tions for the remaining quarters of the financial year as well as results of
project performance by the monitoring and evaluation system to be established
under the Project (paras 3.11 and 4.11). Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MAiïAGElASfqT
A.   Organîzation  (see Charts in Annex)
4.01      The structure and organization of the Forestry Department has,
up to now, emphasised the control of forestry resources and has no formal



structure for establishmrent of tree   .i .,    I         c.-.L -    ta 0tri
forests on a large-scale basis T         'i '  i                r  c. î      _`e f7ep2r-
ment have mainly been invIlvetf in
contral.  The two divisior-b a>               ear--erS respGn-
sible for forestry prodc:tî                             .                         a total
staff of less than ten and u7.,,    te. r                                          ny large
scale reafforestation or natural, k      .s                               u ^Pr il..î- other
duties.  To avoidi creatig af`
however, the proposed               w,rojeQ -                                 -le .Le
whose exi sting staff woulid be S           fSQ . Et gr  e                                 Ob
training.
4.O2        The Forestry Departn,-nLt                      "jSIcr we the,i  S erC 1 s7u-ervisor
of the Project and iwould especia<ls y pl; atZsm  te     l.1tx                 atien of
the Project's institution oft.            -'                                 he  orxestry
operations, reseiarch and    a.:'5g             ''.  e.s.1
Operations Unit (POU)  t-                          'r .                           aager
responsible to the Forestry                     î S   ,,c t,-,r  îï;_          ave tthree
levels of responsibilîty.                      U           p  S        etn of
ail project activities oe ti               -                              e_t.a'slishrment and
maintenance of state-managed  anid rura. tree 2a t                 ,an  t;e natural forest
m.anagement, applied resear~. -lh            f`_'':g                 ,;I7S,t -we-u0îiï d be
responsible for procuremeîis-, }-           :,f civil
works, equipment  supplies a n         l  c                n ï    ,,    '  ;           t
Third , it would be responsi '- lf ?t:.rs   of cdifferent
agencies and institutions  a1n ISR                   r                     agencies, antd
other divisions of the Fores"--,-y  tl" ar' ot tat so-d 1e - ï.vciveid in the
execution of the Project.
4.03       The POU would be a          afc  -.                       bl :  ..1  coordi-
nate closely with the onher d-iv s e'.s                        e      t 'reSthe   Depart-
ment in technical and pol.1cy lat         ,      »    i  ea-si -:mponents
of the Project, the operation9                        bns t _n.Steî b.d e a_re. : qtry spe-
cîialîsts in charge of the trer  tL-<                            t .ement
components and the research                                          i` c       He would
aiso be assisted by a forestry te   ;                i r       _ a         epert respon-
sible for finance and                 ta                    u-sible for
the up-keep of heavy proj an  s.- af    -oni-
toring and economic studîes co;3n tr anS                -!                    tLy by the
Forestry Department Dif±rectû-  E"1                                         aa. e.tisting
Planning Division cf the Dp",-                    D v e :S_ t, s  s edf b y a
forestry economist to be                                                       -h-l  oyed  i sla s:  '  iac lak of
local skills at this pOîn'L ln. i'Lme. ,h.O ,-'., oenF                            be
expatr iates (para 4.09) tqho          i                                 -   .,î  b   ;--r je
sionals, and would provide                                                       _r  îsti
not yet able to furnish,  AF s ,ar s eiici -         `L_ - ".   a     5gans LLS tha  the
Government wauld. provide  dii                            Gj           s o.e .eir-sonne1
traineed in tree plantation adl                sa -,-     r.-.  -. .         .. :as are
expected to play an ±mecr          -_ .i y o                                   aan  manage-
ment in the fore!stry subsecs: -,



- 29 -
4.04      The Operations Manager, a Senegalese forestry officer, has been
nominated by Government and he participated in the negotiations. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the key staff of the POU would have quali-
fications and experience acceptable to IDA. The POU would prepare an annual
work program and budget which would be submitted to the Forestry Department
Director for approval, who in turn would forward it, before the beginning of
each fiscal year to IDA for its approval; an assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations.
4.05      The internal organization of the POU and its relationship to the
Forestry Department are illustrated in the chart in the Annex. Responsibi-
lities and qualifications of key project personnel are in the project files
and were agreed upon during negotiations. The establishment of the unit and
appointment of the Operations Manager, the specialist in charge of tree
plantation and natural forest management, the finance and administration
specialist as well as the forestry technical advisor would be a condition of
effectiveness.
4.06      Agreements in principle were reached with Government at appraisal
that, in order to assure some degree of financial autonomy for the Project
unit, the Project would only be subject to a posteriori control of expendi-
ture with the exception of contracts for major items to be awarded on the
basis of international and local competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
and local guidelines. Direct payment of suppliers by IDA (Procedure 3) and
CCCE would be used for all large purchases. Replenishments of the revolving
fund would be made directly by the financing agencies (IDA and CCCE)
into a special account to be opened in Dakar (para 3.19). Arrangements for
disbursement of expenditures to be paid by Government would be set up in
such a way as to avoid working through the cumbersome a priori control by
the "Centre d'Etablissements Publiques". Official confirmation of these
arrangements discussed at appraisal was received prior to negotiations.
B. Staffing (Annex I, Table VI)
4.07      Under the Project, all key posts to be filled by Senegalese would,
from the start, be filled by qualified and experienced persons. These would
include: the Operations Manager; the Reafforestation and Natural Forest
Management Officer; and the Senegalese counterparts for the Training
Center, Applied Research Program, Planning, Monitoring and Economic Studies
Program, and for Finance and Administration. Given the availability of
forestry staff in the Kaolack and Tambacounda districts and the return of
forestry officers in training abroad, no major problems are expected in
staffing the project. All posts to be filled by expatriate staff (para 4.09)
would be by persons whose qualifications, and experience and terms of re-
ference are acceptable to IDA. Assurances to these effects were obtained
during negotiations.
4.08      Senegalese Professional Staff.  During the five-year project
period an estimated six additional Senegalese forestry officers (estimated



- 30 -
as two level A/IEF and four level B/ITF) would be needed to fill the posi-
tions at project headquarters listed in para 4.07 above. A Senegalese
assistant accountant would also be recruited as counterpart of the Finance
aA.d Administration expatriate division chief. Counterparts will be trained
tce eventually take over project management and execution.
4.09      Expacrîates.  To implement the proposed Project, a total of six
expatriates -w%ould be recruited for a combined duration of 28 man-years:
Forestry TechnLcal Adviser (4 years), Economist in charge of the Planning,
Monitoring and Economic Studies Unit (5 years), Forestry Training Specialist
(4.5 years), F:.nance and Administration Specialist (5 years), Forestry
Researcher (4.5 years), and Workshop Manager (5 years).
4e10      Consultants.  The project's total consultant requirements are
estimated at 315 man-months; three man-months under PPF (para. 3.18); 10
maan-months as support to forestry operations (para. 3.08); 18 man-months
for complementary studies (para. 3.12) and five man-months for audit (para.
3.12).  All studies and consultancies including the PPF assignments would be
carried out by consultants whose appointments would be on terms and condi-
tions and with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations. In selecting consultants
for studies, particular attention would be given to the availability of local
experts and specialists.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11      The Planning Division of the Forestry Department would be respon-
sible for monitoring and evaluating project performance. The forestry
technical adviser to the Operations Manager (para 4.03) would also assist
the Division in this activity. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the POU would provide IDA with a detailed report on the project's pro-
gress within two months of the end of each six months. This report would be
part of the seini-annual reports to be prepared on the progress of the project
(para 3.25).
4.12      The Planning Division, with the collaboration of the POU, would
prepare a project completion report within six months of the completion of
the project. The scope and format of both the monitoring and semi-annual
progress reports and the project completion report would be discussed and
reviewed durîing early IDA supervision missions.  Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production (Annex 1, Table IX)
5.0l      State-Managed Rainfed Tree Plantations.  Eucalyptus is the main
species ta be planted over the 2,000 ha of state-managed tree plantations to



- 31 -
be established between Kaffrine and Koumpentoum. The management of these
plantations is based on the first results of ongoing rainfed tree planta-
tions in similar regions in Senegal and West Africa:
(a) a plantation life of 16 years after which trees would be eut
and the land cleared for replanting;
(b) cutting in the sixth, eleventh and sixteenth years.
on this basis, one average hectare of plantation would be expected to
produce, conservatively, 6 m3/ha/year, of which about 80% would be fuel-
wood and 20% building poles:
Fuelwood      Building Poles       Total
in m3/ha -
Year  6        29                7              36
Year ll        24                6              30
Year 16        24               6               30
77              19              96
5.02      Rural Rainfed Tree Plantations.  Given the lack of sufficient
data, especially regarding villagers' motivation to participate in rural
tree plantations, it is preferable to be conservative about production at
this stage. With correct maintenance it is judged that rural tree plan-
tations would yield at least 4 m3/ha/year.
Fuelwood      Building Poles       Total
--- in m3/ha -
Year  6        19               5               24
Year ll        16               4               20
Year 16        16               4               20
51              13              64
5.03      Natural Forest Management.   Given the experimental nature of the
natural forest management component (10,000 ha) in the Koumpentoum forest
reserve, it is difficult to postulate high yield estimates at this stage.
However, if managed correctly, the forest could yield 1-2 m3/ha/year over
30 years. This yield assumption has been maintained with production of 10%
timber, 10% building pole and 80% fuelwood (including production from the
first intermediate and regeneration cuttings).
5.04      Fuelwood, Building Poles and Timber.  Production from the planta-
tions would start in PY6. At full project development in PY9 annual wood
production would be 45,800 m3 (excluding 6,000 m3 of wood to be produced
under the FAC/CCCE pilot project being maintained under this Project-Annex
1, Table IX). In both tree plantations and natural forests about 80% of
incremental wood produced through the Project would be used as firewood; in
tree plantations, the remaining 20% would be building poles, but in natural
forests the balance would be both timber and building poles, 10% of each.



-32 -
?It _s £mp:tad that incremental fuet;ood production from the natural forests
n:.; th~ e.  a.eLaged plantations woltld be sold mainly in Dakar.  Fuelwood
firi i      rjy and rural plantations an.d bu4 d.ng poles would be used manliy
i.  7:7d ';- rural areas in the n: c xoc-: o,P-
Y' i    ? Y Eia rko0s -   Fuelwood and 'uDilsing -pS3es produced by the Project
Oe absorbed by the domestic market.  The demand for fuel-
wc   î_u', -h -akar area is already high 'about 07 million m3/year) and
'iven the shortage of fuelwood from natural forest sources,
dfi culties are foresee. for i3rolect output; this would be
le-4 a 4l o:-- current Dakar demand.  Building poles are already being
-'m .o f.meighboring Guinea Bissau, Thus the poles to be produced by
the PrYec-t shculd find a ready market given the shorter distances and
ocJns-Ža.*veL lowe'r transport costs from the project site to the consumption
cen`el.sc -!i'`vut 10% of production from the natural forests would be in the
fo-rm o- timober- Imiports, mainly from Ivory Coast, now supply about 90% of
tir,c.-er 'e in Senegal. Timber products from Senegal's forests are
cf  .gh suali.tr and timber from the Project should be easily marketed to
Goca1 cavJ'il1s and artisans.
Prîces.  The Forestry Department sells permits to loggers for
stano:ng sS70Dd for firewood and charcoal at CFAF 120 per stere of about 400
kg from n.atural forests; this is equivalent to CFAF 0.3 per kg (CFAF 192/
mJ or so;J!&).  This compares with a price fixed for wood from offi-
cial .l an.tons cf CFAF 2,000 per stere of 450 kg, equivalent to CFAF
u  xCFAF 3,200/m3 or $15.25/m3).  Permits are also given for
bu'1c3' ig poles at between CFAF 100 and CFAF 200 per pole implying a stumpage
per    o; between CFAF 2,400-4,800 ($1l.40-$22.80) for the building
rofes-f At t ohe retail level in Dakar firewood sells at an average price of
CFAF 90/kg and charcoal for CFAF 40/kg or more though the official charcoal
pr-ice îk- CF'é-F 20/kg. Building poles are so0d maInly in the regional centers
hlke D-ousKl and Kaolack and have an average wholesale price of about CFAF
4/ e here has been no change in the official charcoal price since
Jnae '975.  é       the other hand, firewood retail price, which has not been
c Cilro o  e .-creased from an average of CFAF 10/kg in 1978 to CFAF 20/kg in
1932, resi,-'dîirg to the increasing scarcity of wood in Dakar.
5G07      Despite the real increases in fuelwood retail prices over the
past f eTu c,-ears, retail prices have rot reflected the value of wood to the
e_oncl.-7 or the increasing deforestation ln the ceountry since permit costs have
eriained th:e soae, being simply a nominal fee imposed by Government on loggers.
Mh::s t'he i:icreases in retail prices have simply reflected increases in labor
ae- tran,sportation costs and profits of loggers and retailers, with most of
f   The -roff cial average price represented by underweighing of a kilo
of charcoal by retailers increased from an average of CFAF 24/kg in
1977 :c between CFAF 35-40/kg in 1980,



the increases going as profits. The first encouraging sign 'that Government
has recognized the need to increase permit prices was in 1978 when the permit
for wood from official plantations was put at CFAF 3,200hn3, dbout 16 thnes
the rate for wood from natural forests. Government is now fully aware that
wood from natural forests can no longer be considered a "'free good" and that
the low permit price charged for fuelwood from these foresrs has led to unduly
rapid exploitation of fuelwood resources lThe Forestry Depar,:ment has been
charged with studying the ways to increase the permit price to bring it in
line with prices charged for plantation wood; the Planning, Monitoring and
Economic Studies Unit of the Project would assist the Department in this
important task.
5.08      Given the importance of encouraging conservation of available
fuelwood resources, and of involving the rural population in the reaffores-
tation effort, adequate measures would need to be taken to ensure that,
through reasonable price policies, fueLwood is used economically and incen-
tives are also given to individual farmers and commuanties to establish
plantations. Thus official permit and retail prices would need to be
monitored carefully during implementation. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations, that Government would review, in consultation with IDA and not
later than December 1982, its stumpage pricing policy with a view to in-
creasing stumpage prices to reflect tie value of wood products to the
economy and to encourage wood conservation. Assurances were also obtained
that Government would harmonize the stumpage prices of fuelwood from all
sources by bringing the permit price of wood from natural forests ta about
30% of that from plantations by 1986 and to about 80% by 1990.
5.09      The average annual fuelwood output from the Project, estimated at
about 22,500 m3, would not be enough to meet annuai increases in consump-
tion due to population growth; yet the project's overall impact on future
forestry activities and wood supply could be significant (para 6.02). In
the medium term, real prices of fuelwood would keep increasing. The building
poles sell for between CFAF 200 to CFAF 600 at the wholesale level depending
on quality. Owing to the increasing shortages oi these products, they are
also expected to increase in price in the medium term.
C. Income and Financial Results
5.10      Income.  Over the five-year implementation period, the Project
would distribute a total of some CFAF 818 million (US$3.9 million) in
salaries to nationals involved in the execution af the Project. In addition
some CFAF 219 million (US$1.0 million) would be generated as profits for
domestic enterprises and about CFAF 73 million in indirect taxes. Overall,
the value added to the economy would be about CFAF 1,141 million (US$5.4
million) over the five years excluding expatriate salaries .!' After the
five-year implementation period, the Project wouid continue to generate
1/   See detailed tables in Project Fîles.



salaries to wîK.:;- ens-g,s.  i,~il{kIG> 5sll:L                                      r s,
wood wholesalers and rerŽi  ,-~s        ge3. ,1e s ' «. . i ' Žs     t`i3 1'ft f3 :SlI.
added through thre mra:ket4 r.                 J.ny .            .c5v,  v'7'J  :::'
from  the natural rests oan  vse: :tl  swass:    -:4  f'-fi J 4ve
incaome to  ~roo   and thus w'cjU s.`s CII s:                                      c-
casts.
5. ol'     Rit al e, 3t'LSRt   trEe   "3.' -'c" îu' ::3`-,,  s; ee   p  ,,-  f -n      11-        n,` _
lot of 5 heutaries           5l                '-, i  r w'nf-r1  ' -  '-3y -1
CFAF 240 C00 (US1 A4,3'         ea:       ' t  6  Ls                J'
total annual income tor a rypica-L r                                 js' Ji`Xe p l  o4  5_-,eoo3  $150
per person).  At t:he rural cemmuo:: 't-I e             as
community the Incorae accruing to sua     c                        sa'es rafter deiuc-
tion of repayments  due to the Forestry   CpaUm3nt -i-ouw   c CFrFl 3 3 on
(US$6,1490) per year from PY60  This represents 12% of   Saverage rural Caminu-
nity budget Oa  CFAF Il million (CS$5 2000) per ye.r:
5.12       Government Casb llaw,  A-er t7-l oirst A                  ovi aars tcf p-r ojec:
implementation, reScurrent cGsts requiired to m`ainain ù.e Drolect woult.
amount to about CFAF 67 mfuion.yaa  for t`f'e next 'L5 ycars, îinclt:hi ng ruïIlning
of the research anid training facizlities estab1is!-îed Lov the project an-e
placement of some equipmeut arnd ieXihc1se       ½       a These   »s debt sfc:  for
both IDA and CCCE credits should sbe eQo,C-.ered ,ct    reene   -
wood permit sales and indirect            gears ïanerated          ï-rrouasa rketi n  a-g .
project's output.  The eutting tax. c.r  ia oc1'.erted b` te Forest
Department differs: between wood f roan oa.''a'  .- aa              it fromt 1te--r
tions (para 5.06).  For purposes of   .lc-ulatirg the  c          floa, these
taxes have beea used as a base and _t i  estimared that tloe permit prir.e for
natural forest wo,d would gradually -icreas=s  to  b.   80% of tlî%ose fron
plantations, and that permit pri:es for wood from plantas.ir.s L         ould ic'ese
at about 10% per annum to take accousnt of inflatioa in the next five years.
These financial implications af the praject for Government are detai.led in
Annex 1 Table XI.  On the basis of the above assumptians,  the cumulative
cash-flow deficit should be ful'ly eliminated by 2Y8V8   The negative cash-f low
of the first five years represents the Goverr=men,''s cnt:ibu:ian to pro-ect
financing (para 3.17Y.
VI.  BENE'F I?S MM- JU3STI FICATI'-OiN
A;.   Beneficb
Direct Benefits
6.01       The direct be-sef-.rs f~-om tae  ,-ro -eeso -  b..               Ff YQti'' 
the production from the rural aîI7 esote-mnaast 7aan-           -s  uuli f        î'
fuel and building poLes for bot£, arban as-d -urai h.hsLs.    mproarseris
in productivity OI natural fores-cs rS   s_l40 oouife  1-::reased fuelwno:ù
building poles, minor forest profus.   sao ts'soe  f-o: foo-soolos  arts'is
and sawmills as well as some foJdher for 11vess-L`s_  Phe--k     s      itol: f.; xT;



- 35 -
generate employment and income in the rural areas, both for those involved
directly in planting and plantation management and for those involved in
harvesting and marketing of the products from the project.  Over the five year
implementation period the project is expected to generate about 2,400 man-
years of direct employment for unskilled labor and 350 man-years for skilled
and semi skilled labor. A large part of the employment generated would be
unskilled jobs and would benefit the poorer members of the project region.
The rural forestry component should provide additional income for farmers and
rural communities and the income accruing to the latter can be invested in
community improvement projects (see para 5.11). Second, the Project would
help maintain environmental stability by reducing the pressure on natural
forest resources, enhancing inter alia their potential for commercial
timber and fuelwood production, grazing and minor forest products. The
rural forestry component should help reduce wind and soil erosion by
providing trees as windbreaks.  The quantifiable benefits from the Project
would be fuelwood, building poles and additional timber that can be produced
under the Project (see para 5.04).
Indirect Benefits
6.02      The Project would set the stage for an expanded reafforestation
and forestry management program in the next f ive years. A major benefit of
the Project would be to test new forestry production and management techni-
ques through the applied research component and improve the capacity of the
Forestry Department to implement such techniques. The technical staff to be
trained under the Project would be able to handle future large scale reaf-
forestation projects and more importantly, would acquire experience in
dealing with rural forestry schemes. The studies would enhance knowledge
about the responsiveness of rural populations to large scale afforestation
schemes and would propose means to rationalize the pricing structure for
fuelwood and other energy. The general strengthening of the Forestry
Department would ensure that it could plan, implement, operate and monitor
future forestry activities more effectively. This is essential to encourage
donors to invest more in the forestry subsector of the country and would
therefore have a catalytic effect for future forestry efforts.
B. Economic Analysis and Rates of Return
6.03      Economic rates of return have been calculated for the directly
productive components (64% of project costs), with economic benefits counted
as fuelwood, poles and timber. No attempt has been made to quantity other
benefits, for instance, the beneficial effects on soil quality.
6.04      The economic stumpage prices for timber and building poles were
derived from border prices and the Bank-s projections for timber prices
through 1985. The valuation of fuelwood is more difficult because there
are at present no imports into Senegal, nor is there any regular inter-
national market in fuelwood. Two approaches have been adopted: (a) the



base case (low valuation) in k    proe   output is valued at the domes-
tic prices; based on the     er-ed price trend 1977-1980 (para 5.06), it
is assumed that the fuelwood prt.iîe, both with and without the project,
would continue to increase in r       terrs by 2% per year for the next 10
years; and (b) the ceil.ing case  (h.gh vanuation) in which project output
is valued at a border price der:Lved from production costs in TLiberia
(para 1.23).
6.05      The other main essu.tions used in the economic analysis are:
(a) a shadow foreign exchange rate of 1.'5, being the estimated rate of
overvaluation of the currency; ('b> a-n osportunity cost of unskilled labor
of CFAF 350 (US$1.70) per manday, heing the observed rate for hired labor
in the project area; and (1c) a prolect liçe of 20 years for plantations,
being their estimated economic life in Senegal, and 30 years (a proxy for
continuing exploitation) for natural forest management. Details on these
assumptions are in Annex 2.  Based o. these assumptions, the economio rates
of return for the three directly-productive project components, for the two
cases for valuation of fuelwood, are as follows.
Base Case Ceiling Case % of project costs
State-managed tree plantations        12.0            13.4              26
Rural tree plantations                 12.7           14.6              17
Natural forest management              15.4           20.1              21
Total                                  12.8           15.5              64
C, Risks a,.d Sensitivity Analysis
6.06      Since the establîshment of tree pLantations and management of
natural forests on a large scale are relatîvely new undertakings in Senegal,
the proposed Projiect would necessarily involve some risks. The most risky
component is the rural tree plantations, since their establishment and, to a
lesser extent, maintenance would entail competition with the demands of
other farming activities for family labor. As already mentioned, however
(para 2.04), farmers and rural communities are increasingly aware of the
benefits of reafforestation and, with the support of a strengthened Forestry
Department, this risk can be considerably reduced. Nor is this component
particularly sensitive; for the base case valuation of fuelwood, the
switching value a: a 10% discount rate is 38% in reduced benefits or 62% in
increased costs (Annex 2, Table 8)  The rislk is, moreover, one of possible
inability to get enough of the rural population interested in starting the
plantations rather than one of subsequent higher costs or lower benefits.
Furthermore, the estimated rates of return do not fully capture the impor-
tance of the Project to Senegal's forestry sector since they exclude
benefits from (i) the reduced pressure onl existing natural forests (which
would be greater -o the extent to which demand is less than perfectly
elastic and project output would then substitute for current production
rather than add te it), (ii) the resulits of trials and experiments to be



- 37 -
conducted, and (iii) the increased scope for investment in the sector
afforded by a strengthened and more experienced Forestry Department.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED A_D RECOM1ENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
on the following principal points:
(a)  The Project Operations Unit, through the Forestry Depart-
ment, would enter into agreements with rural communities,
before providing them with machinery and other services, to
recover part of the operating costs of the rural community
plantations by charging 20% of their wood sales (para
3.05);
(b)  seedlings would be sold at cost to rural communities and
farmers and all revenues generated from the sales of seed-
lings and forestry products in the project area would be
refunded to the project (para 3.17);
(c) Government would appropriate the salaries of support staff
and the part of operating costs to be paid by Senegal in
the "Budget d'Equipement" (para 3.17);
(d) the project's Government account would be replenished at
least quarterly on the basis of supporting documentation
for expenditures incurred and project cash forecasts (para
3. 19);
(e) all project accounts would be audited by independent audi-
tors acceptable to IDA and audited financial statements and
reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of each financial year (para 3.24);
(f)  annual work programs and budgets for project expenditures
would be submitted by the Operations Unit to the Forestry
Department Director for approval, who in turn would forward
it to IDA before the beginning of each fiscal year for
its agreement (para 4.04);
(g) Government would review, in consultation with IDA and by
December 1982, its stumpage pricing policy with a view to
increasing stumpage prices to reflect the value of wood
products to the economy (para 5.08);
(h) Government would harmonize prices of fuelwood from all
sources and increase the permit value of wood from natural
forests to about 30% of that from plantations by 1986 and
to about 80% by 1990 (para 5.08);



- 38 -
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  meeting all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the CCCE credit, and agreement with FAC and UNDP/FAO for
appointment oi. the first FAC and UNDP/FAO experts (para
3.17).
(b)  opening of the project accounts, and payment by Government of
an initial deposit representing its estimated quarterly
contribution to project costs (para 3.19);
(c)  establishment of a project accounting system acceptable
to IDA (para 3.23);
(d)  the establishment of the Project Operations Unit within the
Forestry Department and the appointment of key project staff
- Operations Manager, Specialist for Tree Plantation and
Natural Forest Management, Finance and Administration Specia-
list, and the Forestry Technical Advisor (para 4.05).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$9.3 million.



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT- PROJET FORESTIER
Total Coots per Year and Per C-oponent - CoÛts totaux par année et par volet
in millions CFAP I en million FCFA
Total                 Contingencies/Impréws                       Total                       %
PPF        PY/AF      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      Before Contingencies        Physical              Price           After Contingencieo          Foreign Enchange
MPP          O          1          2          3          4           Avant Imprévus           Physiques        Ha.uose des Prix        Aprbs Impr,év            Devises Etrangbres
1.     State Managed Tree Plantations /
Plantations foreotibros en régie 3/    -             141.9      144.3      126.6      127.2       88.4                628.4                35.0                260.7                    924,1                      49
Il.    Rural Tree Plantations /
Plantations fore.tibres rurales            -          89.0       94.4       67.1       79.0       85.2                414.7                22.9                179.2                    616.8                      50
Ili.   Natural Forest Management /
Aménagement de la forêt naturelle          -          90.7      111.3      102.8       94.0      108.7                §27.5                21.3                230.3                    759.1                      59
IV.    Applied Research Unit/
Cellule de recherche d'accompagne-         -          30.5       58.4       37.2       40.2       35.8                202.1                 6.6                 80.5                    289.2                      67
ment
V.     Training Center/
Centre de formoation                       -          68.1      105.2       65.0       69.8       64.3                372.4                23.5                161.9                    557.8                      42
VI.    Planning, Monitoring sud Econonic
Studies Unit /
Cellule de planification de suivi          -          44.6       41.4       37.0       40.8       36.o                199.8                 6.3                  79.0                   285.1                      67
et des études économiques
VII.   Studies and Audits /
Etudes et Audits                           8.1        12.3       21.5       34.6       26.9        7.1                110.5                  2.3                 38.9                    151.7                     i5
Total Before Contingencies /
Avant imprévs                     8.1       477.1      576.5      470.3      477.9      425.5                     4               11709 1,30.5                               5 585 8                       50
Physical Contingencies /
T%prévus physiques                                -          31.4       34.2        18.7       18.3       15.3                117.9                 -                   -                                                  52
Price Contingencies /
Imprévus pour hausse des prix                     0.6        94.2      180.3       197.1      261.3      297.0              1,050.5                 -                   -                        -                         44
Total After Contingencies/              8.7       602.7      791.0       686.1      757.5      737.8              3.583,8
Après imprévus
5% Foreign Exchange
Devises étrangbres                   98          61         51         51          49         41                   50
I' Including raintenance and exploitation of FAC/CCCE financed pilot tree plantations (Table IV.1) / Y compris entretien et exploitationi des plantations forestibres pilotes financée. par le FAC et 1l  CCCE
(Tableau IV.1).
o   -   



SENEGAL
FORE'STRY PRJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
Totaxl Ceoses per Feue ood pet Category ot Sopoodi Cre Coûts totaux pranée et Fer c.utézsrie do dépensse
in millions CFAF / on nillio- F(FA
Tot al            __Ceo]t:i reIgees jlrllprévs  _Cotas                                        ,S
PPF        PY/AP      PY/AP      pY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      ReoCoe Co-tiugeoeies        plhysiala              Frie           Attor Contiogoocies          Foreigu lochange
MPP          0          1          p          3          4           Avaot imprévs            Physiq-es        1ausso  d-s Pri         Après ireptévos          Devise 5tranggre
1.      Iofrastructure/Infrastructure               -          93.5      140.9       15.0        -          -                  249.2                24.9                 72.9                    347.0                       45
2.      Mlaohisery and Vehicles /
Engins et véhicules                        -         119.1       45.8       19.1       31.3       18.3                233.6                23.4                  72.2                   329.2                       86
3   .   Field Fosestry Worka / Traveux
fxrestiers de terrais 1
- Operating Clsts and Inputs
Frais fonctionnexent et Appro-        _          30.2       53.3       73.7        71.9       54.7                285.8                28.4                131                      445.2                       67
visionnements
-     .eas.nal Labor
Msai  d'oevre saisonnière              -          17.7       51.1       78.6       96.7      111.9               'i6.0                  -                  202.3                    558.3
- Fereanext StIff /
Fersonsel pensacent                   -            4.8       10.0       13,0       14.3       14.8                 56.9                 -                   30.4                     87.5                                      o
4.      Lecai  soperYis.ry and Support
Stoff SIlaries /
Salaires do perns        -ael loul        0.2         28.3       34.0       35.0       34.6       33.7                i65.8                  -                   80.3                   246,]
d'encadrement et d'appoi
5.      Expatriates axd Cnasultants
Salaries/
Salaires des expatriés ut des            7.5         112.5      141.0      156.0      147.5      112.5                678.0                  -                 240,1                    918.1                      100
eonsoltaots
6.      Other Operating Coss 
Astres fouis de foncti.ouneent            0.4         71.2      100.4       79.9       80.6       79.6                412.1                 41.2               201.3                    6'4.6                       24
Total efose Cootiogeosies /
Avaxt impréus                    8.1        477.1      s6.5    43%5          477.9      425.5                45_4                 117.9              1,050.b                 3.583.8                        50
1/     Including maintenasce and explaitation xf FAC/CCCE fiaa..ed pilot trou  plastatixos (Table IV.1). / T omxpris est-eties et expleitaties des plantations  furestieres pilotes filnasées par le FAC  st 1l
CCCE (Tableau IV.1).
P|     All operating anast ant directly related ta fisld forestry worak. / Toua les frais de fonctionnement se soncernant pas les travaux forestiers de torraix.
t5 t c



SENEEAL
l'OgESTRY PROJE0 T - PiOJET FORES'lTER
Voici Cnest e Cnretconin tni Coecyry f Epooldi tort-teSûts Totsue 250 0050el et _9sr .xtt,LXQ40 4i0 d
Os Mliin CFAF - En millions F000
(1)                        (2)                                               (3)                                      (4)                               (5)                    (6)
Lnirdotlucture  ni   "I""c'le i  Fe   oery W Trlse-lraeaoo FoT-scire       - le lorrai  i           Salaries - iclelrco                  Offst lperorieg Cooro              Total
(ici, ooeroue.e-e)   (tibmos eitelaciicuic)       lOpttci.ind lopoco       Scuonool Lotber      Permanent Staff          l.ocal scnervisorv       Iieperistee             (Autres (roes de             Bcfor  Cnoringeeeos
(Folicce. ol bppt..                                                         , (icisunnicra)  (Peaiuenio  a ,d Tippore SOeuf  cr0 Ceoseu turf o  Pourri emmene) 2/  A-ins  imprévus
(inccdroemet or        (Eoputeiêts et
uppoti peescontel       connol moto)
Otite  ueugagd Oree OluntitLino                                           02^,7   i7.1 ilb.4                                 124.8                 22.1                     75.0                   95.7                       59.0                        f2f.4
111 nruelons forcstières er rOUite~
I Raliel T-          oî na                            42.'                     t2.1                       f  90.:                                      17.1                     27.5                   79.8                       4 .r                        414.7
Plantaitinons foresterteasclur 1cm                                                                                                             ~
Il  Naturel Forait Mu-îgnen-e                         4'. .                     251                       C3.7                   162.5                 17.1                      27.5                  79.0                       47.5                          .50
omneagmnent do ln torde motort lie--
V   Foe-tY Applied Oeoaarel Unie                       20.8                     9.5                                                                      -                       26.0                 110.4                       3'.4                         202.1
Cellule do rechescîso d uicroopognanent-'
forestl9re
PoFetrtv TreioO    (:tettr,                     f7.3                      9,5                         _                                           _                       2'7.1                 110.4                      15P .3 
Cettre do fnnsatioc forestière
I Planning. Modetrne1  soi Econoic
S-odies UFie                                     f.0                     7.5                         -                       -                    -                       16.5                  120.9                      45.5                         199.8
ColIole de planification, de suie i-
ot det ttudes0réconlomqes
Il  Studies -d Amiets                                  6.4                      1.0                        --                      _                    -                         6.2                  01.9                       1.9.9                       115.0
Etodos os audIts                                                                                                                                                               ,                    lO1.                                                   O.
Total bfote contogeeci                           249,2                   20o.6                       2800.                   356.0                 56.9                    i65.8                  678.0                      412.1                      1.45!.4
amant imprfvus
i    In-ndinm  nmloteoocosd a     xpilotatiumn o  FAC'004E fitsocod pilit Leat ploometîono  (table IV. -) / Y tempels anererte- et  doplnttao                t dslamationsa EreatlOres Etnaeea par la P'A  et l  OCCE (Tabl     iV  1)t
2    All op.eating costs mer dieetly  telAtodeo flel  foresteyaweks / lace les frais de fonctionneent ne caocenet pas las tamis f_e.er  de  ftea-tA  e   a                                                                      t T -i   .   ,
_-un-z



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
State-managed  Rainfed Tree Plantations -Plantations forestières rurales  en          
Total Costs (including rlated proet            ent coat>-_Coats tota             compris quote part Direction du P et
in millions CFAF / en million FCFA
Total
PFF       PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP     Before Contingencies
MPP          0         1          2          3          4           Avant ipré-u
1.     Infrastructure                            -         23.0      28.2        7.5        -          -                 58.7                    1.   Infrastructure
2.     Machinery and Vehicles                    -         42.2       18.0       7.5        7.3        7.1               82.1                    2.   Engins et véhicules
3.-    Field Forestry Works j^/                                                                                                                  3.   Travaux forestiers de terrain
- Operating costs and inputs             -         20.7       29.1       40.4      43.3       16.9              150.4                          - Frais de fonctionnement et approvisionnements
- Seasonal labor                         -         12.4       23.3       28.9      33.4       26.8               124.8                         - Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
- Permanent staff                        -          1.9        4.0        5.2       5.7        5.9                22.7                         - Personnel permanent
4.     Local Supervisory and Support             -          7.0       7.0        7.0        7.0        7.0               35.0                    4.   Salaires du personnel local deencadrement et
Staff Salaries                                                                                                                                 d'appui
5.     Expatriates and Consultants               -         20.4      20.4       20.4       20.4       14.1                95:7                   5.   Salaires des expatriés et consultants
Salaries
6.     Other Operating Costs 2J                  -         14.3       14.3        9.7      10.1       10.6               59.0                    6.   Autres  frais de fonctionnement  /
Total Before Contingencies              -       141.9      144.3      126.6      127.2      88.4               628.4                           Total avant imprévus
1/     - Including maintenance and exploitation of FAC/CCCE financed pilot tree plantations
- Y compris entretien et exploitation des plantations forestières pilotes financées par le FAC et la CCCE
Operating Costs and inputs             -          1.7        5.0        3.5        0.5       7.7                18.4                         Frais de fonctionnement et approvisionnement
Seasonal labor                          -         1.7        3.7        0.5        0.1       0.1               77_                           Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
Permanent staff                         -        p.m.       p.m.       p.m.      p.m.       p.m.                p.m.                         Personnel permanent
Subtotal                                       3,4       8.7         4.0       0.6        7.8               24.5
jg/    - All operating costs not directly related to field forestry works.
- Tous les frais de fonctionnement ne concernant pas les travaux forestiers de terrain.
H    >



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
Rural Rainfed Tree Plantations - Plantations forestières rurales en sec
Total Costs (including related proiect management costs) - Coûts totaux (y compris quote part Direction du Projet)
in millions CFAF / en million-FCFA
Total
PPF        PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP       PY/AP      Before Contingencies
MPP          O           l          2          3          4           Avant imprévus
1.     Infrastructure                              -          15.0       27.3         -          -          -                  42-3                    1.   Infrastructure
2.     Machinery and Vehicles                      -          31.9       13.6        5.6         5.7        5 3                62.1                    2.   Engins et véhicules
3.     Field Forestry Works                        -                                                                                                   3.   Travauix forestiers de terrain
- Operating costs and inputs               -           3.8        8.6       13.8        19.1       24.4                69.7                          - Frais de fonctionnement et approvisionnements
- Seasonal labor                                       2.8        7.7       13.6        19.4       25.2                                              - Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
- Permanent staff                          -           1.4        3.0        3.9         4.4        4,4                17.1                          - Personnel permanent
4.      Local Supervisory and Suport                -           5.5        5.5        5.5         5.5        5'L                                        4.   Salaires du personnel local d'encadrement et
Staff Salaries                                                                                                                                       d'appui
5.     Expatriates and Consultants                 -          17.0       17.0       17.0        17.0       11.8                79.8                    5.   Salaires des expatriés et consultants
Salaries
6.     Other Operating Costs 1/                    -          11.6       11.7         7.7        7.9        8.6                47.5                    6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement /
Total Before Contingencies              -          89.0       94.4       67.1        79.0       85.2               414.7                             Total avant imprévus
L/     All operating costs not related to field forestry works. / Tous les frais de fonctionnement ne concernanit pas les travaux forestiers de terrain,



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
Natural Porest Management / Aménagement de la Forêt Naturelle
Total Costs (including related project management costs) - CoÛts totaux (y compris quote part Direction du Projet)
in millions CFAF | en million FCFA
Total
PFF        PY/AF      PY/AF      PY/AF      PY/AF      PY/AF       Before Contingencies
MPP          O          1          2           3          4          Avant Imprévus
1.     Infrastructure                              -         lb.1       24.7        7.5         -          -                  47I; 1.   Infrastructure
2.     Machinery and Vehicles                      -         31.9       13.6        5.6         5.7        5.3                62.1                    2.   Engins et véhicules
3.     Field Forestry Works                                                                                                                           3.   Travaux forestiers de terrain
- Operating costs and inputs               -          5.7       15.6       19.5         9.5       13.4                637                           - Frais de fonctionnement et approvisionnementâ
- Seasonal labor                           -          2.5       20.1       36.1        43.9       59.9               162.5                          - Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
- Permanent staff                          -          1.4        3.0        3.9        4.4         4.4                17.1                          - Personnel Permanent
4.     Local Supervisory and Support               -          5.5        5.5        5.5        5.5         5.5                27.5                    4.   Salaires du personnel local d'encadrement et
Staff Salaries                                                                                                                                      d'appui
5.     Expatriates and Consultants                 -         17-0       17.0       17.0        17.0       11.8                79.8                    5.   Salaires des expatriés et consultants
Salaries
6.      Other Operating Costs eJ                   -         11.6       11.8        7.7        8.0         8.4                47.5                    6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement ij
Total before contingencies               -         90N7      111.3      102.8        94.0      108.7                                                 Total avant imprévus                              H H
ecl
1./     - All operating costs not related to field forestry works.
- Tous les frais de fonctionnement ne concernant pas les travaux forestiers du terrain.



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
Applied Researoh Unit - Cellule de recherohe d'aoaompanement
Total Costs (including related pro ject management costs) - CoÛts totaux (y compris qucte part Direction du Proiet)
tu millions CFAF / en million FCFA
Total
PFF        PY/AF      PY/AF      PY/AF      PY/AF      PY/AF          Before Contingencies
MPP          O          1          2           3          4             Avant Imprévus
1.     Infrastructure                              -          3.0       17.8         -          -          -                  20.8                    1.   Infrastructure
2.     Machinery and Vehicles                      -          4.4        0.1        0.5        4.0         0.5                 9.5                    2.   Engins et véhicules
5.     Field Forestry Works                                                                                                                           3.   Travaux forestiers de terrain
- Operating costs and inputs               -          -           -          -          -          -                                                - Frais de Fonctioniement et approvisionnementa
- Seasonal labor                           -          _           _          _          _          _                                                - Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
--Permanent staff                          -- -                              -          -          -                                                - Personnel Permanent
4.     Local Supervisory and Support               -          3.7        5,7        5.7        5.7         5.7                26.o                    4.   Salaires du personnel local d'encadrement et
Staff Salaries                                                                                                                                       d'appui
5.     Expatriates and Consultants                 -         13.8       26.4       26,4       26.4        23.4               160.4                     5.   Salaires des expatriés et consultants
Salaries
6.     Other Operating Costs  1/                   -          6,1       10.4        6.6        6.1         6.2               3L-A                      6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement l'
Total before contiogencies                    -  50.5        58.4          _        40.2                          202.1                              Total avant imprévus
J-/    - All operating costs not related to field forestry works.
- Tous les frais de fonctionnement ne concernant pas les travaux forestiers de terrain.
C te
-c



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
TRAINING CENrER - CENTRE DE FOeMATION
Total  yosts (including related project management costs) - Coûts totaux (y compris quote part Direction du Projet)
in millions CFAF / en million FCFA
Total
PPF       PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      Before Contingencies
MPP          0          1          2          3          4           Avant imprévus
1.     Infrastructure                             -         31.2       36.1                   -                            6  _                     1.   Infrastruoture
2.     Machinery and vehicles                     -          4.6        0.1        -          4.6        -9.                                        2.   Engins et véhicules
3.     Field forestry works                                                                                                                         3.   Travaux forestiers de terrain
- Operating costs and inputs              -          -          -          -          -                              -                            - Frais de fonctionnement et approvisionnements
- Seasonal tabor                          -          -          -          -          -          -                   -                            - Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
- Permanent staff                         -          -          -          -          -          -                   -                            - Personnel Permanent
4.     Local Supervisory and support              -          3.1        6.0        6.0        6.0       6.0                 27.1                    4.   Salaires du personnel local d'encadrement et
Staff Salaries                                                                                                                                    d'appui
5.     Expatriates and Consultants                -         13.8       24.4       26.4       24.4       23.4               110.4                    5.   Salaires des expatriés et  aonsultants
6.      Other Operating Costs i/                  -         15.4       38.6       34.6       34.8       34.9              158.3                     6.   Autres frais de fonietionnement
Total before contingencies             -         68.1      105.2       65.0       69.8       64.3                2.4                              Total avant imprévus
I/     - All operating costs not directly related to field forestry works. / Tous les frais de fonctionnement ne concernant pas les travaux forestiers de ter-rain.
-> r te



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
Plannn Mnitoringand Eeonomie Studies Unit - Cellule de Planification, de Suivi et des Etudes cyo 9ue
Total Costs (including related project management costs) - Coûta totaux (y compris  pote part Direction du Pro-et)
in millions CFAF / en million FCFA
Total
PPF       PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AF      PY/AP      PY/AP      Before Contingenctes
MPP          0          1          2          3          4         Avant Imprévus
1.     Infrastructure                             -          3.0        3.4        _          -          _                  6.4                     1.   Infrastructure
2.     Machinery and vehicles                     -          3.7        0.1        -          3.7                           7 .                     2.   Engins et véhicules
3.     Field Forestry Works                                                                                                                         3.   Travaux forestiers de terrain
- Operating costs and inputs              -          -          -          -          -                              -                            - Frais de fonctionnement et approvisionnements
- Seasonial labor                         _          _                                                                                            - Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
- Permanent staff                                    -          -          -          -                              -                           - Personnel permanent
4.     Local Supervisory and Support                                                                                                                4.   Salaires du personnel local d'encadrement et
Staff Salaries                         -          3.3        3.3        3.3        3-3        3.3                16.5                             d'appui
5.     Expatriates and Consultants                -         24.4       26.4       24.4       24.4       23-3              120.9                     5.   Salaires des expatriés et consultants
6.     Ot>er Operating Co8ts -/                   -         10.2       10.2        9.3        9.4        9.4               48.5                     6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement i/
Total before Contingencies             -         44.6       41.4      537.        40.8       16 .0              199.8                             Total avant imprévus
I/     - All operating costs not directly related to field forestry works. / Tous les frais de fonctionnement ne concernant pas les travaux forestiers de terrain.
F >!
frb 
z a 



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
Studies and Audits - Etudes et Audits
Total Costa (including related proiect management costs) - Coûts totaux (y compris quote part Direction du Pro_jet)
in millions CFAF - en million FCFA
Total
PPF        PY/AP      PY/AP       PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP        Before Contingencies
MPP          O           1          2           5          4           Avant imprévus
1i      Infrastructure                              -          3.0        3.4         _          _           _                   6.4                     1.   InfrAstruoture
2.     Machinery and Vehicles                       -          0,b         0.1        -          0.4         -                   1 0                     2.   Engins et véhicules
3.      Field Forestry works                                                                                                                             5.   Travaux forestiers de terrain
- Operating costs and Inputs                -          -           -          -           -                              -                             - Frais de fornctionnement et approvisionnemente
- Seasonal labor                            -          -           _          _          _           _                                                 - Main d'oeuvre saisonnière
- Permanent staff                           -          -           -          -           -                              -                             - Personnel permanent
4.     Local Supervi.sory and Support               0.1        0.7         1.1       2.0         1.6         0.7                 6.2                     4.   Salaires du personnel local d'encadrement et
Staff Salaries                                                                                                                                         d'appui
5.     Expatriates and Consultants                  7'5        5.9        13.4       28.4       20.9         4.9                aLQ.                     5.   Salaires des expatriés et consultants
Salaries
6.     Other Operating Costs 1/                     0,5        2.2         35.        4.2        4.0         1.5                15.9                     6.   Autres frais de fonctionnement /
Total before contingencies              8.1        12.3       21.5        54.6       26.9        Li                 110.5                              Total avant imprévus
- All operating costs not related to field forestry -works. / ToUs les frais de fonctionnemnent ne concernant pas les travaux forestiers de terrain.
C E.



- 49 
ANNEX I
Table V
SENEGAL
Forestry Project / Projet Forestier
Yearly Distribution of Project Costs According to the Financing Sources
Repartition Annuelle des Depenses du Projet Suivant les Sources de Financement
(in million CFAF)
PY/AP   PY/AP   PY/AP   PY/AP   PY/AP   PY/AP   Total
00      0        1        2        3        4
IDA                     8.3    338.8   432.1   356.9   402.4   409.1   1947.6
CCCE                     -      137.2   168.8   119.3   139.1   141.6    706.0
FAC                      -       61.4    79.6    85.1    91.3    65.1    382.5
FAO                      -       12.3    35.9    48.6    41.3    32.6    170.7
Government
Civil Servants         -       19.5    25.1    27,2    29.9    37.9    134.6
Others                0.4      33.5    49.5    49.0    53.5    56.5    242.4
8.7    602.7   791.0   686,l   757.5   737.8   3583.8



ANNEX 1
- SO -                                          Table VI
Tableau
SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
Staff Requirements - Besoins en personnel
PPF        PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP      PY/AP
MPP          0          l          2          3          4        Total
1.   Senegalese Forestry Staff
Personnel forestier Sénégalais
(man-year / homme-année)
Level/Niveau A                             -           1.5        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        9.5
B1                          -           1.5        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        9.5
B2                          -           2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0         2.0      10.0
C                           -           7.0        8.0        8.0        8.0        8.0       39.0
12.0       14.0       14.0       14.0       14.0       68.0 man-year
homme-année
2.   Senegalese  economist /
Economiste sénégalais
(man-year / homme année)
Level / Niveau A2                                     1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        5.0
Senegalese Assistant Accountant
Assistant Comptable Sénégalais
(man-year / homme-année)
Level I Niveau B2                         -           1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        5.0
2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0      lO.Onman-year
homme-année
3.   Expatriate Staff /
Personnel expatrié
(man-month / homme-mois)
Economist / Economiste                     -          1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        5.0
Training Sp. / Sp. Formation              -           0.5        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        4.5
Forester / Forestier                       -          1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0         -         4.0
Researcher / Chercheur                     -          0.5        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        4.5
Adn. & Finanpe                             -          1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        5.0
Mechanic / Mécanicien                      -          1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        5.0
5.0        6.0        6.0        6.0        5.0        28.0man-wonth
homme-mois
4.   Consultants
(man-4month  I homme-mois)
Rural Forestry Study /
Etude Forestière Rurale                    -           -         3.0        6.0        3.0         -        12.0
Economic Study I Etude Economique          -           -          -         3.0         -          -         3.0
Follow up Study / Etude P'oursuite         -           -          -          -         -30         -         3.0
Soil Survey / Etude Pedo:Logique         2.0           -          -          -          -          -         2.0
Accountinég System Implementation I
Mise en Place Système Comaptable          1.0          -          -          -          -          -         1.0
Audit                                      -          1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0        5.0
Forestry Operations Support /
Support Opérations Forestieres            -           2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0       10.0
3.0         3.0        6.0       12.0        9.0        3.0       36.0man-month
hormma-ois



- 51 -                                          ANNEX 1
Table VII
Tableau
SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
Machinery and Vehicles Requirements - Besoins en Véhicules et en Engins
PPF     PY/AP      PF/AP      PY/AP     PY/AP        PY/AP      Total
MPP        O         1          2          3            4
1.   200 HP/CV equipped crawler/
Chenillard équipé                 -         1          -         -          -            -          1 (+ 1 FAC/CCCE)
FI /AFO
2.   140 HP/CV equipped crawler/
Chenillard équipé                 -         -         1          -          -            _          1 (+ 1 FAC/CCCE)
PY/APO
3.   85 HP/CV equipped FWD tractor/
Tracteur TT equipé                -         2          2         3          1            _          8 (+ 1 FAC/CCCE)
PI/AFO
4.   120 HP/CV Motorgrader/
Niveleuse                         -         1          -         -          -            1          2
5.   Tractor loader equipment /
Equipement chargeur pour          -         1          1         -          -            -          2
tracteur
6.   Tractor and Flat Bed /
Tracteur et Porte Char            -        p.m.      p.m.       p.m.       p.m.         p.m.       p.m.
7.   8t Dumper truck /
Camion benne                      -         1          -                    -            1          2
8.   Trailed Compactor /
Compacteur Tracté                 -         1         -          -          -            -          1
9.   5t FWD Truck /
Camion TT                      -        2          -          -          -            2         4
10.  FWD Pick Up /
Camionnette TT                    -         -         i          -          -            -          1
11. Large Station Wagon /
Grand Break                       -         2          -         -          2            -          4
12. Small Station Wagon/
Petit Break                       -         5         -          -          5            -         10
13.  Pick Up / Camionnette             -         6          -          -         6            -         12
14.  Motorcycle / Motocyclette         -         9          -          -         9            -         18



SENEGAL
PORET1  PIR ROIECT - PROJET FORESTIER
S nte-Rnnoaged Trote P lascatioos - Plantations Forestières os Rogitl
Direct ',0sLS osé Reaonoc Lahot Roqoitrenoexst pet hlectare -_ Lfto directs et hesotoo s tnoie-f 00000r soisonsuière pet hectare
Bcfeo-  mectiznein         Aft- Anortie.tioo                               Seaoon I Lober Req-itennn
AvonsL Anncrîn9scenreo     Aptes ArncorLisselente                          Recoins on nais-  ereilrco
(Iciclnédinc iRetoters nlef Relpoer)                                          isnèr
(TY compris rondectoenr  d'e,sgin  etoides)                                   (Ras-doy I fcnso-j.nne)
- -------  -CFAt i Ft`(tA-------
Sise Sofocctice                                                        2 ,100                   2, 100                                               2.00                                    Choie do  isit
fonde, Tracke oné F i renisecoke
Coneserelcine                                                      1,300)                   4,3011                                               0.20                                    feneert~crotense, pistts et portion
iCloariog                                                             21,300                   26,500                                                90f0                                     eettriooomee
(Pore  fcera ef inn-ftoreé  nnst hy prisasLe log,gers)                   Deofrichles.lnc on partie en score par
ocpîoîitaotn privet)f
Explef rosios and leaeoc5pai ni L4e                                     p.n1.                    p.m.                                                p.m.                                    tspîoîîtîeso eL Oroospnrc f s11oin
tsi seing Wood                                                           (Pit itoo  Soffotif                                              fioploitoors princin)                          eit
tonrd Preporotionl                                                    28,000                   40,400                                                2.00                                     Préparation do serrais
Seedilinfn Onocli                                                     21,500                   22,200                                               12.01)                                   Focesnicorc des pioncet
PlOOtiOf                                                              16,0103                  16,000                                               11. 13                                   Plosteoios
Cloinltononce Ycar i                                                  10,9000                  22,700i                                              10.10                                    Etoreesipo Roser I
Ro intenonce Tiro  2                                                  17,70)                   20,600                                                0.10                                    fEererion Asnoo 2                                                       i
Rohinrennolco Toar 3                                                  10,400                   l3,700                                                1.10                                    ienrocies 000cr  3                                                      ,
Tocol irver ce Pîrsi Focet Trn(orr Teart       CiAF i FCFA           141,100                  160,0)0                   000-ciao /                  53.60                                    Toto) pont ion  qnoitre prenihtons années do pen jos                    r-
A,-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
USS)                  600                      200                                                  20Hneo- font
Aeool RoînLeteece Frot  T'eor 4 to             iFOP  /ie               1(FA,170       (         1,400          .         .....Mon- do" I             ... 0.10  0oror0ien henur  fi nn                                           .' fe,eideo r r
Fioni inttisf                                iUS$                    5.()0                    7.()0                  9ese- font



SENr.GAL
FOREiT1Y i'tOJElcS'- PROiE) r9ilSlfItEH
Rtural Ce  ceuylSreu Pio'csnicnu       flnntut0nc  foresti_rer ru;rales
Diret   -uLusud S.alsied  ds-se-a) Lae-  r4niremenen 0e5  ectare -                sseces et br.  -c t j,a-l 'un'cere sticonnlère salariée e r Se'<are
Belote<  AmorL«ato               Af-etÂr       naclen Sraricd Scannes1 Lober RAquirenentu
Suwent Amnortissemenent          Âpres Amureirsement                   Besoins. nen iain-d'oeuivre seisonnière ea)arcoe
¢Inciuding Opeeneere a-M' inipees)
(Y enepeus con-ducters d'nFgins et aides) -                                    Man-dan / Ho.e jcuc)
- -_------ _.-- ----- cFAr /  CLrA - -- -- -.--...----
irrasc:ontutol :trl, LadOucereure pare te,,, dOte) nnnuett,
lrep--ati-L                                                    22,4')                          31,000                                              2.0I                                                              du snr'ac-
tediliege dapp);                                                 21,500                          22,203                                             12,11                                                Fu-juitere dess plinnt
rlanting actAd Onl -enc   Suce 1                                 32,60d                          34,500                                             21.05                                                Piansoecetnentretien
pijetîug a-i  -auntenaune Star 2                                 13,900)                         tS,ù0                                               8.d                                                 Piantnts,n et  utreoi An        t .4- 2
Ptaoeinp and naieteenanet Stan 3 Planta tien et enter-ies Âttneée 1
andeheres)cer                                                   p.-.                            p...                                               p.-
TMea1 tuer che rint Fule Y-ear-                CFAP   FCFA       90,400                         103,000                   Man-day/                  4i.05                                               TMtai pacr les q1--tn  pemièrer neees
UsS             430                              490                    Hnnee- ju-ir                                                                   du pr-je-
FI-1 C"i.
Sennai3 Maiteenann  ftas .aur i te                                                                                                                                                                       Seitareien annuel de l'nanée4SA                                      , 
Minai Petneg                                                    p.m.                            p.m.                                               p.m.                                                irs dernat&e eo.pec 



SENBLGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT - PROJET FORESTIER
Natural Forest Mana ement - Aménagement de la forêt naturelle
Direct Costs and Seasonal Labot Requirements par Hectare - Couts directs ct besoins en main-d'oeuvre saisonnière par hectare
Before amortization          After amortization                    Seasonal Labor Requirement
Avant amortissement          Apres amortissement                   Besoins en main-d'oeuvre saisonnière
(including operators and helpers)
(y compris conducteurs d'engins et aides)                                (man-day / homme-jour)
------------------CFAF / FCFA------------------
Site Selection                                                1,100                         1,100                                          1.00                           Choix du Site
Roads, Tracks and Firebreaks
Construction (R, T, F)                                      3,300                         4,300                                          0.20                           Ouivertture routes, pistes et parefeu
(R, P et
Tree Marking                                                  2,100                         2,100                                          2.00                           Martelage
Exploitation and Transport of Wood                            p.m.                          p.m.                                           p.m.                           Entretien et transport du bois
(Private loggers)                                            (exploitants privés)
R, T and F Maintenance  Year 1                                  500                            700                                         0.05                           Entretieni R, P et P  Annee 1
Forestry Works (1)                                           14,400                        16,000                                          2.05                           Travaux Forestiers  (1)
Forestry Works (2)                                            5,800                         6,000                                          5.05                           Travaux Forestiers  (2)
Forestry Works (3)                                            5,800                         6,000                                          5.05                           Travaux Forestiers  (3)
Total  Over the First Five Pro ject   ZFAF/FCFA              33,000                        36,200         man-day/                        15.40                           Total pour les cinq premieres annees di
Years                                     US$               160                           170           homme-jour                                                      Projet
Annual R, T and F, Maintenance           CFAF/FCFA              500                            700        man-day/                         0.05                           Entretien Annuel des R. P et P
from year 4                               Us$                 2.0                           3.0       homme-jour                                                        à partir de l'année 4
a,F  :
o X a- '



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT-PROJET'FORESTIER
Total Fuelwood and Building Poles Production - Production Totale de Bois de Feu et de Bois de Service
(in m3- en m3)
Srate-managed Plantation                 Rural Forestry Plantations               Natural Forest Management
Year - Année         P]antation6  en régie                 Plantations forestières rurales        Aménagement de la forêt naturelle        Total
FAC/CCEE     Project      Total      Family      Rural Community      Total
Projet                  Famille    Communauté Rurale
0               -            p.m        p.m          p.m             p.m             p.m                  p.m
1               -            p.m        p.m          p.m             p.m             p.m                 10,000                       10,000
2               -            p.m         p.m         p.m             p.m             p.m                 10,000                       10,000
5               -            p.m         p.m         p.m             p.m             p.m                 15,000                       15,000
4              7,200         p.m        7,200        p.m             p.m             p.m                 15,000                      22,200
5             14,400         p.m        14,400       p.m             p.m             p.m                  5,000                       19,400
6                -          14,400      14,400       2,400           2,400           4,800                5,000                       24,200
7               -           14,400      14,400       4,800           4,800           9,600                5,000                       29,000
8P               -          21,600     21,600        7,200           7,200          14,400                5,000                       41,O00
9              6,000        21,600     27,600        9,600           9,600          19,200                5,000                      51,800
10             12,000          -        12,000       12,000          12,000          24,000               10,000                      46,000
1 1              -           12,000     12,000        2,000           2,000           4,000               10,000                      26,000
12               -           12,000     12,000        4,000           4,000           8,000               10,000                      50,000
13               -           18,000     18,000        6,000           6,000          12,000               10,000                      40,000
14              6,000        18,000     24,000        8,000           8,000          16,000               10,000                      50,000
15             12,000          -        12,000       10,000          10,000          20,000               15,000                       47,000
16               -           12,000      12,000       2,000           2,000           4,000               15,000                       31,000
17               -           12,000      12,000       4,000           4,000           8,000               15,000                      -35,000
18               -           18,000      18,000       6,000           6,o00          12,000               15,000                       45,000
19               -           18,000     18,000        8,000           8,000          16,000               15,000                       49,000
20               -             -           -         10,000          10,000          20,000               20,000                       40,000
21               _-                                                    -               - _0,000                                        20,000
22               -             -           -           -               -               -                  20,000                       20,000
25               -             -           -           -               -               -                  20,000                       20,000
24               -             -           -           -               -               -                  20,000                       20,000
25               -             -           -           -               -               -                  20,000                       20,000
26               -             -           -           -               -               -                  20,000                       20,000
27               -             -           -           -               -               -                  20,000                       20.000 
28               -             -           -           -               -               -                  20,000                       20,000
29               -                     249,60-                                         -                  20 000                       20 000
57,600   192.000    249,600       9b,000          9_00            9,00040.00841,9()



- 56-                            ANNEX 1
Table X
Tableau
SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
IDA Credit/Crédit IDA/Schedule of Dibbursement / Prévision de déboursement
(US$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year              Semester           Disbursement            Cumulative
Année Fiscale              Semestre           Déboursement              Cumulé
1981                      1                     50 1/                  SQ
2
1982                      1                  1,150 2/               1,200
2                  1,025                  2,225
1983                      1                  1,150                  3,375
2                    850                  4,825
1984                      1                    850                  5,075
2                    900                  5,975
1985                      1                    950                  6,925
2                    950                  7,875
1986                      1                    950                  8,825
2                    475                  9,300
1/ PPF.
2/ Of which US$300.000 revclving fund.



O                 2          3         4         7         O                             9        I0         4l       Il         15        14        1,        il        17        45         19        20        20         22       25         24        00        2                    1'2
0209 L500~~~~~2T0O 00004- 4                  1     15.1.      101o-
Sobpoîl 50000,77, 9~~~~~~~~ 0940                    40 '7    152.9    422.9      1-7       I172 o    12.5    205.0          0.      12. 29  .5     1     700 00.  000.2     1.0       0.9       152.       094.3     19.3       95.0      93.0      oo.0       î.6       95.0       25.0      95.0      99.6       50      1.
900o9000 00000007000 000107                                      7.5        9.0       0.0      00.0      00.7       2.0      4.0        6.5       0.4      00.0       0.0        4.0       0.5       9.-4-    19.54.  ..           - 8 4     . l        . 4.2  .3  -.4                                     -
îo2îoooî 001700 (7.o0ko000g4~~~~~-~.-~  7.E      Li.,      1, .9     14.0      06.0      91.9       50.9      591       5.         40        99       5.         7.0      3-.        23.4      -64       5.         00        02       0.0        1.         50        1.         0110               17.        00.1    4
îo,R-07001/97..o-07701  00.0      52.o      0 7.~~~~~"-,    17.-6  146.7  149.5     149.7    el .P    è20.9       47.        0.9      t0        20074     75.        198J      00.        005.5    250.     _2597      04S        107        0.        0.        0.5       007       057       00.         0. 1Z
1.  Foo0~~o4 0710, 0090 00009007  007.7    701.0  0 m.1 i 00.-    751.4       009.0     05.2      7.2.       71-       00.7      97.       -s.       00.       02 6.     6.1 00.   O.o        14.8      04.0      00.9      000         9I       OR.9       0.0       O 4         .0       0.1        0.0      9.0        1.0     0.0
2.  000o-    00705   o1  07
100               .         9 O       . O      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0  il.,  14.6  04.6  00.0     14.0      11.0      I1t  00.6  ..0      55.        3s.0      50        55         3 5.5~   55.0      50.1       50.9      30. A     51.0      70.0      70.0       70.0      69.7      $6.3       00.0      10 4    00.0
000:4                .         2.1      loI        0.1 ~~~~~~~~~~~4.7  00.:      00,010.0           00.0       00.       -6        41.       41.       40.0      41.       41.       0.0       4.0        4.0       00.0      40.0      41.0.     40.0       01.0      41.0      41.0       90.       1  41. 0  _01.0     ç1. Y
410      10        Il1 9     50,0      -00       0.        25.0      00.0      00-       55.0      7~.0    7r4.9    700.0         00.4      70- 4-  7-4.5       70-     -74.1       75.9       73.8     012.5     110.       -111.0F    110.0    110.7    719.5    009.0        009.4   1001.0
ToolOoh  7000797009009017    079  950      70s      772.4    707.0       054.7   .550          54       900       0.9     .25           .    -155-0    137.0,    149.7    7137.0 _0294._0. 9.     107.0     156.0     "5.q       0.9    1I0.0        400.0      2.       402        195       009       19.         1.      09
«05002000" 911  2709007..107 9  19 90777  05.0    (vOs7>  0000   20.70    i7.8      00-       55.4      :9.3      114.0     492.17 .F09                   1.33      09.9     103.0      5t'       09.3       04.0      0.0.    l00.,       01.4      010.0     01.9 a11.00    01-.0            07.0      000       0.0        0.)   00-)5
0900100050 Ooolo COpo oo-oop 410.7172729747)0412)0;.)                                                               (2                                     2.      42.~ 1.             5I.         3I2       3.ï      '(43       9l        11   ~ -?           91.        14.                   B'~       7.       '
'Col WFop          o-910000207   o1 



- 58 -                         Annex 2
Page 1
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ASSUMPTIONS
Prices of Outputs:
1.   (a)  Timber:  Timber is imported primarily from the Ivory Coast
and the economie stumpage price is derived from the border
price. Timber prices (Table 6) are expected to increase at
7% per year in real terms through 1985.
(b)  Poles:  Poles ae imported primarily from Guinea Bissau and
the economic stumpage is derived from this border price.
Pole prices (Table 5) are assumed to increase in real terms
at the same rate as that projected for timber.
(c)  Firewood:  Firewood (and charcoal) are not imported; nor is
there any regular international trade in these products.
Although charcoal is potentially tradable, such trade will
not materialize until other countries have geared up to ex-
port. Even in countries whose factor endowment appears to
favor large-scale charcoal exports, it is not yet clear
that a charcoal-exporting industry would be able to compete
for resources with other forestry activities. The economie
stumpage price for fuelwood has therefore been based on (i)
domestic prices (Table 3), which are assumed to continue to
increase at 2% per year in real terms for the next 10 years,
and (ii) as a test of the effect of a ceiling price, on the
border price of charcoal from Liberia, the most likely source
of imported supply (CIF costs are estimated at Table 2 and
an economic stumpage price is derived at Table 4).
The output prices used for the economic analysis, including
valuation of foreign exchange at 1.25 times the official
rate, were as follows:
From Natural Forests    From Plantations
(CFAF/m3)    ($/m-J)    (CFAF/m3) (s7m3)
Timber (1985)          34,209        130       none       --
Poles (1985)           12,956         49      13,657       52
Fuelwood (a) Domestic
1985     6,646         25       8,832      34
1990     7,344         28       9,760      37
(b) Border   10,290         39      11,520       44
2.        Foregone Output:  It is assumed that without the project the
land to be used for plantations, though marginal, could have been used
for food production or wood production and this represents a cost of
the project.
(a)  For the rural plantations it is assumed that without the project,
the land could be used for cultivating millet. However, only



Annex Z
Page 2
marginai laard areas are expected to be used for these plantations
and ir -s estimated that net output foregoone would average about
20ûu' kg/he/fear on these fles  The land would be used on a shifting
c7'`tiratien b'asis With fîve years millet and five years bush
fallow. Prodaction of wood from bush fallow would average 0.5
m3/ha over the fal:low p,ericod.
(b)  In the state-managed plantation areas the opportunity cost of
using the land would be the production foregone through natural
regeneration.  Tt îs estimated that yields would have averaged
0.3 m3/ha/year at an avarage maintenance cost of about CFAF
200/ha! year.
(c)  In the natural forests the annual wood production, without the
project, is estimated Et 0.53 m3/ha/year for the first 10 years,
0.4 m3/ha/year for the next 10 years and 0.3 m3/hailyear for
the last 10 years. The decreasing yields would be due to en-
croachments, bushfires and overgrazing.  The cost of maintenance
would a1so be CFA' 20f0/'ha,;ear.
3.        Economic Cest of Unskl.'led Labor:  The free market wages paid in
the project area for logging operations best reflect labor's opportunity
cost. Given the relative shortage of labor in the project area, this wage
would represent the income foregone by laborers working on the project.
This wage rate averages around Cl'AF 350 per man-day throughout the year,
about 33% of the official minimum wage, and this average wage rate has there-
fore been used in the analysis.
4.        Foreign Exchange:  ln the absence of estimates of conversion
factors for Senegal, all costs and benefits have been estimated in local
currency.  To take account of the fact that the economic price of foreign
exchange is 1.25 times the official rate due to overvaluation of the local
CFAF, all internationally traded inputs and outputs have been adjusted by
this ratio.  It has also been assumed that the expatriates and consultants
assigned to the projects would aiso devote some of their time to the entire
forestry sector and hernce rnly 75%' of the expatrîate salaries (assumed at
100% foreign exchange cost) has beern taken into account.
5.        Economic costs and benefîts for the base case (border prices
for timber and poles but do!lestic prices for fuelwood) are detailed at
Table 7. The results of sensitivity tests for both the base case and
the all-border-price case are at Table 89 expressed by (i) switching
values and (if) customary changes in reste and benefits.  The result of
any particular sensitivity test can be readily iinferred; for instance,
valuation of foreign exchange at the official rate is, for the all-border-
price case, about equal to benefits being reduced by 25% and costs by
12.5% (the foreign exchange content of costs being about 50%).  The
result of the same sensitivitv rest fer the base case is about equal to
benefits being reduced by 10% (border-priced timber and poles consti-
tuting 40% of incremental output by value) and costs by 10% (strictly
12.5%).



- 60 -
ANNEX 2/Annexe 2
Table l/ Tableau 1
SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
Retail Price of Different Fuels per useful kwh
ÇDakar - March/April 1980)
Prix de détail par kwh utile de différents combustibles
(Dakar - mars/Avril 1980)
Price in gross        Thermal       Price per useful
kwh/Prix en kwh   Efficiency/    kwh/Prix au kwh
Average Price/                     brut  1/            Efficacité            utile
Type                              Prix moyen                                             thermique 2/
CFAF/pCFA/kg       kcal/kg            CFAF/FCFA                        CFAF/FCFA/kwh
Firewood/Bois de feu  3/              20.0           4,500                3.82           0.05 - 0.1        38.2 - 76.4
Charcoal/eharbon de bois 4/
At Official Price/
Au prix officiel                   20.0           7,800                2.21           0.15 - 0.25       8.8 - 14.7
At Effective Price/
Au prix effective                  40.0           7,800                4.41           0.15 - 0.25      17.6 - 29.4
Kerosene/Pétrole  5/                 144.0          10,300               12.02               0.3              40.1
Butane Gas/Gaz butane 6/
Subsidized/subventionné             81.5          10,700                6.55          0.45 - 0.65       10.1 - 14.6
Unsubsidized/non subventionné   136.8             10,700               11.0            0.45 - 0.65      16.9 - 24.4
Imported/importé                   212.5          10,700               17.08          0.45 - 0.65       26.3 - 38.0
l/  1 kwh    860 kcal                                            1/  1 kwh  860 kcal
2/  Thermal efficiency is the efficiency of converting           2/  L'efficacité thermique est l'efficacité de la transforma-
the fuel to heat.  It varies for different fuels             tion d'un combustible en feu.  Celle-ci varie selon le combus-
and for different users of each fuel.  The ranges            tible et selon l'utilisateur.  L'écart donné siînale les ren-
given represent the likely yields of each fuel in            dements probables de chaque combustible au Sénégal.
Senegal.
3/  The  average retail price represents the actual price   3/  Le prix moyen de détail représente le prix effectif
in Dakar in April 1980.                                          à Dakar en avril 1980.
4/  The official  retail price of charcoal is CFAF 20/kg    4/  Le prix officiel de détail du charbon de bois est fixé à
but retailers underweigh  amounts sold or manipulate    20 FCFA le kg mais les détaillants le vendent entre 30 et 50
the weight to give an average price of between               FCFA/kg en manipulant le poids.
CFAF 30 and CFAF 50 per kg.
5/  Actual ex-factory price in February 1980 was                  5/  Le prix usine en février 1980 était 125 FCFA/kg.  Nous
CFAF 125/kg.  An extra 15% has been allowed as               avons ajouté 15% de marge de distribution.
distribution margin.
6/  Government subsidizes the Refinery SAR - Société              6/  Le Gouvernement subventionne la SAR - Société Africaine
Africaine de Raffinerie - and  GALIAF, the company            de Raffinerie - et GALIAF, la Société chargée de la mise en
that bottles the gas.  The Government has therefore          bouteille de gaz butane.  Le prix usine est fixé par le
fixed the ex-factory price at CFAF 22/kg.  Consu-            Gouvernement à CFAF 22/kg.  Cependant, les consommateurs
mers however have to pay the distribution charges             doivent payer les charges de distribution.  En avril 1980 le
and  hence in April 1980   the retail price was              prix de détail était 81.5 FCFA/kg.  Le prix non-subventionné
81.5/kg.  The unsubsidized price is calculated               est basé sur le prix usine avant subvention et les charges
on the basis of SAR's ex-factory  price  before               de distribution . Le prix de détail pour le gaz butane
subsidy by adding distribution margins.  The retail           importé est calculé à partir du prix CAF  d'avril 1980 en
price for imported butane gas was obtained from               ajoutant les charges de distribution.  Le prix CAF était
April 1980  C17   price plus distribution marginsa            d'environ US$700/tonne (147 FCFA/kg).  La SENEGALAP a fourni
The CIF  price was about US$700/ton (CFAF 147/kg)             les chiffres sur les charges de distribution à la mission
All distribution margins were supplied the appraisal          d'évaluation.
mission by SENEGALAP, the distribution agency for
butane gas in Senegal.



- 61 -                                             ANNEX 2//ANNEXE 2
Iable 2/Tableau 2
SENEGAL
FOR.STRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
omparisco of Corts et Productior.  f Carcoal
ouparinen  ae-, Prix de_Production se du Charbon de Bols
Lleb_la uséd enegal
Liberia                Senegal
Rua Material Costsu                                                                 Colts des Matières Prem.ières
Initiai Il-veut-est Cest              $2,440/hb.  '         COAF 302,000/ha         Dépenses  nitiales d inventissenent
Presuot Value of all Corst,                                                         Valeur Actuaifseu de l'enemble des
ae 0l  stuc 16 lvears 3/            $2,848iho             CFAF 352,000/ha           Colts, 10%, 16 aun  3/
ortpot i  Years '/11/16 l121/lOO/m00  /ha   36/30/30u.3/ha                         Productions Ou An_éen 6/11/16
Present Value of Oatru byv                                                           Valear Actualisée  de la
Vumer,  r 10%                       124.5s. /ia           37.3m  /ha                Pradu-tibo, 10%
PreseuL Value  fi Cout of                                                           Valer Axtl.lisee du  Ct de
Prod-ctio9 $22.9/o                                        CFAF 9,440/n              Produ-tixu
Per ton fuelwo,:d 4                 $31.8                 CFAF 13,110               Par tosse de bois de feu -/
Pur tou fhurloed 1/                 $159                  CFAF 65,550               Par trose de oharbon 5/
Carbonizaaion                         $ / ton / tonne       CFAF / tou / tanue   Carboaisation
Ra- Mater-/u                                 159                   65,500           Martièr  Première
Kils Operation -                               98                   7,000           Posctionument dus fours -
Bagging 7/                                    41                    2,700           Miss su Srs 7/
Subtotal                                   298                   75,200             Sous-total
Marketing                                                                           Co=mercialsation
Transp-  tr  Port                             i 11                  7,500           Trunupurt au Port -
Port Handling / Ioading                        10                      -            Mauipulatiuu Portuaire / Charge-ent
Ocrasn F-ight 9/                               50                      -            fret Mariti.e 9/
lubtolul                                    71                    7,500             Sous-totul
fIF Dabas                                 77,500                   82,700           CAF Dakar
Port RHadliuR  / Unloading                 2,000                       -            Musipulatios Purtasire / Dihbargxemrt
Transport tr  Wracehoun  I                                                          Trouspurt au Magasin
Wnloading                                2,000                      500             Déshargeusnt
h1.ols ...  Ca0ur                       8  30200                                     Pria de Gros Dakar
Sources:  (a) IBRD - Liberia Foreutry Prujeot                         (a) BIRD Liberia Projet Forestier
(Cr. 839-LBR) 1978.                                     (Cr. 839-LBR) 1978.
(b) AISe2TA Churcoal utiliuation  icr irss  sos           (b) ATLAbTA N tA lluatisu du charbon de bhis pour
redu-ticu il Liberia                                    la  rédu-tic  du fer au Liberia - Etades
Prefeu.ibiliuy study - 1978.                            du prAfaduabîité 197R.
1/  Sou-cs (a), Table 5, including usutinîenlru                       1/  Suivant source (a) table.a  5 s-lta y  -ompria imprévus se
and therefore coxparable ta mid-1980 basa                       qui les rend compurables sus cuIra de base mi-1980 au Sénégal
costsu bu Senegal.
2/  Annes  ;, Tubls IV. 1; total cout CFAF 628.4                      2/  Aunes 1 Tableau IV-loct total FCFA 628.4 million  moins
milliou, le-s mainteuance -ad euploit.ticu ai                  entretiei   et eupluitatiïn des plautati... pilotes essantes
e-isting pilot plancataus (CFAF 24.5 nilluon);                  (FCFA 24.5 million);ie reste étant ieputable au 2000 ha
diffursnte  thnrgeable ru 2000 ha of cew                       des plantsio ..nouvellus.
plautrtious.
3/  Initial i-veat.er corts alloca.ed : PYO : 60/;                    3/  Dépenses d'.d vuutis-emsnt inîriailr  repartis ainsi:  PYO
PY1 : 20%; PY2: 10%; PY3 : 10%; uhubsqou..t                    68, PY1 202, PY2 10%, PY3 107; dépenses aunuelles corresp.s-
cnual cous  s in negul:  CFAF 514,00/hb  excpt                déctes au Sénégul:  FCFA 5400/hb  saif  en année 6, 11 et 16
lu years 6,  1 usd 16 (prodcrticu years) ahbu                  (anrées du pr.uéntian) aunées  pour  lesquelles noua devons
_uttiug  cur,s  cf CFAPP 1,060/3 will  uso be                  ajouter FCFA 1,600/m3  -oupé; depeun.es a-nuellescorrepspodas-
incurred; uchusqueut  annual coutr  in Liberit:                  -es au Libu-is écus lu mêue prupurrîs-   que les dépennes un
lu saur proportion tr  PY3 csats au i  Su-ugal.               a.éee de prujut 3 au Sénégul.
4/  720 kg/n3.                                                        4/  720 kg/m3.
5/  5 tsos dries  coud per tsu  uf  h-arcoal.                         5/  5 tonues de bois ses par tonne de chbrbon de bhia.
6/  Liberia:  Sorca (b) examinus thb  altr-lative                    6/  Liberia:  La source (b) exsu.ire len difféeruene  trehbiquru
tschniques cf fixed  brick-domed kilos usd                     possibles à savoir fours fiues axes dune us briques et fours
portable ctrel k-lns.  The latter ore r.re                      u a-ier transpurtuble.  Les derniers sont pl.u -ot eux, .moi
co-ty, leus  -fficin  au  onveruers, sud                       effi-aces quant au rendements un eharbus de hbis et ils d            -man-
requise noru labor; bat bhucaus  they c.se                     dest plan du travail; séanusinu  du fait qul1  uset traspor-
po-table, t-a  per-it tr aspr  of  hb.rc-al from               tables ils pe-mttent le trauspurt du  bharbon de buis drpuis
she kiln  ruther thau    -d to s   ri  kilc- and               les fousu plutt que le tansport du buis ve-s  les furs e t
charcoal frn  thbere tr  market.  Betesn thIe tue              du ciharbo  de bois depuis leO   fucs jusqu'as auceké.  Entre
cechucues, trie break-evenu wood tr-ecp-rs                     leu dcus rechniques, la limite pourla distunce du tranapsst
éut-anue is 44 miles; beyond thac  distace,                    du boiu repr,éeute 44 miles; au delà de cette distance les
portocle crel kilns  cru pr-efcable, et a sou-                 fars tranupurtubles  ru acier  -sot préférables aves au  colt
usaUt cost  if $71/tus (1977 prloes, us 398/uts                courant de $71/to-ne  (priu 1977) su $98/tusse (pri  1980).
(1980 crocue).  Sorce (b) stases that a smali-                 Suivant lu source (b) une opération a des cûtrs moiua étlvés
socle operasion could be rus wth  birick-dcsed                 i petite échelle pourruit Stre estrenrise sucs dus fsurs 3
kil  s ut l.ser cout but thbt it iE  doIbtfil if               dceu  us briques sais il eut doutera qu'uns spératic   de
o 10,100 tues/yusr operat ion wuld be seukable                10,300   tounos par an nuit possible sans avoir rcouars eu
uieus re-urs   tl  porrab1e steel kiL.L.                       fouc-  à dose en briques.  Sénégal:  cuIts rete-us p-ua  l
s-egals  ctserved costa of operacctione  serth-               Ponctionnement der  neules es  terre.
kiles
7/  Liberis:  3G bsgs ast  1.00.  influted su 1980                    1/  Libt ris 30 sacr à 51.00, -copte tenu inflaticu pris 1980;
pr-cos; Sesogal:  ASses 2, Taole i Poctore 6.                  Sénégal Annexe 2, Tableau 4 Note 6.
8/  Libaria:   avrage diét-anse site te port:  8C miles              8/  Liberia la discours mupsune dspuis ls   s   jusqu'au pnr
cf  bhibh 44 miles already ..st.d  at 6/; remaiuder            st de 80 mil-s d-nt 44 miles sunt déjà  valués (if 6/); le
costéd ut s3us rate per  s-uég-crip.  isuegal:                 reste eut évalué  au uRus tarif par voyage aller  ets.
-buervsd rsce Kcepsuss. - Dakar.                               sénégal tarif retenu pour Ksu.peuteuu Dfkua.
9/  Stradard rata $25/rs   100% pe-alty lu  lue velums               9/  Taux  standsrd $25/tsuus; 100% du pénalisation corpre
weight cutis for charcoal (250 kg/.3).                         tenu rspprs uoilue/poids psu elevé pour le eharbon de bois
(250 kg/,r3).



LNs'IEX/ANNEXE 2
- 62 -              Table/Tableau 3a
SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT I PROJET FORESTIER
Firewood from Natural Forest / Bois de feu de la forêt naturelle
Financial Price           Economic Price
Prix Financier            Prix économique
I/
Dakar Retail Price / Prix de détail Dakar            12,800                     12,800
Less Unloading - Chopping I
Moins déchargement - Recoupe  2/                    1,810                        .700
Less Distribution Margin/
Moîls la marge de distribution 3/                   1,164                        820
W.nolesale Price Dakar /
Prix de gros Dakar                                  99826                     11,280
Less Transport (Koumpentoum-Dakar> /
Moîns transport (Kotmpentoumü-Dakarj 4/             3,733                      4,100
Loadîng | Chargement 5/                                 320                        320
Roadside Price / Prix bord de route                   59773                      6,860
Cutting, Stacking   Coupe et débardage 6/             1,120                        840
Permit fee ; Redevance  7/                              200                       -
Rent / Plus value 8/                                  49453                      6,020
Economic Price Used / Prix économique
utilisé                                                       CFAF/FCFA/       6,020
1/  Dakar Retail Price   CFAF 20/kg / Prix de détail Dakar - 20 FCFA/kg.
2/ Unloading - chopping (actual price païd is CFAF 250/100 kg chopping and CFAF 4000/30
steres for unloading) equivaient to 2 man-days -ework. / Déchargement,mise en morceaux
(prix de détail réel 250 FCFA/l00 kg pour la mise en morceaux et 4000 FCFA/30 steres
pour le déchargement) ce qui équivaut à 2 horme-jours.
3/  Distribuition margin is taken at 10% of wholesale plus handln.g. / La marge de distri-
bution s'ëlève à 10% du prix de gros plus les frais de manipulation.
4/  Transport cost about CFAF 70,000/30 steres.  Foreign exchange component of 40% adjusted
at 1.25. / Frais de transport d'environ 70,000/30 steres dont 40% de devises étrangères
avec un taux de chanKe virtuel plus élevé de 25%.
5/  Loading CFAF 6,000/30 steres equivalent to almost 1 man-day m3. I Frais de chargement
de 6,0oO FCFA/30 steres équivalent à presque 1 horiune-jour/m3.
61  Cutting and stacking about 60 man-days/30 steresa  assumed that improved management
would reduce cutting time by about 25%. Financial and economic wage CFAF 350/man-day./
Abattage et débardage environ 60 homme-jours/30 steres en supposant qu'une meilleure
gestion réduirait le temps d abattage d'environ 25%. Salaire économique et financier
d'environ 350 FCFA/hoimte-jour.
7/ Actual pe-,mit paid is CFAF 120/stere, or CFAF 200J/m  at 400 kg/stere (1.6 steres/m3),
Le p ix réel payé est de 120 FCFA/stere ou 200 FCFAJu,3 à 400 kg/stere (1.6 steres/m3)
8/  The -residtual accruing to loggers, transporters, wholesalers and retailers;  this
reflects the inicreasing scarcity of fuelwood./Ce qui reste revenant aux bûcherons
transporteurs, et aux detaillants; ceci reflète la rareté grandissante du bois
de feu.



63 -                           ANNEX/ANNEXE 2
Table/Tableau 3b
SENEGAL
PROJET FORE:STIER / FORESTRY PROJECT
ie feui de plantation / Firewood from Plantation
1 m3- 720 kg
Prix Financier       Prix Economique
Financial            Economic
Price                Price
------CFAF/m3/FCFA/m  ------
Dakar Retail PricE 1/
Prix ae détaîil à iakar                                14,400              14,400
Less Unloadingg/Chopping 2/                             2,010                 700
Moins diabarquement:/recoupe
Les8 Distribution Margin 2/
Moins marge de distribution                             1,309                 930
Wholesale Price Dakar 2/
Prix en gros Dakar                                     11,081              12,770
Less Transpcrt 2/
Moins transport                                         3,733               4,100
Less Loadîng/Hand'ling 2/
Moins chargement/manipulation                             320                 320
Permit Fee /             3/
Redevance                                               3,200 
Cutt4lng/Stakînc 4/
C-upe,!d'bardage                                        1,060                 350
Rent 2/
Plus value                                              2,768               8,000
Economic Price Used /
Prix ,-conomique utîlisé                                                    8, non
li  Reta-,l Price is CFAF 20/kg. /Prix de détail est 20 FCFA/kg.
2/  Same as Table 3a. /Pareil cu'au Tableau 3a,
3/  Frice charged by Forestry Department for wood from YOAO plantation CFAF
2,000/stere. / Prix du Service Forestier pour le bois des plantations de
M2BA0 2,000 FCFA/stère.
4/  OfLficial wage paid for 1 man-day for financial price and shadow wage for
eaonomic.  Assumed 1 man-day/m3./Salaire officiel pour un homme-jour pour
le prix financier et le coO!t d'opportunité des salaires. On suppose 1 homme-
ur/m3.



ANNEX/ANNEXE 2
- 64 -                                  Table/Tableau 4
SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT i PROJET FORESTIER
Price of "imported' charcoal / Prix du charbon importé
1980 Prices /
Prix 1980
CFAF/Ton
FCFA/Tonne
CIF Dakar I CAF Dakar 1/                                96,875
Port Handling / Manipulation portuaire 2/                 2,250
Transport to Warehouse - Unloading /
Transport vers le magasin / Déchargement 3/             2,200
Wholesale Value (Dakar) / Prix de gros (Dakar)          101,325
Unloading Dakar I Déchargement Dakar                        500
Transport (Koumpentoum - Dakar) / Transport
de Koumpentoum à Dakar 4/                              8,250
Loading Koumpentoum I Chargement Koumpentoum                500
Bags and Bagging I Sacs et en mise en sacs 5/             3,140
Processing / Transformation                               7,000
Economic Value of Charcoal on Site t
Valeur 'u charbon sur la plantation                   82,435
Equivalent in fuelwood / en bois de feu                 16,487
Cutting and stacking / Coupe et débardage                   350
Economic Price used from plantations (720/kglm3)/
Prix economique utilisee en provenance
des plantations                  11,520
from natural forest (640 kg/m3)/
en provenance de forêt naturelle                10,200
1/  The CIF Price taken from Annex 2/Table 2 is US$369.  This is converted at the
shadow exchange rate of CFAF 262.5- US$1.0./ Le prix CAF prix du Tableau 2 de
''Annexe 2 est de 369 dollars EU, converti au prix de référence de devises de
FCFA 262.5-$EU 1.0
2/  Port handling CFAF 2000/ton with 50% foreign exchange component../ Manipulation
portuaire environ 2000 FCFA/tonne dont 50% de devises étrangères.
3/  Transport - unloading CFAF 2000/ton with 40% foreign exchange component, / Transport
déchargement environ 2000 FCFA/tonne dont 40% devises étrangères.
4/ Transport from Koumpentoum - Dakar is CFAF 7,500 with 40% foreign exchange component. /
Transport de Koumpentoum à Dakar est de 7.500 FCFA dont 40% de devises étrangères.
5/ Bag costs CFAF 290 and can be used for 4 trips each time carrying 33 kg of charcoal.
Effective price then is CFAF 2200/ton of charcoal. Foreign exchange 80%. i Le sac
coûte 290 FCFA et peut être utilisé pour 4 voyages de 33 kg de charbon chacun. Le
prix effectif du sac est de 2200 FCFA/tonne de charbon dont 80% de devises étrangères.



Ç5 _                   .tSY~~AEX/ANmIEXE 2
Table/Tab,'Ieau 5
SENEGAL
PROJET FORESTIER / FORESTRY PROJECT
uilding Poles ,/ Bois de Service
Derivation of Economic Stumpage Price
Décomposition du prix économique sur pied
24 poles / piquets 1 m3
CFAF/m3
CIF Price (Casamance) 1/
Prix CIF (Casamance                                                       10,200
Transport 2/ / Transport                                                    2,640
Loading/Unloading 3/ - Chargement/déchargement                                240
Wlholesale Value (Diourbel) 4/
Prix de gros (Diourbel)                                                   13,080
Less Distribution Margin 5/                                                1i,080
Moins marge de distribution
Less Transport 6/ - Moins transport                                         1,980
Roadside Value / Prixc de bord de route                                   10,020
Cutting/Staking 7/ - Coupe/débardag(s                                    350/840
Loading 3/  - Chargernent                                                     120
Sttumpage Value (Plant:ation/Natural Forest)
Valeur sur pied (Plantation/foret naturelle)                                9,550/9,060
1J  Average price pafld for building poles from Guinea Bissau             in Casamance
is about CFAF 340/pole: converted to economic prices at 1.25 (shadow exchange
rate). / Le prix économique moyen des piquets est d'environ 340 FCFA/piquet pour
les piquets venant de Gambie/Guinée Bissau compte tenu d'un taux de change
virtuel de 25% p:Lus élevé.
2/  Transport from Casamance to Diourbel at CFAF 100/pole:  40% f oreign exchange
component conver:ed at 1.25./ Transport de Casamance à Diourbel au prix de
100 CFAF/piquet dont 40% de devises étrangères (taux de change virtuel 25%
plus élevé).
3/  Official rate fixed at CFAF 10/pole for each activity but actual rate paid is
CFAF 5/pole./ Taux officiel fixé à 10 FCFA/piquet pour chaque opération mais
le taux réel est 5 FCFA/piquet.
4/ Average financia:L wholesale price in Diourbel is CFAF 450/pole./ Prix financier
moyen en gros à Diourbel est de 450/piquet.
5/  Margin equal to 10% of financial wholesale price./Marge de 10% du prix de gros
financier.
6/  Transport from project area to Diourbel CFAF 75/pole:  40% foreign exchange
component./ Transport de la zone de projet à Diourbel 75 FCFA/piquet dont 40%
de devises étrangères.
7/ 1 Žn-day/m3 for cutting and stacking on plantations and 2.4 man-days/m3 in natural
forest. / 1 homme-jour/m3 pour :La coupe et l'ensterage en plantation et 2,4 homme-
jour/m3 en for&t naturelle.



ANNEX/ANNEXE 2
66 -                      Table/Tableau 6
SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
Economic Price of Timber / Prix économique du bois d'oeuvre
1 m3 -640 kg
1980         1985
1980 US$/ton
dollars EUA/tonne
FOB l/  - FOB                                                 90.0         129.1
Ocean Freight/Insurance 2/  - Fret ocean/assurance            28.0          28.0
CIF Dakar / CIF Dakar                                        118.0         157.1
(1980 CFAF/FCFA/m3)
CIF Dakar 3/  - CIF Dakar                                 30,975        41,239
Port Handling 4/  - Manipulation portuaire                   800           800
Transport to Sawmill 5/  - Transport vers la scierie    1,190            1,190
Wholesale Value Dakar - Prix de gros Dakar                32,965        43,229
Unloading Dakar 6/    Déchargement Dakar                     800           800
Transportation 7/  - Transportation                        5,280         5,280
Loading 8/  - Chargement                                   1,440         1,440
Cutting 9/  - Abattage                                     1,500         1,500
Stumpage Value                                            23,945        34,209
1/ FOB Ivory Coast - Samba Logs. / FOB Côte d'Ivoire - Grumes de samba.
2/  Actual October 1979 rates from Ivory Coast to France were between FF 240-295/m3
(US$57-70). These rates have since gone up about 10%, and average US$70/m3.
Freight from Ivory Coast to Senegal is taken as 40%. / Les tarifs pratiqués
de Côte d'Ivoire vers la France étaient de 240 à 295 FF/m3 (57.70 dollars EUA)
en octobre 1979. Ces tarifs ont depuis augmenté d'environ 10% et avoisinnent
70 dollars EUA/m3. Le fret de côte d'Ivoire vers le Sénégal représente 40%.
3/ Converted at the shadow exchange rate of CFAF 262.5 - US$1. / Converti au taux
de change virtuel de 262.5 FCFA.
4/ Port handling is about CFAF 1,100/ton with about 50% foreign exchange component./
Manipulation portuaire environ 1000 FCFA/tonne dont 50% de devises étrangères.
5/ Transport is about CFAF 1,500/ton with 40% foreign exchange component.
Transport environ 1,500 FCFA/tonne dont 40% de devises étrangères.
6/ Unloading at Sawmill about CFAF 1,000/ton: 50% foreign exchange component.
Déchargement à la scierie 1000 FCFA/tonne dont 50% de devises étrangères.
7/  Transport from Koumpentoum-Dakar CFAF 75,000/truckload of 10 tons:  40% foreign
exchange component. / Transport de Dakar - Koumpentoum 75000 FCFA/par charge de 10
tonnes dont 40% de devises étrangères.
8/  Loading at Koumpentoum CFAF 2,000/ton:  50% foreign exchange component./
Chargement à Koumpentoum: 2,000 FCFA/tonne dont 50% de devises étrangères.
9/ Cutting semi-skilled labor at CFAF 250/hr: 6 hrs for lm3./ Abattage 250 FCFA/
heure de main-d'oeuvre demi spécialisée 6 heures par m3.



SllNI,iAL
i         i          p                                                      V                           9           10        il           12           a;            14           15         vl           IR           S
AITHlill PiiOJOT
Pu-nloy uO,pat ('0 pensa 
0.3.s    2,0111  ta)!                      5                                                                                                                                                                                    -----                                                       t
(20 at       .1,  o 201  ta)
OnaeansCt  (00AF1-Ili-
Y.-    2,00     uauoo!        CFP' aillia-        0I.4       0.0 A     0.4        11.4     0.4      0.4           0.4           0.4            11.4          11.4     11..         i.-          0.4           1.4           0. 4      >.4          11-4         0.4           0.4           01. 
ConsNes                                                 rîê      (>.4)    (o.>n          .((.4)    (      11.4>) (0.4)  (11.4)       (0.4)         (i. 4)      (o. 4)       (i. 4)     (o.4) (o..4)                (o.4((41                            (24)         (0.4 (o.44(4                32.9
0120E PiII200/I
AVEC0 I- PROJET1
Ironaatooo   e                                             -          -         -          .        -        -      11,5211       11,520        17,oiî         17,060          -      9.600        9.6oe         4'o          il, Too                 9,6011       9,0(,10       4,400        14.40.:
Pu-tila-  Polen, Otçt                                      -          ..,74o                                                        oS8So         4, ,?o        4,poa          -      2,4ou        2,koo          ,ooî         ;,6îx)          -       , 400       ?,4oo u0   51-O              ,601
Onelaîni Volte (Posintie Pstse)!                                                          ~~~~~~        ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~108.3  1iO.1  109.1  172.5  - 97.7         97.7         146.6         146.6        -97.7                   97.7         146.6         146.6
On Vante)
Vainar Bain On OsmOse  (Pria  110011 ai Ilion  -  -         -         -        -           99.9          99.9          10.0          19.0        -         97.0         92.09          49.2          40.9.O  3             92.n2.2.49s2 49.o .2
ari Oc bu.te)                                                                                                         147.6         149.8        72)1.1         251.1                  91.         130.11        191,           195.0        -        150          ho.             1            1a
Total d   RBeetits!                   000 nillian         0.4        0.4      0.4        0.4       0.4       0.4        140.0         107           220e.1        751.9         -        190.9        190.9         19,. 2        162          -150.9                 13j9          190.2119
-d nfrantr.    5.4îtame.                                                           a98       9.0                    1.5           4.4           4.4            1.9    l111.6         -1.11                                    4.4      14.9
Eagi-s st Vthls-1-
O)per_t_g Conn    ) Ftitj
Prol  0       Wdrn!                   CoAF ao11a-n24.4             31.o       4ç,.4     99.0    1î.8       12.4           1.9           0.1           2.1            2.1      2.0          2.5          2.1           2.1           2.1       2.1          1 .6         o.             . 
Main i'ene          (nCA    îlon                          50        5.6        8.o        9.4      7.6      1.7           4.4           4.6           6.8            6.9      o.4          31.7         1.9           0.2           5.P      o.4           5-5          o.6           5.i4          s.
Persoasel  )nn              CP~~~~~IAFn i1I-o    1.9       4.t       5.2        5.7      5.9        -                                                                           -             ----  ---.---
yoa    nenar   -ni Soppart
11tef11                             OFAF aillia        7 7.       7.1        7.11      7.0      7.0       1.8           t.6           1.6           1.6           î.8      i.8          1.8          1.3           1.8           1.8       1.9          1.8          o.8           î.6
Eopotnione-  an  Co....t-st,,!        onoF -maiia        19.1      119.0      19.1      19.1      19.0       -           -                                         -----------
OnreOCoase!                      ClIP' itlto-      16.7       16.7      11.31      52.8     12.4       2.9           2.9           2.9           0.9           0.9      2.9          2.9          2.9           2..      9      9-      2.            .9          2.9           2.9              .
aepaîîaaa Totales                         î~~~~~~~~~56.6    i42.o    117.2    117.8    67.4_   19.0        12.           1~.           IB.î-         o          0.8         10.,5        12.2          12.5    1...UZ.l   2o.0                            9.6          10.7          10i.1



- 68 -
e    4eE    v.                    o   E                       ,,                                                    -fl e        110ANX2
t  s'                                                                       I        °   g      
E                                                                                     *
8 |      <    E                     § ~~~~~~8 1X n~ o                         ,7  
/~~~~ 8|                                                                       *           I                                         '   Ô_^  1   
E    o
000 s8 °                                                     8                  ,   ,        I                                         ;
( |           °   > E                                       8       J  7i                    
o                        N8 rl  E                                                            g>1 
8 '  oh|oo,     o3E        
o o                       \ | I              °               I  o     1
o ~   ~~                       I        o8                       o0  o    aiw7H           I I          I          IE_
_ | s |O $tt 3 tE                                                                                               ,, X                          21
k   1°        t         oW                          >        J  n   ° g
E E     E     a                                                                                          0:001FF E       E E E S   
2  42E                                                                                      0~eG14              ; 0 001e 
>~~~~~~ ,<                                        82          b                          2               b, 
*~~~~~~ ~ ~ E                         nE      _ H2|O_1z0 .-                                         C         _~L8Q   0  
Ât~~~~      ~~~~                                                       Co',  OC .   eSz-> 2     !;



m-   r-r---  r-T-'    r-~'r-< .    r-"7'-''  CC                       C      C.                   r       -. ~                                                         r     r-'-      -           ~     '<<E C-½ST""C  -~7'C--CC-w- 
E--  .  CCC  -  .        -,       ES        CC         o '- -                         t      t?                        C~~~~~~~~~~o--77- o~
T '-             'T       T       o         '         '      <TIC              CC                 C       C            O    E                                            '      <        C      (
C'C  C-S  O'-  --~-'  C~C  C-C  Cl  T-CC-CT-C           'C      'S        U'S      '?      C''      CE       'C       T~S      UC       T~C      C-C    I~'C    '--C     U~S                              ~CCTC                                          -
CCC     S                 CT       ST        T                OC       -'       OC       C-C      SECCC                       C       CE       CT                -'      ETS-C.                  î



- 70 -
ANNEX/ANNEXE 2
SENEGAL                                 Table/Tableau 8 a
FORESTRY PROJECT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Present Values
(Discount Rate of 10%)
PV Costs      PV Benefits    NPV       Switching Values 1/
Base Case                   -CFAF Million  --------                 Costs       Benefits
State-Managed Plantation       541.1         683.2       142.1         26        -21
Rural Forestry Plantation    330.1           536.0        205.9        62        -38
Natural Forest Management    391.3           618.8        227.5        58        -37
Total Productive
Components                 1,262.5       1,838.0        575.5         46        -31
All Border Prices
State-Managed Plantation       541.1         754.4       213.3         39        -28
Rural Forestry Plantation    330.1           624.7        294.6        89        -47
Natural Forest Management    391.3           772.9        381.6        98        -49
Total Productive
Components                 1,262.5       2,152.0        889.5         70        -41
1/ The switching value is the percentage by which costs have to increase or
benefits decrease to arrive at an economic rate of return equal to the
opportunity cost of capital (in this case 10%), or to obtain a NPV of
zero at the opportunity cost of capital.



- 71 -
ANNEX/ANNNEXE 2
TABLE/TABLEAU 8b
Economic Rates of Return
Base Case
.  State-Management Plantations
Benefits                 Down 10%                  Down 20%
Costs                           12.0                     10.6                      9.0
Up 10%                          10.9                       9.3
Up 20%                           9.5                                               6.6
B. Rural Forestry Plantations
Costs                           12.7                     11.4                     10.1
Up 10%                          11.5                      10.3
Up 20%                          LO.5                                               8.1
C. Natural Forest Management
Costs                           :L5.4                    13.9                     12.4
Up 10%                          L4.0                      12.6
Up 20%                          12.9                                              10.3
D. Total Productive Components
Costs                           12.8                      11.5                    10.1
Up 10%                          11.6                      10.3
Up 20%                          10.5                                               8.0
All Border Prices
A. State-Managed Plantations
Benefits            Down 10%            Down 20%           Down 25%
Costs                           13.4               11.9                10.3               9.4
Up 10%                          12.1               10.6
Up 20%                          10.8                                    7.8
Down 12.5%                      15.4                                                     11.2
B.  Rural Forestry Plantations
Costs                           14.6               13.3                11.9              11.1
Up 10%                          13.4               12.1
Up 20%                          12.3                                    9.8
Down 12.5%                      16.2                                                     12.7
C. Natural Forest Management
Costs                           20.1               17.8                15.7              14.7
Up 10%                          18.0               16.1
Up 20%                          16.4                                   13.0
Down 12.5%                      23.7                                                     16.9
D. Total Productive Components
Costs                           15.5               14.0                12.4              11.6
Up 10%                          14.1               12.7
Up 20%                          12.9                                   10.1
Down 12.5%                      17.5                                                     13.3



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROSECT / PROJET FORESTIER
Fore-try Departuent Organisation Ch-rt
PRIME MINISTER
Mfnfstry uof Rral Developn,ent                                                                      Mt- *     E  igh- Ed-ratio
(MOS)
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ I
State Secret-riate for S            aientific and Techn.ci1 Re.earch                State Serretariafe for Fore-try amd                                                                     "Institut National de Développe=ent Rfra'l
(SERST)                                                      Inland Flaheries (SEEF)                                                                           Ecole Nttionale den Cadre-  Rurau"
Irole Nationale des Agents Techniques des
Se-egafe.e Agricult-rnR E.earrh Inutit.te (ISRA)                                                                                                                                     Eaux  t F.êt"
N.tional . oreF try Ren..r-h Center (CNRF)                        > |       P-reatry  Depart..ent (DEFC)
PIanning                                                                                 Environcen-t
Studios and                 Reaffureafation                  Production                     F"lhi.g
Training                                                                                   Wild1ife                                                                                                     Ad.nifetr-tion,  i=antn and Le.gl
1'~ ~  ~     ~ ~~~------  --------ue------t--------------e--t-  Spfê i...
crojeot                                                                 HANN Fourestr  Purk
ishery Center oEf GUIDICIC
(FPtentry Dintriotu)                                     CAP VERT                   CASAMANCE            SINE SALOUM       EASTERN ûENEGAL              FLEUVE        LOUGA.   DIOURREL           THIES



SENEGAL
FORESTRY PROJECT / PROJET FORESTIER
Pro ject Organization Chart
|Forestry Department/
DEFC
(Dakar)
Other Divisions                                        Project  Operations                                     Planning Division!
Forestry Department/                                     Unit/ Direction du                                          Division
Autres Divisions                                       Projet  (Kaffrine)              -                       de la planification
DEFC                                                        I                                                                    i
Training Center/
Centre de
Formation
Kahone / Kaolack
Tree Plantation and Natural Forest                                                Workshop                                  Research Unit /                               Administration
Management                                                          (Equipt. and                                  Unité de                                     and Finance
Plantation Forestière et                                                 Material Maintenance /                          recherche
Aménagement Forêt Naturelle                                                 Atelier d'équipement                                                                    Division Administrative
et entretien du                                                                              et Financiêre
matériel
Ittt   angdP                      I                     t
Stated  nage,d TP                 Rural TP           NF Management
Plantations en Régie       Plantations  Rurales Aménagement Foret Naturelle
Kaffrine                   Kaffrine            Koumpentoum
Malene Hodar                Koumpentoum          Forest Reserve
Maka Yop                 Tambacounda
Pate                    Nuirsories                                                                                                                                                0
Koumpentoum
Forest Reserves.
tu



_____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ ____IBRD     1513 1
-r",                  MA~~~VR~~ITa NI.E
1                                               y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--                                                                 -~~~.             ~        ~         )L UG
'r'-                                            ~~~~~D-~r
~~~  ~~~~H                                            - 
I~~~r'~~~rw                  DO     ABF
t y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5Tn ,N



.1 5'                                           43'        -5 E N  E GA  L                    IO           -13'7rEN.
Ir MAURITANIA                                                                                                         FORESTRY PROJECT -  PROJET FOREÈSTIER
PROJECT AREA - ZONE DU PROJE                                                                                               .
-   /  S   ' - E G A L   vt  /', srProjeci area boundory                                                                           -'srivnS apaosto,al reserv,s .e                                       Deparferne   capitale
SENEGAL   s                                               - Limite du projet                                                                           Pexeri'eo ~~~~ylrlmistoro/es1eChRéserve                            de d~otmn
N E G A L                                                                 . Forest reserves selected for the stote -monoged tree plontfioncomporento                   Notionol prk                                     -i   Regional capitals
1 \   '1< 2   50°° 0   .   -- .  Forêts classées choisies pour /e vo/et plontatoons forestières en rtgie                Parc national                                            Chef- /eu, de. région
D*    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A                                                $1                                                                                       -i/Forest reserves                                                  aie ntbhdrs
KAFFtINE                              <r M r                                Forest closée choisie pour t/e voet amenogement de/a forêt naturelle            '                                                                    it es deeserve  frrestres  D _, portment  uhd
'  X   >nr "'' TAMBACOUN5A                                                   frojerffeadqoarters                                                                        Main rords                                     _         Regionol boundories
C,                                                                                                                                    Rou~~~-- Sig  d   rje  '-    ates pri-cinpoles           Limites de région
DX  ~ ~    ~                        -\~~-ts.                                  Projecf training cenf,er                                                  -                Railwoe-y                                                 Internationai bsondory
i~.1                                                     .                                  ,AJ *_, _ (, v > > Cenitre du formation du projet  \ - <?                                  ChemiCn  de  ter f o                                      Frontière I/ternaliOna7e
- t         ~~           ~Project tree nurseries,~Rvr
eiSOAU   ~       ~"'~'                                                 * J '  Pepinières forestières duprojet                                                    c Cours d'eauxs
1600'                                   GUINfA                                                                                                          ' d            K;omete,s 0         10      20       30       40       50       60       70       go
M/m  O        ~~1 0         2 0            30            40             30
Y'E                                                                                                                                               j---                                   - -i  -  - `---"--  t-  - ?--
R"'E  G    1     `         irj  ,      t:.t                        'I
Deparfem,e n   of  >alYr/ne                                                                                                                                                                 /
R EG i ON  O F EASTERN  SENEGAL
Malèmen-Hcz1E3me oodar   -                                      ( Departement  of  Tambacounda
,i-\  K,oo .ghe- -   --t KOUMPENTOUM                                              !14n0,i
\                                \. /-'                                                                           \S ;                                                                                                                                      /-i   ( n
]<ORO                                                   Y wt   > ,/                                                                                                                 O UD 
/ G  n   -   a   5       ,-                 t        v      ~~~       ~        ~      ~~~~~fM,  y'..                                                                                      330  .........  
=`V: =X~~~~~~~~~t                                                                                        --     ```S;a5    
BACOUNDAiiOf 
-f 0                         1oZ/-,~icirri j ~3O |00'                                                                                      1430'                                          i4003R E G I O N    OF    C A S A  l A N C E  '       r 
16 00  _     '   _~~~7.Z3vcoA                                                                                                       14- 5001'0lE3Vnor                                                                        _ J a                     >      ci



