Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2946a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A
FORESTRY PROJECT
January 22, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:   -  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           -  CFAF 210
CFAF 1 million   = US$4,762
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
METRIC
1 stere                        3  1 m3 of stacked roundwood
1 m3 natural forest firewood  -  1.6 steres - 640 kg
1 m3 Eucalyptus firewood       -  1.6 steres - 720 kg
24 Eucalyptus poles            -  1 m3
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE          Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
FAC           Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
ISRA          Institut Senegalais de Recherche Agricole
POU           Project Operations Unit
SEEP          Secretariat d'Etat aux Eaux et Forets
SODEVA        Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FORESTRY
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Senegal
Amount
of IDA Credit:  SDR 7.1 million (US$9.3 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:    The proposed project has been designed to meet the steadily
increasing demand for fuelwood and forest products in the
urban center of Dakar and in rural areas of the heavily
populated Groundnut Basin, where rapid population growth is
resulting in serious deforestation.
The project provides for: (i) establishment and mainte-
nance of 2,000 ha of state-managed tree plantations and
maintenance of 600 ha of pilot state-managed tree plantations;
(ii) establishment of rural rainfed tree plantations, of which
1,500 ha would be in family plantations and another 1,500 ha
would be in rural community plantations; (iii) improvement in
productivity and management of about 10,000 ha of existing
natural forests; (iv) financing an applied forestry research
program; (v) establishment and operation of a training center
to provide refresher courses for forestry agents; (vi)
strengthening the Forestry Department by providing a high
level forestry economist and consultants for the Planning
Division of the Forestry Department and establishment at
Kaffrine of a Project Operations Unit (POU); and (vii) con-
sulting services for studies. The Forestry Department Direc-
tor would be the overall supervisor of the project and would
pay special attention to the implementation of the project's
institution building aspects. Implementation of the forestry
operations, research and training components would be done
by the POU which would have its own Manager who would be
responsible to the Forestry Department Director. This unit
would be financially autonomous but would coordinate closely
with other units of the Forestry Department. In addition to
the quantifiable project benefits in increased wood produc-
tion,, the project would set the stage for an expanded program
of reafforestation and forestry management over the next five
years. The project would inevitably involve some risks, since
certain of these forest activities (particularly the estab-
lishment of rural tree plantations) are fairly new undertak-
ings in Senegal. However, measures have been proposed in the
project, such as timely preparation of plantations, and
improvement of efficiency of the Forestry Department to
minimize these risks.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Es tima ted
Project Cost:   A summary table of cost estimates is shown below:
Local Foreign Total
US$ million
I. FORESTRY OPERATIONS
Civil W4orks                                     0.4     0.3       0.7
Machinery and Vehicles                           0.1      0.9      1.0
Field Forestry Works
Operating Costs                               0.4     0.9       1.3
Seasonal Labor                               1.7       -        1.7
Permanent Staff                               0.3      _        0.3
Supervisory and Support Staff                 0.4      -        0.4
Expatriates and Consultants                       -      1.2       1.2
Other Operating Costs                            0.5     0.3       0.8
3.8     3.6       7.4
II.  TRAINING CENTER, APPLIED
RESEARCH PROGRAM AND OPERATIONS UNIT
Civil Works                                      0.2     0.2       0.4
Machinery and Vehicles                            -       0.1      0.1
Supervisory and Support Staff                    0.3      -        0.3
Expatriates and Consultants                       -      1.7       1.7
Other Operating Costs                            1.0     0.2       1.2
1.5     2.2       3.7
III.  STUDIES AND AUDIT 1/                       0.1     0.4       0.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                 5.4     6.2      11.6
CONTINGENCIES
- Physical                        0.3     0.3       0.6
- Price                           2.8     2.1       4.9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 2/                           8.5     8.6      17.1
1/   Including refunding of an advance of $50,000 from the Project
Preparation Facility that was made available by IDA to finance
some preliminary project preparation works.
2/   Net of identifiable taxes and import duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:    The financing plan is as follows:
Local Costs      Foreign Costs      Total      Percent
-------US$ million--------------
IDA                          4.7                4.6            9.3         55
CCCE                         2.0                1.4           3.4          20
FAC                           -                 1.8           1.8          10
UNDP/FAO                      -                 0.8            0.8          10
Government                   1.8                 -             1.8          10
Total                  8.5                 8.6          17.1         100
The IDA funds will be used to finance US$4.7 million of local costs.
Estimated
Disbursements:      FY81      FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86
Annual           p.m. 1/  2.2        2.0      1.8       1.9       1.4
Cumulative       p.m. 1/  2.2       4.2       6.0       7.9       9.3
Rate of Return:    The economic return on directly productive components
of the project (representing about 64 percent of pro-
ject costs) is estimated at 12.8 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 3120-SE dated December 15, 1980
Maps:               IBRD 15131 and 15132
1/   Comprising the $50,000 of funds under the PPF.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO T1HE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR A FORESTRY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of SDR
7.1 million (US$9.3 million) to help finance a Forestry Project. The Credit
would be on standard IDA terms. Additional external financing for the
proposed project is expected from the French Caisse Centrale de Coopera-
tion Economique (CCCE) in the form of a credit of about US$3.4 million
equivalent; also, grants would be provided by the French Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation (FAC) to finance three expatriate technical specialists at
an estimated cost of US$1.8 million; and by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) and the Food and Agriculture Organization (PAO) to finance
one expatriate training expert and specialized consulting services at a
total estimated cost of US$0.8 niillion.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a president-s report for a structural adjustment loan/credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, containing an expanded section on the
economic situation. The following paragraphs reflect the conclusions of these
reports. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstay of the tradi-
tional economy is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally
poor, and periodically food shortages occur in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins--some of them fed
in the tropical rain zone--have so far been exploited only marginally.
Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable
land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme southeast some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar,
the capital, a city of about one million inhabitants, the economic base of
which consists of excellent port facilities, an important industrial sector,
and a small but fast-growing tourism industry. With a population of 5.5
million, Senegal's per capita GNP for 1979 was estimated at US$429.
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual
stagnation as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per
annum, hardly more than the population. Two factors were responsible for
this situation. Firstly, with independence, Senegal lost its privileged



- 2 -
position as the center of French West Africa, and subsequently had to adapt
to its reduced economic, administrative, and political position. Secondly,
in the latter part of the decade, production of groundnuts (its principal
export) fell, due to unfavorable weather and declining export prices. -
5.        In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was hit by
sharp fluctuations in volumes and prices, and even with the achievement of
higher rates of both private and public investment, average annual growth
was not raised above the earlier 10 years' level.  Output and incomes
were depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a
century, which brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when
weather conditions improved, the purchasing power of the rural population
was substantially restored and both agricultural and industrial production
increased markedly. However, the late 1970s saw another series of bad
crops, which adversely affected the economy in 1978 and 1980 and will in
1981 also. The magnitude of these downswings is reflected in the variations
in groundnut crops; from a historical record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76,
output fell to less than 0.6 million tons in 1977/78; it recovered to about
1.0 million tons in 1978/79, but fell again, to less than 0.8 million tons
in 1979/80 and to a new low of about 0.5 million tons in 1980/81. Industrial
output (excluding groundnut processing) did grow at a fairly even rate of
about 5 percent a year. After recovery from the earlier droughts, real GDP
increased at about 5 percent between 1973 and 1977, but in 1978 it is
estimated to have declined by 9 percent reflecting the effect of the 1977/78
drought; similarly, due to the bad crops in 1979/80 GDP is expected to
remain below its 1977 level in 1980.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by
the price movements of Senegal's major export and import commodities. In
1974, the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, because of excep-
tionally high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity,
but in 1975 export prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed in
1976 by a fall in the export prices for phosphate rock. The recent increase
in oil prices brought a further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing
a loss in income of roughly 5 percent of GDP. These swings in international
prices, together with the fluctuations in output, had serious consequences
for domestic prices, public finance and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        The Government has shown some flexibility in adapting its finan-
cial policies to changes in the economic environment. In 1974, the retail
prices for rice, sugar and groundnut oil were raised by 40 to 90 percent in
order to reduce consumer subsidies that had ballooned following the price
hikes for these commodities on the world market. Government also aligned
producer prices for groundnuts closer to world prices which were particu-
larly high at that time. The loss of revenue to the Treasury because
of this latter step was expected to be compensated by additional revenues
from the phosphate mine, such as an 80 percent excess profits tax and
dividends from increased ownership. In 1974, the phosphate price quadrup-
led, and in 1974 and 1975, Government did indeed receive high revenues from
phosphates amounting to roughly US$45 million a year, or 12 percent of tax
receipts.



- 3 -
8.        Public savings after debt service rose from a yearly average of
US$25 million during 1971-73, to US$46 million during 1974-76. This higher
level of public savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating
Government to increase public investment outlays from a yearly average of
US$24 million to US$49 million during the same two periods. In addition,
however, Government purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
increased sharply, mainly because of the increased participation in the
phosphate mine and the acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility
companies. The total capital outlays of the Government were thus substan-
tially in excess of public savings, and were financed in large part through
medium-term foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt service
borne by the Government increased from US$8 million in 1972/73 to US$38
million in 1975/76, representing about 10 percent of its revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source. In the following year, Government raised
tax rates, limited recurrent expenditures, and undertook some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would fail, Government endeavored to avoid famine in the countryside
and maintain rural incomes by importing more cereals and absolving farmers'
debts; however, the added financial burden which these measures entailed was
not accompanied by reductions in capital expenditures, which were financed
through heavy commercial borrowing amounting to US$122 million in 1977 and
US$200 million in 1978. As a consequence, in 1980/81, when grace periods
are over, debt service obligations of the budget will reach about US$145
million (or 19.5 percent of Government revenues).
10.       In August 1978, the National Assembly was called from summer
recess to approve a new fiscal package amounting to US$20 million in addi-
tional revenues. The 1978/79 budget presented a tax reform aimed at
removing tariff distortions and administrative deficiencies, which also
increased Government receipts through reductions in exemptions. Further tax
measures in 1980/81 will bring the ratio of Government receipts to GDP to 29
percent, as compared to 19 percent in 1970/71 and 23 percent in 1976/77.
Balance of Payments
11.       Since 1973 the balance of payments has been under heavy pressure,
resulting in a very large negative balance in the net foreign assets by the
end of 1980. Underlying the deterioration in the external accounts is the
sluggish growth of exports combined with fast growing imports, leading to
increasing current account deficits that could not be covered anymore by
the normal flow of concessionary aid and an acceptable level of commercial
borrowing. Between 1974 and 1976 exceptional high phosphate revenues
slowed the deterioration in the current account, but Government's purchases
of large participations in existing enterprises, created considerable out-
flows of private foreign capital, and foreign reserves were not replenished.
The deterioration in the external accounts accelerated in 1978, fueled by
losses in groundnut revenues, strong import demand and the oil price hike,
and could not be arrested by EEC STABEX fund receipts, commercial borrow-
ings, nor the use of monetary union facilities and higher net short-term



-4-
commercial banks' liabilities. At the end of 1979, net foreign assets
stood at minus US$319 million, including drawings on the IMF of US$61
million. The balance of payments picture in 1980 is characterized by a
loss in groundnut revenues of almost US$200 million, partly due to the small
harvest and partly to exceptionally low world market prices. Moreover the
net effect of the 1979 increase in petroleum prices was close to US$90
million. The resulting deficit on the current account is expected to be
absorbed by the first tranche of an exceptional international aid package
amounting to almost US$300 million, of which US$101 million will be provided
by the IMF in the form of drawings on the Compensatory and Extended Fund
Facilities taking some pressure off the monetary union and the commercial
banks. Net foreign assets are expected to remain in the order of minus
US$323 million.
12.       Although exogenous factors such as droughts and variations in
world market prices explain part of the fall in net foreign assets since
1973, it is also due to more perennial factors such as sluggish growth of
export volumes, slow drawings on public aid commitments, increasing debt
service related to heavy reliance on commercial funds, and excessively
expansionary monetary policies. Senegal's basic problem has been the
failure of production and exports to respond to higher investment levels
and other expansionary policies.
Government's Economic and Financial Rehabilitation Program
13.       In December 1979, during his annual speech to the National As-
sembly, the Prime Minister explained the urgency of modifying prevailing
tendencies in the economy, and outlined a medium-term stabilization and
rehabilitation program. This program was informally but extensively dis-
cussed with the Bank and the Fund and provided the basis for an agreement
with the IMF for the purchase of US$243 million equivalent in currency under
the Extended Fund Facility, an agreement which was approved by the IMF Board
in August 1980, and a US$60 million structural adjustment loan/credit pre-
sented to the Board on December 18, 1980. The letter of intent from the
Government to the IDS and the statement of economic policy sent to the Bank
emphasized various aspects of the Government's program.
14.       The global objectives of the Government's program are to stabilize
the economy during the first two of the five years and to achieve a modestly
higher rate of economic growth of 4 percent a year in the following three
years.
15.       Under the program, public savings after debt service would in-
crease from about 1 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to over 3 percent of GDP in
1985, mainly through a freeze of recurrent expenditures in real terms. This
savings target would allow the Treasury to finance at least 15 percent
of the public investment program in the near future, to be improved to 25
percent by 1985. The 15 percent minimum contribution serves as a planning
basis and is likely to be exceeded in favorable years, but may fall short in
years of bad crops. Consequently, financing of local costs by foreign
donors for specific projects is likely to be essential.



- 5 -
16.       Increased private savings will be encouraged by the 2.5 percentage
points increase in interest rates on deposits and savings certificates (an
increase that was introduced in May 1980 together with a similar increase in
the rediscount rate of the Central Bank), and through the allocation of
preferential housing loans to borrowers with good savings performance. In
rural areas, the savings of farmers will be mobilized. However, the bulk of
private savings will have to come from private enterprises. To achieve this
goal, the Government has eased price policies and tightened credit policies, in
particular for non-productive projects.
17.       Recognizing that the recent bad crops and the ongoing savings
drive will dampen domestic demand and that production costs in Senegal are
high compared with foreign competition, the Government is taking steps to
provide more protection to domestic producers by raising import duties while
achieving greater uniformity in their application, and by subsidizing export
industries with excess capacity. This policy allows for the fact that
parity of the local currency is fixed in the framework of the monetary union
to which Senegal belongs.
18.       The level of investments is being reduced somewhat to facilitate
economic stabilization but is planned to increase moderately over the
five-year period of the Rehabilitation Plan. The emphasis of Government's
program is on a shift of total investments toward more productive projects.
A minimum rate of return requirement will weed out the less viable projects
in the public sector, and an improvement in the incentives for private
investors is expected to encourage private undertakings. The propensity to
invest in Senegal is still low because of limited domestic markets and high
production costs, and following the period of active state intervention,
private entrepreneurs have tended to seek Government participation or loan
guarantees for new ventures, to reduce their risks.
19.       The parapublic sector (public enterprises and mixed companies)
represents a serious drain on Government finances and will be placed on a
sounder footing through the conclusion of medium-term program contracts
("contrats-plan") between the Government and individual parapublic enter-
prises, that aim at setting sector objectives and reducing present levels of
budgetary support. More scope will be given to these enterprises to adjust
tariffs to more economic levels. Government's program imposes ceilings on
commercial borrowing abroad and restricts its use to enterprises and pro-
jects that generate a sufficient cash flow to service such debt. It intro-
duced a fee for Government guarantees on debts of mixed enterprises.
Treasury advances and loans to mixed enterprises in financial difficulties
have been drastically reduced and made conditional on the conclusion of a
program contract.
20.       In the agricultural sector, the liabilities resulting from the
uncovered recurrent expenditures of parapublic enterprises had accumulated
to the extent that the Treasury and, indirectly, the money and credit system
were threatened. Moreover, because of weak management, some public institu-
tions had become an obstacle to project implementation. In August 1980,
Government dissolved the central cooperative organization (ONCAD) which
controlled individual cooperatives, as well as the delivery of agricultural



- 6 -
inputs, the extension of agricultural credits and the marketing of crops,
restoring some of its functions to the private sector. The cooperatives
will be reorganized to assume responsibilities for agricultural credit
and seedstocks, and to allow greater farmer participation. Technical
assistance to cooperatives would in future be provided by the regional rural
development agencies that are in charge of extension services to the farmers.
The remaining parapublic agencies in the agricultural sector will also be
reorganized with a view to restore their financial soundness and increase
their operational efficiency. Subsidies on agricultural inputs were removed
with the exception of those for fertilizer for which studies are under way.
The agricultural reform will lead to a substantial reduction in the number
of staff, reduce the annual deficits that have been supported by the budget,
and may eventually allow higher net revenues to farmers.
Prospects
21.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for the development of areas
less afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops
other than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being
developed in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River.
This approach will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of
its climate and world market prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food
imports. The overhaul of institutions in the groundnut sector is expected
to restore production to previous levels and even to increase production by
1.8 percent a year if, in the medium term, the groundnut prices paid to the
farmer can be raised as expected. Agriculture research will be oriented
more to farm systems than to individual crops, with the objective of lowering
the costs of the agricultural techniques propagated, and better adaptation to
farmers needs.
22.       The Government also aims at a modest expansion of phosphate mining,
and development of light export industries and tourism; moreover, contracts
have been signed for construction of a ship-repair yard, and plans for a phos-
phoric acid plant are in an advanced stage. However, with limited prospects
for export growth in the groundnut sector, and because of the modest scale
of the export subsidy scheme, no spectacular improvements in export perfor-
mance can be expected. Government counts heavily on the implementation of a
number of large investments in irrigation to diminish the heavy dependence
on rice imports. However, since such investments have long gestation
periods and are difficult to implement, a cautious view of the long-term
outlook is warranted. Even if economic growth could be raised to a modest 4
percent a year between 1982 and 1985, the annual growth rate between 1977
and 1985, because of the decline in GDP in 1978 and 1980, would probably not
exceed 2.4 percent a year, which is still below population growth.
23.       The economic and financial rehabilitation plan, and the excep-
tional foreign aid based on it will help Senegal to overcome the effects of
the recent bad crops, the higher oil prices, and the high debt service built
up over the past five years. Strict implementation of this plan is there-
fore crucial for Senegal's prospects for economic growth and creditworthi-
ness.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
24.       The Bank Group has had 48 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding funds amount to US$345.5 million, including 25 IDA credits, 14
Bank loans, four blends of Bank and IDA funds, four IFC operations, and one
blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of November 30, 1980, and notes
on the implementation of ongoing projects. Physical execution of these pro-
jects is progressing reasonably well, although some operations are affected
by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the Government's continuing
difficult public finance situation, as well as by lack of qualified local
staff for key positions. But institutional bottlenecks in several sectors
constitute the largest obstacle to efficient project implementation.
25.       The Government is well aware of the need to increase absorptive
capacity and particularly of the importance of assuring good management
supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect, the ongoing
Para-public Sector Technical Assistance Project initiates and implements
measures necessary to resolve on a sectorwide basis some of the issues
regarding financial management and Government control of public enterprises
and mixed companies, particularly those that are channels for Bank Group
assistance. The project, now at its halfway stage, is progressing reason-
ably well despite a difficult start but it is still too early to assess its
impact. The Government created in late 1978 an Inter-ministerial Committee
(Comite de Relance des Investissements) which works closely with foreign aid
donors, to expedite preparation of new investment projects, and to identify
bottlenecks in project execution and take remedial action. The work of this
committee has already begun to produce some positive results, and will be
strengthened under the recently approved Technical Assistance Project for
Economic and Financial Planning through reinforcement of its secretariat.
26.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1979-85 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 52
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed
debt was 18 percent in 1979, and will remain at around that level until
1985. The Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase
from 3.8 percent in 1980 to about 7 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainly
due to the increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total
outstanding and disbursed funds to Senegal to about 41 percent by 1985.
27.       The Bank Group's project financing and economic and sector work,
which is designed to support the Government's development strategy, has
five main objectives. First, priority continues to be given to rural
development, including development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley
Region, rainfed agriculture in the well-watered southern regions of the
country, intensification of groundnut production and diversification into
new crops and new regions, national projects for improvement of agricultural
research and for reforestation, and a Small Rural Operations Project which
was approved in FY80. Agricultural lending over the next few years is
expected to account for about 20 percent of the total. Second, the Bank
Group has supported diversification of the economy by lending to the growing



industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Develop-
pement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974, and through an
ongoing project for development of tourism infrastructure. Third, Bank
Group projects have supported modernization and expansion (where economi-
cally desirable) of the country's infrastructure. A Second Aviation Project
was approved in FY79 and a Fourth Highway Project in FY80. An engineering
project approved in FY79 finances studies and technical assistance for water
supply and sanitation development in eleven secondary centers and is expected
to pave the way for future Bank Group involvement in that sector. Similarly
the Power Engineering Project should identify possibilities for Bank financing
in this sector. Fourth, assistance in the field of social services is being
provided under the Third Education Project approved in FY79 to help the
Government re-orient and expand the country's education system at all levels.
Bank strategy in the education sector has focussed on: (a) meeting the need
for trained high- and middle-level managers and technicians in the modern
sector and in agricultural development activities, by supporting technical
training in secondary schools and specialized institutions for technician
training; and (b) improving access to primary education, particularly in
rural areas. The Bank remains conscious of the need to support the social
services (within the limits of the Government's ability to bear the recur-
rent costs involved) by preparing carefully identified projects; to that
end, funds under the Project Preparation Facility were approved recently for
a proposed Primary Health Care Project. Finally, continuing assistance is
being provided to help Government increase its absorptive capacity for
planning, executing, and managing development projects through institutional
support within individual Bank Group projects. Several Bank Group opera-
tions, notably in tourism, telecommunications, port infrastructure, loans
to SOFISEDIT, and in airport development, have the additional merit of
generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.
28.       While project aid is vital, Senegal's long-observed economic
stagnation and the deep-seated problems that have culminated in the present
crisis call for additional, special remedies. One is economic advice. In
1979, for instance, the Bank helped Government devise a policy package aimed
at improving the balance of payments while maintaining whatever growth
momentum was left in the economy, through waste reductions, cutting consumer
subsidies, and higher taxes on urban dwellers, rather than through cuts in
groundnut producer prices or curtailing productive investments. Second,
and far more importantly, Government's needs for financial and technical
assistance during the period of structural adjustment have led the Bank/IDA
to propose the Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit which was presented to the
Board in December 1980.
PART III - THE FORFSTRY SECTOR
A. The Rural Environment
29.       Senegal has a total land area of almost 200,000 km2 and a
population of about 5.5 million (1979 estimate). The urbanized population



_ q _
represents about 30 percent of the total. The rural population is in-
creasing at 2.1 percent per year as against 4 percent for the urban popu-
lation (total 2.7 percent). About 60 percent of the rural population is
concentrated within about 150 km of Dakar in the central groundnut basin.
Significance of the Rural Sector for the Economy
30.       Despite poor soils and erratic rainfall, and although its contri-
bution to GDP is much lower than in most countries of West Africa, the rural
sector remains a key one in the Senegalese economy. In the last five years the
sector accounted for about 35 percent of GDP; with crops accounting for about
60 percent, livestock 18 percent, fishing 15 percent and forestry 7 percent of
this total. The sector also produces half of export income (of which ground-
nuts represent 90 percent) and employs about 70 percent of the labor force.
Almost all rural sector output is produced by small-scale farm units from
rainfed agriculture, though there exists diversity in farm size, labor avail-
ability, ownership of agricultural capital, productivity and revenues.
31.       Government in February 1972 launched a major administrative reform
program to encourage greater popular participation in local affairs and
development, through the creation of Rural Community Councils or "Communautes
Rurales". These are the smallest administrative units above the village level
and generally cover about 40 villages with a total population of 10,000
people. The reform has been successfully implemented in several regions and
the project proposed in this report would work through these rural community
councils to establish the community plantations (see para. 46(b)). Recently,
the Government has recognized that a further reorganization of the rural
sector is called for in order to counteract the stagnation in agricultural
production and exports. Under the Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit, the
Bank would be associated with the Government in financing studies to restruc-
ture institutions and policies in the agricultural sector.
B. The Forestry Sector
Forest Cover.
32.       Distribution of the natural forest cover (about 10 million ha) is
heavily influenced by rainfall (see Map IBRD 15131). Forest and fauna re-
serves, parks, and controlled forest areas cover about 7 million ha. Forest
plantations cover some 15,000 ha, mostly for production of fuelwood and
building poles. Numerous woodlots have been planted by villagers, schools,
youth organizations and other groups, but many of them are in poor condition
due to lack of maintenance; however, as wood becomes more scarce, there are
encouraging signs that people are taking better care of their plantations.
Significance of Forestry for the Economy
33.       Fuelwood accounts for 60 percent of domestic energy consumption.
The forest areas are a significant dry-weather grazing reserve, and supply
an important part of the fodder required for sustaining nomadic populations.
Subsidiary forestry products such as gums, various fruits and nuts, as well
as thiatching and weaving materials and other forest products, are widely



- 10 -
used by the rural population. The forests have pronounced climatic effects,
mainly through the provision of shade, which help to protect the soil and
aid temperature regulation in both human and livestock populations. Tree
and shrub roots fix the soil and protect it against wind and rain erosion,
and in some areas improve soil fertility by tapping soil nutrients at
appreciable depths and returning them to soil surface layers through the
shedding of leaves.
Consumption of Forest Products
34.       As a result of population growth and rising demand for forest
products, as well as extension of farming and grazing areas, forest re-
sources are being decimated in an area of some 200 km around Dakar and, in
the last thirty years, the natural forest cover all over the country has
been reduced by about one third. Future fuelwood supplies for Dakar will of
necessity have to come from more and more remote areas of natural forest in
Sine Saloum, Eastern Senegal, and Casamance. The situation can be remedied
by better management of natural forests and the establishment of large- and
small-scale, fast-growing tree plantations, as close as possible to Dakar
but, because of the lack of available land, outside of the heavily populated
areas of the Groundnut Basin. Because of climatic and ecological limita-
tions, such forestry operations can only be undertaken in the forest zones
of Thies and the east-central part of Senegal. USAID is currently financing
a project in the Thies area, and the project proposed in the present report
would be in the east-central regions.
Exploitation of Forest Products
35.       Unlike the situation in many other West African countries, marketing
of forest products is well organized in Senegal. Exploitation of the forest
may be done by forestry cooperatives, forestry companies (sawmills and match-
producing operations), or private individuals.   These groups, however,
need to obtain licenses for wood-cutting and collection from the Forestry
Department. The majority of fuelwood so produced is sold in the urban
markets, with about 80 percent going to Dakar. Both the cost of the permit
and retail prices for firewood and charcoal are fixed by Government, with
the consequence that in periods of high demand or low supply the wholesale
price in Dakar exceeds the official retail price, especially for charcoal.
In such cases, retailers adjust the weight in order to obtain a profit.
Substitutes and Better Uses for Wood
36.       Despite the increasing prices of fuelwood, demand and consumption
remain quite high among Senegalese households both in the urban and rural
areas. The Government in recent years has tried to reduce the rate of urban
fuelwood use (and hence decrease the rate of deforestation) by instituting a
"butanization" campaign in the Dakar area through a large subsidy (62
percent) on butane gas. This policy has assumed, a priori, that butane gas
substitutes for fuelwood. Observations in Senegal and data from elsewhere
(especially in the Middle East) indicate that there is a high consumer
preference for fuelwood and, even when butane gas prices are several times
lower than fuelwood as in Senegal, consumers would still purchase the latter



- 11 -
in large quantities. Furthermore, gas is a non-renewable fossil fuel, the
price of which would certainly increase in real terms over the coming
decades and such price increases would further limit its use. Other fuels,
like kerosene and electricity, are even less widely used in Senegal and
their substitutability for fuelwood would be subject to the same constraints.
In the rural areas, the fuelwood shortage has not been acute up to now. If
continuous deforestation reduces available fuelwood supplies, however, the
use of farm products as fuel would reduce fodder for livestock, stalks for
housing and animal manure for fertilization. The use of manure for fuel
especially could affect crop production, because manure serves as an impor-
tant fertilizer on the fields adjacent to village compounds.
37.       In order to meet household energy demands, therefore, Senegal in-
tends in the near future not only to improve forestry production, but also
the efficiency of converting firewood to charcoal as well as the energy
yields of cooking stoves. This question has not been addressed in the
proposed project because it is the subject of a detailed ongoing USAID/VITA
renewable energy project to develop more efficient cooking stoves. Whether
or not this program meets its objectives, the residual energy demand to be
met by firewood or charcoal is so large that there is no risk of overplanting
over the planned five-year project period.
Alternative Sources of Fuelwood
38.       A theoretical possibility would be for the less wooded sahelian
countries to import fuelwood mainly in the form of charcoal from their more
wooded neighbors where, because of high rainfalls, artificial plantations
and natural forests would have yields about three to four times higher than
in the Sahel. In the context of this project a financial analysis was made
of importing charcoal from Liberia and comparing it with that produced in
Senegal. Liberia has been chosen because it is the nearest country which has
data on costs of industrial charcoal production and, although not yet a
charcoal exporter, it is the most likely source of supply to Senegal. On a
financial basis, imported charcoal would cost at the wholesale level in
Dakar about the same as charcoal produced in Senegal from plantations. In
economic prices, the cost of comparison moves in favor of fuelwood produced
in Senegal. Thus, given: (i) the uncertainty in imports, because of a lack
of a well established international charcoal market; (ii) the absence of any
well organized charcoal exporting enterprises in the countries of the
region; and (iii) the absence of any comparative disadvantage in producing
fuelwood domestically, it would make sense for Senegal to have its own
fuelwood plantations.
C. Forestry Institutions
39.       Government, which  is becoming increasingly concerned with the
need for conservation and management of natural resources, has recently
created a permanent State Secretariat for Forestry and Inland Fisheries
(Secretariat d-Etat aux Eaux et Forets--SEEF) within the Ministry of Rural
Development (MDR) to facilitate coordination and better integration of
forestry activities in the rural sector. The Forestry Department, which is
under SEEF, has, up to now, emphasized controlling forestry resources and



- 12 -
has no formal structure for establishment of tree plantations or management
of natural forests on a large-scale basis. The two divisions at Forestry
Department headquarters responsible for forestry production and reafforesta-
tion have a total staff of less than ten and would therefore not be able to
undertake any large-scale reafforestation or natural forest management in
addition to their other duties, without the assistance proposed in this
project.
D. Training and Research
40.       Forestry training is provided for forestry technicians, and for
middle-level personnel at institutions that are under the Ministry of Higher
Education. Forestry education curricula need to be modified to emphasize
reafforestation as well as state management of natural forests, and to
provide field staff with appropriate refresher courses. The proposed
project makes appropriate provisions for such training (para. 49). Senior
forestry officers have until now been trained abroad, but will in future be
trained at the Institut National de Developpement Rural to be established
under the IDA/CCCE-financed Third Education Project (Cr. 908-SE). The
National Forestry Research Center is part of the Senegalese Agricultural
Research Institute (Institut Senegalais de Recherche Agricole--ISRA). These
organizations are formally linked to the State Secretariat for Scientific
and Technical Research responsible directly to the Prime Minister. Several
major research programs aimed at improving forestry technical packages are
being satisfactorily implemented by the Center (para. 48).
E.   Ongoing Activities in the Sector
41.       As part of its strategy for this subsector, Government has asked
FAC and CCCE to finance, under a Sahelian emergency fund, a forestry master
plan, preparation of which has just begun and should be completed by late
1981. The objectives of the proposed project are in line with the master
plan priorities as defined by Government. Within the framework of its Fifth
Development Plan (1977-81), and with the assistance of several sources of
foreign aid, the Forestry Department is carrying out several small-and
medium-scale pilot or experimental forestry projects. The results of these
projects have not, however, been uniform. Some have had satisfactory results
(such as family plantations in Sine Saloum and sand dune stabilization);
others have had less satisfactory results (such as fodder tree plantations
and state-managed rainfed tree plantations). These uneven results are
mainly due to the lack of means and capacity of the Forestry Department and
to the competition between forests, cropping and grazing requirements, which
in some areas give rural populations little incentive to participate in
forestry projects.
F.   The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
42.       The Bank Group has financed forestry activities within the frame-
work of four previous Credits. The Drought Relief Project (Credit 446-SE)
provided financing for a bushfire control subproject to conserve dry season
pasture and retain tree cover (construction of 60 km of firebreaks). This



- 13 -
subproject completed in 1977 was a successful operation and permitted con-
trol of about 60 percent of the total number of fires reported in 1975/76
and 1976/77, a significant improvement over pre-project periods. This
finding was confirmed in the Project Performance Audit Report of July 2,
1979. The following projects are still under implementation. The Sine
Saloum Agricultural Development Project (Credit 549-SE/Loan 1113-SE) pro-
vided financing for a rural tree plantation component aimed at promoting the
planting of trees for windbreaks and fuel through the distribution of
planting materials. Tree planting has had varied results with high planting
rates for eucalyptus for building poles and fruit trees, successful implemen-
tation of family neem nurseries, and average planting rates for windbreaks.
The Eastern Senegal Livestock Project (Credit 644-SE) is providing financing
for the construction of about 2,400 km of firebreaks to protect the range,
and consequently trees and shrubs, against bushfires. The Small Rural
Operations Project (Credit 991-SE) provides financing to establish woodlots,
of which half act as windbreaks (60 ha), within the small rice perimeters
subproject.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A.   Background
43.       In October 1978, the Government of Senegal asked the Association
to help finance a project for reafforestation and natural forestry manage-
ment, and to help strengthen the Forestry Department. A joint IDA/CCCE
reconnaissance mission visited the country in February 1979 and recommended
the start of preparation work on a project for possible external financing.
Since much of the data considered necessary for project preparation was
already available, the mission-s report was expanded to the status of a
draft preparation report issued in August 1979. After further elaboration
of the report and detailed review and acceptance of the proposals by Govern-
ment services, the project was appraised in April 1980 by a joint IDA/CCCE/
FAC mission, assisted in the field by a representative of FAO and a Senega-
lese sociologist/geographer. Continued preparation work in the form of soil
surveys and provision of expert financial and accounting services is being
financed under an advance of US$50,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
approved in September 1980. Negotiations for the proposed Credit were held
in Washington in November with a Senegalese delegation led by the Minister
of the Plan Mr. Louis Alexandrenne. A representative of FAC was present at
negotiations.
B. Project Objectives and Description
44.       The primary objective of the proposed project is to improve
supplies of fuelwood and building poles for rural and urban populations.
The project includes the following components: (i) establishment and
maintenance of 2,000 ha of state-managed tree plantations and maintenance of
600 ha of pilot state-managed tree plantations; (ii) establishment of rural
rainfed tree plantations, of which 1,500 ha would be in family plantations



- 14 -
and another 1,500 ha would be in rural community plantations; (iii) improve-
ment in productivity and management of about 10,000 ha of existing natural
forests; (iv) financing an applied forestry research program; (v) establish-
ment and operation of a training center to provide refresher courses for
forestry agents; (vi) strengthening the Forestry Departments by providing a
high level forestry economist and consultants for the Planning Division of
the Forestry Department and establishment at Kaffrine of a Project Operations
Unit (POU); and (vii) consulting services for studies.
C. Detailed Features of the Project
45.       State-managed rainfed tree plantations.  About 2,000 ha of rainfed
tree plantations would be established in several blocks already exploited by
private loggers in the forest reserves located between Kaffrine and Koumpen-
toum. Plantation sites have been identified from results of the preliminary
soil surveys carried out under FAC/CCCE financing and additional surveys
financed under the PPF. The results of these soil surveys were provided
prior to negotiations. Plantation works as well as all the other field
forestry works under the proposed project, would be carried out by force
account with material provided largely by the ongoing FAC/CCCE pilot project
in Kaffrine and additional machinery and equipment provided under the
proposed project. Experience to date has demonstrated better survival and
faster growth rates when land preparation has been carried out with machi-
nery rather than manual labor. The project also provides for the simulta-
neous construction and maintenance, also by force account, of access roads,
tracks, firebreaks and accommodation for laborers and supervisory and
support staff. The work program would include nursery improvement, clearing
and destumping, land preparation, ripping, planting and weeding. Since one
of the aims of the proposed project is improvement of know-how on state-
managed plantations, the project would also maintain the 600 ha of planta-
tions established in the Kaffrine area under the FAC/CCCE financed pilot
project.
46.       Rural rainfed tree plantations.  This component attempts to
improve the extent of participation of the rural population in the reaffores-
tation effort. If successful, particularly where its cost recovery mecha-
nisms are concerned, the project would set the stage for a second phase
project that would give greater emphasis to rural tree plantations.
(a) Family plantations. Seedlings would be provided to rural popula-
tions at cost from existing nurseries that are to be improved or
rehabilitated under the project (Section 3.08(a) of the draft
Credit Agreement). The project would also provide nursery and
fencing supplies to improve and develop family nurseries estab-
lished under the ongoing IDA/CCCE Sine Saloum Agricultural Develop-
ment Project (Loan 1113-SE/Credit 549-SE). Seedlings would be
provided through established extension services which would offer
technical advice and follow up on results. Working agreements on
seedling distribution and extension support would be reached
between the Forestry Department and several rural development
agencies, and an agreement with SODEVA, acceptable to IDA, should



- 15 -
be signed before providing the first seedlings to farmers in Sine
Saloum. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotia-
tions.
(b) Rural Community Tree Plantations. The project would provide
assistance to rural populations, through their Rural Communities,
in establishing medium-scale tree plantations (about 5 ha each).
The project would provide tree seedlings at cost (Section 3.08(a)
of the draft Credit Agreement), and machinery to carry out ripping
and forest weedings as well as to construct firebreaks. Part of
the operating costs would be recovered through wood sales. To
that effect, the POU, through the Forestry Department, would enter
into an agreement with the Rural Communities which would be
reviewed by IDA, before providing them with machinery and other
services, that 20 percent of all wood sales at maturity from
community plantations would be paid to the Forestry Department as
the community's contribution towards the cost of establishing its
plantations (Section 3.09 of the draft Credit Agreement). The
project would finance about 75 percent of the manual labor required,
while rural communities would provide the remaining 25 percent as
free labor; but project management would pay special attention to
increasing the unremunerated participation of the rural population
as the project progresses. The work program would be similar to
that of the state-managed tree plantations (see para. 45). These
rural community tree plantations should, in the medium-term,
constitute the main element of a network whereby a wooded land-
scape would be re-established in the relatively populated areas.
Wood produced from the rural community tree plantations is expected
to amount to 64 m3 per hectare over a sixteen year period, of
which 80 percent would be fuelwood and 20 percent would be building
poles. Between 50 to 75 percent of the fuelwood and building
poles produced would be used by the participating villages in
their respective rural communities and the remainder would be sold
by these communities to derive resources for repayment to the
Forestry Department and for the communities- own investments.
47.       Natural forest management.  Management of the Koumpentoum forest
reserve (about 10,000 ha) in Sine Saloum and Eastern Senegal would be
undertaken on a large-scale -experimental basis in order to define effi-
cient techniques for natural forest management allowing better natural
regeneration and regrowth. Application of the selected techniques would be
preceded by the setting up of a working plan including division of the
forest reserve into compartments, undertaking of a forestry inventory,
marking of trees, construction of access roads, tracks and firebreaks, as
well as building of accommodations for laborers, supervisory and support
staff. Promising results have been obtained from similar natural forests in
other countries in West Africa, with sustained yields increasing from 0.5
m3/ha/year up to 2.0 m3/ha/year. It is estimated that about 15 man-days
of labor input per hectare would be required over five years.
48.       Applied Research Program.  The project would finance an applied
forestry research program, to be headed by an internationally recruited



- 16 -
forestry researcher. Given the lack of well-adapted forestry technical
packages for arid and semi-arid zones, special emphasis would be given to
trials with fast-growing species, seed selection, plantation and natural
forest management techniques. The researcher to be seconded by ISRA would
be based in the Project Operations Unit (see para. 54 below) to be estab-
lished at project headquarters in Kaffrine (Section 3.02(b) of the draft
Credit Agreement). The Forestry Department would sign a working agreement
with ISRA for the secondment, and would elaborate jointly with ISRA a
well-defined research program appropriate to project needs and within the
framework of the national research effort (para 40). The agreement with
ISRA, acceptable to IDA, should be signed before establishing the applied
research unit. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
49.       Training.  The project would establish and operate a training center
at Kahone to provide refresher courses on state-managed and rural reafforesta-
tion techniques for project staff dealing with field activities, and occasional
training opportunities for other forestry staff not directly related to the
project, as well as for trainees of the existing forestry schools at Bambey
and Ziguinchor. Appropriate training would also be provided for extension
personnel of the rural development agencies and center staff would provide
on-the-job training to project staff. Annual curricula for courses to be
offered at the training center would be reviewed and agreed with IDA (Section
3.10 of the draft Credit Agreement). Additionally, the project provides for
short-term fellowships for forestry officers. The center would be headed by
an internationally-recruited forestry training specialist for a total of 4.5
years.
50.       Planning, Monitoring and Economic Studies.  The project provides
for strengthening the Planning Division at Forestry Department headquarters
in Dakar. The Division would be assisted by an internationally recruited
economist with a background in forestry (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Credit
Agreement), who would report directly to the Director of the Forestry Depart-
ment. The Division would help the Department to plan and install a regula-
tory system that would permit a more balanced and economic exploitation of
Senegal's forests and ensure a more systematic renewal and extension of
forestry resources in the country. The POU would provide IDA with semi-
annual reports on project progress and evaluation and would prepare the
completion report (Section 3.06(d) and (e) of the draft Credit Agreement).
51.       Studies and Audits.  To ensure proper accounting and financial
control, the project would finance one man-month of audit services each year
over the project period. The project would also provide consulting services
to assist the Planning Division of the Forestry Department to carry out
three complementary studies:
(a) a rural forestry study (12 man-months): receptivity of rural
populations to afforestation in Senegal has been limited by
several constraints tied to land availability and tenure systems,
competition with crop production, and the institutional support
given to such activities. The project would finance 12 man-month3
of consultant services to carry out a study aimed at identifying
and overcoming the constraints of large-scale rural reafforestatiorn;



- 17 -
(b) an economic study (3 man-months): the project would finance
three man-months of consultant services to assist the Planning
Division of the Forestry Department in its work on economic
aspects of the forestry subsector concerning optimal pricing,
marketing structures and policies for forestry production, and
recurrent cost implications of all forestry activities in the
country, including the proposed project. The Division would also
study the comparative benefits and costs of state-managed and
rural forestry operations in different parts of the country;
(c) a project preparation study (3 man-months): the proposed con-
sulting services would be provided only in the last two years of
the present project to prepare a second-phase operation and would
take into account the findings and recommendations of the studies
described in (a) and (b) above. The Government and IDA would
exchange views from time to time on the progress of the rural
forestry and economic studies, and on means to implement the
recommendations of the study (section 3.06(b) (ii) of the draft
Credit Agreement).
D. Project Costs and Financing
52.       The cost of the proposed project (net of identifiable taxes
and import duties from which the project would be exempt) is estimated at
US$17.1 million equivalent, of which US$8.6 million (about 50 percent) are
foreign exchange costs. Total costs include physical contingencies equal to
10 percent of estimated costs for civil works, machinery and vehicles,
forestry works operating costs and inputs, and other operating costs. The
allowance for expected price increases over the five years of the project is
about 40 percent of base costs plus physical contingencies. Average costs
of short-term consultant services, which total 36 man-months, are estimated
at US$11,900 per man-month (including benefits and subsistence); average
costs of expatriate staff (a total of six for a combined total of 28 man-
years) are estimated at US$100,000 per man-year, of which about US$60,000
represents salary and benefits.
53.       The financing plan is as follows:
(a) FAC would provide three expatriates (Workshop Manager, Forestry
Technical Advisor, and Forestry Researcher) for a total of 13.5
man-years, valued at about US$1.8 million or 10.5 percent of
total costs;
(b) CCCE would finance through a credit, the terms and conditions of
which are yet to be negotiated, about 19.9 percent of the total
costs (or 40 percent of infrastructure, all light machinery and
vehicles, and 40 percent of forestry works), which would amount to
about US$3.4 million;
(c) UNDP/FAO would provide one expatriate training specialist for the
training center (4.5 man-years) and consultants for the rural
forestry study (12 man-months) valued at a total of about US$0.8
million or 4.7 percent of total costs;



- 18 -
(d) The Senegal Government would pay salaries of civil servants (US$0.7
million), support staff (US$0.5 million) as well as part of the
operating costs (US$0.5 million), which will be appropriated in the
"Budget d'Equipement" (section 3.02(e) of the draft Credit Agree-
ment). The total of the Senegal Government's contribution, includ-
ing receipts from seedlings and wood sales (about US$0.1 million),
would amount to about US$1.8 million or 10.5 percent of total costs;
(e) IDA would finance the remaining project costs amounting to about
US$9.3 million (55 percent of total costs), of which US$4.7
million would be local costs.
Meeting all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the proposed
CCCE Credit and FAC and UNDP/FAO grants would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Credit Agree-
ment). As indicated in paras 58 and 59, CCCE financing would be a mix of
parallel and pari passu financing, depending on the total amount that is
being financed by CCCE of each component.
E. Project Execution
54.       The Forestry Department Director would be the overall supervisor
of the project and would pay special attention to the project's institution-
building aspects. Implementation of the forestry operations, research and
training components would be done by a Project Operations Unit (POU) to be
set up at Kaffrine, with its own manager responsible to the Forestry Depart-
ment Director (Section 3.02(a), (b) and (c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The unit would be responsible for execution of all project activities other
than the studies; and it would be responsible for coordinating the activi-
ties of different agencies and institutions and other divisions of the
Forestry Department that would be involved in the execution of the project.
A Senegalese forestry officer has been nominated as the Operations Manager
and he would be assisted by forestry specialists including a forestry
officer responsible for the tree plantations and natural forest management;
a forestry technical advisor; a financial expert responsible for finance and
administration; and a workshop manager responsible for the upkeep of heavy
project machinery and equipment (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Credit Agree-
ment). Most of these specialists would be expatriates working with Senega-
lese professionals, and the expatriates would provide training for those
skills which the country is not yet able to furnish (see para. 54). The
Government has agreed to provide the required number of professionals to
work with the expatriates (Section 3.02(d) of the draft Credit Agreement).
The Government has agreed that the Operations Manager and all posts to be
filled by key staff would have qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA (section 3.02(c) of the draft Credit Agreement). Establishment of the
POU and appointment of the Operations Manager and specialists in charge of
tree plantation and natural forest management, finance and administration,
as well as the forestry technical advisor, would be a condition of effective-
ness (Section 6.01(b) and (c) of the draft Credit Agreement).
55.       The POU would prepare an annual work program and budget which
would be forwarded before the beginning of each fiscal year to IDA for



- 19 -
its approval (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). The POU would
have some degree of financial autonomy with only a posteriori expenditure
control, with the exception of contracts for major items to be awarded on
the basis of competitive bidding (para. 58). The POU would keep separate
accounts for the proposed project, and evidence of establishment of the
project accounting system, which is being prepared under the PPF (see para
57), would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Credit (Section
6.01(d) of the draft Credit Agreement).
56.       The Government has little capacity to prefinance expenditures to
be reimbursed under the IDA Credit and preparation and planting periods
during the rainy season are short; therefore a revolving fund of US$0.5
million, financed by an advance of $300,000 from the IDA Credit and of
$200,000 from the CCCE Credit, would be established in a special account to
avoid any delays in plantings. This account would be opened in a commercial
bank in Dakar, and would be managed by the POU under terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA. IDA would replenish the account upon receipt of evidence
of disbursements from the revolving fund for allowable expenditures. Should
any disbursements be made from the revolving fund which are not acceptable
to IDA, the Government would deposit the corresponding amount in the account
(Section 2.02 of the draft Credit Agreement). A project account would also
be opened in the Treasury for handling the Government's contribution.
Opening of the two project accounts as well as Government's payment of its
initial deposit of CFAF 8.4 million (US$40,000), representing its estimated
quarterly contribution to project costs, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). The project-s
Government account would be replenished at least quarterly on the basis of
supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and cash forecasts made
by project management in order to have sufficient funds to meet project
expenditures for the following three months (Section 3.03 of the draft
Credit Agreement).
57.       To accelerate project implementation scheduled to begin in July
1981, some preliminary project works are being undertaken in 1980 and
early 1981, for which, the Government applied for an advance of US$50,000
from the Project Preparation Facility, which would be refinanced by the
Credit. These funds are financing: (a) complementary soil surveys in
1980-81 of the forest reserves located between Kaffrine and Koumpentoum not
covered by the ongoing FAC/CCCE financed soil surveys; and (b) financial
consulting services (one man-month) to prepare the project accounting system
prior to project implementation.
Procurement
58.       Procurement of heavy machinery and tractors to be financed under
the IDA Credit that are similar in nature and time of purchase, would be
grouped in packages of over US$100,000 where possible and would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
IDA guidelines. ICB is expected to cover US$0.5 million. Domestically
manufactured goods would be allowed a preference of 15 percent, or the
applicable level of import duties, whichever is lower. Contracts for these
items for less than US$100,000 but for more than US$25,000 would be procured



- 20 -
on the basis of competitive bidding procedures advertised locally and
contracts for less than US$25,000 would be procured by direct shopping on
the basis of at least three quotations (the amounts involved are expected to
be US$0.4 million); these procurement procedures permit foreign participa-
tion through local agents. All light vehicles, motorcycles and trucks
(US$0.7 million) would be financed under the CCCE credit. Because of their
location and small size, contracts for civil works, houses, offices and
wor~kshops (a total of US$1.6 million of which US$1.0 million would be
financed by IDA) are known to be unattractive for international contractors
and would, therefore, be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding adver-
tised locally. Services of expatriates and consultants (US$4.4 million of
which US$1.8 million to be financed by IDA) would be obtained in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA. Field forestry works (total of US$5.2
million of which US$3.1 million to be financed by IDA) would be done through
force account. The remaining project items (US$4.3 million, of which US$2.5
million financed by IDA) would not be suitable for competitive bidding as
they would involve: (a) wages, salaries and allowances; (b) operating costs
of machinery, equipment, vehicles and offices; and (c) scholarships and
training.
Disbursement
59.       Proceeds from the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed over five
years as follows:
(a) 60 percent of civil works costs (US$0.8 million);
(b) 100 percent ofKheavy machinery and tractors (US$0.9 million);
(c) 60 percent of field forestry works including operating costs and
inputs, seasonal labor and permanent staff (US$2.8 million);
(d) 100 percent of expatriate and consultant salaries excluding
salaries paid by FAC and UNDP/FAO (US$1.45 million);
(e) 80 percent of all project operating or supervisory staff costs not
directly related to the field forestry works (US$2.1 million);
(f) Revolving Fund (US$300,000); and
(g) Refunding of PPF (US$50,000).
An amount of US$0.9 million would be unallocated. Applications for credit
withdrawal would be fully documented, except for those under (c) and (e)
above which would be against certified statements of expenditures; documen-
tation for these will be held by the Forestry Department and will be veri-
fied by the independent auditors, as well as reviewed by IDA Supervision
missions (Section 4.02 of the draft Credit Agreement).
F.   Financial and Economic Analysis of the Project
60.       Production and Marketing.  At full project development in PY9
annual wood production would be about 45,800 m3 (excluding 6,000 m3 of



- 21 -
wood to be produced under the FAC/CCCE pilot operation and maintained under
the proposed project). In both tree plantations and natural forests about
80 percent of incremental wood produced through the project would be used as
firewood; in tree plantations, the remaining 20 percent would be building
poles, but in natural forests the balance would be both timber and building
poles. Given the shortage of fuelwood from natural forest sources, no
marketing difficulties are foreseen for project output which would be less
than 6 percent of current Dakar demand. Building poles are already being
imported from neighboring Guinea Bissau; thus the poles to be produced by
the project should find a ready market given the consequent lower transport
costs from the project site to the consumption centers. Timber products
from Senegal's forests are of high quality and timber from the project
should be easily marketed to local sawmills and artisans.
61.       Prices.  Government is now fully aware that wood from natural
forests can no longer be considered a "free good" and that the low permit
price charged for fuelwood from these forests has led to increased demand
and unduly rapid exploitation of fuelwood resources. Adequate measures
would need to be taken to ensure that, through reasonable pricing policies,
fuelwood is used economically and incentives are given to individual farmers
and communities that would want to establish plantations. Thus, official
permit and retail prices would need to be monitored carefully during imple-
mentation. The Government has agreed to review, in consultation with IDA,
and not later than December 1982 its stumpage pricing policy, so that
increased stumpage prices will reflect the value of wood to the economy and
encourage wood conservation. The Government would also harmonize the
stumpage price of firewood from all sources by bringing the price of the
permit for cutting wood from natural forests to about 30 percent of that from
plantations by 1986 and to about 80 percent by 1990 (Section 4.04 of the draft
Credit Agreement). The average annual fuelwood output from the project would
not be enough to meet annual increases in consumption due to population
growth; in the medium-term, therefore, real prices of fuelwood and, because of
shortages, of building poles, would keep increasing.
62.       Over the five-year implementation period, the Project would dis-
tribute a total of some CFAF 818 million (US$3.9 million) in salaries to
nationals involved in the execution of the Project. In addition some CFAF
219 million (US$1.0 million) would be generated as profits for domestic
enterprises and about CFAF 73 million in indirect taxes. Overall, the
value added to the economy would be about CFAF 1,141 million (US$5.4 mil-
lion) over the five years excluding direct and indirect expatriate salaries.
After the five-year implementation period, the Project would continue to
generate salaries to workers engaged in plantation maintenance and incomes
to loggers, wood wholesalers and retailers and generate a considerable
amount of value added through the marketing process. During implementation,
wood produced from the natural forests and seedlings sold to the rural
population would give income to Government and thus would be used to off-
set some of the project costs. For an average lot of 5 hectares the in-
come accruing to a participating village would be CFAF 240.00 (US$1,143)
per year from PY6 at present prices, representing 3 percent of the
average total annual income for a typical village population of 250 people
(US$150 per person). At the rural community level and assuming 20 lots



- 22 -
per rural community the income accruing to such a community from wood
sales after deduction of repayments due to the Forestry Department, would
be CFAF 1.3 million (US$6,190) per year from PY6. This represents 12 per-
cent of an average rural community budget of CFAF 11 million (US$52,380)
per year.
63.       Government Cash Flow.  After the first five years of project
implementation, recurrent costs required to maintain the project would
amount to about CFAF 67 million per year for the next 15 years, including
running of the research and training facilities established by the project
and replacement of some equipment and vehicles. These costs, plus debt
service for both IDA and CCCE credits, should be covered by the expected
revenues from wood permit sales and indirect taxes generated through the
marketing of the project's output. On the basis of the above assumptions,
the cumulative cash-flow deficit should be fully eliminated by PY8. The
negative cash-flow of the first five years represents the Government-s
contribution to project financing.
G.   Project Benefits and Risks
64.       Direct Benefits.  Economic benefits have been calculated only for
the directly productive components of the project (64 percent of project
costs), with economic benefits counted as fuelwood, poles and timber.
The economic stumpage prices for timber and building poles were derived from
border prices and the Bank's projections for timber prices through 1985.
The valuation of fuelwood is more difficult because there are at present no
imports into Senegal, nor is there any regular international market in
fuelwood. Two approaches have been adopted: (a) a low valuation assumption
in which project output is valued at domestic prices, with the assumption
that fuelwood prices would continue to increase in real terms by 2 percent
per year for the next 10 years; and (b) a ceiling assumption in which
project output is valued at a border price derived from production costs in
Liberia (see para 38). The first case gives a weighted average economic
return for directly productive components of 12.8 percent, while the average
return in the second case would be 15.5 percent. Over the five-year imple-
mentation period, the project is expected to generate about 2,400 man-years
of direct employment for unskilled labor, and about 350 man-years for
skilled and semi-skilled labor. A large part of the employment generated
would be unskilled jobs and would benefit the poorer members of the project
region. No attempt has been made to quantify the benefits that would result
from maintaining environmental stability through reducing the pressure on
natural forest resources, thereby enhancing inter alia their potential for
commercial timber and fuelwood production, grazing and minor forest products.
Furthermore, the rural forestry component should help reduce wind and soil
erosion by providing trees as windbreaks.
65.       Indirect Benefits.  The estimated rates of return do not fully
reflect the importance of the Project to SenegalVs forestry sector since
they exclude benefits from (i) the reduced pressure on existing natural
forests (which would be greater to the extent to which demand is less than
perfectly elastic and project output would then substitute for current



- 23 -
production rather than add to it), (ii) the results of trials and experi-
ments to be conducted, and (iii) the increased scope for investment in the
sector afforded by a strengthened and more experienced Forestry Department.
66.       Risks.  Since the establishment of tree plantations and management
of natural forests on a large scale are fairly new undertakings in Senegal,
the proposed project would inevitably involve some risks. Perhaps the
greatest risk attaches to the rural tree plantations component, since its
establishment and, to a lesser extent, maintenance would entail competition
with the demands of other farming activities for family labor. However,
rural plantation maintenance will be scheduled as much as possible in
periods most compatible with agricultural operations and studies have been
proposed in the project that would tackle problems related to rural forestry
(see para 51(a)).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of effective-
ness of the proposed Development Credit (Section 6.01) are: (i) opening by
the Government of a special account at Dakar and of a Project account within
its Treasury, and payment by Government of an initial deposit of CFAF 8,400,000
into the latter account; (ii) establishment of the Project Operations Unit;
(iii) appointment of four key project staff; (iv) evidence of establishment
of a project accounting system acceptable to IDA; and (v) meeting conditions
precedent to effectiveness of the CCCE, FAC and UNDP/FAO Credit agreements.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       T recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 22, 1981



-24 -                                            Annex 1
TABL! 3k
SgEEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHNgg
SENEGAL                       RENFRENCE GROUPS (IECUTED AVE4JGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - HDST R___RC      _ gSTIHATg)__
TOTAL            196.2
AGRICULTURAL      81.0                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
196O  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE ft   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SANARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  180.0       240.0     340.0                 228.9                    726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     121.0        139,0     181.0                 80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       3.4         4.4       5.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.6         23.7      24.9                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         24.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                        17.0        22.0      28.0                  27.4                    61.7
PER SQ. EM. ACRICULTURAL LAND     43.0         55.0      67.0                  82.6                   126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.0         42:9      44.3                  44.9                    45.5
15-64 YRS.                         54.0         54.2      52.8                  52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.0          2.9       2.9                  2.8                      2.8
POPULATI,O GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL 1/                            2.2         2.4       2.6                   2.7                     2.7
URBAN                               3.5         2.9       3.2                   6.8                     4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      48.0        47.D      49.0                  47.4                    46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.0        23.0      22.0                  19.6                     16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.0       3.2                   3.2                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            .          .
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          125.0        83.0     104.0                 91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   92.0         95.0      95.0                  90. 2                   92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0         64.0      64.0                  53.0                    53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        20.0      19.0                  18.4                    15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      41.0        35.0      32.0                  27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0         40.0      42.0                  45.3                    50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           93.0           ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           .        37.0                 23.2                    31.0
URBAN                                .           ..       68.0                 58.0                    66.8
RURAL                                                     23.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..                  28.9
URNAN                               ..           ..        .                   67.0
RURAL                               ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         22376.0      16673.0   15704.0               30910.4                 14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     4110.015    2684.0    1608.0                 5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             840.0       810.0     900.0                1198.9                  1141.5
URBAN                             281.0       356.0
RURAL                           2001.0       1171.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        22.2      26.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..       7.6
RURAL                               ..           ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
UR8AN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..        ....
RURAL                                ..          .         .
1/ UN estimates; Government estimates population growth at 2.7 percent a year.



- 25 -                                          Annex 1
Page 2
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIM1ATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTli OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMIENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 27.0         43.0      47.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                  36.0        53.0       57.0                  74.2                     69.2
FEMALE                17.0        33.0       37.0                 54.1                      51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         10.0      11.0                  10.0                     20.6
MALE                   4.0        15.0       16.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEhALE                 2.0         6.0        7.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  23.0           9.0      10.0                   6.8                      7.0
pUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..         45.0      49.0                  45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          34.0         29.0      22.0                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         5.6/d       10.0       10.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0          9.0       9.2                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         40.0         68.0      64.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.4       0.4                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   6.0          5.0       7.0                   4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        0.7                   ..                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1590.3       1911.8    2232.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.7         39.1      38.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.6         79.7      77.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.4          6.6       8.0                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                46.6         44.3      42.8                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 56.7         54.5       53.0                 55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                               36.8         34.3      32.8                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1        1.1                  1.2                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/e
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3. 2/e
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.4/.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 138.2
RURAL                                ..           ..      82.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     194.0                 107.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1964;  /d African population only;  /e Population.
April, 1980



- 26 -                                                                            Annex 1
DEFINITIONS_OP _SOCIAJL IND.ICATORS
Sotet   Although rodn   e   ie   fro  sore  ge.erally judged Ill mooneutrtteOv  and reiale   Insould also be noted than they may Tot be   ns
oattonatlyco_porshlebecus  ntthlck of onandordleed definnitl     adonc                 ar sd byd-fer11cusressc llenln   the dote.  Tednes
then,_   usiu   to .descrh  orden  of eagninude, ind-toas  trends, and oteonr.ecrat    ao  dnfferenoss bear.en...                    nne
on th  suboct cuntr  (excpt fr 'CaltelSurplus Oi1 tsporsere" grouP eber  "ttiddle Incree North A Eilt  and NOddle, les'Isc ..e  b-o-e  of srne
least helf ci ths ceutrisa  Inauroup baa dte for then,    _~       .. d. conh s.  S Inc tPePnoverag  of.. ooontrte   son  th  Indiosnors dspesdo en t11he soa Ylbhly nf
d_s   n   s  u   nfor_,cote  euh5 benerisd In r_lnlg aergso    re twnaroaohr                                    Rhs  eoeh    e  are enl      dsfltcsprn.i   au
of m   En  cao  at   tier eorg  hoh  cootry sod refsre.c -groups.                                                                                             b
Tuo-To1stacaecsre11-ilngenoean-                      sed       eser.                       lcu1dalf.c..sa.e.ce.coo..t..sret..r.l
fr crePe., ca--r, norket aud kItchen Sardeno or no lie fel.P. ..los     l97  oe            saPI.is     fmlega uste    r"Pe prcicl   Ides   ndssee                    uss
1977at dapeta.s ta  Nef_dcdlyan                               osS-Ppualn   ttl
mNy P-  CAPITA IPS$) - iN? Perr c-itastt-        a  at cretmre   rcs   d                         ra,adrtS    bddbterepcu                            obro   optlbd
cu9eted by  dae  oserto   mehod asWorld tenk Atll..  1976-7t baits); 19N0,                   sanbeipbicad pneregeerl  adspc                             ofie   hespitl band r
EuNERG  CONtUttPTION PIn CAPtITA -blss   oaatn    ft-ecaleeg    ts                               ya   es   n   bytts            salsen    rmda  prinr.ailycesfdl
trtlty   O  kIogrmsof  tsrquoolntpenceofs   NO    97.odl                        coes  Pdeo    eno.Y I hlhfferb,           h inpaies  IrcnstOby   andl  precde...
Rdat,ls te a .teofsdsifclts.PsstlictprseubaAoi
rri~ ~ ~            hyd       --r1--T:ZLa1.'Nh:jyI(r                                    lhsdncade  NesprIcipa  geers  so   h-pecieosed   hotla,h and rural.
ennAlsAOlVTl eTAISIC                                                                        heptlelcl  rrrs   rpnpsanla.Oa-mdntres   eses
fetl  oplaIo.1 No-Ta ......       a -q An rf JuPly  ; 196i, 1970,..ed 1978              AulsosucNeOe   e      ea   aes1fooisostr     shrs
data,                                                                                        fees, osctai  diode   by t~her fafbr  ofp beds.P                           d
Orhen renulosue,, Irarosni of total)--oanio oP-otbPn to  Pntel popohottem
asotocruntrlse; ONhO,A 1970,y end96, 197. .19ff7 dae.Ae.o le   f  oseodhImee   per.. hoseod) -J  _re,pshe. sdspl
youotn   rjcInsAAueol   nees   fearI                                                                       fidelol   b  eAse  Itlgqatt
PouainOTeao00-Cret  euelnooeott   p   aedr   NO                                             adncanml  el.Ahere   rOdgrmye   a   Oth   nlddO
cbiff   epleloa  y  geon  set edther  oraltyan  finSdneresa                               ny hushod  nrsttbsialpupoes
drtcoepraessfrsotluyrte    rpier these  Osealsast                                        osaeese  n   sss  ntmg   rsl   sa,en   ae     Aeeese
ordf Ltut  trnd   fo  prjcaddt5OO5.o  toal rbo  and ruAl  dwel osIapeted                                                               y
Snetloney ronulston-leessttosarypopulatIn nhsrs  s no orlit   altos                                                                           la
cs fbirt   'rtratO  equa  te thedeth rats,i cud else the. holdstructure pj-                                           l  .CATII
of  eserslaces        .  btalt    i-ecly. ThIsaloayh      oultessAsdessrollebst of all  -.a. th p                             rimary  level as d prcetge   fepetr
ooItmtde  h    s                                           Pa-h rjatdoeeoelc    of Pits popalat..  primry  tbsofg  pouenos  eralyiclds hId                  ge   -
sldehas...lyi beer hoe...ig.              h..i-        .b.J.   f                        Aetn sys.ot-tta,maesdfeis-C pudab'o;crdy
Peoato  ltttv    ndanfslon reqiresetissifea  yse  o  apIt                                                                                       priar  IntrutaInn
Per s. Am  - NO-yea  popuatIo  per -asshteens110henrefe                                pruondesgi nseI d   ocaslosel, er tache  eling qsaeis    o   u
Strall a..res.                                                                              usuilh, g.h ..  f  oallyof1 -b e. 17 years ofad a  crssnd li  eues  r  gaal
PeIo.h.aeoulua  lu      doepted asr. abev   fnarah                s    adseldd
enl.                                                                                     Irasonlatn_nstIrI_s oIecadrof                       Tcatna  isnnttn
PouatnAeSrcur   prst       blrt)-oh eas)Aurin-ge11-                                    incld E.rac1nir al,Indsra,r   te   rgassiboeosOdp
Porulatdlon  trhna    tate . frren)-iiath.ue eot   ae of   hcipl osd-                         pimr   ndsa    de  Is hal  divided b.y nmesofnsirsIh
perti   oeaos h   nt19y-Ni  1960-7I a: 97-9.crePd.glees
PuugtnI      2000sab  Net  )p ro )-urba-  nAofsothrtedo   rbnPup-                         Autlrc  esi Ysehral P         )     -Lteat  ad lults falehnIred-  sad ovine
lattoe fur195-i  NOf.sd17-t                                                                   Ysaprceraab       f  otl aj.df,dul ..t populhtlos aged 15 parssd e... r. f
Crude Otrib  ans less nboaaid) --ednelyloveobobb per thoosfe ofiaid-pea
Crude  hei   asfart at)-  nuldahsprtosn  uf mtd-ysshdasseee  Case Pinst salln  erlett)-basegr1aeIo Prsaco
Cm.Errdoidna   - POs1as -Anrg  P-mr ofdksilses a ID hcat  Ol ber.  to                soPlisdry vehIcles..
he  eralrprdctv   prodO_seesaierv rsetag-peiicfr-                                       nal  Noivs  Ie  tesadrou-to)     ll_pe   f  eaies  o  rd
too Otyranas;  suail  lee-year Ceerput.edIn  in. 1960, -1970tu. ad197bucst  in -ll      g12sato              pb17    per rhof ss ad --ofdo peolanor;soludas usplO-
ers   ft tld-besd ag   1-4pas   t   s   tahcnrldvnet                              Atcier   rrtoga   ouots   fT 1c.dryctes  o   rada n
alsrodcnsIsesa              g  gru.                                                       gnrlpb    pedtru                    or ppn otrw  sola  alhh pc-ase  TA re pOvet
foul   -  196 SOtI I970                                                                       lncdu1978seddIsa.        rs  heaargiatratof      o  Top  ets as Ic  ffect
Pndepuf.i  Groo  Prdcuo-t eat   1997.yl ordeo   ercptasma                                       NesaerCrulto d      Isas-l tofu...sd rynltul-te   teaaeecra
Rprodocttent                                                                      lic 9 th...  .  ttl   d- Pet irel dseted primaril  n   -endisg-- ges Ts l sews   I.t is  ro 1lidere
natInalaveageprouce  poc   esin d      lA,  90   n  19ff data,   u-                And mahi nit
Pertca  for 19501 encaoie  Iacas             pretoeeod)-Cipoe    go
quantirtIesRued i                                Io rcslg   sad  esas   it  tsnt dulrf Osquyre-  Sslettn1   inoll n   u tteerne   oprbil; 19Nr1. 1970 end .
ma eta  sre seimosed   r PAP  ased n  bhaooioines  o rea   oi                  iSIt data.1a,                                              Y..           a
huuuiehe9ld    0  19ee0; OA-AN  1970,ad1f  data,                                           fishIngA.  Casprceoage . en   ..r.. lao1  eos"90i11 n"O                 aa
har contr  urnlv  . of orotein (sPans r.oflId-  ylr uen   "u IIu bPpr cIptc               Inusry  sarcen) -Z labor force.s.ino.   res             bucle-,  heoufatius-
co  scyy  P  oo   erda.   etsupy  f  on  O  df esd asshoes.aland l                              honrn,unssdgsa   ecntg    fttllbrfre   9i
quirsann   forall  euntI.s es. lse   by..   tAprnd foeaIonumt  .. dp,l,o                                                           l  tplo                  o    d
birth-....   (th-usands) - Arroo-l l-b.r'Por-tto -npoots te )pwcbulI -. ttal, mals  ad  tamele-Petictauten  orj
Fiy leprotein,   onwhch10 grasst shul  beaimal protIn. 'lThes    ad arugivoip na Is are .. copteda asttlmt,sd InYale la or frcedio
arser  oerteesos      Pf7  garas   P  oalpusidad    gras 0t.percentages oflt  dptl.  sale saYealea- populbniut ofall. ages teeeivly
AerlA  Poud Aurosy; 1961-5  9ied17  dat.                                           ss-sw ....     ot trf she1 populi ietu,adltgtm   re. .e   es
Percoitd prtI.      up   fe   nie   n   us       rleespl   ffn   e                        masse a-re fPro  nthiutnd arpoma.,       -    -i-        f   brd t
ageD group 1-RIIO                                                                             g..re,In oPolrar tpar thsogrou;.for  oatpdseoptt  coon
tceeliselc .st  (per  Capitaoed 96-7u1o1uel deaths o  uciec  undrhoe  eardOTIT  Thil                                                                 o V
I.on uge pnr l yhonco  l:~ice hirh.                                                       tetoma otie- dal Abslut  Povrt    ..cem . Level IPSO  Iesrt)-or  sadrr
Accessd tofht  icier  Isirc      dI ofIplel)- t't  P      Y urse  ad:  rarelf;-d             Absolute drortyd pincel tvlIsta    fcm  Seds Pela which a                  pni
neteouhnthtrsprecd  beeole  sotga   n  ssttrya                              lgl           Esimated.. tIao    Po    rt ICampLeet   tt par Y--     en.d ts)  .- bar sedof e
doethrst"        pn q o- diprpotiuet   ar of        te  spinfuchsgth                       ad  url     eren o-ppeatweluhe  ad  osllsh  ae adoltemo"
rual-  ume  cf  -ep    ftena   urba,l and rsL)  eodOpsrt
-cp nylcld  tec-lolo    n   dIsposal.leLb orForcto(thr...matd! -oe Eosc ocilsisy and  Prjcio  lpre
ofhue  o drt  andg. Iet-eetsrk hyt s Panec-bovee   I -yt Loaa ueol.Arl.10
ctpoostdsclac.fo  p-scl..lanioc.d  .                                                                       L     b,:Idl   ..,                       nld



SENEGAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENiT DATA SHEET
Actoala  Estimates            .fypjections ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----Growth Dates (%                        _                                % Shares in CDY_
1974   1975   1976   1 97 7 1970   1979   19B0   1981   1902   1903   1984   1985  ~1990    1971-75    1975-79   1979-83    1985-90                        1971   1975__1979   1985   1l990
(in bililors of D921 CFAF(
1.  1.DP                                   257    2 7 7    297     299    769    303    287    311    323    L335          3408    367     439 .     f3         2j8         3,0        3.9          100.0  DOD.7  101.0  10h,3  104.8
2.  rT a3s~rt                                6      -7      -89     --3                     -6    .10       _tO    -11    -13    -14    -5 -2               -          -           -                    x =   -0.7   -0.D   -4.3   -4.8
3.  GDol                                   263    273   -288    299    270    300    281    301    3D5    324   ,335               347    419       2.7         7.7         7.5        3.0          100.0  1009 10.0  1000  O.0  100.8
4.  Import  (Eo-  NS0)                      03      86    DOS      113    EDO      175      09    DES      110    112    115       DD9     144       1.2        9.0        -0.8        3.9           33.2   3D.3   41.7   34.3   54.4
5.  Eopo-ts  (inc  NS0)                     68      77      95    101       73      04      69      92      96     101    106      112    047       4.7         2.7         4.9        5.h           25.9   70.0   20.0   32.3   35.1
6.  Exports, TT adj.                       _74      73      8h    101       74      61      63      07      80      90      93      97     127       4.8        1.9         3.0        5.5           73.9   27.3  '27.9   272.9   30.3
7.  "es  gap, TY adi.                      I1    _11      _-19    -14     _-36      _44    -36    -26      -22    -22    -77       -21     -17        -          -           -          -             7.3    4.0   14.7    6.1    4.1
0.  Coosomprios                            225    243    257    366        763    298      774    280    208    796    304         313     367       1.9        3.2         0.0        3.2           91.0   00.4   99.3   90.2   87.6
9.  Dros    -.nLessen                       49      43      5C      47      41      46      43      48      49      51      53      55      69      1.0         1.7         3.0        4.6           16.7   13.6   15.3   15.9   16.5
ID.  Private  "nvo 'loo                      70      13      19      19      14      13      lh      07      18      18      10      19      73      -3.1        0.81        4.0        3.9            6.9      5.5    5.0      9.3     5.5
Dl.  _oDr  oesoo                             10      16      21      21      22      23      13   3      25   7      29      3D      32      47       7.9        4.9         5.7        5.6            3.7    6.9       7.7    0.2   10.0
12.          I Csn ntoch                     Il       9      D I      7       3       04                      4       4       4'      4       4        -          -           -          -             3h 6    3.3    2.7   11.2        10
13.  Domestic lvSo- . TT  dj                 30      32,     313     33       3       27      7      21      77      70      31      34      32      7.0       -50.0       60.0         0.9            0.9   11.6    0.7    0.0   12.4
.4, Notional Sovi,,g, TT adj.                40      33      35      33       6       911             6      37      34      36       9      58      7.4       -27.7       27.7         0.3           17.1   12.0    3.0   11.2   13.8
13.  COP(scoofocot)                        1441   1900   19 14   1979   20172   2402   76872 3110 3521   3904   4311   51 05   9525                 70.0         6.9       17.0        13.3             -          -        -
S. SECTOR OUTPUT
1.  Salon added                           73 7    277    297    799    249    303    207    311    323    335    348    367               439       2 .9        2.3        3.0         3.9          100.0  100.0  130.0  108. m0  100.0
2.  A0i_Illte-                              59      72      79      74      63      01      70      04      00      92      96     100     124      4.0         3.0        3.6         4.4           21.0   28:6   26.7   22.6    28.2
2.  Indos-y                                60      64      69      72      63       70      67      74     80      84      89       04    173       4.3         2.3        5.0         5.5           21 .9   71.6   23.1   26.0   28.0
4.  Privotor S_ri_o                        111    113    119    120        100     110     116     119    120    126    120        133     150      0.2         1.1         2.0        2.5           45.3   39.6   38.9   36.7    34.2
3 PobEir S-cior                             27      28      30      33      33      34      34      34      39      33      35      35      42     -0.9         3.0        0.9         3.5           11.7    10.2   11.2    8.7    9.6
C. PR1CE0 INDICES (1971 1001
1.  Eop-t Fnloe   (goods  -olpl           271     192    087    207    217    214          230    23    289    304    320         377    490       17.7         7.7        9.9         5.4
7.  Impor  Price                          104    190      195    709    211    777    277    301    329    356    385    417    613                18.6         3.5       10.7         0.0
3.  Tea ol  Trade                         114      07      06      99     103      94      8h      84      80      85      83      90      00      -0.0       .0.8       '00.7        -2.3
4.  DIP Inflator                          132      147    124    159       169    174      190    207    236    246    2h8    292          410     10.1         4.3        9.0         9.0
3.Cnoa     Ino                     130     131    103    304    211    233         268    295      324    359    398    441    736          16.0        6.1        11.2        10.8
6   PFo-d 1-vet-et Prsna                  138     166    167    300        195    200     729    252    277    305    335    368           593     13.5         5.8       10.0        10.0                                                 -
7.  Es-4. ERnt (CPAF pee USD2             240.5  714.3  239    243.7  725.6  217.7  20712707.1  207.1  707.1  707.1   207.1  207.1                   -           -           --
4/       4/       4/       4/
D.  SELECTED INDICATORS 2/                   1960/65 1965/70 1970/75 1975/79  1980/84 1985/89                                                                     E.  IABOO FORCE  1970)                     Thousan.d         Percet
1.  IGOR 5/                    ~~~~2.4    0.1     4.7       9.0      3.9      3.9                                                                      1. Agrlnsalt-n                            812             69.4
2.  An. Nat. Savings RaIn                  11.3     9.4     13.4      0.8       9.3    12.5                                                                       2. MIinlg                                   2              0.7
3.  Mac. Nat.-.looa o.o,,9'               -13.6   18.7      14.3  -10 3.8    41.0       25.0                                                                     32.  .a.ntat--rlg                           69              5.9
4.  PFsod Inva-te ...  Ff                  12.6   12.3       17.1    12.9    13 .0    04.4                                                                        4.Fsblie Utilitles                           4             0.3
5   Lopo-  El-sini,,-                      -0.0   -0.O       0.0       249      0.46     0.00                                                                     5  C.- Enastansi                           17              1.5
6.  0n~~~~oorta/G0F ~~~~32.0   29.9               3.       37.4    32.        23.6                                                                     6. Prinata lrvi-e                         115               9.8
7.  Eooporls/EPF                           28.9   24.9    2.4    20.8    23.            27.0                                                                      7. Pnhl, -Senders                         127             10.9
8.DanrnaEp/CDP                     -3.1   -5.1    -5 .5    -8.6        -0.1      _-4.7                                                                    8.Other                                    24              2.1
Total                                1170            1D0.0
F.   PUBLIC    FINAN_ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ ___ _ _ _ _ __ _ _                                                                                                                      _ __ _ _ _ _ _
(ss billions at coret CPAF                            AntosEn                   -  ttasa             PreietOma   I/                                       Grouch5 rates8 ITSShre  innaneF   GP 7.
and fi-1a  y-.)a 9/                      FY74    FY75    FY76    FYFY7 Y7FY7 Y7                 FY80   . P88      PY85                         PYLS F7-o FF0O                       Y1      0Y75 ~FF7 9    FY80 V1 F
1.  Bodget R-onnoc                            55.4    (7.3      87.2   104.3   110.1   176.7   154.7   163.7   289.0                                 13.6         14.8       15.3      19.0    20.7       25.9    28.7       29.0
2.  Corent Esp. (eon. intena)                 48. 9    65.8    80.2      06.3    97.6   104..0   121-    128-1.  262.0                               11.2         D.0.       13.9       17.3    (7.6      21.4    72.6       70.3
3.  Rodgm  -an  hof-  Dohbt Demte              6.5     11.5       7.0     18.5     12.5    21.8    32.8    43.6    87.0-                                           -                     1.2      3.1      4.5      6.1       8.7
4.  Onher Pohlio Savinga 9/                    7.7      E.3      4.0      10.'      0.5      7.8    -7.1       ta                                                   -                    06       0.1      -.6      -9,_4 
___                                                    -            -           -       ~~~~      ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.3  3.2  5.1  5.7  8.7
5.  Pobi. Sa-  befnee Debt Se-ite             1.       11.8-    11.8    2-8.7      13.0    24.6  ~30. 7       45.4    87.0                                                    9___011                      4.         .       417
.Debt  _uiEn                                 2.5      4.0      8.7       9.7    12.5      19.7    3.0 0     33.4     46.9                          12..        5.2            2        1.0_1.1           4.0      5.        4.7
7.  I-oerble So-pls                          -11.2      7.0       3.1    19.0       0.5      4.9      0.7    12.0    40.1                                                                0.3      2.1      11       0.0       3.
8.  PobhiE  Inoxatnnta  IO/                   7972     3970    47t7       T!5    -45.6      50.6    60.1       70.0  l'W283                                       114        189         3        9.4     10.3    11.2    14.1
9.  Pee_ntage of self Ele-nclg (%6            38.4    72.3        7.7    41.8       1.1      0.7       1.2    17.1    28.6
10.  Debt Seevin  Is pe-etrge of                4.5      3.7      10.0      9.3     11.3    13.5       19.5    20.4    16.2
1/   Th-oP prjeeton .. as..an that G--eneet'a st-t1hilativ  PI.. will he inpl-etnd. 
2/ Cast ofIving imd.. Of traditional Efille- in Dar.kcosyISvnIo  o   S   98/i60ndn    rp
3/ Cal-lated Ersnle   sc olpie   rcntant pri-n  adjosted for ebhagen  -xrrasO ae                                                                      evove is..   'inf`oate   - Oen thniat9o0and  IF ron.ti...d
4/   Adjostad for tens oF s.1.-t   ii~tm.s traesiaa  prdrar.es   edo  n,Gb, Err pyOo  jnportjpoe                                                                                                         Cr10
9/   Calnisro-d onth-n  peer  averag  Of CDP sod tho floe Y--c now of fixed iselat    nc-nalant prints                                                Dy oone  1010 millIon,19
6/   Clcolated onh-e  year  averges foe the ba ... ay-a inn--es  prijes.
2/ Calcolaled onh-re   peace  -ve-ae  Ear the boat y. peas            eonntant pr,na..
/ Fierol year  fets Jnlp I to lon  30.
91 Islodes saings Pro  S-oblail-o  Food and pcbltnnepeus
107   Pobli.    -.ntoonts as dofinod by 140 fD.4intp cf p"annIng;  c-ontoep to Lso oaltooa  aelnato defloitins, the-
i-xrslxloda  sha f.1  -ots of p-oJe-n  j  mined ooeplos1  shich l.oveesnasko tales a                      , m fjo   ..an.a  raj
posdbi"lrp, projool Ee-p--noIhtd  ntcpro                     flood -aPitlfosstio   c aohP-oja-ta aad aa-
siuitory aopsadixoeeo



- 28 -                                                     AN32X 1
Page 5
SENECAI. - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL  ASSISTANCE
(millions of current US$)
Actualo                      Estinates                                         Proiections
1974   1975   1976   1977            1978       1979          1980      1981      1982       1983       1984      1985      1990
A.  SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports, incS. NfS                        602    693    698    853              691        864           841     1,190     1,396      1,551     1,739      1,962     3,778
Imports,  inc. NFS                       -691   -793   -852   -979           61,030    -1,337          1,318   -1,566   -1,742       -1,928    -2,148   -2,394   -4,270
Reorce Bla-ce                             -89   -100   -154   -126            -339       -473          -472      -376      -346       -377       -409      -432      -492
Factor Serviceo  (oet)                    -48O   -55       -8    -13            -27        -56           -74       -73       -76         -83       -92      -103      -161
Ret inrvot-eat iscooe                  -26    -37    -20    -24              -28        -38          -46        -38       -41        -42       -44        -45       -70
lnterert on poblic debt                -14    -19      -18    -21           -29         -44          -49        -49       -48        -47       -45        -45       -51
Oth-r intereot                           2      -3      -1      -4           -4        -11           -20       -25        -28        -36       -47       -59        -98
Workers' remittaoces                   -20      -6      17      18            15         17            19        20        21         23        25         27        33
Other                                   10      10      14      18            19         20           22         19        20         19        19         19        25
Current Transfers (net)                    f4      67      66      71            97         93           140       106       114         123       133       143       210
Current Accou t Balance                   -73    -88      -96    -68           -269       -436          -411      -343      -308       -337       -368      -392      -443
Prioate Capital (oet)                       -5      12      16     26            36         42            46        51        57          62        69        77       136
Capitol Graots                              19      22      23     24            29         33            35        36    '  38           39        40        42        54
Public M - T Loans (net)                    60     56      60      56           135        136           236 /14  145 /17  179          214       -265       281       267
Disbutreme-ts                           80      76      84      92          204         214          342        249       277        325       402       457        641
Repaym-nts                             -20    -20      -24    -36           -69         -78         -106      -104        -98       -111      -137      -176      -374
Short-tsrm Capital (net) 1/                 23     10      -      -38           -39         36            5  LI         LI    -           -         -         -         -
Copital n.e.i.  2/                         31    -22    -13        -9            24 L.      70 j11        40 15    71 /8       6 /19    --
Increase in Reserves  ()                   -7    -10    -10       -9           -84       -119            -4       -90       -28        -22          6         8        14
LvsI of Foreigo Assets (en,d ye.)        177                       f         =  T7                       7      ' -3 23 - 4 I'3               i tz37 -4 4    9   -435
B.  LOd ACOIT_ITLEETS                           70    135    127    215             357         149          28ap     268        259         373       444       491       678
IBRD                                         3      7      26      20 /5         11          7           4o         14        30         64        51         48        63
IDA                                          -     25      11       -            26         25           72         13        25         25         28        31        42
OPEC Foods                                   -      4        -      3             5         -              8         9        10          11        13        14        15
Other Intecnational Institutions            10      6      12      21            26 /6      46 /1Z        14        22        20         23         25        26        31
prsnce                                      16     13      27      28            27         25           101        36        40         44        48         53        59
Germnny                                     17      3       5       4             2         16            15        17        17         19         19        22        25
Canada                                       -       0      4       5            -          -              2         2         2          2          2         2        -3
OPECCounies                                  3       -      4       -            38 /9       6            -         -         -           -         -         -         -
Other I3ilatecal                            4 /3  21 /4    -       12 /6         20 /10     15 /13        20        20        23         25         27        30        33
OVS (Diana Dam)                             -       -      -        -           -          -             ,        113 /16    -           -         -         -         -
Suppli-rs                                    3       1     10      22            10          3            10        15        20         30         30        30        38
Financial  Lotitutions and                   8     47      28    100             190         6            -          7        72        130       201        235       369
Private Banks
C.  LOAN TERMS
lneteret (0)                              4.7    4.8    6.1    7.6               6.9        3.9           5.3       4.4       5.8        6.5       6.5       6.5        6.7
Gra.e (yeats)                             6.3    6.5    5.6    3.6               3.7        6.4           6.6       6.5       4.6        4.1        3.6       3.6       3.2
Matority (years)                         27.5   23.4   20.1   12.7              13.7       23.7          26.5      30.1      21.1       18.8       17.2      16.9      15.8
G-ant Flenent (7,)                       39.0   43.0   28.2   13.6              18.9       43.9         41.4       53.4      37.3       29.7       27.2      26.9      24.6
Debt Service Ratio (7.)                   5.4    5.3    5.5    6.4              13.6       13.7          18.0      12.7      10.4       10.5       11.3      12.6      13.0
Debt Service Ratio  (including               -       -    5.6    6.6            15.1       15.8          19.5      15.5      13.3       17.6       13.3      14.5      13.8
IMF funds)
/L   Include   -errors  d omiosnon. (1980/81 figures refer to a short-tw  OPEC loan).
/2   It-loden STABEX; SDR allocations snd differene-s between public rapita1 inflosv
as cecorded by the Central Bask and by the IBRD debt report.                                                                * Preliminary information on the 1980/R7
/3   $4 milliet Iron U.S.A.                                                                                                         groundnut crop, received in Sovenber
/4   1nclnd-s 017.4 million fOto  Spais and $3.5 from. Denmark.                                                                     is pessimistic and, if confi,,red, nay
/5   Includes 514 million Thibd Window Fcd-.                                                                                        reduce our October 1985 export projectic-s
T6   U.S. Aid                                                                                                                       for 1981 by some USt150 million.
/7   STAREX $24 million.
/8   Isciuden $17.6 nillicn IMF T-st Fnds.
/9   $37 million fron Saudi Arabic cod 61 nillin flro  Abu Dhabi.
/10  Spain.
/11  Include  STABEX $64 nillicn snd SDR allocation $6 nillion.
/12  Includes $13.4 million IMP T-rut Fond, $19.6 milAicn African Dtvelopment Bak, and
$12.8 illist Europese Investment Bock.
/13  Includes $12.8 uillio.  frm Japan and S2 million from the United Kingdom.
/14  ITcludes .ccoptiocal aid:  0-A  S15 nillior; Prance $67.6 cilli-o; cod STABEX
advaece fnu Freance $36.2 million.
/15  Inclodec STABEX $34.8 million ced SDR allocction 76 nillion.
/16  An estie,td sh.c of 750  in the S150  -illio  cost cf the Di-ms Dam:  France $52 nillicn;
Saudi Aeabha $37 million; K1-ait $35 million. asd Africtn Development Bask $26 million.
/17  Including excepti-onl aid fron IBRD $30 million and IDA S15 million.  Also  inc,lding gapfills from 1981 on.
/18  1ncloding STABEX S65.2 million  $101.4 million STABEX Iron  -epayme-t of STABEX advaMne from Framer
$36.2 nilli-o) and SDR $5.8 millior.
/19  SDR aleation S6 nillion.                                                                                                                                              Octobber 79::



Table 1:1:  EXPORT DETATL
Actuals                                                 Estimates                                             Projections
1974        1975        1976        1977        1978-        1979        1980        1981        1982         1983        1984        1985         1990
A. CONSTANT 1971 PRICES
(millions of CFAF)
1. Groundnut products                             16,116      27,az0b     40,620      37,535       10,398      21,276       7,802      28,765       28,765      29,282      29,809       30,346      33 177
2. Phospnates                                      5,9:s2      4,757       5,526        5,396       5,054       5,709       J,oO0       5,831        6,071       6,234        6,48J       6,74.       7.969
3. Petroleum products                              2,207       2,221       1,651        J,000       3,178       3,275       2,584        2,713       2,849       2,991       3,141        3,298       4.209
4. Fish and fish products                          7,230       7,709       8,928      12,600       12,660      13,601      14,008      14,778       15,517      16,448      17,559       18,831      24.960
5. Other goods                                    10,902       9,257      12,844       15,303      12.829      12  525     13447        14 321      15 252      16 243      17 380       18  945  2 8.354
6. Total goods                                    42,469      51,750      69,569       73,834      44,119      56,386      43,491      65,899       68,400      71,198      74,414       78,162      98.669
7. Adjustments on custom statistics /1             3,269       4,388       3,510        5,256       4,455       4,355       4,099       4,102        4,307       4,566       4,839        5,130       6.733
8. Non-tactor services                            22_813      20.574      22.709       21.788      24.169      23,357      21,402       22,400      23,500      24.910       26,903      29,055      41.898
Total Exports                                  68,551      76,712      95,788    100.878    722.43          84,098      68,992      92,401      96,207    100_674    106,l5b    112.347    147.300
B.  PRICk INDICES (19i1 - 100)
1. Groundnut products                              210.8       145.0       158.4       213.0        22t.0       19o.0       175.o       221.3        276.8      279.6        282.4        285.2       413.3
2. Pnosphates                                      419.1       467.2       306.1        278.0       277.0       257.5       301.2        334.5       363.0      395.7        432.5        473.3       622.5
3. Petsol.um pcouu.t,                              234.2       312.8       321.9        427.0       428.0       458.0       l1S.2        7.8.8       808.2      884.8        968.5    1,061.9    1 828.8
4. Fish and fish products                           99.2        94.2       126.0        134.0       143.0       155.9       169.9        181.8       194.5      208.1        222.7        238.3       334.2
5. Other goods L2                                  206.8       241.4       140.9        189.5       206.6       225.1       245.4       262.6        280.9      300.6        321.7        344.2       _2 8
6. Total _oods                                     221.2       191.5       167.0       207.1        216.9       214.2       238.0       252.7        288.8      303.5         319.5       377.2       480.3
7. Adjustments and NFS                             194.3       198.3       193.7       209.3        211.0       227.3       276.6       301.1        328.8      356.3        385.4        417.3       613.4
Total ExPorts                                   211.0       193.7       174.0       207.7       214.6        218.6       252.3       266.6        300.4      302.5        339.2        361.6    _5309
C.  CURRENT VALUES
(millions ot CFAF)
1. Groundnut products                             33,977      40,318      64,342      79.200      23,499      41,701       13,700      62,531      79,620       81,874      84,182      86,547        137.1
2. Phosphates                                     24,946      22,225      16,914      15,014      14,000       14,701      17,018      19,504      21,843       24,668      28,041      31,913         49.5
3. Petroleum products                              5,309       6,948       5,316      12,800      13,602       14,999      16,000      20,045      23,024       26,467      30,419       35,021        76.9
4. Fish and fish products                          7,172       7,262      11,2.0      16,900      18,104       21,200      23,799      26,865       30,183      34,233      39,194       44,873        83.4
5. Other goods                                    22,569      22.348      18 103      29,006      26,499       28,199      33,000      37,605       42,853      48.833      55,909    _6)207          136.9
6. Total goods                                    93,973      99,101    115,925    152,920        95,704    120,800       103,517    166,550    197,523    216,075    237,745           263,561      483.8
7. Adjustments on custom statistics /3             6,362       8,701       6,799      11,000       9,401        9,901      11,339      12,353      14,164       16,268      18,649      21,407         41.3
8. Non-tactor services                            44,325      40,799      43,987      45.600      50.999       53.101      59.204      67.457       77280          763    103  67        21247        257.0
Total Exports                                 144,660    148,601    166.711    209,520    156 104    183,802            174.060    246,360    288,967    321.106         360,065    406,215        782.1
D.  CURRENT VALUES
(millions of US dollars)
1. Groundnut products                             141.3        188.1       269.2       322.4       104.1       196.0         66.2       302.0        384.6      395.4        406.6       418.0       662.2
2. Phosphates                                      103.7       103.7        70.8        61.1         62.1        69.1        82.2         94.2       105.5      119.1        135.4        154.1       239.2
3. Petroleum  Products                              22.1        32.4        22.2        52.1        60.3        70.5         77.3        96.8        111.2      127.8        146.9        169.1       371.8
4. Fish and fish products                           29.8        33.9        47.1        68.8        80.2        99.7        114.9       129.8        145.8      165.3        189.3        216.7      402.9
5. Other gooas                                      93 9       104.3        75.8       118.1       117.4        132.6       159.4       181.6        206.9      235.9        270.0        314.9      661.1
6. Total Roods                                     390.8       462.4       485.1       622.5       424.1       567 9        500.0       804.4        954.0   1,043.5       1,148.2    1,272.8    2 337.2
7. Adjustments on custom statistics /1              26.4        40.6        28.5        44.8        41.7        46.5         54.8        59.7         68.4       78.6         90.1        103.4       199.6
8. Non-tactor services                            184.3        190.4       184.1       185.6       226.0       249.6        285,9       325          373.3      428.7        500.7        585.6    1 241.5      j
Total Emports                                  601.5        693.4      697.7        852.9       691.8       864.0        840.7    1,189.9    1.395.7   1,550.8          1_739.o    1,961.8    3 778.3   cIt
(Exchange rate)                               (240.50)   (214.32)   (238.98)   (245.67)  (225.64)    (212.72)    (207.06)   (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.06)    (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.065)
1/  Adjustments are related to:  (i) the timing of transactions;                                      Preiminac: icfDrvaalion on tne 1900/i grourdout crop, received 
(ii) under-invoicing and unofficial border trade;                                                Novemibr,  c _neor7maioinc and, if 9O/lforedn, may reduce Orr October
(iii) stock movements in bonded warehouses; and
(iv) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).                                                         1980 exp)rt nrD e'ions for 1981 by some US$150 million.
2/  Calculated as residuals.
3/ Import price index.



TABLE 1.2 IMPORT DETAIL
Actuals                        Estimates                                                Projections
1974      1975       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984      1995       1990
A. CONSTANT PRICES (c.i.f.)
(millions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                               17,139    13,063    18,403    19,842    21,115    24,666    21,394    21,202    19,800    18,546    18,138    17,797    18,200
Petroleum                                 4,715      4,497      4,668     5,291      4,988      5,690     7,154      7,163      7,521      7,897     8,292      8,707    11,112
Intermediate goods                       13,644    18,809    23,464    24,213    23,350    24,575    17,741    23,500    24,675    25,909    27,204    28,564    37,154
Other consumer goods                      9,826    12,451    16,621    21,620    18,500    21,576    14,860    16,123    16,445    16,774    17,110    17,452    19,841
Equipment goods                          16,118    14,022    15,738    18,649    14,600    19,427    15,154    16,981    17.828    18,784    19,790    20,558    25 974
Total goods                              61,442    62,842    78,894    89,615    82,553    95,934    76,309    84,969    86,270    87,910    90,534    93,079   112,281
Adjustments - custom statistics /1    14,616    10,593    10,866    11,181    11,800    12,751            9,721      9,217      9,770    10,356    10,978    11,636    15,572
Non-factor services                       9,408    12,338    14,608    14,143    15,830    16,451    12 623    13,498    13,633           ,          13,907    14,046    16.280
Total Imports                          85,466  98.5773   104,368   114,939         0       1                                                                118,761    _44133
B. PRICE INDICES (1971: 100)
Foodstuffs                                236.3      224.9      186.1     189.5      191.8      171.9     209.4      228.3      254.2      271.8     290.9      312.2      408.8
Petroleum                                 329.3      330.0     404.8      442.0      417.0      513.2     698.9      837.6      918.0   1,006.8   1,103.8   1,211.9   1 951.8
Intermediate goods                        177.2      182.8      185.4     200.0      200.0      223.4     243.5      260.6      278.8     298.3      319.2      341.5      479.0
Other consumer goods                      177.1      182.8      185.4     200.0      200.0      223.4     24i.5      260.6      278.8      298.3     319.2      341.5      504.0
Equipment goods                           135.2      166.4      167.9     200.0      200.0      223.4     243.5      260.6      278.8      298.3     319.2      341.5      479.0
TItal Goods /2                          194.3      198.3      195.1     209.3      211.0      227.3     276.6      301.1      328.9     356.4      385.4      417.3     613 4
C. CURRENT VALUES
(millions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                               40,502    29,313    34,248    37,597    40,499    42,401    44,799    48,404    50,322    50,408    52,763    55,562    74,402
Petroleum                                15,528    14i840    18,897    23,390    20,800    29,201    49,999    59,997    69,044    79,509    91,528   105,516   216,885
Intermediate goods                       24,176    34,375    43,502    48,426    46,700    54,901    43,200    61,230    68,791          77,287    86,832    97,556   177,972
Other consumer goods                     17,158    22,756    30,816    43,240    37,000    48,201    36,200    42,009    45,848    50,039    54,612    59,604    95,046
Equipment goods                          21,788    23,332    26,424    34,894    29,200    43,400    36,901    44,244    49,704    56,035    63,167    70,213   124,421
Total goods                             119,382   124,616   153,887   187,547   174,199   218,103   211,095   255,884   283,719   313,278   348,902   388,451   688,720
Adjustments on custom statistics /1    28,398    21,004    21,201    23,400    24,899    28,989    26,891    27,757    32,129    36,903    42,303    48,558    95,515
Non-factor services                      18,280    24,467    28,540    29,600    33.403    37,401    34,919    40,649    44.832    40.065    53,591    56,61              99,858
Total Im9 166,060   170,087   203_628   240,547   232,501   284;                                      272,909   324,290   360,680   399,246   444,796   495,623  884.09
D. CURRENT VALUES (c. 1. f.)
(millions of US$)
Foodstuffs                                168.4      136.8     143.3    153.0       179.5      199.3       216.4    233.8      243.1      243.5      254.8      268.4     359.4
Petroleum                                  64.6       69.2      79.1       95.2      92.2      137.3       241.5    289.8      333.5      384.0      442.1      509.6   1 047.6
Intermediate goods                        100.5      160.4     182.0    197.1       206.9      258.1       208.7    295.7      332.3      373.3      419.4     471.2      859.6
Other consumer goods                       72.3      106.2     128.9    176.0       163.9      226.6       174.8    202.9      221.4      241.7      263.8      287.9     459.0
Equipment goods                            90.6      108.9     110.6    142.0       129.4      204.0       1L78.2    213.7     240.1      270.6      305.1    139,.       601.0
Total Goods                               496.4      581.5     643.9    763.4       771.9   1 025.3    1 019.6  1 235.9   1 370.4   1 513.1   1 685.2   1 876.2   3 326.6            a
Adjustments on customs statistics /1    118.1         97.9      83.7       95.2     110.3      136.3       129.9    134.1      155.2      178.2      204.3      234.5     461.3        x
Non-factor serv,c.s                        76.0      114.2     119.8    120.5       148.0      175.8       168.7    196.3      216.5      236.9      258.8      9R 21 t  482.3
Total Imports                           690.5     793.6      852.4    979.1   1 030.2   1 337.4    1 318.2  1 566.3   1i742.1   1 928.2   714RL 3            393.8   4 270.2
(Exctange rates)                         (240.50)  (214.32)  (238.98) (245.67)  (225.64)  (212.72)  (207.06)  (201.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.6)
1/ Adjustments are related to: (a) the timing of transactions;
(b) under-invoicing and unofficial border trade;
(c) stock movements in bonded warehouses; and
(d) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).
2/ The import price index is also applied to non-factor services
and trade adjustments.



SENEGAL - DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS                                                                              ,lJLDJEA T
(millions of current us$)
Actuals                            Estimates                                                  Projections
1974        1975         1976        1977         1978        1979         1980        1961         1982        1983         1984        1985         1990
A.  MEDIUM A19D LONG-TERM DEBT
(disbursed only)
1. Total Public Debt Outstanding                          245.1        295.0       350.4        417.1       581.7        717.6        914.0       1 059.2  1 238.3       1 452.2      1 716.8    1 997.9    3 220.4
2. Including IJedisbursed                                 420.4        522.8       616.6        814.5     1 156.0    1 227.2        _ 147.1    1 354.3       1 605.8     1 955.9    2 341.3       2 721.0    4 206.4
3. Public Debt Service                                      33.4        39.3        42.3         56.5        98.0        122.0        154.9       152.6        146.6        163.6       197.8        248.5       497.2
a.  Interest                                            13.8         18.4        18.1         20.6        29.2         44.1        49.3         49.1         48.5        52.5         60.Z         72.1       122.9
b.  Asmortization                                       19.6         20.9        24.2         35.9        68.8         77.9       105.6        103.5         98.1       111.1        137.6        176.4       374.3
4. Other M & LT Debt Service                                 -           -            1.1         1.8        11.1         18.9         13.1        32.6         41.7        47.0         35.9         37.4        31
a.  Interest                                              -           -           1.1          1.8         3.4          3.8         3.6         23.1        23.2         21.9         23.2        22.4         21
b.  Amortization                                         -            -           -            -           7.7         15.1         9.5          9.5         18.5        25.1         12.7        15.0         10
5. Total Debt Service                                       33.4        39.3        43.4         58.3       109.1        140.9        168.0       185.2        188.3        210.6       233.7        285.9       528.2
6. Net Investment         i                                 26.0        37.0         23.0        24.8        28.4         37.6         45.9        38.2         41.0        42.0         44.0        45.4         69.9
7. Total Payment an Foreign Capital                        59.4         76.3        66.4         83.1       137.5        178.5       213.9        223.4        229.3        252.6       277.7        331.3       598.1
B: DEBT BURDEN
1. Public Debt Service Ratio                                 5.4         5.3          5.5         6.4        13.6         13.7         18.0         12.7        10.4         10.5         11.3        12.6         13.0
2. Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio                          9.5        10.4         8.5          9.4        19.0         20.4         24.8         18.5        16.3         16.2         15.9        16.8         15.7
3. Public Sebt Service/GDP                                   2.4         2.1          2.2         2.9          4.9         4.9          5.9          4.9         4.2          4.1          4.4         4.9          5.2
4. Public Debt Service/Govt. Revenue-                        4.5         5.2         10.0         9.3         11.3        15.5         19.5         20.4         16.2        14.9         15.2        16.2         -
C. TERMS-/
1. Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                          5.6          6.2         5.2          4.7         5.0          6.2          5.4          4.6          3.9         3.6          3.5         3.6          3.8        >
2. Public Debt Service/Total DOD                            13.6        13.3         12.1        12.7         17.0        17.1          16.9        14.4         11.8        11.3         11.5        12.4         15.4
D.  DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBT-
1. Crass Diabursteants/Imports (incl. services)            10.4          8.5         9.0          8.9        18.7         15.1        21.6          15.0         15.1        16.1         17.9         18.2        14.4
2. Net Transfer/Imports (incl. services)                     7.8         6.3         6.5          6.9          8.9         6.5          9.9         7.4           6.3        6.1          5.9          5.7         4.7
3. Net Transfer/Grass Disbursements                          0.75        0.74        0.71         0.77         0.48        0.43         0.57        0.57         0.55        0.50         0.43         0.40        0.41
E.  EXPOSURE
1. IBRD Disb./Total Gross Disbursements                     1.0          9.4         5.6         14.1          3.2         4.9          4.0         5.5          5.2         5.7          6.9          7.7         8.5
2. Bank Group Disb./Total Gross Disbursements              20.9         24.9        19.9         22.6          7.6        13.1          8.6        11.8         11.9         12.0        12.1         12.8        13.9
3. IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                        1.3         3.4         4.2          6.5          5.5         5.8          5.7         6.1          6.2         6.4          6.5          6.8         8.2
4. Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                 14.2        18.1         19.9        2116        17.9         18.2         16.9        17.2         17.2         17.1        16.8         16.3        18.9
5. IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      1.8         1.9         2.9          3.6         4.2          3.2          3.'         4.6          6.3         6.6          5.9          5.8         6.5
6. Bank Group Debt Service/TotEl Debt Service                2.5         2.6          3.7         4.6          4.9         3.9          3.!         5. 3         71           2.6         6.8          6.6          7.1
Outstanding Dec. 31, 1979                    Outstanding Dec. 31, 1985                 0-tstanding Dec. 31  1990
F.  EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed only)                                              Amount              Percent                  Amount              Percent                A.ount              Percent
1. IBRD                                                                       41.8                 5.8                  136,1                   6.8                265.3                   8.2
2. IDA                                                                        69.0                12.4                  197.9                   9.9                342.4                  10.6
3. other Multilateral                                                         79.8                1l.1                  322.3                  16.1                168.4                  17.6
4. Governments                                                               259.1                36.1                  577.7                  28.9                835.0                  25.9
5. Suppliers' Credat and Financial Institutiona                             245.0                 34.1                  148.4                   7.4                  11.5                 04
6. others                                                                      2.8                 0.4                  615.5                  30.8              1 197.8                  37.2
7. Total Public M & LT Debt                                                  717 .5              100.0                1 997.9                 100.0              3 220.4                 100.(
8. Total Public M & LT Debt (incl. undisburned)                           1 227.2                171.0                  2721.0                136.2              4 206.4                11  4
.    TA       ICE    1980-15/DOD end-1979                      177.2T
I/   Debt service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal vcarso.
V/   Public debt only.
3/   High Eucudullar barcoing to tII-uc-  overnout s pan icipati-n policy.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of November 30, 1980)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                          (US$ Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Four Loans* and twelve Credits fully disbursed            13.5    58.1
336-SE     1972   Senegal    Housing Site
and Services                 8.0         2.0
866-SE     1972   OPTS         Telecommunications    6.2                  0.5
987-SE     1974   SOFISEDIT  Development Finance   3.0                    0.2
530-SE     1975   Senegal    Education II                      15.0       4.7
1113-SE     1975   Senegal    Agric. Diversifi-
cation                7.0                 4.2
578-SE      1975   Senegal    Terres Neuves II                  2.0       0.0 2/
1221T-SE      1976   Senegal    Feeder Roads             6.6                 0.9
1222-SE     1976   Senegal    Third Highway            15.0                3.1
633-SE     1976   Senegal    Livestock                          4.2       2.7
647-SE     1976   Senegal    Second Sedhiou                     6.3       3.1
1332-SE     1976   SOFISEDIT  Second Development
Finance              4.2                 1.3
1405T-SE      1977   Senegal    Port of Dakar            6.0                 1.0
1412T-SE      1977   Senegal    Petite Cote Tourism   8.0                   4.5
1413-SE     1977   Senegal    Petite Cote Tourism   5.6                    3.1
764-SE     1978   Senegal    Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                   6.3        2.9
775-SE     1978   Senegal    Irrigation                       20.0        9.6
1518-SE     1978   RCFS         Railways III           11.0                5.6
1665-SE     1979   Senegal    Second Airport            7.0                6.2
S-23-SE      1979   Senegal    Water Supply Engr.                2.5        2.4
908-SE       1979   Senegal    Education III                    22.0      20.7
991-SE      1980   Senegal    Small Rural
Operations                   11.0       10.2
993-SE      1980   Senegal    Fourth Highway                   28.0       28.0
1810-SE       1980   Senegal    Fourth Highway          10.0                10.0
S-26-SE       1980   Senegal    Power Eng and T.A.                3.3        3.3
1061-SE   ** 1980   Senegal    Technical Assistance               5.3       5.3
Total                                    103.1   192.0       135.5
of which has been repaid                 7.9     0.7
Total now outstanding                     95.2   191.3
Amount sold                        3.4
of which has been repaid         3.2
0.2
Total now held by  Bank and IDA 1/        95.0   191.3
Total Undisbursed                         40.6    94.9      135.5
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in
1969 was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
**   IDA sixth credit for SDRs 4.1 million.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   A balance of $1,610.29 remains undisbursed.



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of November 30, 1980)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal        Obligor            Type of Business       Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant         2.45        1.01      3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                      Vegetable Export        -          0.84      0.84
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                 Development
Finance Company        -          0.24      0.24
1980   Banque de 1'Habitat       Money and Capital       -          0.47      0.47
du Senegal S.A.           Market
1980   Societe Hoteliere         Tourism                3.00         -        3.00
du Barachois, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                          5.45        2.56     8.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
repayment and sales                           2.45        1.05      3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC                3.00        1.51     4.51
Undisbursed Balance                              3.00        0.00     3.00
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 336       Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding
satisfactorily following agreements reached with the Government in October
1978 to improve performance. The main problem affecting the project has
been plot consolidation and occupancy, but this is showing improvement with
the assistance of a loan scheme by the project agency (OILM) and the Sene-
galese national development bank (BNDS), which is now fully operational. Site
development has also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment
opportunities other than construction-related activities; a unit in OHL[ :s
currently examining this problem and preparing proposals.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3
Ln. 866   Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about five years longer than originally sche-
duled mainly because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and
changes in top management. The physical works are now completed. The
Borrower has made significant efforts over the past two years to improve its
management, as well as its accounting and financial organization. This,
together with the audits and financial advisors financed under the Parapub-
lic Sector Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 764), is expected to result in
substantial institutional improvements.
Ln. 987   SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
SOFISEDIT was created in March 1974 for the purpose of providing
long-term financing for developing enterprises in industry and tourism.
A Project Completion Report will be circulated shortly.
Cr. 366   Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies. All project
items are now satisfactorily completed. The strengthening program, how-
ever, had to be reduced from 110 km to about 35 km as a result of higher
costs than estimated at appraisal, and high inflation during implementation;
the remaining 75 km were strengthened under the ongoing Third Highway
Project (Ln 1222). The objectives of the maintenance program were not
entirely met due to management problems and insufficient allocation of local
funds, and the technical assistance was extended under the Third Highway
Project. Preinvestment studies were successfully completed and taken into
account in planning of subsequent projects. Only fellowships awarded under
the project remain to be completed.
Cr. 530   Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation remains about two years behind schedule
because of earlier delays in design and contract awards. These delays,
together with a 10% decline in the value of the US Dollar, resulted in a cost
overrun of about US$6 million. To help compensate for these increased costs,
the Government requested, and the Association has formally agreed, to reduce
the scope of the project by reducing the number of science centers from 11 to
8, the number of rural youth training centers from 30 to 15, and by deleting
from the project the construction and equipment for the Hotel School and



ANNEX II
Page 4
seeking another source of external financing for this component. The
Industrial Training and Upgrading Center has started training courses In
all trades. Construction and equipping of the Merchant Marine School have
been completed. Construction of 7 of the science centers and lower secondary
schools was satisfactorily completed at end-1979. The last center will be
finished early in 1981. Procurement of furniture and equipment is progressing
on schedule. The rural youth training component is experiencing implementa-
tion difficulties; but modified educational objectives and a revised imple-
mentation schedule have been agreed with the Government.
Cr. 549      Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln 1113      US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers' agricultural practices, particu-
larly through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. However,
results over the first three years of the project show that yield increases
have been negligible. Re-orientation efforts were undertaken in agreeiaent
with the Bank, and more emphasis was put on actions which had met favorable
results such as promotion of maize production in the south of the project
region, and integration of agriculture and animal husbandry in the north.
Despite these efforts, and although rainfall had been better than average, the
project did not show any improvement in additional production or yields, the
result largely of serious management and staffing problems, and an ineffective
extension service. It was therefore decided, in agreement with the Government
and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in an attempt to find new
workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint re-appraisal was carried
out in November 1979, and a draft Amendment to the Credit Agreement was
re-negotiated with Government in May 1980 and signed on August 14, 1980, when
the closing date was extended to June 30, 1983.
Cr. 578      Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project, which is a follow-up to an earlier re-settlement
operation, consists of settling 600 families over a three-year period in the
Eastern Senegal Region, and providing the necessary infrastructure; and
preparing a master plan for agricultural development of the region. The
project has been completed satisfactorily, although about one year behind
schedule, and a Completion Report is being prepared.
Ln. 1221-T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads; purchase of high-
way equipment and spare parts, and materials and supplies for project



ANNEX II
-36 -                       Page 5
operations; technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring;
construction of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The
project had been experiencing serious delays caused by insufficient financial,
managerial, and logistic support; but on the reconmendation of and in agreement
with the Bank, the Government undertook a series of measures to accelerate
works, and progress has improved considerably. Works executed so far are of
satisfactory technical quality.
Ln. 1222     Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The project is proceeding satisfactorily and on schedule.
The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The road maintenance
program begun under the Second Highway Project, and extended under this
project, is continued under the Fourth Highway Project to strengthen the
maintenance organi;ation and operations. As a result of currency realign-
ments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than planned, an
amount of about US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank has
agreed to the Government's proposals to use these funds to cover the foreign
cost of extending technical assistance for road maintenance, improving work-
shops and training center buildings, and procuring workshop and training
equipment.
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647      Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until the past season
when production was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national
cooperative and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed. In addi-
tion, the project's overall efficiency is hampered by administrative problems
similar to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above. The project has achieved its objectives in total area
cultivated and number of participants; however, findings of the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit show that project impact could be reduced, primarily because
participating farms show no significant yield increases (except for rice)



- 37 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6
over those farms outside the project, and because the area cultivated per
participant is smaller than expected. Work on the agricultural development
plan for the Casamance Region by the project's Planning Unit is now com-
pleted, and further detailed studies are underway.
Ln. 1332      Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit
for   industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a
pilot scheme of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through
SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency. The Loan is fully committed.
A third line of credit concentrating on strengthening SOFISEDIT and stream-
lining Senegal's industrial policies, administration and promotion, is
scheduled for Board presentation in the near future.
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works have
been completed. The quality of contractors workmanship is good, and
the new quays have been put into use. All the technical assistance services
and studies are progressing satisfactorily and the container study financed
by the project has been adequately completed. Overall performance of the
Port Authority remains satisfactory, but there are continuing problems with
receivables, statistics, and recruitment and retention of qualified staff.
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln.-1413      Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a pro-
gram of works for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance
and studies to improve planning and promotion in the tourism sector and
a line of credit for long-term financing for hotel construction at the
site. Construction of infrastructure works at the Sali project area have been
satisfactorily completed and areas designated for hotel construction are ready
for delivery. The common recreation center and commercial areas are under
construction. The first hotel (Palm Beach) was opened on December 24, 1980.
Infrastructure works for the Goree component will start in January 1981.
Ln. 1518     Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance,
supply of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications faci-
lities and track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive



- 38 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7
power and rolling stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities,
and studies. Track repair work between Dakar and Thies proceeded satisfac-
torily for about 12 months, but the quality of ballast procured by the
Regie was found to be poor. Neither the Regie nor the Government has been
able to provide the local funds needed for better quality ballast in FY81,
and so the track repair work has been halted to be resumed after 8 months
when funds in the next financial year become available. Practically the
entire order of locomotive spare parts has been received. The locomotive
rehabilitation work has commenced. The training program is progressing
satisfactorily. Consultants have completed the first phase of the study
of the optimum structure and ownership of the Senegal Railway (together
with the connecting Mali Railway). Railway traffic in the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1980 was the same as that of the previous year and did not
register the improvement expected, following the delivery of two new high-
power locomotives, as well as critical spare parts for the locomotive re-
habilitation program, due to an unexpected set back, caused by the loss
of a new locomotive in a serious accident. The entire project is likely
to take one year more than expected. There is likely to be a local-cost
overrun of $2 million and no overrun in the foreign cost.
Cr. 764      Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is progressing satisfactorily. Overall
guidance and direction by Project Management had not been very effective,
but Government has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this
situation. Introductory training seminars for Government administrators and
staff in the control organizations have begun, with more intensive and
specialized courses planned to start in 1980. The audit component is
progressing well, and there is already some improvement in the follow-up of
audit recommendations.
Cr. 775      Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future develop-
ment of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are now completed.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement) is expected to start shortly. The technical assis-
tance team provided by the French FAC to strengthen SAED is now in place.



- 39 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8
Construction of project headquarters and training center is completed.
Consultants for the studies have been selected in agreement with the
Association.
Ln. 1665     Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport, and
installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports at
Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Design work and bidding procedures for the
Dakar airport have been satisfactorily completed, and work was started in
July 1980 and was virtually completed by the end of 1980. Equipment
procurement is completed and contracts for civil works at Ziguinchor have
been satisfactorily awarded.
Cr. S-23     Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical
studies to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and
extension of water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six
regional capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and
operating entities in the sector. Consultants have been selected in agree-
ment with the Association, and work was started in the fall of 1980.
Cr. 908      Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is designed to increase the supply of high- and
middle-level technicians and managers required for the modern agricultural
and industrial sectors; improve and expand secondary technical and voca-
tional education; and improve the quality of primary education and establish
a solid base for its future expansion, especially in rural areas. Physical
implementation of the major components is progressing satisfactorily.
Tenders for construction of the National College of Agriculture and the
Technical Teacher Training College, representing about 70% of the total
civil works, are being invited. Bidding documents are being prepared for
equipment, valued at about US$2.0 million, for two secondary technical
schools, the Vocational Training and Upgrading Center, and the Technical
Teacher Training College. Implementation of the educational research and
planning component has been delayed by about six months following a Govern-
ment review of the role of the proposed Educational Research Institute.



- 40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. 991       Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of April 2,
1980; Effective September 10, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project focusses on channelling funds and technical services
to small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing. The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive
activities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision
for a management structure.
Cr. 993      Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0 million
Ln. 1810      Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective December 9, 1980;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government-s
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and
programming capacity and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government's soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about
200 km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road
(about 85 km) to two-lane, paved standards.
Cr. S-26-SE Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$3.3 million
Credit of June 18, 1980; Effective August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to assist Government in
developing an overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector.
The project also includes financial and tariff studies, and feasibility
studies for a headquarters building for the new power entity and for the
expansion of the generating facilities.
Cr. 1061      Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning;
US$5.3 million Credit of October 27, 1980; Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project would support and strengthen the Government's ability to
identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and evaluate retrospectively
its portfolio of development projects. It would strengthen also the public debt
monitoring, budgeting and forecasting capacity and improve coordination between
project needs and public financing.



- 41 -                                ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: October 1978 to
November 1979
(b) Agency which prepared project: Government, with assistance
from IDA and CCCE staff.
(c) First Bank mission to consider project: February 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: April 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: November 21, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1, 1981
Section II:   Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During Credit negotiations, the Government provided assurances on the follow-
ing principal issues:
(a)  seedlings would be sold at cost to rural communities and farmers
and all revenues generated from the sales of seedlings and forestry
products in the project area would be earmarked to the project
(para 46);
(b)  the Forestry Department through the POU, would enter into agreements
with rural communities, before providing them with machinery and
other services, to recover the costs of machinery and other services
to the rural community plantations by charging 20 percent of their
wood sales (para 46(b));
(c)  the Operations Manager, key Senegalese staff, and all inter-
nationally recruited expatriate staff and consultants, would have
qualifications, experience, and terms of reference acceptable to IDA
(para. 54); and
(d)  Government would review, in consultation with IDA and by December
1982, its stumpage pricing policy reflect the value of wood products
to the economy. Government would also harmonize prices of fuelwood
from all sources and increase the permit value of wood from natural
forests to about 30 percent of that from plantations by 1986 and to
about 80 percent by 1990 (para 61).



- 42 -                                ANNEX III
Page 2
Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) establishment of a Project Operations Unit within the Forestry
Department and appointment of four key project staff in agreement
with IDA (para. 54);
(b) establishment of a project accounting system acceptable to IDA
(para. 55);
(c) opening of two project accounts, one in a bank in Dakar and the
other at the Treasury, and payment by Government of an initial
deposit representing estimated quarterly expenditures on its con-
tribution to project costs (para. 56); and
(d) meeting all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CCCE credit and agreement with FAC and FAO for appointment of their
first experts (para 58).



IBRD 15131
-M                                           W A-    X
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;0:R:Y -O:
-  -  j S  e    LOUSGA
1,$00,e08 X f       X   'f ;N i , ,  u, ,,0






'5'.00'                              1430'     SENEGAL                    14'00'                                 13'30'
MAUWAN'th                                            ~~~~FORE STRY PROJECT -  PROJET FcDRES7VER
PROJECT AREA - ZONE DU PROJET
Project area boundary                                                    Sylv pastoral reserves                       Departement capitals
Limle adu pr/cet                                                --    Reserves sylvpopslnora/es                      Chef_lieu de dparterement
SENEGAL >              >                                   iForest reserues selected for the state -manged tree pontot,n -opoent     Notional park                                Regional cpitapls
-15         Foi*liosssledjoisiepour/c oltot,tosreirsenrel                            Parr ftal,OnOi                                Chef-/lieu de region   15
#AU                    ~~~~~~~Forest reserve selected for the natural foest mtanagement component  Forest reserves                        -.Departament boundaries
i'ROJECT                                      Foret c/lssie cho/sie pour le vol  renagerent de/a forno natu relle      Reserves forestires                          1imites de departement
AREA    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ *            Project headquarters                                                    Main roads                LRegional boundaries
Siege do pro/el                                                         Routes principales                            Liroites de r4gion
-.1  A    Project training center ~ ~        ~                           Railway                               -       International boundary
etre du |formation du pro/el                                            Ctemin de fer                                 Fronti_re internotionole
Project tree nurseries                                                  Rivers
'I  W                                0~~~~~~~~~~-   P4pinmres foresti4res duproete                                  Cours d~aox
16-00'
-=---K K,io,etr.                                                                                                              lo    20      30    40      50    O0    70       80
orn,ha.f ,ad -t of,ths ." ,,,,O.oa,, oay Ph . he on a f dra,Wa,dnmf ,   . r'.o O  -  ' n. ,     ? , 4   e,           ,.. '                      M/ ,   l 0.Mt I.202                   3030d 4050
t4-30'                                                                                                                                                                                                                    t40
0 X ,R/~~~~~~~~E              G   I  J tT.E                    E S  
|  De p a rtem,ent  of                    rt r  l                                                                                                     *1
t~~-E~41ON  O0F EASTERN 
Krhn 0 C   KAF'Ni- OFEAS T E R N H 
HODAR =   >alemeXaM9ApAEK   {yOPA     ( Dep,em ent of f                          c         oun
HO|AR \YOR   v  -7 ''2 --t/                                                          U          N          D ACON|
REGION             OF       ,A       A    A     C              .    ,       N              -,                                                                        .,-, .... , f- - \ ...               1 '----,.
ToZ,gn,ordvri  t530' /000                                                               14G0                                  1400 t hr,h ga4           
,..   .._..  .,.  .,.................................v  ... ,  t,<R  .....................................................-......TE...
\''    <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
..~~~~~~I                 R



