Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    21310
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(31440)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 146 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
December 8, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 27, 2000)
Currency Unit = Taka (Tk)
Tk 1 = US$ 0.01857
US$ 1 = Tk 53.85
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -      Asian Development Bank
ADP          -      Annual Development Program
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
DMF          -      Disaster Management Facility
DOSA         -      Dollar Special Account
DCA          -      Development Credit Agreement
EFREP        -      Emergency Flood Recovery Project
ESAF         -      Enhanced Stractural Adjustment Facility
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
IDA          -      International Development Association
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
OCS          -      Operational Core Services
OPS          -      Operations Policy and Strategy
PREM         -      Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
QAG          -      Quality Assurance Group
SAR          -      South Asia Region
UNDP         -      United Nations Development Program
Vice President:    Meiko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   Frederick T. Temple
Sector Manager/Director:   N. Roberto Zagha
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Shekhar Shah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
Implementation Completion Report
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   6
6. Sustainability                                                                       6
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      8
9. Partner Comments                                                                    11
10. Additional Informnation                                                            12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    14
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   19
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      20
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  21
Annex 8. Government of Bangladesh: Assessment of Project Implementation                22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P063089                                      Project Name: Emergency Flood Recovery Project
Team Leader: Shekhar Shah                                TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 8, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: Emergency Flood Recovery Project              L/C/TF Number: 31440
Country/Department: BANGLADESH                                          Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: ME - Economic Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/08/98                                Effective: 01/29/99           12/04/98
Appraisal:  10/24/98                                 MTR:
Approval:  11/24/98                               Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Government of Bangladesh/Ministry of Finance/Bangladesh Bank
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                          Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager:     Frederick Thomas Temple                   Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager:      N. Roberto Zagha                          N. Robert Zagha
Team Leader at ICR:   Shekhar Shah                             Shekhar Shah
ICR Primary Author:   Shekhar Shah
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Emergency Flood Recovery Project (EFREP) was designed to assist Bangladesh in
maintaining macroeconomic stability in the immediate aftermath of the 1998 floods, the worst
in living memory, byfinancing imports neededfor restoring infrastructure assets, agricultural
and manufacturing production levels, andfood grain stocks.



The 1998 floods destroyed large parts of two major rice crops and disrupted manufacturing
and exports. EFREP was the emergency component of IDA's three-part, unbundled strategy to
help Bangladesh respond to the 1998 floods. (The other two, longer-term parts of the strategy,
based not in this project but in other complementary efforts, are the medium-term rehabilitation of
physical infrastructure by supplementing existing IDA projects and, along with other donors,
assistance for the long-term strengthening of Bangladesh's institutional capacity for disaster
management. Though not assessed here, these are briefly discussed below.)
Preserving macroeconomic stability is crucial for Bangladesh. First, it protects the poor
from inflation and job losses as a results of businesses closures in the face of macroeconomic
uncertainty. Second, it provides a stable environment for accelerating structural reforms needed
to position Bangladesh for faster, more inclusive growth.
EFREP's objectives and design were deliberately kept simple. First, no attempt was made
to front-load policy conditionality on the project in full recognition of the fact that such
conditionality would impede the emergency recovery purposes of the credit, both in its rapid
preparation and implementation. Second, design simplicity was fully in line with the 1998 CAS,
which stresses the importance of client ownership and warns of the failure of over-ambitious,
Christmas-tree approaches to projects in Bangladesh. Even if the borrower had acceded to
substantial conditionality on paper, the crisis situation under which such an agreement would have
been reached would have hardly lent itself to full ownership of the resulting reforms, and they
would have inevitably faltered. Third, project objectives, though simple, were also strategic. They
were based on intense collaboration with the IMF and the Government on the medium-tenn
macroeconomic framework and the IMF's emergency support (see Bangladesh- Use of Fund
Resources, Requestfor Emergency Assistance, EBS/98/175, October 21, 1998, IMF, Washington, DC). They
were also based on embedding this project within an unbundled disaster response strategy that
would clearly match the Bank's assistance to the client's priorities over the medium and longer
term. Finally, simplicity in project design was consistent with both the guidelines and world-wide
best practice for emergency projects. (See GP 8.5, Emergency Recovery Assistance, World Bank
Operational Manual, August 1995. See also, Learningfrom the World Bank's Experience of Natural Disaster
Related Assistance, World Bank 1999.)
Clarity of objectives and intense collaboration with the borrower, the IMF, and other
donors led to an extremely rapid preparation time of four weeks for this emergency project. It
also led to the project disbursing fully a year before its completion date.
312 Revised Objective:
No revisions were made.
3.3 Original Components:
EFREP sought to provide quick-disbursing financing for the foreign cost of imports on a
positive list of items, includingfood grains to maintain and augmentfood stocks that would
otherwise have been depleted with the partial loss of two rice crops; seeds, fertilizers, and other
agricultural inputs for planting the next boro rice crop; machinery, spare parts and other raw
materials for manufacturers; andfuel, cement, and other construction materials.
- 2 -



Up to 20 percent of the Credit proceeds could be used retroactively for eligible imports for
which payments were made after July 12, 1998, the date of the onset of severe flooding. The size
of the IDA credit at US$200 million equivalent was based on the Government's request for
emergency assistance and an assessment of the adverse impact of the floods on the balance of
payments after taking into account the assistance expected from the IMF, ADB, and other donors.
(For details of the forecasted external financing gap, see EFREP, Technical Annex Report No. T-7264-Bangladesh,
World Bank 1998.)
Consistent with its emergency nature, several innovations in project procurement and
disbursement were made to address the need for rapid implementation while ensuring proper
financial management. Procurement procedures were simplified and streamlined to suit the
project's rapid disbursement needs. At the same time, concerns about due diligence, transparency,
and avoiding corruption were firnly addressed through more stringent auditing controls designed
to complement the audit and financial management capacity of the implementing agency. These
included the appointment of an independent private auditor as an effectiveness condition and
quarterly (rather than annual) reporting requirements to track the accelerated disbursements
expected from the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The above project components were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was randomly selected by QAG for the 1998 Quality at Entry Review. The
QAG Panel focused on project design and whether it would achieve its development objectives.
The Panel gave the project an overall rating of Satisfactory, and gave a Highly Satisfactory rating
to two aspects of the project, (i) project concept, objectives, and approach and (ii) financial
management. The Panel noted that the project was "an exceptionally quick response to an
emergency situation of a natural disaster that threatened to bring about a balance of payments
crisis." It commented favorably on the close consultation and collaboration with the IMF, the
strong commitment of the borrower to the project, and the good involvement of Bank financial
management staff in the field office and in Washington. (Going beyond the project, QAG also
recommended a comprehensive program review and assistance from donors to help Bangladesh
adopt a long-term strategy of disaster mitigation and perform an institutional review of early
warning arrangements.) EFREP was cited by the QAG Quality at Entry Enhancement in CY98
for "exemplary attention to financial management and attention to design" and singled out for
effectively using field staff in this process. (See "Quality at Entry Enhancement in CY98", QAG, World
Bank 1999.) The ICR rating of Satisfactory for quality at entry is consistent with the QAG
assessment and is based on the same considerations.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
EFREP is rated highly satisfactory in achieving its emergency recovery objectives. The
project was designed for rapid implementation, but was also embedded into a longer-term strategy
of disaster mitigation. These design objectives fed directly into the primary outcome objective of
helping maintain macroeconomic stability immediately after the floods. Both objectives were fully
achieved. In doing so, EFREP approached or exceeded prior best-practice, and has been used as a
- 3 -



best-practice model for several emergency Bank projects that followed, including in Central
America (1999 Hurricane Mitch), China (1999 Yangtze floods), Turkey (1999 earthquake), and
Mozambique (2000 floods). (See Honduras Hurricane Emergency Project, Report No. P7280-HO, Dec. 14,
1998, Nicaragua Hurricane Emergency Project, P7279-NI, Dec. 14, 1998, Yangtze Flood Emergency
Rehabilitation Project, Report No. P7285-CHA, Jan. 19, 1999. Turkey Emergency Earthquake Recovery Loan,
Report No. P-7338, October 27, 1999; Mozambique Flood Emergency Recovery Project, Report No. P7370-MO,
April 7, 2000.)
4.2 Outputs by components:
Responding rapidly to the disaster: The project was prepared, appraised, and negotiated
in less than four weeks. It became effective in 24 hours after Board approval. The project
disbursed within six months after effectiveness, a year ahead of the project closing date. This
response was facilitated by intense collaboration between the EFREP team and others. In the
Bank, this included the Operational Policy & Strategy and Legal Departments on policy issues
relating to the financing for food-grain imports, Operational Core Services and the Regional
Procurement and Financial Management Advisors on simplified project procedures, and the SAR
Vice President's Office on project processing. Outside the Bank, collaboration was particularly
close with the IMF and the Government on macroeconomic analysis and with other donors in
Bangladesh on their disaster relief programs.
Financing imports and immediate post-flood macroeconomic recovery: Emergency
assistance from IDA and the IMF coupled with the Government's adjustment measures (See
EFREP, Technical Annex, op cit.) helped maintain both internal and external macroeconomic balances
that would otherwise have deteriorated sharply after the 1998 floods. The need to import
foodgrains and other materials and to finance relief and rehabilitation in the immediate aftermath
of the floods led to three specific areas of macroeconomic concern: the current account deficit,
the level of foreign exchange reserves, and the overall budget deficit, in addition to the overall
concern about ensuring adequate food grain stocks and restraining inflation. It was likely that
without such assistance, the current account deficit would have increased from 1.2 percent of
GDP to over 3 percent. In the event, it rose to 1.4 percent of GDP in FY99, reflecting a
combination of a decline in annual export growth from nearly 17 percent in FY98 to about 3
percent in FY99, an impressive 8 percent growth in workers' remittances, and a significant decline
in the growth of nonfood imports (due to a post-flood recession in manufacturing). The level of
foreign exchange reserves declined from $1.7 billion at the end of FY98 to $1.5 billion at the
end of FY99, adequate cover for about two months of imports.
Fiscal management remained generally sound during and immediately after the floods. The
overall budget deficit, expected to exceed 5 percent of GDP in the absence of donor assistance
and new fiscal measures, was contained at 4.8 percent in FY99, an increase from 4.1 percent in
FY98. In part due to the floods, but also as a result of the deep-seated structural deficiencies in
the core sectors of the economy (such as in power, ports, banking, and communications) and the
continuing high cost of doing business, manufacturing went into a recession after the floods. The
slowdown in manufacturing has had two important fiscal effects: it dampened tax revenue
collections and also led to an expansionary fiscal stance as the government continued the
acceleration of ADP expenditures for rehabilitation and other purposes in FY00. In contrast to
manufacturing, agriculture was helped by the fresh alluvial deposits carried by the floods and
- 4 -



enjoyed successive bumper rice crops in 1999. As a result, the decline in the year-on-year
inflation rate since January 1999 continued through August 1999, when inflation had declined to
6.5 percent. The food inflation rate declined from its peak of 17.6 percent in December 1998 to 6
percent in August 1999.
Macroeconomic outcomes in FY00 and beyond: EFREP, as with other best-practice
emergency recovery loans, was designed to deal with the immediate macroeconomic shock of the
1998 floods and not with longer term macroeconomic, sectoral, or structural issues. It is
nonetheless worth noting that EFREP was approved in the context of ongoing discussions
between the IMF and the government for an ESAF agreement that would have followed
emergency IMF assistance. (See p. 6, IMF 1998, op. cit.) Though high-level discussions on a possible
ESAF continued as part of Fund Article IV missions after the floods, no agreement was reached
that might have led to an agreed medium-term framework and policy measures to address new
macroeconomic vulnerabilities that began emerging in FY00, particularly on the fiscal and external
side. In particular, with inflation still low and a slowdown in manufacturing, the Government
adopted an expansionary fiscal stance that ran in parallel with slow growth in revenues. This led
to the overall budget deficit growing to 6.1 percent of GDP by end-FYOO. There was also greater
balance of payments pressure in FY00 as the reserve level trended down and was below $1.4
billion in August 2000, a combination of lackluster export growth, significant appreciation of the
real effective exchange rate, and the rise of the exchange rate premium. (In mid-August 2000 the
government devalued the Taka by about 6 percent and announced substantial increases in energy
prices.)
Safeguarding the Bank's fiduciary role: The project design attempted to balance
emergency responsiveness with fiduciary concerns about good governance. Innovations in
procurement and disbursement procedures to facilitate rapid disbursement were balanced by
concerns about due diligence, transparency, and avoiding corruption. The latter were fmnly
addressed through more stringent auditing controls designed to complement the financial
management capacity of the implementing agency, including the appointment of an external
auditor as an effectiveness condition, and quarterly audit reports to account for accelerated
disbursements (this is the first IDA project in Bangladesh with quarterly audits).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No NPV or ERR was calculated for this emergency macroeconomic operation.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return were calculated for this emergency macroeconomnic operation.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Though emergency loans are not expected to focus on longer-term institutional
development. (GP8.5, August 1995) and EFREP did not seek to do so, the project drew attention
to the serious need to recognize Bangladesh's vulnerability to natural hazards and to mainstream
disaster responsiveness and mitigation concerns in donor and IDA assistance. EFREP placed its
emergency response within the framework of a three-part strategy for disaster responsiveness,
with the second and third parts explicitly focusing on reconstruction and institutional development
for systemic disaster risk management.
-5 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no significant factors affecting implementation of the emergency project that were
outside the control of the government or the implementing agency.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project implementation has been highly satisfactory. Among factors contributing
substantially to successful project outcomes and rapid imnplementation were the government's
strong commitment, its desire to negotiate and satisfy effectiveness conditions rapidly, its
willingness to adopt stringent financial management controls, its sensible handling of
macroeconomnic policies immediately following the floods, its commitment to ensuring post-flood
food availability and therefore to containing inflation that might hurt the poorest, and the
willingness to oversee project implementation from the highest levels of government. Though not
affecting implementation or the outcomes of the emergency project per se, two other factors are
worth noting. First, the government's rapid deployment and excellent management of existing
targeted safety net programs helped prevent massive starvation-related casualties, child
malnutrition, and a possible outbreak of disease following the floods. Second, the government
might have more easily limited greater macroeconomic vulnerability during FY00 and beyond had
an ESAF program been put in place--as originally envisaged by the government and the IMF--in
the year after the 1998 floods. The government and Fund staff discussed such a program during
1999, but it was not possible to reach agreement on the prior conditions for an ESAF.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Important factors contributing to successful and rapid implementation were the willingness
of the Ministry of Finance and Bangladesh Bank to come up with simple institutional
arrangements for project implementation and to work closely with field-based Bank procurement,
disbursement, and financial management staff and with the private independent auditor to ensure
compliance with project covenants. Initial teething problems in project disbursements arose as a
result of the lack of familiarity with the special procurement conditions of the project, but these
were resolved quickly.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Project financing aspects were satisfactory. Appropriate project design and objectives, solid
client commitment and good day-to-day project management, highly responsive supervision and
teamwork from field-based financial management, procurement, disbursement, and PREM staff
were responsible for the project disbursing a year ahead of schedule.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Emergency projects must have limited objectives but must also be related to longer-term
efforts for disaster management and mitigation. Sustainability is therefore rated as likely in terms
of follow-on projects that might either provide similar, short-term, post-disaster emergency
import support as EFREP or, learning from this experience, more systematically address
immediate, post-disaster macroeconomic risks (see Section 6.2 below). The overall financial
management of this project was highly satisfactory, and the ability of the borrower to make
- 6 -



appropriate arrangements to protect this kind of emergency funding from fraudulent or corrupt
activities has been demonstrated. The borrower is expected to be able to draw on this experience
so as to sustain the same level of good governance in future such operations if they become
necessary. EFREP was also designed to be the first of a three-part disaster response strategy, with
the second and third parts focusing on medium and longer term rehabilitation and management
issues. Though not part of EFREP, Bank assistance for medium-term reconstruction of damaged
infrastructure has proceeded through restructuring of existing projects. On longer-term
institutional capacity issues, the Bank is participating in UNDP-led discussions for formulating a
Comprehensive Disaster Management Programme for Bangladesh. (See "Comprehensive Disaster
Management Programme", Framework Design Document, Final Draft, Document No. 5, July 31, 2000, UNDP and
Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief Government of Bangladesh.) The program will seek to
establish an integrated institutional mechanism for the delivery of long-term sustainable risk
management practices as an integral component of national development planning and for
enhancing emergency response and recovery management at all levels, including through
community involvement.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Maintaining macroeconomic stability is central to Bangladesh's development strategy and
to the Bank's country assistance strategy. While no specific transition arrangements are envisaged
for this emergency recovery project, Bank staff have explored more programmatic approaches to
financing disaster recovery--both macroeconomic and sectoral--including the possibility of
innovative IDA credits for this purpose (see Section 8 below). The government and UNDP are
guiding deliberations on a Comprehensive Disaster Management Programme that may lead to
other disaster mitigation projects in which the Bank could participate.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in project identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal is rated
Highly Satisfactory for a number of reasons: responding extremely rapidly to an emergency;
establishing a clear, unbundled strategy for the Bank's response; basing strategy on Bank
experience of previous disaster funding in Bangladesh and elsewhere; formulating simple design
and robust institutional arrangements, collaborating closely with IMF and other donors, and
establishing rigorous financial management standards. This rating is consistent with the QAG
rating of Highly Satisfactory for quality at entry on project concept, objectives and approach and
highly favorable QAG comments on the speed of preparation.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory. Building on the ongoing
decentralization in the South Asia region, Bangladesh office staff played a leading, pro-active role
in overcoming initial hurdles in project implementation having to do with modified procurement
and quarterly auditing procedures, including reviews of statements of expenditure. Dhaka-based
staff also worked with the private independent auditor to ensure compliance with Bank
requirements. Both actions contributed substantially to sound financial management, full exercise
of the procurement flexibility built into the project, and rapid project disbursement within six
months of project approval.
-7 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory based on the component ratings
for lending, supervision, and outcomes.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government's preparation performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory based on its
extremely close collaboration during appraisal and negotiation (conducted by teleconferencing);
willingness to keep project design simple in line with world-wide best practice and to complement
the project with other fiscal and exchange rate adjustment measures; and the personal interest
shown by top political and civil service officials (including the Prime Minister and Finance
Minister) in expediting project preparation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Borrower implementation performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory based on the project
becoming effective rapidly; the government's willingness to adopt stringent financial management
controls to ensure good governance; the proactive stance of top officials toward achieving project
objectives; rapid disbursement; and the generally sound macroeconomic management in the
immediate months after the floods.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project implementation performance of the Ministry of Finance and Bangladesh Bank is
rated as Highly Satisfactory based on: adequate staffing; up-to-date maintenance of financial
management records and responsive preparation of quarterly and annual financial statements;
willingness to correct mistakes in implementation to come into compliance with project
covenants; and full cooperation with the external auditor and with Bank staff on financial
management issues and a desire to enhance capacity to handle emergency projects through
learning by doing.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory based on the ratings for
project preparation, implementation, and project outcomes.
8. Lessons Learned
Weather-related hazards are endemic to Bangladesh. Hence it is no surprise that measured
in terms of the number of Bank projects between 1980 and 1998, Bangladesh was the largest
World Bank client for disaster reconstruction operations and the third largest client for disaster
mitigation operations. (See World Bank 1999, op cit.) Over the years, Bangladesh has made notable
progress in its capacity to deal with natural disasters. Both weather monitoring and early warning
systems have been strengthened. The ability to evacuate people from disaster zones and to
provide shelter has also been strengthened, as evidenced by reduced fatalities during crises.
Bangladesh has some of the world's largest food-based safety nets for the poor, and these have
been successfully and rapidly deployed to ensure food availability during natural disasters,
particularly in 1998. At the same time, the spread and effectiveness of defensive
infrastructure--such as coastal and river embankments--and community- and micro-finance based
schemes are reducing vulnerability to crises. Against this background of progress, the specific
- 8 -



experience of EFREP suggests at least four lessons for the future, both for Bangladesh and more
broadly for dealing with natural disasters worldwide.
First, establish clear, emergency recovery objectives. The Bank's perspective in
emergency loans is immediate recovery, not resolution of macroeconomic, sectoral, or
institutional problems. This discipline of tailoring objectives to emergency needs must be reflected
in a clear strategic vision and project goals aligned to desirable outcomes on the ground--rapid
preparation, clean implementation, full achievement of emergency objectives. Such clarity leads to
project success and strong client ownership. At the same time, the endemic nature of natural
hazards for a country such as Bangladesh suggest that disaster preparedness should be a central
part of the Bank's country assistance strategy. One operational way to do so might be to explore if
investment projects--particularly those financing infrastructure--can be made "disaster-smart",
with in-built clauses that provide pre-negotiated flexibility for rapid disbursement and
rehabilitation in the event of a catastrophic natural disaster.
Second, establish flexible but stringent fiduciary and procurement frameworks in
fast-track, emergency projects so that project implementation does not run aground on
governance issues. EFREP's implementation experience has provided lessons for designing and
implementing financial management systems for emergency projects. EFREP implemented
quarterly audit reports for the first time in Bangladesh, and these proved useful in catching
anomalies early and in assisting the borrower to take corrective measures, suggesting that the
approach seems to have been an effective one for this project. Projects that are intrinsically high
risk with regard to use of funds are clearly candidates for more than annual audits, and this
emergency project demonstrates the benefits of taking this approach in such cases. Quarterly
audits are now being deployed in the Bangladesh Export Diversification Project. Of course,
given the cost in fees and staff time of more frequent audits, a risk-based approach should be used
to determine if a particular project needs to be subjected to quarterly or even semi-annual audits.
In deploying such audits it is important to agree on appropriate reporting formats, a process that
took time in the initial stages of the work of the private independent auditor for EFREP. Building
in flexibility was also important: EFREP financed both public and private sector imports, and this
flexibility was useful in an emergency setting because Bank procurement procedures allowed for
faster disbursement against eligible private sector contracts (in the end private sector imports
accounted for 77 percent of the Credit.)
Third, use the considerable goodwill that timely and successful emergency recovery
projects generate to pave the way for resolving differences on difficult development issues.
EFREP and the IMF's timely emergency assistance in 1998 generated considerable goodwill in
Bangladesh, both within Government and civil society. In this particular instance, however, this
did not help fulfill the expectation that an ESAF would be negotiated with the IMF within a year
or so after the floods. While the reasons for this are many, including Bangladesh's political
economy, its political cycle (elections will be held by mid-2001), and technical differences with the
IMF on the prior actions for an ESAF, the challenge for the Bank to recognize and utilize such
goodwill remains and ways need to be found to move the development agenda forward in such
situations.
-9-



Fourth, explore programmatic approaches to disaster recovery financing. Based on the
EFREP experience with funding post-disaster macroeconomic recovery, the ICR team explored
the possibility of devising programmatic approaches to disaster recovery financing in Bangladesh.
The first step has been to recognize that recovery funding is related to the frequency and severity
of natural hazard events. Hazards lie along a continuum in terms of their impact. Bangladesh is
subject to annual hazards that typically have limited and localized effects and is also exposed to
less frequent natural hazards that have severe macroeconomic implications, such as the 1998
floods. Among annual hazards are periodic floods, including so-called flash-floods, which disrupt
specific communities where they strike. While such disruption is costly to those communities, the
macroeconomic effects are limited. Indeed, the floods, after their initial adverse effects, can
provide compensatory benefits, such as improved agricultural productivity. In contrast, rare but
severe disasters cut incomes, increase macroeconomic instability, and dampen growth potential.
A disaster that is considered rare but severe today may be treated as a more normal hazard
event once the capacity to manage disasters improves. Indeed, the principal objective of disaster
management is to achieve this ability to transform an unmanageable and costly physical event into
one that can be contained with limited emergency funding.
World-wide best practice suggests that the recovery funding for more regular natural
hazards should be treated as a recurrent expenditure, as has largely been the case in Bangladesh.
While the exact location and type of hazard will vary from year to year, an average annual cost
could be estimated. Such costs could be financed through a sinking fund, a Disaster Management
Facility (DMF), which could be funded from regular budgetary appropriations and external
financing. The use of the DMF could be low in one year and high in another year. As such, some
of the money could be set aside to build reserves for dealing with modest spikes in expenditures.
The facility could also be used to finance recurrent expenditures on mitigation measures.
For catastrophic events, i.e., those that are relatively rare (likely to occur, say, less than
once in twenty years), budgetary resources are likely to be insufficient. Currently, a heavy
reliance exists on donor funding. However, other sources of funding can be useful complements.
Donor funding has been on the decline, cannot always be guaranteed to be timely, and is not
always synchronized with the government's priorities. Building DMF reserves is also unlikely to
be sufficient for exceptional events. As such, it would be worthwhile exploring the possibility of
seeking insurance against catastrophic risks.
In recent years, a new form of insurance has become available that may be attractive to
consider. Traditional or indemnity insurance is based on an assessment of damages incurred. This
creates the possibility of disputes on the valuation of damages and hence in delays in receiving
compensation. In contrast, "index-based" insurance relies on observed physical parameters of
natural disasters (e.g., wind velocity of cyclones, excess precipitation in river basins causing
long-duration floods, and intensity of earthquakes). With such insurance, when predefined
thresholds are crossed, an insurance payment is immediately triggered. To be successful, these
threshold levels must be carefully assessed and a history of the variables underlying the index must
be available to compute the probabilities of triggers, which in turn determine the premiums
charged. (See Paul Freeman, "Estimating chronic risks from disasters in developing countries: a case-study of
- 10 -



Honduras. " For the World Bank's Annual Conference on Development Economics-Europe, Development Thinking
at the Millennium, Paris, June 2 6-28, 2000.) Such insurance contracts should normally not be
undertaken for more than three to five years, during which time an enhanced capability to deal
with disasters should lead to subsequent coverage of rarer and more challenging risks. At this
time, index-based insurance contracts have been used only in developed countries, though it is
very likely that they will be used soon in Latin America for the first time.
Besides providing coverage to the government against severe natural disasters, the setting
up of an insurance mechanism could also have positive spillover effects. Once the infrastructure
for government insurance and pricing benchmarks are in place, other large and geographically
diversified entities (including non-governmental organizations and banks) may also find it
attractive to purchase such insurance. It may be possible to design downstream derivatives of such
insurance contracts, for example, to insure micro-credit borrowers against major natural disasters.
The further exploration of these suggestions for financing disaster recovery would have to
include, at a minimum, the following five important steps:
1.    Unbundle and specify the costs and benefits of a more programmatic approach to disaster
recovery financing to ascertain the case for such financing in Bangladesh.
2.     Build on existing analyses to assess the financing envelop for "normal" hazards and
disaster mitigation measures.
3.     Define parameters for identifying catastrophic disasters (See Thomas Hofer and Bruno Messerli.
1997. "Floods in Bangladesh: process understanding and development strategies. Institute of Geography,
University of Bern, Bern. Institute of Engineers, 1998, Report of the Task Force Committee on Flood
Management, The Institute of Engineers, Dhaka.)
4.     Evaluate the correspondence between catastrophic risks so defined and economic and
human vulnerability.
5.     Design insurance contracts that meet Bangladesh's requirements and test for interest
among major international insurers.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Emergency Flood Recovery Project assisted Bangladesh in maintaining
macro-economic stability by financing critical import of food grains, fertilizer, cement and other
construction materials and spare parts. It helped to reduce pressure on the balance of payments
and foreign exchange reserve by financing commodity import and rehabilitation of infrastructural
facilities in the face of 1998 devastating flood. The EFREP's balance of payments support was
indeed timely. As intended, it was primarily a fast-disbursing balance of payments support. The
World Bank's ICR has provided an accurate assessment of the project's effectiveness in
maintaining overall macroeconomic stability and its timeliness in supporting Bangladesh's disaster
management efforts.
[A full project assessment by the Borrower is in Annex 8]
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
- 11 -



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
The Borrower's assessment of project implementation is attached at Annex 8.
- 12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatortMatjlx                    Projecbtd In last PSR                  ActuaULatest Estimate
Balance of payments current account deficit Not to exceed 3% of GDP in 199B/99  1.4% of GDP in FY9910.0% of GDP in FY00
Level of foreign exchange reserves     Not to fall below US$1.7 billion in 1998/99    $1.5 billion at FY99-end/$1 .4 billion at
FYOO-end
Overall fiscal deficit                 To remain below 5% of GDP in 1998/99   4.8% GDP in FY99/6.1% in FY00
Notes: EFREP was designed to deal with the immediate macroeconomic shock of the 1998 floods. With this assistance, along with
parallel IMF assistance and other measures taken by the govemment, the macroeconomic situation remainded stable as shown by the
three measures indicated above. FY99 ended with slightly lower reserves than planned because of a sharp drop in the export growth rate
in FY99. Though not part of the project objectives, the macroeconomic slippages seen in FY00 reflect the increasing pressure that fiscal
management came under as (1) the Govemment contnued with a post flood acceleration of ADP expenditures for reconstruction and (2)
tax revenue growth slowed down substantially due to a recession in manufacturing and reduced imports.
Output Indicators:
IndicatorMatrix                     Profjeted In last PSR                  Actua/Latest Estimate
Import financing (% of project disbursed)    100%                             100%
End of project
- 13-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component              US$ million    US$ million
Eligible imports finance from the following list:    200.00
Food Grain                                                           60.15           30.1
Edible Oil                                                           12.24            6.1
Fertilizer                                                            4.49            2.3
Seeds                                                                10.37            5.2
Agriculture equipment and inputs                                      1.12            0.6
Cement and other construction materials                              22.49           11.3
Industrial machinery, spare parts and raw materials                  88.80           44.5
Petroleum and fuel products                                           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                                  200.00          199.66
Total Project Costs             200.00          199.66
Total Financing Required             200.00          199.66
*Note: Items shown are those on a positive list, with a maximum of $100 million set for any one item. The
difference between appraisal and actual/latest estimate of project cost of $199.66 million is due to
exchange rate fluctuations between SDR and US$ at the time of disbursement.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
i                             ~~~~~~~~~Procuremenit Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Mtho'2         N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     32.00          0.00         167.66        0.00         199.66
(32.00)       (0.00)       (167.66)      (0.00)       (199.66)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      32.00         0.00         167.66         0.00        199.66
(32.00)       (0.00)      (167.66)       (0.00)       (199.66)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
- 14 -



XIncludes goods from the positive list procured through established international commodity markets and intemational
shopping.
Note: The goods under the project were procured under two procurement arrangements, ICB and other.
Project Financing by C mponent (in US$ million equ Ialent)
_ _. Pereentage of Appraisal
Component            .Apraisal Esimate              Actual4,atest Estimate
IDA      Govt       CoF.       IDA      Govt.      CoF.    IDA   Govt.  CoF.
Commodities and goods   200.00      0.00      0.00      199.66     0.00      0.00     99.8   0.0    0.0
*Note: The difference between appraisal and actual/latest estimate of project financing is due to exchange
rate fluctuations between SDR and US$ at the time of disbursement. The credit is 100% disbursed in SDR
terns, equivalent to $199.66 million.
- 15-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
- 16-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Pcrsons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
Sep 28-Oct 29, 1998            1     Economist
Due to emergency               I    Financial Mgt. Specialist
nature of project, done        2     Financial Analyst
jointly with                   I     Procurement Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation)         I     Legal
I    Operations Analyst
I    Research Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
(Please see above)                  (please see above)
Done
jointly with
Identification
/Preparation
Supervision
May 2- June 17, 1999           2   Economists                            HS                 HS
I  Financial Mgt. Specialist
I  Disbursement/Procurement/
Audit
I  Disbursement Officer
Jan. 30-Feb. 29, 2000           1  Economist                             HS                 HS
I  Financial Mgt. Specialist
I  Disbursement/Procurement/
Audit
I  Disbursement Officer
June 8-16, 2000 (joint             (please see below)                    HS                 HS
mission with ICR - see
below)
ICR
June 8-16, 2000                2    Economists                           HS                 HS
August 1-8, 2000 (joint       I   Financial Mgt. Specialist
supervision/ICR                I   Procurement/Disbursement/
mission)                            Audit
I   Disbursement Officer
-17 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (.000)
Identification/Preparation                35.9                        161.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                      5.2                         20.0
Supervision                               12.7                         47.1
ICR                                        3.5                         15.5
Total                                     57.3                        244.4
- 18 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                           * H  OSUOM  ON  ONA
LI Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
O Physical                                OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Financial                               * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
X Institutional Development               0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
LI Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
OI Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
OI Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
FOther (Please specify)                   * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Emergency Recovery Assistance
- 19 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
Z Lending                                             *HSOS  Ou OHU
M Supervision                                         *HS OS   OU   OHU
Z Overall                                             *HS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
 Preparation                                         *HS OS   O U   O HU
 Government implementation performance               O HS Os  O  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                   * HS O S  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             *HS OS O U O HU
- 20 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Available in Project Files
1. ICR Aide Memoire, August 14, 2000
2. Memorandum of the President, Report P-7264-BD, October 30, 1998
3. Technical Annex, Report T-7264-BD, October 30, 1998
- 21 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment of the Project
BANGLADESH
EMERGENCY FLOOD RECOVERY PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF BANGLADESH
1.    Project Objectives
The Bangladesh economy was severely devastated during the July-September 1998 by
long-drawn floods, when two-thirds of the land area remained inundated for about nine weeks,
rendering millions of people homeless and damaging numerous roads, bridges, culverts,
embankments and schools. The prolonged water-logging also caused serious damage to the pre-
and post-monsoon rice crops. Export of readymade garments---a major source of foreign
exchange earnings---slowed down as a result of the floods. In the industrial sector, because of the
long-drawn out waterlogging, production was hampered and a large number of industrial units
were rendered inoperative. Many installations were damaged, which needed replacement and
repair. Bangladesh needed international assistance to overcome this crisis and at its request, IDA
formulated the following three part assistance strategy:
(a) Emergency recovery to ensure macro stability by meeting immediate macro economic needs;
(b) Medium term rehabilitation of physical infrastructure by supplementing existing IDA projects
wherever possible so as to ensure early availability; coordinating such assistance with other
development partners; and
(c) Long-term strengthening of institutional capacity for disaster preparation and management.
Emergency Flood Recovery Project was the first of the three part disaster response
strategy. The objective to assist the Government in maintaining macro-economic stability through
financing import costs associated with food grain, infrastructure assets including capital
machinery, spare parts and raw materials to restore the production level, was a timely response.
2.    Total Credit Amount: SDR 146 million equivalent to US $ 200 million.
3.    Date of Signing     : November 30,1998.
4.    Date of Effectiveness of the Loan: December 4, 1998
5.    Total expenditure    : US $ 199,663,833.87 equivalent to SDR 146 million
6.    Commodity wise expenditure:
Commodity Category                                    Amount (US$)    IPercent
Food grains                                            60,151,599.95      30.13%
Edible Oil                                             12,238,806.71      6.13%
- 22 -



Fertilizer                                           4,492,893.55       2.25%
Seeds                                                10,371,247.30      5.19%
Agriculture equipment and inputs                     1,122,608.00       0.56%
Cement and other Construction materials              22,491357.93       11.26%
Industrial Machinery, Spare parts and raw materials  88,795,320.43      44.47%
Petroleum and Fuel products                          00.00              00.00%
Total                                                199,663,833.87     100.00%
7.    Retroactive Financing:
Provision was made in the credit agreement for retroactive financing for eligible imports
through both public and private sectors for SDR 29.2 million (approx. US$ 40 million). Import
made between July 12 and November 30, 1998 were eligible for financing retroactively. Out of
this provision, retroactive financing amounting to US$ 37.71 million was utilized. Below is the
item-wise distribution of the total amount:
Commodity                                                            Amount (US$)
Food grains                                                          15,239,263.38
Edible Oil                                                           00.00
Fertilizer                                                           6,908,638.40
Seeds                                                                00.00
Agriculture equipment and inputs                                     00.00
Cement and other Construction materials                              2,199,950.83
Industrial Machinery, Spare parts and raw materials                   13,364,250.49
Petroleum and Fuel products                                          00.00
Total                                                                37,712,103.10
8.    Procurement Procedure Followed:
Procurement of goods was made in accordance with 'Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' and provisions of the 'Development Credit Agreement' signed
between Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh and International Development
Association. Under the flood recovery project (EFREP), import from both public and private
sectors was allowed. Bangladesh Bank issued necessary foreign exchange circular explaining the
requirements and modalities for utilization of EFREP fund. A Dollar Special Account (DOSA)
was maintained (Account No. IDA Credit No. 3144 BD) by Bangladesh Bank to carry out the
transactions of the project. Necessary accounting books, records and supporting documents were
maintained by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance with DCA provision. Procurement and
disbursement was made as per the DCA provision. Eligible items of procurement under the
EFREP were food grains, edible oil, fertilizer, seeds, agriculture equipment and inputs, cement
and other construction materials, industrial machinery, spare parts and raw materials, petroleum
and fuel products. The maximum amount to be disbursed under a single category was fixed at
US$100 million.
9.    Utilization of Counterpart fund/use of local currency:
Use of Counterpart fund and or local currency was not required.
- 23 -



10.   Proiect contribution in meeting emergency foreign exchange need and
macro-economic stability:
The Emergency Flood Recovery Project assisted Bangladesh in maintaining
macro-economic stability by financing critical import of food grains, fertilizer, cement and other
construction materials and spare parts. It may be mentioned that the cost of import of food grains
in FY 1997-98 was US$ 396 million, which increased to US$ 1031 million in FY 1998-99
exhibiting an increment of US$ 635 million. Emergency Flood Recovery Project helped to reduce
pressure on the balance of payments and foreign exchange reserve by financing the commodity
import and rehabilitation of infrastructural facilities in the face of 1998 devastating flood.
The following table shows month-wise receipt of funds for the Emergency Flood
Recovery Project:
Sl.No.              Month                    Amount (US$)
I              December'98                 50,000,000.00
2                March'99                  27,233,495.49
3                April'99                  72,666,073.04
4                May'99                    39,084,114.59
5                June'99                    10,680,150.75
Total                                        199,663,833.87
Successful implementation of massive rehabilitation programme aimed at making up the loss
of prolonged flood through adoption of prudent monetary and fiscal policies, strengthening of
different poverty alleviation measures and implementation of some new programmes in different
sectors resulted in a stable macro-economic situation in FY 1998-99. The above policy measures
together with successive bumper harvest are likely to have salutary impact on the economy in FY
1999-2000. The economic growth in FY 1999-2000 is expected to be higher (5.47) compared to
the preceding year (4.88).
11.   Emergency Mitigation Effect:
Bangladesh has achieved considerable success in macroeconomic management in the
1990s to ensure high growth with low inflation. Since 1996, Bangladesh has sustained annual
average growth of 5.1 percent and inflation kept under control to less than 4 percent per annum.
The fiscal deficit was also contained (averaged less than 5 percent of GDP) and domestic
financing limited to 1.1 percent of GDP. Exports have grown at an average annual rate of 14
percent and the country has become nearly self-sufficient in food grain production. The monetary
management, informed by prudence and caution, focused on consolidation and stability. External
current account deficit was on an average below 2.5 percent of GDP and the Foreign Exchange
reserve level was maintained at over 3 months of import (US$ 1.5 to 1.8 billion).
- 24 -



Bangladesh's success would have been even more remarkable if she did not have to face the
adverse exogenous shock - - the flood of July - October, 1998. The 1998 flood took a heavy toll
on the economy. The loss is estimated at US$ 2 billion (about 6 percent of FY 97 GDP) in lost
output and damaged infrastructure. It also depressed the growth rate of FY 98 and adversely
effected export (export growth reduced to 2.9 percent - all time low), while increased import
payments largely owing to increased import of food grains. This has resulted in significant
deterioration in the current account balance in FY 99. Shortage of agricultural goods and the
additional expenditure incurred to finance flood rehabilitation created inflationary pressure. The
massive loss caused by the flood of 1998 posed a serious threat to macroeconomic stability.
Against this backdrop, EFREP's balance of payments support was indeed timely. Fiscal
management came under severe pressure following the floods; fiscal deficit increased to 5.1
percent of GDP in FY99. Domestic financing increased to 2 percent of GDP. Agriculture suffered
the worst losses (the crop loss estimated at 2.12 million MT.), industrial output was also
adversely affected (lost US$ 4.25 billion) and an extensive damage caused to infrastructure. The
flood also generated pressure on the balance of payment and foreign exchange reserve through
deceleration of export and acceleration of import. In the absence of EFREP and the IMF support,
domestic financing would have reached 2.7 percent of GDP.
The project provided quick disbursing support to finance the foreign exchange cost of
essential imports. It was primarily a fast-disbursing balance of payment support operation. It
would have put the Bangladesh economy in serious strain if it had to finance such large import
requirements out of its own resources in order to support the process of recovery.
12. Trend of Natural Calamities:
Bangladesh is known for its vulnerability to natural calamities. It is one of the most
disaster-prone countries in the world. Natural calamities like flood, tornadoes, cyclone,
storm-surges, drought etc. frequently hit the country at short intervals; a family hardly gets
enough time to recover loss and settle back in life between two successive disasters. In such a
situation, the damage to agriculture, exportable, housing, infrastructure and human lives is
colossal, putting enormous strain on the economy and retarding the pace of development process.
The environmental degradation is also very heavy. The impact of these external shocks on the
economy is severe and creates heavy pressure on public fund in restoring the economy in
pre-disaster stage. Paucity of fund hinders the rehabilitation programme and ultimately deters
economic development programme. Restoration of economy calls for reallocation of resources
from investment programme to relief operation.
13.   Lessons learnt from the Project:
The achievement of the Emergency Flood Recovery Project is laudable. The success of the
project should not be measured from its itmmediate outcomes only. It is true that the project
helped the Government in recouping from the afternath of the floods through availability of
foreign exchange and support to BOP. Its achievement went far beyond the norrnal project
activity. Firstly, it was established that funding for a project vis-a-vis implementation process can
be accelerated if coordination between the recipient Government and lending/donor agency are
- 25 -



not carried out in conventional manner. This project was processed on a fast-track basis - it took
about two months in the preparation, approval and declaration of project effectiveness. The issue
relating to appointment of independent auditor for the project was resolved in less then 96 hours.
The implementing agency also acted quickly in lodging claims against IDA credit. As a result,
credit amount was fully utilized six months ahead of schedule.
14.  Recommendations:
The lessons learnt from Emergency Flood Recovery Project reinforce the idea to create a
permanent emergency fund for Bangladesh in mitigating the after-effects of natural calamities.
This will create a permanent structure and source of fund for Bangladesh for disaster
management.
- 26 -



