Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3144 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Flood Recovery Project)
between
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 30, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3144 BD 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1998, between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
Page  2
"12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972) as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred forty six million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 146,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payment out of,  the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Page  3
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2009 and ending November 1, 2038. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b)  above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through Bangladesh Bank with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association quarterly reports integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
Page  4
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause Bangladesh Bank to 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.  
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Without limitation to the generality of Section 4.01 hereof, the 
Borrower shall or shall cause Bangladesh Bank to: (a) appoint, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, a qualified private firm as an independent 
auditor during the implementation of the Project to carry out audits referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; (b) cause the auditor referred to in paragraph 
Page  5
(a) of this Section to prepare quarterly audit reports, and furnish these reports to 
the Association as soon as available, but in any case no later than one month after 
the end of each quarter; (c) exchange views with the Association on the progress of 
the project based on the audit reports prepared pursuant to paragraph (b) of this 
Section within thirty days after receipt of each such report; and (d) conduct a post 
completion audit review of the Project and furnish to the Association a report of this 
review as soon as available, but no later than three months after the completion of 
the Project. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has appointed the private firm 
referred to in Section 4.02 (a) hereof. 
Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Additional Secretary, or any Joint 
Secretary/Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, Senior Assistant 
Secretary/Assistant Secretary/Assistant Chief of the Economic Relations Division of 
the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Economic Relations Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:
Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
672796 SETU BJ
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
       64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Dhaka, Bangladesh, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A.K.M. Masihur Rahman 
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Frederick T. Temple 
Country Director, 
Bangladesh
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amount of the Credit to such Category 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed in said Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
Eligible imports 
  146,000,000 100% of foreign
required for the
expenditures
Project as specified
in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
TOTAL               146,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 29,200,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after July 12, 1998; (b) expenditures for goods procured under 
contracts costing less than (i) $50,000 equivalent by the public sector and 
(ii) $20,000 equivalent by the private sector; (c) expenditures for goods supplied 
under a contract which any national or international financing institution or agency 
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance or which the 
Association has financed or agreed to finance under another credit; and (d) 
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000,000 for any 
category of eligible imports specified in Schedule 4 without prior approval by the 
Association.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods not 
exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to maintain macroeconomic 
stability through financing import costs associated with restoring its infrastructure 
assets, production levels and food grain stocks in the face of the 1998 floods. 
The Project consists of the financing of emergency imports as specified in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  7
Procurement  
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Schedule. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country."
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.  Given the nature of the Credit, 
paragraphs 2.63 and 2.64 of the Guidelines shall specifically apply.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
Commonly traded commodities may be procured through organized international 
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement acceptable to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.65 of the Guidelines. 
2.
Goods by the public sector estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per 
contract awarded up to March 31, 1999, and thereafter $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Contracts for the procurement of goods by the private sector estimated to cost 
less than $5,000,000 per contract may be procured in accordance with established 
commercial practices satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
2.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract for goods not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
LIST OF ELIGIBLE IMPORTS TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE CREDIT
1.
Food grains
2.
Edible oil
3.
Fertilizer 
4.
Seeds
5.
Agriculture equipment and inputs 
6.
Cement and other construction materials
7.
Industrial machinery, spare parts and raw materials
8.
Petroleum and fuel products
Page  8
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Category" means the Category set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$50,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the eligible Category, 
and in the equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b)(ii) or 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
Sections in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Page  9
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
