Report No. PID6956
Project Name                     Bangladesh-Emergency Flood Recovery...
Credit
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Multi-Sectoral
Project ID                       BDPE63089
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Date this PID Prepared           October 8, 1998
Projected Board Date             November 5, 1998
Project Background
The 1998 floods in Bangladesh, now widely regarded as the worst in living
memory, inundated two-thirds of the country for about nine weeks, resulted in
the death of over 1,100 people, rendered 30 million people homeless, and
damaged 500,000 homes, 11,000 km of roads, 6,500 bridges and culverts, 1,800
km of embankments and about 800 schools. The unprecedented duration of the
flooding was principally responsible for the extent of the damage, in sharp
contrast to the last major flooding in 1988, which lasted only two weeks. Crop
production has been severely affected, and it is estimated that the Bangladesh
will have to import an additional 2.2 million metric tons of food, in addition
to food aid of 1.5 million metric tons, which has been committed. A range of
other agricultural, construction, and industrial commodities are also needed
for reconstruction. According to estimates compiled by the Bangladesh Chamber
of Industries, approximately 5,000 industrial units have been affected by the
floods, causing short-term production losses worth US $425 million. Export
earnings have also suffered, since road links between Dhaka and Chittagong
were cut-off, and exporters were not able to ship their products. The
Government has launched an international appeal and is seeking US $885 million
in aid for emergency and post-flood rehabilitation assistance. International
assistance is required (1) for immediate relief; (2) for ensuring that the
additional import requirements do not jeopardize macroeconomic stability and
the balance of payments; and (3) for physical rehabilitation of infrastructure
and other industrial damage.
The estimated lending amount is US$ 200 million.
Project Objectives
The World Bank is responding to this major natural disaster in Bangladesh
by adopting a three-part strategy:
- Emergency recovery assistance to ensure the soundness of the macroeconomic
framework.
- Short/medium-term assistance for rehabilitation of physical infrastructure,
to be provided by restructuring as needed of existing projects and projects in
the pipeline after suitable amendments and supplementation.
- Longer-term assistance to enhance the institutional capacity for disaster
preparedness and management.
The proposed Emergency Flood Recovery Credit would seek to assist
Bangladesh maintain macroeconomic stability as it finances the import and



rehabilitation costs associated with restoring its food stocks, infrastructure
assets, and production levels in the face of this natural calamity. The
additional foreign exchange resources are needed to enable the country to
import food, seeds, fertilizer, machinery, spare parts and other raw materials
while maintaining the soundness of the balance of payments and the budget.
This Bank support is being closely coordinated with the IMF, which is also
considering assistance to Bangladesh under its Emergency Assistance Facility.
Besides the proposed emergency assistance, the Bank, in coordination with
other multilateral agencies and bilateral donors, will also assist with
physical rehabilitation, particularly of infrastructure damage, by
reallocating resources from existing IDA-financed projects or projects under
preparation after suitably amending and supplementing them as required. The
first step in this medium-term rehabilitation response will be the completion
of physical damage and needs assessments, which will get underway as soon as
physical conditions permit.
Project Description
The Emergency Flood Recovery Credit will provide immediate, quick-
disbursing support to finance the purchase of commodities on a positive list
of imports needed for the rehabilitation effort while maintaining
macroeconomic stability. The project will, inter alia, provide assistance for:
(i) the agricultural sector, in order to enable farmers to have adequate
supplies of seeds, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals and other inputs so as
to be able to plant the next (winter) boro crop. Damage to the pre-monsoon aus
crop (all of which could not be harvested properly) and the post-monsoon aman
crop (about one quarter of which could not be planted) in the flood-affected
areas has resulted in a significant shortfall in food grain production.
Concerted efforts will be necessary to ensure that the forthcoming wheat and
boro harvests are able to make up for some of the deficit; (ii) additional
food grain imports in order to maintain and augment national food stocks that
would otherwise be depleted with the loss of the major rice crop and have
severe inflationary consequences and direct impact on the health, nutrition,
and morbidity status of the poor; (iii) the manufacturing sector, in order to
enable manufacturers to import machinery, spare-parts and other raw materials.
In particular, it will be critical to ensure that the ready-made garments
industry, accounting for more than 60 percent of Bangladesh's exports, is able
to rehabilitate its machinery and equipment and make up for lost time; and
(iv) additional imports of fuel and construction materials that are needed for
relief operations and for rehabilitation of physical infrastructure.
Project Implementation
Since the project will largely support import financing needs, it will be
implemented by the Ministry of Finance in close collaboration with the
Bangladesh Bank. The total amount of the credit will be disbursed into a
Ministry of Finance foreign exchange account set up specially for this
purpose. The credit will finance 100 percent of the delivered cost of general
imports, excluding import duties and taxes, subject to a positive list agreed
with Government. Adequate quarterly reporting requirements and audit trails
will be provided by the Ministry of Finance and Bangladesh Bank to ensure
transparency. To assist in this process, project implementation, disbursement,
and procurement will be supervised by a financial management specialist and
-2 -



the Bank's Procurement Unit based in Dhaka.
Project Timing
The project will be implemented over a one-year period and is expected to
be completed by December 31, 1999.
Environmental Category
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environment
Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed operation has been placed in
Category C and does not require an environmental assessment.
Benefits
The import financing support provided by the credit will maintain
Bangladesh's balance of payments position by slowing down the draw-down on
reserves. The counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange will
provide the Government with an important source of non-inflationary finance at
a time when there will be need for additional government expenditures and
pressure on revenues due to lower projected economic growth . The import
financing provided under this credit will be critical in maintaining
macroeconomic stability while rehabilitating and restoring productive capacity
in Bangladesh and insuring procurement and delivery of adequate supplies of
essential commodities for the agricultural, construction, and manufacturing
sectors. It will importantly complement the rehabilitation support to be
provided to the restructuring of existing IDA projects.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 16, 1998.
- 3 -



