Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7307-HR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Welfare Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 6, 2005 
 
Page  2
2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7307-HR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 6, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF CROATIA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
The Borrower intends to obtain from the Swedish International 
Development Agency (SIDA) a grant in an amount of $2,000,000 to assist in financing of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and SIDA (the  SIDA Grant Agreement); 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth: 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means community care and residential institution 
providers eligible to receive and administer a Grant for a Sub-project, in accordance with 
the criteria set forth in the ILP Guidelines;  
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“CSWs” means Centers for Social Welfare established pursuant to the 
Social Welfare Act of 1997 (
Narodne Novine
,
No. 73/97), as amended; 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures referred to in 
 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“EMP” means the Environmental Management Plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, prepared and adopted by the Borrower on March 18, 2005, describing the 
environmental mitigation, monitoring, and institutional measures under the Project; 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to a Beneficiary out 
of the proceeds of the Loan for the carrying out of a Sub-project; under Part A.2 (c) of the 
Project; 
(h) 
“Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
MHSW and a Beneficiary in accordance with the provisions of Part C of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Innovation and Learning Program”, or “ILP” means the program for 
provision of Grants established under Part A.2 (c) of the Project; 
(j) 
“ILP Guidelines” means the guidelines approved by MHSW setting forth 
eligibility criteria and procedures for selection, appraisal and approval of Beneficiaries 
and Sub-projects to be financed under Part A.2 (c) of the Project, as well as the 
procedures for administration and monitoring of implementation of Sub-projects; as the 
same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(k) 
“MHSW” means the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare of the 
Borrower, or any legal successor thereto; 
(l) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual, adopted by the Borrower and 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth procedures for implementation of the Project, and 
which includes the EMP as its integral part, as the same may be amended from time to 
time with the agreement of the Bank;  
Page  5
-
3
-
(m) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
April 28, 2005 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation;  
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
(o) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(p) 
“Sub-Project” means a specific project under Part A.2 (c) of the Project 
which is proposed to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing a Grant. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirty-one 
million Euro (EUR 31,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a currency conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals 
made by a Beneficiary under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan 
Account is requested; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (c) any premium in 
respect of an Interest Rate Cup or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2009 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be 
payable not later than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) from the date on which such 
charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the 
General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy-five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
Page  7
-
5
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly after the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself that amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated 
from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall, through MHSW, carry out the Project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
works, goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 
twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval
.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
Page  8
-
6
-
(a) 
Prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
Afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through MHSW, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, through MHSW: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed by the Bank) 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year or such other period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope 
and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of FMRs or statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall, through MSHW: 
Page  9
-
7
-
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through MHSW, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than thirty (30) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than thirty (30) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The SIDA Grant Agreement shall have failed to become effective by  
December 31, 2005, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of  the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the SIDA Grant shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the SIDA Grant Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:  
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
The Borrower has: (i) established working groups for each respective 
Part of the Project; and (ii) appointed a Project Manager, who shall be responsible for 
managing inputs from MHSW’s working groups for developing terms of reference, 
contract administration, disbursement of funds and financial management, procurement 
and monitoring; and 
Page  11
-
9
-
(b) 
The Borrower has approved an Operational Manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date one-hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Katan
 i eva 5
 
Zagreb 
Republic of Croatia 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
862-21215 
 
862-21833 
 (385-1)4922-598   
 
Page  12
-
10 -
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Zagreb, Republic of Croatia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CROATIA 
 
By 
/s/  Ivan Šuker 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Anand Seth 
Authorized Representative 
Page  13
-
11 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.       
General
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
Expressed in Euro
%
of
Expenditures 
to be financed
(1)  Works 
17,000,000 
82% 
(2)  Goods 
8,000,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of local 
expenditures (ex factory 
and 82% of local costs for 
other items procured locally 
(3)  Consultant’s Services, 
including audit for the 
Project   
1,500,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures, and 75% of 
local expenditures 
(4)  Training 
500,000 
100% 
(5)  Grants under Part 
A.2(c) of the Project 
4,000,000 100% 
(6)  Premia for Interest Rate 
 
Caps and Interest Rate  
 
Collars 
________ 
Amount due under  
Section 2.09 (c) of this 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL 31,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
Page  14
-
12 -
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “training” means expenditures for training events, including the 
cost of facilities, materials and supplies, translation costs and participants’ per diem, as 
such costs are agreed upon with the Bank.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) payments made under Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 to this Schedule until the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of the Agreement has 
been paid; and (c) payments for expenditures under Category (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule until the ILP Guidelines, satisfactory to the Bank, have been 
adopted.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding EUR 500,000 equivalent; (ii) services provided by consulting firms under 
contracts not exceeding EUR 160,000 equivalent; (iii) services provided by individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding EUR 25,000 equivalent; (iv) works; 
 
(v) training; and (vi) Grants, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account in a bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachments.  
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
Page  15
-
13 -
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in  
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or 
in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
Page  16
-
14 -
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  17
-
15 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of EUR 3,100,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or less than
 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
Page  18
-
16 -
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  19
-
17 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and  
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following 
the date of such reports. 
 
Page  20
-
18 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the quality, targeting and 
administration of social benefits and services to the Borrower’s population. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Improving Social Services Delivery
1. 
Provision of advisory services and training to:  
(a) 
develop the organization of social services planning and delivery, 
including defining responsibilities for the CSWs and Methodological Centers;  
(b) 
develop a master plan for a new and more varied mix of social services;  
(c)  
design and develop a concept for One Stop Offices that will establish one 
initial point of contact for clients for most or all social service programs;  
(d) 
 
analyze best practices and design and develop a concept of 
Methodological Centers;  
(e)  
design and conduct a baseline study of the current demand and supply of 
social services; and  
(f)  
carrying out other studies or assessments required for improved planning 
and delivery of social services at the county level; and provision of technical assistance 
and training to MHSW for Project implementation. 
2. 
Support for the implementation of the Borrower’s policy for qualitative and cost-
effective service delivery through: 
 
(a) 
assessment of the costs for residential and community-based services; 
development of the CSW staff capacity to effectively procure social services; developing 
a
new financing mechanism of social services; and development of a program for 
performance based budgeting;  
Page  21
-
19 -
(b) 
improvement of existing standards and monitoring mechanism for 
delivery of social services; and 
 
(c) 
provision of Grants, under the Innovation and Learning Program, for 
financing of start up costs of innovative social service Sub-projects. 
Part B:
Strengthening of the Social Welfare Management Information System
1. 
Implementation of a new administrative organization in CSWs. 
2. 
Introduction of a management information system at MHSW and its subsidiary 
agencies. 
Part C
:
Upgrading of Social Services Facilities
1. 
Upgrading of selected residential social service institutions to ensure that they 
meet the minimum public health standards. 
2. 
Construction and upgrading of CSWs. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2009. 
Page  22
-
20 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15th and November 15th  
 
beginning November 15, 2010, through May 15, 2020 
 
5% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Page  23
-
21 -
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  24
-
22 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated 
May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Service (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts for goods shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 500,000 
equivalent per contract and all works, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions set forth in 
(a) through (h) of this paragraph. The Bank may, upon notice to the Borrower, increase 
the above threshold for goods to be procured on the basis of the National Competitive 
Bidding.  
Page  25
-
23 -
(a) Procedures
The public bidding method shall apply to all contracts. Invitations to bid shall be 
advertised in the Borrower’s Official Gazette (
Narodne Novine
)
and in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper or at MHSW website, allowing a minimum of 
thirty (30) days for the preparation and submission of bids. 
(b) 
Assessment of Bidders’ Qualifications
When pre-qualification shall be required for large or complex works contracts, 
invitations to pre-qualify for bidding shall be advertised in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette and at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper a minimum of thirty 
(30) days prior to the deadline for the submission of pre-qualification applications. 
Minimum experience, technical and financial requirements shall be explicitly stated in 
the pre-qualification documents, which shall be determined by a ‘pass/fail’ method, not 
through the use of a merit point system. Where pre-qualification is not used, the 
qualifications of the bidder who is recommended for award of contract shall be assessed 
by post-qualification, applying minimum experience, technical and financial 
requirements which shall be explicitly stated in the bidding documents. 
(c) 
Participation of Government-owned Enterprises
Government-owned enterprises located and operating on the Borrower’s 
territory, shall be eligible to participate in bidding only if they can establish, to the 
Bank’s satisfaction, that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under 
commercial laws and are not a dependent agency of the Borrower’s Government.  Said 
enterprises shall be subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as 
other bidders. 
(d) Bidding 
Documents
Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard bidding documents for the 
procurement of goods, works or services, as defined in the paragraph 1.1 of the 
Guidelines, which shall contain draft contract and conditions of contract acceptable to the 
Bank. 
(e) 
Bid Submission, Opening and Evaluation
(i) 
Bids shall be submitted in a single envelope containing the 
bidder’s qualification information, technical and price bids, 
which shall be opened simultaneously at the public bid opening. 
Page  26
-
24 -
(ii) 
Bids shall be opened in public, immediately after the deadline 
for submission of bids. The name of the bidder, the total amount 
of each bid and any discounts offered shall be read aloud and 
recorded in the minutes of the public bid opening. 
(iii) 
The evaluation of bids shall be done in strict adherence to the 
monetarily quantifiable criteria specified in the bidding 
documents and a merit point system shall not be used. 
(iv) 
Extension of bid validity shall be allowed once only for not more 
than thirty (30) days. No further extensions should be granted 
without the prior approval of the Bank. 
(v) 
Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders having submitted 
the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid. 
(vi) 
No preference shall apply under National Competitive Bidding. 
 (f) 
Price 
Adjustment
Civil works contracts of long duration (e.g. more than eighteen (18) months) 
shall contain an appropriate price adjustment clause. 
(g) 
Rejection of All Bids
(i)
 
All bids shall not be rejected and new bids solicited without the 
Bank’s prior written concurrence. 
(ii) 
When the number of bids received is less than two, re-bidding 
shall not be carried out without the Bank’s prior concurrence. 
(h) Securities
Bid securities should not exceed 2% (two percent) of the estimated cost of the 
contract; and performance securities -- not more than 10% (ten percent). No advance 
payments shall be made to contractors without a suitable advance payment security. The 
wording of all such securities shall be included into the bidding documents and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  27
-
25 -
2. Shopping
.
Goods and works estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines, 
including as a form of such shopping, the electronic bidding carried out by the 
Borrower’s Central State Administrative Office for E-Croatia (
Sredisnji drzavni ured za 
e-Hrvatsku)
 for procurement of computer and standard IT equipment, provided that 
technical specifications for said equipment shall be subject to the prior review by the 
Bank in accordance with the procedures set forth in Appendix I to the Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
4. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works and services under Sub-projects to be 
financed under Part A.2(c) of the Project, shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.17 of the Guidelines and procedures set forth in the ILP 
Guidelines. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than  
EUR 200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  28
-
26 -
4. 
Selection Based on Consultan
ts’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than EUR 160,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  29
-
27 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program 
Part A:
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall assign to MHSW the responsibility for Project management 
and coordination, including the overseeing the implementation by working groups of 
their respective Parts of the Project. 
2. 
The Borrower shall, during duration of the Project:  (a) maintain working groups 
within MHSW for each respective Part of the Project; and (b) maintain a Project Manager 
who shall be responsible for managing inputs fro
m
MHSW’s working groups for 
developing terms of reference for technical assistance and training, contract 
administration, disbursement of funds and financial management, procurement and 
monitoring. 
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual, including provisions of EMP, and shall not amend, suspend, 
abrogate, repeal or waive any provision of the Operational Manual without prior approval 
of the Bank. 
Part B
:
Reporting and Monitoring
1. 
The Borrower shall, through MHSW 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2007 a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
Page  30
-
28 -
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
2. 
The Borrower shall provide to the Bank, by September 30 of each year 
throughout the execution of the Project, commencing from September 30, 2006, an 
annual report on the progress of Project implementation, of such scope and such detail as 
the Bank shall reasonably request, including a draft annual Project plan for the following 
year. 
Part C:
Innovation and Learning Program
1. 
Not later than December 31, 2005, the Borrower, through MHSW, shall establish 
a
Grant Committee and such Committee shall be responsible for selection, appraisal and 
monitoring of Sub-projects under Part A.2 (c) of the Project. 
2. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part A.2 (c) of the Project, the Borrower, 
through MHSW, shall ensure that: 
(a) 
a Grant Committee shall select Sub-projects for financing from the 
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with criteria and selection procedures set forth in the 
ILP Guidelines; 
(b) 
MHSW shall provide financing, on a grant basis, for approved Sub-
projects pursuant to a standard agreement, in a format and substance acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Bank (the Grant Agreement), to be entered into between MHSW and a 
Beneficiary, and such Grant Agreement shall include, 
inter alia
:
(i)  
a description of the Sub-project, together with an estimate of the 
cost thereof; 
 
(ii)  
the amount to be provided to a Beneficiary under a Grant 
Agreement and a disbursement schedule;  
 
(iii)  
the implementation schedule for the Sub-project; 
 
(iv)  
an amount of co-financing to be provided for the Sub-project by 
the Beneficiary and/or evaluation of in-kind contribution to the 
Sub-project; 
 
Page  31
-
29 -
(v) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to procure works, goods and 
services to be financed under the Grant Agreement in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in the ILP Guidelines and to 
comply with the EMP provisions;    
(vi)  
the obligation of the Beneficiary to report to MHSW on the 
progress of Sub-project implementation and to enable 
representatives of MHSW and of the Bank, if the Bank shall so 
request, to visit the facilities, construction sites or other activities 
to be financed under the Grant Agreement;  
 
(vii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to maintain records and 
accounts for expenditures incurred under the Sub-project and 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan made available to the 
Beneficiary under the Grant Agreement and to submit to MHSW  
at regular intervals statements with respect to such records and 
accounts; and 
(viii) 
the right of MHSW to suspend, cancel or request a refund of the 
Grant or a portion thereof in case of the failure of the Beneficiary 
to perform any of its obligations under the Grant Agreement.
 
