                                                                                                             99862
Croatia's Vulnerable Better Served and Protected
Vanja Frajtic, Communications Associate in the Zagreb Office,
offers this story.
                                                                   Photo Gallery
Marija Ozbolt's mother has been suffering from Alzheimer's
for some time. Two years ago it became increasingly difficult
to care for her. Just then, a new 24 hour center in Pula
opened its doors and took in Marija's mother.

"At the center my mother is cared for 24 hours a day. She
receives all the necessary care. At home we could not provide
her that, this center has made a big difference in our lives,"
says Marija.
                                                                   Related Links
The center in this Croatian coastal town provides care for
adults with varying stages of dementia. It is a safe place for     World Bank in Croatia
those who can't cope on their own and a lifesaver for those        Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
taking care of them while holding down a job. Counseling is
                                                                   Croatia Country Snapshot
provided so family members learn how to handle their loved
ones' illness and how to make their life as comfortable as         Social Welfare Development Project
possible.                                                          Home for Elderly, Alfredo Stiglic, Pula

This new service and attitude is the result of an ambitious       Center for Inclusion, Pula
plan to make the country's social welfare system more client-     Association Anđeli—Angels, Split
focused, user-friendly and better managed. Five years ago,
Croatian authorities partnered with the World Bank to
overhaul the system so it would help welfare beneficiaries achieve the greatest self-reliance, and deliver
effective services to the neediest.

                         Thanks to the World Bank-supported Social Welfare Development Project, a
                         parent-driven association is caring for almost 200 children with severe physical
                         disabilities. A grant allowed them to hire 14 employees and also treat children
                         who cannot get to the center.

                         "Here children receive play therapy. There is nothing violent here, there is
                         nothing that you have to do, everything is done through play. My son has also
                         embraced it and he makes the most progress through play," says Adrijana Prpa,
Marija Ozbolt            a mother of a severely disabled boy.

Another group in Pula is helping people with developmental disabilities cope with routine tasks which we
often take for granted--food shopping, cooking, paying bills, opening a bank account. Thanks to the
project, the group's building was renovated and they received new vans that are allowing 100 disabled
adults to live a more independent life.

                         Learning to cook was Danijela Jović's favorite thing. "I never had a clue about
                         kitchen work. Since my Danijela (one of the educators and Danijela's caretaker)
                         taught me how to cook, I enjoy this task, I love it very much and it makes me
                         happy."

                          Over 250 social welfare practitioners—social workers, state and county
                          representatives—were involved in reforming social welfare. Almost 9,000 needy
                          and vulnerable people were cared for through 34 innovative community-driven
Danijela Jović            projects. New social service quality standards were introduced in residential
                          homes and social welfare centers. Before the project started, only a third of
residential institutions met public health standards. Now almost three quarters of them do.

Fourteen social welfare centers were built or renovated and equipped with a new computer
management system. They, and more than 70 other social welfare centers, operate on the one-stop-
shop principle. A front office answers administrative questions and a back office allows clients to have
private meetings with social workers. Social workers spend less time on administrative work and more
with their clients. Clients do not have to traipse to different offices.

These reforms laid the ground for a new social welfare law. But this was just the beginning.

                            "These were first generation reforms, now we need to focus on second
                            generation reforms, which will gradually reduce institutionalized care to the
                            largest extent possible, provide services based on individual needs, further
                            increase provision of community based social services, heavily promote foster
                            care and make the system much more responsive and effective to the needs of
                            the vulnerable and needy," says Ministry of Health and Social Welfare State
                            Secretary Ante Zvonimir Golem.

Ante Zvonimir Golem,  Other countries in Eastern Europe and Central Asia have tried to introduce
State Secretary, Ministry
of Health and Social  similar changes to better serve and protect the vulnerable but only managed to
Welfare               do them partially. Croatia, by contrast, is a good example of a country where
                      changes have been successfully introduced nationwide to benefit the neediest
and most vulnerable members of society.
