Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7894
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2153-IND)
JUNE 23, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tl IE WORLD SANK              FOR OMC4u USE ONLY
W&ashmlon. DC. 20433
U.S A
Oficte d Dw.c4Gowal
June 23, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDEN?
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Inionesia
Coal Exploration Engineering Project (Loan 2153-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Indonesia - Coal Exploration Engineering Project (Loan
2153-IND)' prepared by the Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a festficted distribution and may be used by recipients cely in the performane
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authordiion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT (LOAN 2153-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .           ......................................................                               i
EVALUATION  SUMMABY  ............................................                                        ii
PART I
1.     Project  Identity  .........................................                                       1
2.    Background  ...............................................                                         1
3.   Project Objectives and Description .....2.................                                           2
4.     Project  Design  and Organization  ..........................                                      2
5.     Project  Implementation  ...................................                                       3
6.     Project  Results  ..........................................                                       3
7.    Bank  Performance  ...........                     ..............  .......                          5
8.  Borrower Performance .......................... ...... 
9.     Project  Relations  ........................................                                       6
10.   Consulting  Services  ......................................                                        6
11.   Project  Documentation  and Data  ...........................                                       6
PART II
I.  INTRODUCTION  .............................................                                        9
II.  PROJECT  BACKGROUND  .......             ..............          ..................               10
A.     Project  Origin,  Appraisal  and Loan Approval                         .........          10
B.     Project  Objectives  and Description  ..................                                  10
III.  IMPLEMENTATION  ........ ...............                      ....................                 12
A.     Achievement  of Project  Objectives  ...................                                  12
B.     Project Management  ..................................                                    14
C.     Performance  of Consultants  ..........................                                   15
D.     Disbursement  ........................................                                    15
IV. CONCLUSION  ...............................................                                        16
MAP  SECTION  ...................................................                                        17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE 01 CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
PART III
1.  Related Bank Loans .......................                                    .   .....                    20
2.     Project  Timetable  ........................................                                            20
3.     Loan  Disbursements  (Cumulative)  ..........................                                           20
4.     Project  Implementation  ...................................                                            21
5.     Project  Costs  and  Financing  ..............................                                          21
6.     Project  Results  ..........................................                                            22
7.     Status  of  Covenants  ......................................                                           23
S.     Use  of  Bank  Resources  .............                          ......................                 23



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT (LOAN 2153-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Coal Exploration
Engineering Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2153-IND in the amount of
US$25.0 million was approved on June 14, 1982. The loan closed on June 30,
1988, with a total disbarsement of US$19,457,166, and the undisbursed balance
of US$542,734 was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division, Country Department V, Asia Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank final
supervision mission of the project in October 1988, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2153-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The project was the second Bank operation in Indonesia's coal
subse tor. It was a continuation of the Bank assistance started in the late
1970s with the purpose of freeing the country's depleting petroleum reserves
for export, by increasing the availability of domestic coal resources and
shifting part of the power sector demand for liquid petroleum to indigenous
coal (PCR, Part I, paras. 2.1-2.3). The Bank loan of US$ 25.0 million,
approved on Hay 20,1982, was given to the Republic of Indonesia.
Obiectives
2.       The principal objectives of the project were to evaluate coal
reserves in Indonesia, with a view to provide a coal reserve inventory of the
country's major coal bearing areas, and to strengthen the Indonesian
institutions' capability tc implement coal exploration and evaluation
programs and to manage the sector (PCR, Part I, para. 3.2).
Implementation Experience
4.       The project was completed with a delay of about one year and with a
cost saving of US$ 22.8 million (46Z). This reduction in project costs was
due mainly to the devaluation of the local currency (Rupiah) and lower-than-
anticipated equipment costs (PCR, part III, Section 5A). Implementation
delays were caused by the slow pace of initial procurement preparation and
bid evaluation, difficulties in allocating local drilling equipment,
supplies, and personnel, periodic local budget shortcomings occasioned by the
Government budget restrictions, and periodic technical issues that arose for
discussions between the project executing agency and project consultants
(PCR, Part I, para. 5.1).
5.       For the purpose of expeditious project implementation, the project
executing agency has established a Project Unit, which was assisted by other
Government entities associated with the coal sector. Throughout the initial
years of implementation, the Project Unit worked effectively. However,
conflicting interests arose between Government entities in the coal sector
during the later years of project implementation (PCR, Part I, paras. 4.2-
4.3). Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory despite various
constraints on staffing, procurement and local budget (PCR, Part I, paras.
8.1-8.2). The consultants discharged their duties in a satisfactory manner
(PCR, Part I, para. 10.1).
6.       The disbursement of the loan was slower than forecast due to the
delayed effectiveness of the loan, lower-than-anticipated equipment costs,
and delays in mobilizing consultants (PCR, Part III, Section 3). The



iii
unutilized portion of the loan (US$ 5.5 million) was cancelled in two steps
on January 12, 1988 and September 21, 1988.
Results
7.       The Borrower has satisfactorily completed the project, which
resulted in detailed integrated mine-transport project feasibility studies
for coal areas at Muara Tiga and Bangko, and a feasibility study for the
Ombilin II integrated mine-rail-port coal project. In addition, a series of
pre-feasibility studies were prepared for less promising coal areas.
However, due to the relatively low level of international coal prices in
early 1988, only one of these areas (Bangko) appear to be susceptible to
econtomic development.  T-o manpower development studies initiated under the
project clearly defined manpower needs in the coal sector. The
implementation of the recommendations of these studies are now being assisted
by a loan from the Asian Development Bank. A very high degree of technology
transfer was achieved in the areas of field exploration, pre-investment work,
and policy formulation (PCR, Part I, paras. 6.1-6.5, and 10.1).
Sustainability
6.       The main benefits of the project are the enhancement of the
knowledge on Indonesia's coal reserves and institutional strengthening of
the Borrower's coal subsector institutions. Given the importance of
Indonesia's coal reserves and the Borrower's commitment to coal development,
these benefits are likely to be sustained.
Findings and Lessons
7.       The preparation of the project could have been improved by taking
into account the potential difficulties in quickly establishing and staffing
a Project Unit, in negotiating and finalizing contracts with consultants, and
ensuring the availability of local funds. Although project supervision by
the Bank was intense and satisfactory in terms of project implementation, not
enough attention was given during the initial phases to stress the
requirements for separate project accounts and audit arrangements. This has
resulted in delays in the submission of annual project accounts (PCR, Part I,
para. 7.1).
8.       The project experience illustrates the need for (i) providing for
measures to t.aable the project executing agency to mobilize in a timely
fashion the required staff; (ii) adjusting the project implementation
schedule to account for the executing agency's constraints on procurement and
appointment of consultants; and (iii) taking the measures necessary to ensure
timely availability of local funds and closely monitoring their operation
(PCR, Part I, para. 7.2).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2153-IND)
Part I
1.       Proiect Identity
Prcjec-: Name        -        Coal Exploration Engineering Project
Loan No.             -         2153-IND
RVP Unit             -        Asia
Country              -        Indonesia (AS5IE)
Sector               -        Energy
Sub-sector           -        Coal
2.       Background
2.1      Following the oil crises of the early and late 1970's, the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) decreed that indigenous coal resources (that
for the most part could be considered non-tradeable) would be utilized to
fuel domestic power generation units to the extent possible, thus freeing
scarce and depleting oil reserves for export and the generation of
important foreign exchange earnings. The Bank fully supported this
initiative.
2.2      In the late 1970's, GOI requested Bank assistance to rehabilitate
the Bukit Asam coal mining area in South Sumatra and ensuing dialogue led
to the appraisal of the Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transportation Project
(Loan 2079-IND) to develop a 3.0 million tonnes per year (mtpy) coal mine
at Bukit Asam, to renew and rehabilitate certain rail sections in South
Sumatra, to develop port facilities at Tarahan, and to procure a ship to
transport the coal to Java to fuel the planned Suralaya Thermal Power Plant
Units I and II. As an integrated mine-rail-port project, this represented a
first step in the development of a firm linkage between the domestic coal
and power sectors in Indonesia and assisted development in the transport
sector.
2.3      With knowledge of substantial, albeit unproved, coal resources in
Indonesia and recognizing the long lead time for new coal mine developments
and the future needs of the power sector, GOI and Bank staff jointly
identified (July 1981) and agreed the benefits of further exploring
potential coal mining areas in Indonesia to provide sources of coal to fuel
future generations of thermal power development. The Coal Exploration
Engineering Project was appraised in February 1982. Under the Bukit Asam
project loan, US$5 million was allocated to initiate coal exploration
activities until such time as the Coal Exploration Engineering loan would
become effective.



-2-
3.       Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1      Building on the foundation of the Bukit Asam Project, the
objective of the Coal Exploration Engineering Project was to evalu-.e coal
reserves in Indonesia and provide GOI with a coal reserve inventory of its
major coal baaring areas, thus enabling government agencies to establish
short and long term investment priorities and policies for coal development
and use.
3.2      The project components were three-fold. As a first priority,
exploration and pre-feasibility/feasibility study work would be centered
around a physical drilling investigation of known and extensive coal
reserve areas in the immediate locality of the Bukit Asam coal deposit in
South Sumatra. Secondly, other potential coal areas in Indonesia (to be
identified during the early stages of project implementation) would be
investigated in a similar manner. Third, a manpower development program
would be developed to investigate future coal sector manpower requirements
and training needs, and to review institutional arrangements in the sector.
3.3      Extensive coal resources were known to exist in Kalimantan.
Shortly following project effectiveness, the state coal mining company
commenced negotiation of a series of production sharing contracts with
international consortia of coal/energy companies. The Bank fully supported
this initiative. As a consequence of the contracts signed for various coal
areas in Kalimantan, this potential coal area in Indonesia was excluded
from the project scope.
3.4      In addition to the exploration effort in South Sumatra, the
project focused on assisting GOI to investigate the economics of developing
a new underground coal mine at Ombilin, in West Sumatra. The new mine would
progressively replace coal output from the existing Ombilin minc which was
reaching the end of its economic life, thus securing continued coal supply
to local cement and power plants and continuing to service regional export
markets.
4.       Proiect Design and Organization
4.1      From the outset of project implementation and the start of
procurement activities, the latter focusing on needed drilling and
laboratory testing equipment, there was a very clear and mutual
understanding of the conceptual foundation of the project and its
objectives. All parties were sharply focused on the need to explore
alternative coal areas around Bukit Asam, to prepare a series of
feasibility and/or pre-feasibility studies, with the primary objective of
defining the economics of alternative coal mine development options and
strategies and with the end objective of identifying a potential 2-3 mtpy
coal mine area to fuel the next phase of thermal power development -
Suralaya Units III and IV (2 x 400MW). The project was well prepared and,
bearing in mind the fuel demands of the growing power sector, was well
timed.



- 3 -
4.2      Project implementation was executed by the Di-ectorate of Coal
within the Directorate General of Mines (DGM), the entity under the
Ministry of Mines and Energy responsible for the promotion and supervision
of all mining activities in Indonesia, and the regulatory agency for all
mineral exploration activities in the private sector and the executing
agency for all exploration activities in the public sector. Management of
the exploration and feasibility work in West Sumatra (Ombilin) was
undertaken by Perum Batubara, the state coal mining company responsible for
existing Ombilin mine operations. DGM established, for the purposes of
expeditious project implementation, a Project Unit, headed by the Director
of Coal. The Project Unit was assisted throughout project implementation by
the heads of government coal exploration, research, and operating entities
(Directorate of Mineral Resources, Mineral Technclogy Development Center,
Perum Batubara, P.T. Tambang Bukit Asam, and PLN - the state electricity
authority) associated with the coal sector.
4.3      Throughout the initial years of implementation, the project
organization worked effectively, albeit with some divergence of views
developing between the DGM Director of Coal and the local Project Unit
Manager regarding exploration priorities and project budget control. This
difficulty was resolved by appointment of a new Project Manager who worked
well with DGM through to project completion. The main project
implementation issue arose toward the end of project implementation, when
specific coal areas that could be economically developed were identified.
At this stage, the Bank agreed to extend the project scope and loan closing
date to initiate preliminary engineering for the development of a second
(Bangko) coal mine area. Conflicting interests arose between government
entities in the coal sector regarding the most appropriate implementing
agency for a second coal project. This issue was resolved shortly after
project completion by a decree issued by the Minister of Mines and Energy,
which placed responsibility for further mine development in South Sumatra
in the hands of P.T. Tambang Bukit Asam, the implementing agenicy for the
Bukit Asam coal mine development.
5.       Project Imnlementation
5.1      An analysis of planned vs. actual implementation shows no major
variance in project implementation objectives. With clearly defined and
agreed objectives, implementation was smooth. Implementation delays related
to initial procurement preparation and bid evaluation; periodic delays in
the allocation of local drilling equipment, supplies and related personnel;
periodic local budget shortcomings occasioned by GOI budget restrictions;
and delays occasioned by periocAc technical issues that arose for
discussion between DGM and project consultants. These difficulties were not
fully appreciated at appraisal and had a major impact on the project
implementation schedule in the first year of project implementation.
6.       Proiect Results
6.1      At project completion in June 1988, DON had available detailed,
integrated mine-transport project feasibility studies for coal areas at
Muara Tiga and at Bangko (both adjacent to Bukit Asam) and a feasibility



- 4 -
study for the Ombilin II integrated minie-rail-port coal project in West
Sumatra. In addition, a variety of pre-feasibility studies were prepared
for less promising coal areas (Banjasa-i, South Arahan, North Suban Jeriji,
and Muara Tiga Selatan) in the Bukit Asam region. Manpower development
requirements in the coal sector were studied in two distinct consultancy
study periods.
6.2      South Sumatra. At the conclusion of feasibility and pre-
feasibility study program, project consultants prepared a summary report
ranking the various potential coal mining areas on a levelized cost basis.
Due to the relatively low level of international coal prices in early 1988,
the ranking indicated that, with the exception of the Bangko deposit, none
of the potential coal areas could be developed economically. Due to its
large coal reserve base, relatively high coal quality, and very low
stripping ratio, the Bangko coal mine feasibility study highlighted the
potential for substantial economic benefits. Following completion of the
feasibility program and the ensuing dialogue with Bank staff, GOI developed
a least cost coal development program and decreed that future phases of
Suralaya would be fed, as a priority, with coal from the Bukit Asam area.
Following loan closing, GOI has initiated a study for the development of a
Bangko coal mine (as an alternative to further expansion of the Bukit Asam
mine) to feed the next phase (Units III/IV) of Suralaya development. The
primary objective of the Coal Exploration Engineering Project has therefore
been met.
6.3      West 'umatra. The Ombilin project feasibility study indicated that
the economics  f developing a secona underground mining area would be
marginal at (November 1988) forecast international coal prices. After
review of the study, Bank staff pointed out to DGM and Perum Batubara that
any potential bilateral donors/investors who held differing views on
forecast international coal prices migbt find participation in the project
attractive. Perum Batubara is understood to be continuing to seek bi-
lateral interest in the development of the second underground mine
development.
6.4      Manpower Development. Two phases of manpower development studies
were initiated under the project. The results of these studies clearly
defined manpower needs in the coal sector. Implementation of the
recommendations of the studies, which were beyond the scope of the project,
are now being followed through under a loan to DGM from the Asian
Development Bank.
6.5      Coal Policy Initiatives. Various discussions were held with DGM
throughout project implementation regarding the benefits of senior
executives of DGM (and other agencies involved in the Indonesian coal
sector) making a series of overseas visits to discuss coal policy
development, international coal marketing and pricing, and coal investment
criteria with other Government and private sector institutions.
Unfortunately, GOI remained unconvinced about the benefits of such training
and due to restrictions for overseas travel in the public sector, no such
visits were possible. However, exposure to various international mining
consultants/engineering groups throughout project implementation provided
some useful transfer of ideas in these important policy areas.



5-
7.       Bank Performance
7.1      In general, Bank staff performed well through the various stages
of the project cycle. Clear project objectives were established and care
was taken to ensure that DCM were thoroughly familiar with Bank procurement
guidelines including ICB, LIB, and international shopping. Procurement
proceeded expeditiously. However, during the appraisal stage, Bank staff
did not fully appreciate (i) the difficulties that DGM would face in
quickly establishing a Project Unit staffed with personnel of adequate
experience and qualifications, (ii) the potential for delay in DGM
negotiating and finalizing a contract with project consultants, and (iii)
the local currency budgetary restrictions that DGM would face through the
phases of project implementation. Fortunately, the opportunity for fairly
intensive project supervision was provided through the extens4.ve
supervision requirements of the Bukit Asam project and energy sector
initiatives and this facilitated close attention to unforeseen difficulties
and an opportunity to quickly resolve many of them. Also, Bank staff did
not pay adequate attention during the initial phases of implementation on
stressing to the implementing agency the requirements for separate project
and DGM accounts and audit arrangements. The presumption made by project
staff that the implementing agency clearly understood these requirements of
the loan agreement, resulted in delays in the submission of annual project
accounts.
7.2      The main issues from which useful lessons can be learnt are: (i)
the need to ensure that the executing agency can quickly mobilize personnel
of adequate experience and qualifications to ensure expeditious project
implementation, (ii) that the project implementation schedule needs to
reflect the experience of the executing agency in negotiating and quickly
concluding consultant contracts and the relatively cumbersome and time
consuming government approvals that need to be obtained before contract
signature and effectiveness, and (iii) that, irrespective of the provision
of standard loan covenants regarding timely provision by Government of
local funds, mechanisms for the provision of such funds to Ministerial
agencies need close review and monitoring. In retrospect, it would probably
have proved more efficient from a human, physical and financial resources
viewpoint, to have nominated one of the state coal mining companies as the
project implementing agency, or at least to have provided for strong
resource inputs to DGM, as a condition of loan effectiveness.
8.       Borrower Performance
8.1      The Borrower's main strength was a very clear perception of the
project's objectives during project preparation, a perception that was
successfully maintained throughout project implementation to project
completion. The Borrower's weaknesses related to (i) initial difficulties
in mobilizing sufficient experienced and qualified staff for the Project
Unit, (ii) inexperience in negotiating consultaut contracts and in
obtaining government approvals to the contracts, (iii) difficulties in
mobilizing and thus managing the annual local budget and (iv) focusing,
toward the end of project implementation, more on establishing
institutional arrangements for implementing a new mine than on completing
economic analysis of alternative coal development areas. However, the



Borrower generally performed well throughout all the phases of the project
cycle and under the constraints of staffing, procurement, and local budget,
improvised effectively. Extensive use of consultants was made for the
various feasibility study assessments and the Borrower deployed the
consultant resources with skill and determination, rarely losing sight of
their scope of work, contractual conditions, and end objectives.
8.2      The main lessons of experience for the Borrower that may be
relevant to the preparation and implementation of other projects with or
without external financing are twofold. First, the need to develop a group
of adequately qualified and experienced staff (this was addressed, inter
alia, under the project finantad manpower development study), and secondly,
the need to provide and arrange for proper management of local funds.
9.       Proiect Relations
9.1      The relatively intensive supervision effort helped make the Bank-
Borrower relationship close and productive, with the result that joint
focus on end objectives was well maintained and the extensive consultant
effort effectively managed and, after initial proci rement delays, brought
to an expeditious conclusion. Through other ongoing projects in the coal
and related sectors, the Bank maintained effective and productive
relationships with other relevant exploration, research and operating
government entities. The Borrower's relationship with these entities was
generally equally effective but conflicts of interest and confusion arose
during the latter months of implementation regarding responsibility for
development of a second coal mine area in South Sumatra.
10.      Consulting Services
10.1     The use of international consulting engineering companies was
extensive, finally representing in excess of 75% of the project cost. All
field work, pre-feasibility and feasibility work was managed effectively by
the consultant groups. A very high level of technology transfer was
achieved in the areas of field exploration, pre-investment work, and policy
formulation and the overall performance of each consulting groups can be
considered of a high standard. The implications of the consultant effort
are that DGM, the implementing agency and the government entity responsible
for exploration activities in the public sector, is now much better placed
(i) to undertake and manage coal exploration and coal laboiatory testing
and evaluation activities, (ii) to appreciate the needs and benefits of
thorough pre-investment work, and (iii) to consider the formulation of a
least cost coal development strategy.
11.      Proiect Documentation and Data
11.1     The legal agreements for the project proved adequate throughout
project implementation and no particular lesson can be drawn from this
aspect of the project.



- 7-
11.2     The President's Report provided a useful framework for project
implementation and confirms the benefit of defining, at an early date, as
specific exploration targets and objectives as possible. This framework
facilitated the Bank and Borrower maintaining clear focus on overall and
end objectives of the project.
11.?     Data relevant to the PCR were in technical terms readily
available. Howcver, project files in relation to project accounts and cost
development, and disbursement data, were ill-managed by project staff and
cumbersome and time consuming to review. More care is required by project
staff to maintain cost and disbursement data in proper and retrievable
filing systems throughout the full project implementation period.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
(LOAN 2153-IND)
Part II



-9-
REPUBLIC OF INDONE5IA
COAL EXPLORATION PROJECr (LOAN 2153 IND)
PROJECT CCOPLErTION REPORT
I. INIRODUCTION
1. While Indonesia is endowed with a wealth of energy   resources,  virtually
all of its energy requirements are being met from two sources, namely in-
digenous oil (* 45% of the total) and fuelwood and agricultural wastes (.
48% of the total). For commercial applications, Indonesia is almost ex -
clusively dependent on oil and petroleum products. At the same time, unfor-
tunately, oil exports have been the key to Indonesia's  overall  economic
growth. Therefore, there is an urgent need for Indonesia to develop its
other energy resources and to exploit the possibilities  of  substitution
among primary energy resources, in particular through the development of
the coal, hydropower and geot?ermal potential.
2. The increasing demand for coal in power generation  in large quantie , has
become apparent, since the 800 MW power station at Suralaya will require
3.0 million tpy of Bukit Asam Coal. Further, the additional scheduled coal
fired power stations at Suralaya and East Java will need an incremental
coal demand of about 4 - 5 million tpy.
3. Significant concentrations of coal resources and reserves are known over
large areas in Sumatra and East Kalimantan and coal resources exist on
Sulawest, Java, Timor, Irian Jaya as well as Central and West Kalimantan.
Though as much as 17 billions tons of coal have been estimated by GOI, MME
estimates, "mineable" coal reserves at about 2.6 billion tons. Due to the
variety of criteria used and the scarcity of reliable  exploration   data,
none of the estimates can be considered reliable.
Substantial exploration work has been undertaken only in Sumatra, where
about 80% of all Indonesia's geological coal resources are estimated to be
and all proven reserves are located in Sumatra.
Coal quality varies from good anthracite to brown and lignitic coals with
high moisture but low ash and sulphur content.



- 10 -
4. To prepare the Indonesia's energy strategy and to meet the coal require-
ments, it is therefore essential to establish a basic cpal resees inventory.
Unfortunately, while availability and abundancy of coal are not in doubt,
detail exploration and pre-investment studies are urgently required to
identify and evaluate the most suitable coal deposits for development.
In order to assist the GOI with this basic coal reserves inventory esta-
blishment, a loan of US$ 25 million for a coal  exploration   project was
extended to the GOI in June 1982 to finance consultant services, man power
development plan formulation and training programs and the procurement of
equipment for coal exploration in South and West Sumatra.
II. PRWOCT BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin, Appraisal and Loan Approval
5. In accordance with GOI's desire to accelerate coal explorations and pre-
investmert wors, the Bank was approached in early 1981 for assistance in
evaluating coal reserves and assessing the viability of specific promising
coal deposits in South Sunlatra and elsewhere in Indonesia.
The objective was to provide the GOI and its agencies with a coal reserves
inventory, thus enabling it to establish investment priorities and define
policies f-or short, medium and long-term strategy for coal production
and coal use. A Bank mission discussed the project with the GOI in July
1981 and a preliminary scope was developed at that time.
The project was prepared by the DMR within the MME and was appraised in
November 1981 and February 1982.
Negotiations were held in Jakarta in April 1982. A loan of US$ 25 million
was aPPpwedin June 1982, and it became effective on March 1, 1983.
B. Project Objectives and Description
6. The objective of the Project is to evaluate coal reserves and aSSeSS the
viability of specific promising coal deposits in South. Sumatra and else-
where in Indonesia. The Project would be aimed at pro#iding b0I and its
agencies  with a coal reserve inventory of major  coal  bearing  areas  and
feasibility/pre-feasibility studies of specific deposits, thus enabling GOI



- 11 -
to establish investment priorities and define policies for short, medium
and long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
Specifically, the objectives of the Project are to :
(a) explore, delineate and assess coal deposits which are to supply coal
for power plants scheduled for Commissioning in 1987-1990;
(b) establish a coal restrve inventory for South Sumatra and selected areas
elsewhere in Indonesia in order to explore,  delineate  and  rank  the
most promising coal deposits. Such data will strengthen GOI position
when negotiating future production sharing   contracts   with   foreign
interests or deciding on alternative development arrangements; and
(c) training programs designed to strengthen the institutions responsible
for (i) policy formulation in the coal sector; and (ii) coal explora-
tion and pre investment work.
Considering the urgency and the long lead time required to achieve an in-
creased level of coal production, highest priority has been given to this
project by the GOI and the Bank; to this end US$   5   million   was   made
available under loan No. 2079-IND for the most urgent activities.
7. The purpose of che Project is to evaluate coal reserves and assess the
viability of spectfic. coal deposit.s in Indonesia   and   consists   of  the
following Parts
PART A :
Review of available exploration data and field drilling, laboratory
testing and feasibility studies for coal areas in South Sumatra, including,
inter alia, Muara Tiga/Air Lawai, Northwest Banko,    Central/SouthYSCUthEM3t
Bangko, Arahan, Suban Jeriji and West Air Lawai and, as appropriate, pre-
liminary engineering for the infras%tructure there of.
PART B :
Review of available data and field drilling, laboratory testing and
work up through feasibility studies as appropriate, in coal bearing areas
in Indonesia, outside South Sumatra, including, inter alia West and Central
Sumatra.



- 12 -
PART C
1.    Provision of specialized training to the  Borrower's  personnel
for coal exploration field work and pre-investment work.
2.    Formulation of a manpower development Dlan for the coal sector
and training on coal policy, market and investment matters.
The Project is expected to te completed by December 31, 1986.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Achievement of Project Objectives
8.      The loan was signed in June 1982, but it  took  8.5  months  to
fulfill two conditions of effectiveness namely, appointment of consul-
tant and establishment of Project Unit. The ptoject was completed within
5 years instead of 4 years as originally envisaged. Inspite of a longer
period for the project completion, the technical   objectives   of   the
project have been achieved more than it should be. In South Sumatra,
the capacity of rail transport was specially studied. In addition to
feasitility studies on Muara Tiga Besar and North West Bangko coal de-
posits, Muara Tiga Besar Interim Mine and Bangko  Mine  studies    were
made and finally, comparative evaluation of   South Sumatra coal re -
sources was completed as well.
In West Sumatra, feasibility study on Ombilin coal deposit was carried
out through an integrated project including Ombilin Mine, rail trans-
port and Teluk Bayur Port Study.
PART A :
At the end of 1987, Muara Tiga Besar and North-west Bangko coal
deposits in south Sumatra have been assessed within feasibility level,
and   other four coal deposits at Banjarsari, North Suban Jeriji, Kung-
kilan - Muara Tiga Selatan and South Arahan were evaluated within pre-
feasibility level. In addition, a 2.8 million  tpy   (maximum)  Interim
Mine of Muara Tiga Besar and a 1.3 million tpy Interim Mine of NbrthWeSt
Bangko were studied, while comparative evaluation of. South Sumatra coal
resources, in terms of investment, operating and levelized costs of
coal, was completed as well.



- 13 -
Ir general, therefore, the   coal  supply to Suralaya could   now   be
guaranteed fkct two readily developed coal sources namely Northwest
Bangico and Muara Tiga Besar areas. Again, now the South Sumatra coal
resources could be ranked according to various economic criteria, makes
it easier to compare the value of one deposit from the other and to
compase with coal deposits in the other regions.
PART B :
In West Sumatra, the project deals with an attempt to increase
the present production capacity of Perum Tambang Batubara Ombilin from
about 1.0 million tpy to about 2.0 million tpy of coal (Ombilin II Pro-
ject). The scope of the project is to assess the viability of coal
deposit in Waringin area, including the railway transportation of coal
to the port of Teluk Bayur. Together with the Bank, the result of Om-
bilin'II feasibility study was then reviewed in San Fransisco in Octo-
ber/November 1988 and it was concluded in the review, that the econo-
mic viability of the Ombilin II Project is sensitive to forcast inter-
national coal prices in the mid 1990's.
Any potential investor who believes that such prices will exceed US$ 42
(in end -1986 prices), by the mid 1990's, would prot bly find iW2s1m2r
in the project both feasible and attractive.    The   Bank,    however,
forcasts US$ 32 - 34 (end - 1986 prices) throughout    the  1990's  and
thereafter.
PART C s
1.   Specialized Traiiing
Tn general, the training was carried out through various courses
prepared by consultants, on the job training for field exploration
works and laboratory works, training in consultant's homu offices
and Jakarta offices and special assignment for certain taaks. All
within the scope of exploration works and feasibility studies.
The personnel of DOC and DMR and a number of personnel from other
entities within DGM and DGGMR gained value,'le    technology    and
experience in evaluation of coal resour-as and in the preparation
of feasibility studies.



- 14 -
2.   Formulation of a Manpower Development Plan for the Coal Sector
Two studies were conducted by expatriate consultants. The first
was Manpower Development Study in the Indonesian Coal Sector, in
1985,and the second was Implementation Plan for Manpower Develop-
ment Project in the Indonesian Coal Sector, in 1988.
It was concluded in the first study, that to achieve Indonesia's
coal sector objectives of 25.0   mtpy, total manpower to be added
was iO,000 of all profession and ranks. The study described also
the ways of how to achieve the manpower   requirements   of   each
profession and rank.
In the Implementation Plan for MPD study, the consultant proposed
to establish a Central Human Resources  Planning   Unit in DOC, a
Coal Technology School for Diploma Degrees, a Coal Specialization
Si, in several suitable Universities and to train lower technical
and skilled trades personnel in the present training centre avai-
lable within the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the Ministry of
Education and Culture and the Ministry of Mahpower. All recommen-
dation has been formulated in details, planned and budgetted.
One project contained in PART C, namely Training in Coal Policy,
Market and Investment Matters was not accomplished due to the dis-
agreement of Bappenas.
B. Project Management
9.        The project was implemented by Directorate   of  Coal  (DOC)
through a Project Unit called Proyek Pengembangan Pertambangan Batubara
dan Gambut (P3BG) which was assisted by two expatriate consulting firms
namely, Kinhill Otto-Gold Joint Venture and Norwest Resources Ltd. each
working in South Sumatra and West Sumatra.
The drilling rigs, procured from the proceeds of the loan, wer operated
by Project Unit assisted by expatriate experts.
Despite more additional works were carried out in South Sumatra, the
evaluation and assessment of coal resources was completed at the end of
1987. In West Sumatra, several months delay in driliing, amendment of
consultancy agreement, and delay in reviewing of consultant's reports,



- 15 -
have made the completion of work approaching the end of 1988. The
Implementatiofr Planning for MPD project was also delayed; it was just
started at the end of 1987 due to difficulty in providing local costs.
Th total amount of loan expended at the end of the project is .(S$ 19.5
million, consisting of _ USS 3.1 million for equipment,    + US $  16.0
million for consultantsand + US$ 0.4 for Fee.    The  project  accounts
were auditted by Agency for Financial Control and Development (BPKP) and
carried out for the first time in December 1986.
C. Performance of Consultants
10.   The exploration program, the feasibility  work  and  the traininE
was implemented by consultants, and the product achieved was more than
those covered by the scope determined within Prtoject Agreement. There-
fore, technicall-r speaking, the consultants were successful.
On the other hand, the transfer of knowhow and technology resulted
from the various training, at present cculd not be measured, as there
is no evaluation and feasibility work of other coal resources carried
out yet by DOC itself.
D. Disbursement
il.   Disbursements were made  against  100% of foreign expenditures of
contracts awarded for equipment and consultants services and 75% of
local expenditures for locally procured imported items.
Disbursement proceeded relatively slowly reflecting   the   delays   of
project implementation.
Out of an adjusted loan amount of US$ 20 million, about US$ 19.5 had
been disbursed, 12 months later than anticipated at Project Agreement.



- 16 -
IV. CONCLUSION
12.    The Coal Exploration Project gained  very  reliable  figures  of
South Sumatran coal deposits of 1.6 billion tons of proven reserves
plus 3.4 billion tons of other categories of coal, of which Muara Tiga
Besar and/or North Bangko coal deposits could become the next immediate
coal source for Suralaya Power Plant after Bukit Asam Mine.
13.    AMgreatly improved assessment of coal reserves of South Sumatra
and West Sumatra  provides GOI with a basic  coal  reserves  inventory
which would assist GOI in establishing investment         priorities     and
defining policies for its short, medium and longterms strategy for coal
production and coal use.
14.    DOC has acquired  new exploration equipment    and    laboratory
facilities and its personnel together with personnel from other entitbes
have received training and experience in modern exploration techniques
and in the development of conceptual mine feasibility studies.
15.    The manpower requirement to support the coal development policy
has been finally formulated, planned and cudgetted and ready for imme-
diate implementation.



- 17 -
No SECTI



' 7 __ ==_ * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILI.    .. ..,. .n
COft O.M K.CLOIWNt sIMAC.
/4ees\S3                             -> ! . o -  a   I^t "-  ^  *   t
r . ag .~, .-.-" S   
1   '    1    t-1  il  i        01       gl  X    g        i      --L-t              ' I-, 



OCEA.N 8x                                                                                                 l
iD'v'~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                           - . 
I E  ,A't_ Au %;  I.N.
BILIN~~~~~
§\tgL *        ,, *                    ,  .
\   4 w.se@   P                   ~~~~~~~~LEGEND
OCEANSUDARA  
~~~~~ a.. £ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~OLf aPOCT&t
it    LU F NN i1b
04ATRA ~ ~ ~ LEEN
IOMILIN *PROJECT AREA
.  KEY FLAX                                                         5 .         *,,



- 20 -
Pirt IIIL
1.       Related Bank Loans
:      ~~LM^                  Purose        Year of     Status        Comments
j                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~ARRroval
Bukit Asam Coal  Coal Supply to    FY 1982   Construction   Further TA
1ining and       Suralaya Units               completed.     planned for
Transportation   I and II                     Mine and rail  rail operation.
(2079-INP)                                    development    Completion
continuing     anticipated
FY 1991.
2.       Proiect Timetable
1tem                  Date Planne       Date Revised     Date Actual
Ident/Preparation        07/81              N/A             07/81
Appraisal                09/81             02/82             02/82
Loan Negotiations        04/82              N/A              04/82
Board Approval           05/82              N/A              05/82
Loan Signing             06/82              N/A              06/82
Loan Effectiveness       09/82             03/83             03/83
Loan Closing             06/87             06/88             06/88
Loan Completion          12/87             12/88             09/8f
3.       Loan Disbursements (Cumulative)
Financial Year            1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Appraisal Estimate          4.8   9.6  15.8  22.1  25.0
Actual 1/ 2/                0.4   2.9   6.4  11.9  16.8  19.1  19.4
Actual as % Estimate        8.3  30.2  40.5  53.9  67.2  76.4  77.6
Date Final Disbursement     09/21/88
I/ US$5.0 million cancelled 01/12/88
2/ US$545,181.17 cancelled at loan closing 09/21/88
Comment
Initial disbursements were slow due to delayed project loan effectiveness,
occasioned by delay in Borrower meeting condition of effectiveness - the



- 21 -
establishment of a Project Unit and appotntment of project consultants.
General disbursement lag was due to loi0er than anticipated equipment costs
and ongoing delays in mobilizing consultants and in providing support to
consultants.
4.       Project Implementation
Indicators            Apgraisal Estimate       ActuAl/PCR Estimate
Available Funds                1                        2
Project Management             1                        2
Development Impact             1                        1
Overall Status                 1                        1
5.       Prolect Costs and Financing
A. Projegt Costs
(US$ million)
DeggrigItin                   6AnDraisal Estimate           Actual
Local  For2ign  Total   LgCAl  Foriain  IgTal
Equipment                     1.7     5.2      6.9     1.7      3.3     5.0
Consultant Costs/Training    3.1    11.5    14.6       0.4    15.8    16.2
DGM Operating Expenditure   10.8      0.3    11.1      5.1 A/   -       5.1 A/
Basa Cost                    156      L       3.
Physical Contingencies        1.6      1.7     3.3
Price Contingies              6.7     6.5    13.2
Project Cost                 231    1= 2.9    Z   49.1  L.t    141    X2
Front End Fee                         0.4                       0.4
Total Cgst                  221.i   Z.L.       9.5     7.    2IL.    26.7
Al Expenditures to March 31, 1988. FY89 project accounts are being
finalized and local cost expenditures from Match 31, 1988 to loan closing
06/88 are excluded. Local costs total Rp.9.4 billion - only 63% of the
appraisal estimate of Rp.14.9 billion due to devaluation of the rupiah over
the project period (Rp.625/US$ - 1981 to Rp.1700/US$ -1988). Foreign costs
of US$19.1 million are 20% lower than the appraisal estimate due to lower
than anticipated equipment costs.



- 22 -
B. Project Financing
L2an
Agreement         Einal            I
Equipment                6,000,000        3,256,627         12.2
Consultant Services
and Training         17,000,000      15,828,734         59.2
Front End Fee              369,458          369,458          1.4
Unallocated              1.630.542
Sub-Totals         25,000,000      19,454,819         72.8
Government              24,500,000        7,208,100         27.0
Lcc-1 Loan                  -                60,834          0.2
Totals        49.500.000       26 7237117        100. 
6.       Project Results
Purpose as Defined                           Impact of
Studies         at A22raisal                  Status          Study
1.              Muara Tiga Feasibility    Completed          )Utilized to
2.              Bangko Feasibility          Completed        )develop least
3.              South Sumatra-various                        )cost coal dev.
pre-feasibility          Completed        )program
4.               Ombilin II feasibility    Completed          Ongoing review
5.              Manpower Development-
Phase I          Completed         Basis - 6. below
6.              Manpower Development-
Phase II         Completed         Ongoing under
ADB loan



- 23 -
7.       Status of Covenants
Loan Covenants                                     Status
Section 3.01.(a): Borrower to carry out project with
due diligence and provide funds as
needed for the purpose.                     Complied
(b): Borrower to maintain and operate the
Project Unit to terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank.                   Complied
Section 3.02.: Borrower to employ consultants and
cooperate fully with them and make
available all data.                            Complied
Section 3.03.(a): Borrower to furnish promptly copies
of all documents prepared.                  Complied
(b)(i): Borrower to exchange views with Bank.  Complied
(ii): Borrower to consult with Bank on
completion of Bangko exploration.        Complied
(iii): Borrower to consult with Bank after
review of data for pre-feasibility
study areas.                             Complied
(iv): Borrower to furnish scope of work
for Part B of project.                   Complied
(v): Borrower to furnish training program
proposal.                                Complied
Section 3.04.: Borrower to acquire land.                       Complied
Section 3.05.: Borrower to insure imported goods and to
use goods for exclusive project use.           Complied
Section 3.06.: Borrower to maintain seperate project
records and accounts, retain such records,
have accounts audited and furnished to
the Bank.                                      Complied.
8.       Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Ing=
FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  TOTAL
LENP           4.2                                                4.2
LENA          23.1                                               23.1
L NN            1.6                                               1.6
LOP             3.0                                               3.0
SPN            1.2  24.2   9.0   4.5  15.0  12.9  13.2   6.8  86.8
TOTAL         33.1  24.2   9.0   4.5  15.0  12.9  13.2   6.8 118.7



- 24 -
B. Missions
Stage of     Month/  No. of  Days in Specialization Performance Types of
Proi. Cycle   Year         Persons  Figld  Represented 1/  Rating 2/  Poblea 3L
Identific.   06/81      1      10       M                -            -
Pre-App.     10/81      2       11      M,F/E            -            -
Appraisal    02/82      2       10      M,F/E             -           -
Negotiation  04/82      3        5      LO,L,M            -           -
Supervision:
Mission 1  08/82      2       14      M,F             1/-        E,I,S,P
2  12/82      1      12      M                1/2       E,I,S,P
3  03/83      1       9      M                2/2       I,S,P
4  06/83      3      14      M,M,F            2/2       I,P
5  10/83      2      18      M,N              n/2       I,S,P,F
6  02/84      3      10      M,M,F            ,/2       F
7  10/84      3      15      M,N,F            2/1       F
8  07/85      2      17      M,F              2/1       NONE
9  01/86      2      16      M,SA           2/2/1/1     F,PM,P
10  09/86      3      28      M,F/E,SA       2/2/1/1     F
11  03/87      1      13      M                 -        I,PM
12  06/87      2      16      M,F/E          2/2/1/1     NONE
13  02/88      2      23      M,F/F          2/2/1/1     I
14  10/88      1      14      M,F/E                      NONE
1/ M - Mining Engineer, F/E - Financial Analyst/Economist, F - Financial
Analyst, SA - Staff Assistant, LO - Loan Officer, L - Lawyer
2/ Through 1985, performance rating is Trend/Status, Post-1985, ratings
follow new style Form 590 - Av. Funds/Proj. Hgmt./Dev. Impact/Ov.
Status.
J E - Loan Effectiveness, I - Institutional, S - Implementation Schedule,
P - Procurement, F - Financial (Local Budget), PM - Project Management
Energy Division
Asia Technical Department
April 1989



