Document of                          u,o
The World Bank                    RUE` C"""
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3298-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
May 3, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah
US$1.00       = Rp 625
Rp 100        = US$0.16
Rp 1 million = US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton                   =  1,000 kilograms
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.6215 miles
1 megawatt (MW)                =  1,000,000 watts
tpy                            =  metric tons per year
tce                            =  tons of coal equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS
BAKORAN      -  The National Energy Coordinating Board
DGM          -  Directorate General of Mines
DMR          -  Directorate of Mineral Resources
GOI         -  Government of Indonesia
MME          -  Ministry of Mines and Energy
MTDC         -  Mineral Technology Development Center
PJKA        -  Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api, the national railway
PLN         -  Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara, the national power authority
PNTB        -  Perusahaan Negara Tambang Batubara, the state coal agency
PTBA        -  P.T. Bukit Asam, the state-owned commercial company for
developing the Bukit Asam mine
REPELITA    -  Five-Year Development Plan of Indonesia (Repelita I, 1969-74,
Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
INDONESIA'S FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
COAIL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            $25.0 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum./1
Project            The proposed project is to evaluate coal reserves and
Description:    assess the viability of specific coal deposits in South
Sumatra and other promising areas in Indonesia. The
project would be aimed at providing the Government of
Indonesia (GOI) and its agencies with a coal reserve
inventory of its major coal bearing areas and feasibility!
prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus
enabling it to establish investment priorities and define
policies for its short, medium and long-term strategy for
coal production and coal use.
Considering the long lead time required to achieve an
increased level of coal production, highest priority has
been given to this project by GOI and to this end $5 mil-
lion was made available under the Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development and Transportation Project (Loan No. 2079-IND)
for the most urgent activities. While the risk of not
finding economically, financially and technically viable
coal deposits to feed the need for new domestic power
plants is small, considering the existing knowledge of
coal characteristics in South Sumatra, there is a risk
that additional funds will be needed for more exploration
before the objective of ranking several viable deposits
can be met. However, only more exploration will prove
*                             whether such funds are needed.  Other risks associated
with carrying out the project include the possibility of
(a) delays when hiring consultants and purchasing equip-
,                             ment; and (b) difficulties of hiring qualified personnel
for the Project Unit.
/1  This loan could be refinanced (or a relevant portion thereof) if, as a
result of this project, World Bank Group financing were to be made to
the Republic of Indonesia for a subsequent project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:/1                                            Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) -----
Drilling equipment                                        1.0        4.9      5.9
Laboratory equipment                                      0.7        0.3      1.0
Consultants                                               1.7       10.5    12.2
DGM operation costs                                      10.8        0.3    11.1
Training                                                  1.4        1.0      2.4
Base cost                                              15.6       17.0    32.6
Physical contingencies                                    1.6        1.7      3.3
Price escalation                                          6.7        6.5    13.2
Project cost                                           23.9       25.2    49.1
Front-end Fee Bank Loan                                   -          0.4      0.4
Total Financing Required                                 23.9       25.6    49.5
Financing Plan:                                             Local    Foreign  Total
--   ($ million) -----
IBRD                                     -         25.0    25.0
Government                               23.9        0.6    24.5
Total                           23.9       25.6    49.5
Estimated            Bank FY               1983    1984    1985   1986    1987
Disbursements:
Annual                 4.8      4.8      6.2    6.3      2.9
Cumulative             4.8      9.6    15.8   22.1    25.0
Rate of Return       Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           There is no separate appraisal report.
/1 Net of taxes, which are insignificant.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATTONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $25.0 million (including
the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Coal Exploration Engineer-
ing Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.  The loan could be refinanced
(or a relevant portion thereof) if World Bank Group financing for a
subsequent project were to be made as a result of this exploration project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 147 mil-
lion people /2 it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The population
growth rate between 1971 and 1980 was 2.3% per annum. The population density
exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the population live, but
averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of the country; 80% of the
population live in rural areas. GNP per capita is estimated to be $430./3
A          4.         The Indonesian economy has a highly diversified resource base, with
plentiful primary energy resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber
potential and a developed system of agricultural commodity production and
export.  However, the dominant feature of the 1970s has been the rise to
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Nucleus
Estates and Smallholders VI Project (No. P-3245-IND), circulated under
cover of R82-82, dated March 25, 1982, and approved by the Executive
Directors on April 13, 1982.
/2 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/3 Estimate for 1980.



- 2 -
prominence of the oil sector.  Net oil exports rose from $0.6 billion in
1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81, at which time the oil sector accounted
for almost 70% of both exports and Central Government domestic revenues. As a
consequence the country's resource position has been highly sensitive to terms
of trade developments. Following the second oil price hike a resource deficit
turned into a substantial surplus (of $3.6 billion in 1980/81) and the current
account moved into surplus for the first time in two decades. In 1981/82
declining real oil prices, combined with weak prices for other commodities and
the recession in OECD countries, contributed to a reversal of this position,
with a resource deficit estimated at $0.8 billion. The effects of these
dramatic changes are still working their way through the system.  However, the                      a
infusion of foreign exchange into the economy has certainly contributed to a
highly favorable growth performance, despite weak production linkages between
the oil enclave and the rest of the economy. A sustained growth rate of
almost 8% per annum for over a decade is higher than that of any other
low-income country. While oil has played an important part, it should be
stressed that the initial impetus to this growth occurred in the period of
recovery from the severe dislocation of the 1960s.  The Government of
Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore and then maintain macro-
economic stability, liberalize the economy and provide incentives for
investment. There was a major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure,
and the investment rate doubled to 18% of GDP. Throughout the period growth
has been well diversified, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per
annum in agriculture to 12% per annum in manufacturing and construction.
However, despite this favorable growth performance, the economy is still
underdeveloped, with a share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a
persistent deficit on the nonoil current account.
Incomes and Poverty
5.         Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural/urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population. Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
almost 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.         The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes.  Total employment has been increasing at 3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas. There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion. In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively. Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period. Because



the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby encour-
aging a fast growl_o tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance for
the direct and indirect provision of employment. It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.         Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well-
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family pLanning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains inadequate, and only 12% of the population has access to safe
water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. This will require two broad types of policy measures. First, there
is a need for substantial investments in economic and social infrastructure.
Increasing the capacity of the transport network and electric power system
will be critical to sustain the rapidly expanding demands of the productive
sectors of the economy. Second, this must be complemented by improvements in
the policy environment to provide an appropriate incentive structure for
private sector investment. This is illustrated for the major economic
sectors.
9.        In the industrial sector, GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments; in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for both
employment and exports is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 1978
devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved the
profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export industries.
GOI is now backing this with a general review of the trade regime, with a view
to removing the distortions due to the wide variation in rates of effective
protection, and a strong push for the expansion of non-oil exports, including
financing arrangements, improved ports procedures, export processing



zones and a system of export certificates (duty rebates). However, the
private sector also suffers from significant domestic constraints to its
expansion, notably a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed financial system.
Further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to private
investment are needed to alleviate these constraints.
1(.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia also faces a
potentially serious structural energy problem. Oil and gas now account for
98% of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
earnings from the oil sector in'the 1990s, it is essential to diversify
energy usage, in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower
and geothermal potential. This will require both a major investment program
in this decade and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more
efficient energy use. In January 1982 domestic oil prices were increased by
over 60%. This was a decisive step toward the reduction of a major distor-
tion in the economy; it followed similar increase of about 40% in May 1980
and demonstrated the GOI's commitment to tackle this politically difficult
issue. However, domestic prices are still only about 55% of the opportunity
cost on average, and price relativities between products diverge widely from
those prevailing on the international market.
11.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 non-oil exports), food production and
employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record level of
about 22 million tons in 1981, compared with 13 million a decade earlier,
largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agricultural
technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery of adequate seeds
and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure, especially
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization of
distribution and marketing.
12.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical.  The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, and in recent
years GOI has clearly demonstrated its strong commitment to the expansion of
the system. However, the high rates of unemployment amongst secondary school
leavers suggest there may be problems of mismatch between supply and demand at
some levels. In the short run there is scope for better utilization of
existing manpower through stopgap training schemes, while available foreign



exchange resources could be used to finance fellowships abroad and, in the
interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is also a strong justification for
the use of incremental resources in the health sector. However, increased
outlays on health infrastructure will have to be complemented by the develop-
ment of innovative approaches to identifying and tackling health problems,
involving the participation of local communities. The successful family
planning program provides a good model.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
*         13.        The dramatic increase of oil revenues in the 1970s allowed a large
expansion in GOI's expenditure including subsidies (especially on petroleum
products) and resulted in a relative neglect of the nonoil tax effort; nonoil
taxes contributed less than 9% of total non-mining GDP in 1980/81. The
constancy of oil prices in 1981-82 and the consequent real decline in revenues
suddenly brought forward the problem of domestic resource mobilization, at a
time of rapidly expanding development finance requirements. The two major
policy measures required are a steady rise in domestic oil prices to reflect
opportunity cost, and an improvement in the tax effort. The 1982/83 budget
represents a significant effort in these directions. First, the budgetary
subsidy on petroleum products has been reduced from an annual level of over
$3 billion to less than $1.5 billion. Second, domestic nonoil tax revenues
have been budgeted to increase by over 15% in real terms, with the major
emphasis on improved administration and collection procedures.
14.       Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost
$15 billion at the end of 1980; while undisbursed debt amounted to an
additional $9 billion. On the basis of present projections of development
financing requirements and external resources deficits, there will be a
continued need for significant inflows of foreign savings in the 1980s. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. However
during the 1970s Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation in
its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and variable
interest loans in the second half of the decade. The fact that Indonesia
remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s, and the efficiency
with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of how far the country
has progressed.  However, the debt servicing capacity depends on commodity
production rather than a broad industrial base, and this makes Indonesia
somewhat more vulnerable to price developments in international markets. The
implication is that debt utilization should remain very prudent, and that
there will be a continued justification for official debt of long maturities
and fixed interest in the 1980s. Present projections suggest that Indonesia's
financing requirements can be met with the debt service ratio remaining below
20% throughout the decade.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.       As of March 31, 1982, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 67 Bank loans amounting to $4,562.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980 was
about 10.7%, and the share of debt service about 7.0%.  By the end of 1981,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 11.9% and 7.9%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
16.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
17.       Although the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, it is essential that the development
momentum be maintained. This will require both effective policy reform,
notably in improving the environment for private investment, and major
investments in industry, infrastructure, treecrop development and human
resources development. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is
being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the sub-
sector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level.
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Nucleus Estates
and Smallholders VI Project (No. P-3245-IND) circulated under cover of
R82-82, dated March 25, 1982, and approved by the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1982.



- 7 -
18.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive, export-
oriented growth has been substantially completed, and it is planned to follow
this with a series of industrial projects. In energy, new sector work and
continued lending will concentrate on policies to diversify Indonesia s energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning.  Irrigation and
treecrops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated.  Continued lending in the areas of provision of social services,
in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water supply will
increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development of innovative
low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will focus on
improving the working of the whole health care system at the level of a
specific province.
19.        For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance, which deteriorated rapidly in the
late 1970s.  The disbursement ratio (amount disbursed during the fiscal year
as compared to the total undisbursed at the beginning of the year) declined
from about 26% in FY77 to about 13% in FY80. The Bank-wide average was 21.31%
in FY80; the comparable ratios for Thailand and Nigeria were 23.57% and
17.31%, respectively, in the same year. While much of this decline was merely
a result of the rapid increase in commitments which took place during this
period (total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia increased by 122% in the FY77-
79 period compared to a Bankwide increase of 83%), it also reflected
increasing implementation difficulties. Many of the problems appear to be
related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI
and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have
visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project specific problems and work out corrective measures. In addition,
procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September 1979 and November 1981.
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, GOI has taken several measures to
streamline some of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting
project implementation. In addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special
effort to identify problems in the construction industry with a view to
developing appropriate remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the
domestic contracting industry have been identified as one of the major causes
of implementation problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. Indications are that, as
a result of these efforts, improvements are taking place. This was reflected
in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $277.8 million
in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. Disbursements for FY82 are expected
to total about $500 million, implying a disbursement ratio of around 18%.



- 8 -
While it is important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these
trends are encouraging.
20.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
21.       The proposed project constitutes the twelfth lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under advanced
stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Transmigration, Seventh
Nucleus Estates and Smallholder, Twelfth Power, Twelfth Education and the
First Health projects.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Sources and Prospects
22.       While Indonesia is endowned with a wealth of energy resources,
virtually all of its energy requirements are being met from two sources;
indigenous oil, accounting for about 45% of the total, and fuelwood and agri-
cultural wastes accounting for another 48%. As noted above (para. 10) for
commercial applications, Indonesia is almost exclusively dependent on oil and
petroleum products; this dependence has resulted to some extent from
Indonesia's pricing policies (see para. 31 below) which has encouraged oil
consumption by providing heavy subsidies on oil products. At the same time
oil exports have been the key to Indonesia's overall economic growth.
23.       Growth in domestic demand for oil, however, is now outpacing
increases in oil production and oil exports show a declining trend. At the
current production rate of 575 million barrels of oil per year, and with
overall annual growth in domestic demand for petroleum products expected to be
about 11% during the 1980s and 10% during the 1990s, Indonesia-s proven oil
reserves of 9.5 billion barrels would last about 16 years. If unchecked,
increased oil consumption would not only further erode the surplus of oil
available for export, thereby reducing GOI revenues and jeopardizing social
and economic development objectives, but could result in Indonesia becoming a
substantial oil importer by the end of the century. Thus, there is an urgent
need for Indonesia to develop its other energy resources and to exploit the
possibilities of substitution among primary energy sources. Its non-oil
energy resources are discussed in detail below.
24.       Natural gas reserves, estimated at 69 trillion cu ft (which is close
to the proven level of oil reserves on an energy equivalent basis) offer the
largest opportunity for domestic oil substitution in the short- to medium-
term. At present over half of Indonesia's natural gas production (847 billion
cu ft in 1979) is exported as LNG; another 5% is lost through flaring.



- 9-
Domestic reliance on natural gas has thus far been largely restricted to
fertilizer production, iron ore reduction and, to a lesser degree, power
generation. While 85% of the reserves are nonassociated and could be pro-
duced independent of oil production, large-scale development for domestic
consumption has been constrained by three factors: (a) the remote location
of reserves vis-a-vis population and industrial centers; (b) low producer
prices; and (c) poor institutional arrangements. Therefore, while possibili-
ties exist for using natural gas as an oil substitute in domestic consump-
tion, the problems discussed above will have to be addressed and the economic
advantages of export vs. domestic consumption will require close study.
25.       While hydroelectric potential is estimated at 31,000 megawatts
(MW), physical location poses developmental constraints: about 50% of the
total potential is on Irian Jaya, which has a mere 1% of the country's
population, while Java with 60% of the population has only 8% or 2,500 MW of
hydroelectric potential. All major sites on Java are already under, or
planned for, development. In the rest of the country, development of hydro
potential has received low priority due to the lack of adequately investi-
gated projects, the long lead time required for construction of hydro
projects and the lack of a long-term plan for overall power development.
Hydroelectric capacity on the other major islands will at best play a
regional role. Given the geography, submarine interconnection does not
appear practical.
26.       Geothermal energy sources are found on all the major islands of
Indonesia except Kalimantan and represent an estimated 10,000 MW of
potential; 1,460 MW has been firmly identified. Although over half of this
potential is on populous Java, the extent to which geothermal sources can
contribute to Indonesia's energy supply will be contigent on confirming the
economic and technical feasibility of exploitation. PLN, the national power
authority, plans to develop a total of 240 MW new capacity by the end of the
decade.
27.       Annual availability of biomass - mostly by-products or waste from
agriculture and forestry - is estimated at about 17 million tons. Approxi-
mately 80% of rural households depend on firewood and biomass for cooking
fuels. However, kerosene is becoming increasingly important as nearby
supplies are being depleted; deforestation for firewood is already a very
acute problem in Java. Development of biomass potential for increased
domestic consumption will require a major organizational effort at the
grassroots level to increase planting of fast-growing brush species on waste
land, develop systematic collection of agricultural wastes, construct
facilities for energy conversion, and develop a distribution network.
28.       Total Indonesian coal reserve estimates to date have ranged from
a low of 6.5 billion tons of coal equivalent (tce), based on the World Energy
Council data, to a high GOI estimate of 17 billion tce. Due to limited
exploration, however, proven coal reserves stand at only about 185 million
tce. Hundreds of coal occurrences are known in Indonesia, but resources and



- 10 -
reserves of any significant magnitude are found mainly over large areas in
Sumatra and Kalimantan. Coal subsector development prospects are discussed in
detail in paras. 32-36 below.
Institutional Framework and Development Strategy
29.        The Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), created in 1978, coordinates
all activities in the energy sector.  Under the MME, line responsibility for
the various energy organizations fall under three Directorates General: Oil
and Gas, Mines and Power. In addition, three bodies directly under the MME
are concerned with energy policy formulation:
(a) The National Energy Coordinating Board (BAKORAN), a cabinet-level
interministerial policy board established in 1980;
(b) the Permanent Committee for Energy Studies, which has
control over research activity within the MME, and acts as
Secretariat to BAKORAN; and
(c) the Technical Committee on Energy Resources, responsible for
drafting energy policy proposals for submission to BAKORAN and
monitoring the implementation of approved policies.
A small Energy Planning Unit has also been established in the Office of the
Directorate General of Power to translate the broad elements of energy policy
into a detailed energy plan.
30.        Indonesia's overall energy development strategy is to ensure a
continuation of petroleum export earnings through expanded oil production,
while developing other indigenous energy sources to substitute for the oil
products used in the country. As it will take several years before an
investment program can produce any of the various substitute fuels in
sufficient quantities, GOI realizes the urgency to formulate and to begin to
implement such a program.  In its recent statement of overall energy policy,
GOI has committed itself to transform the country from an oil-based economy to
one in which all energy resources are optimally used to support Indonesia's
future economic and social development. Among other things, Repelita III,
which gives the highest priority to development of a more balanced domestic
energy production, encourages the development of coal for internal consumption
wherever technically and economically viable.
Oil Pricing Policies
31.        Pricing policies for oil products in Indonesia were originally
designed to pass on benefits of indigenous oil production to the greatest
number of people, a policy which initially provided only for a moderate
degree of subsidies. But as prices of oil products were maintained in
nominal terms when international oil prices increased dramatically after
1973, the subsidy of local petroleum prices drastically increased. GOI has
been acutely aware of the resulting heavy burden on the budget, not only in



- 11 -
terms of lost revenue but also in terms of foreign exchange expenditure for
the import of certain products (e.g., kerosene and high-speed diesel) and
their sale to the public at a fraction of their import cost. In addition,
price distortions have favored the use of oil over other competing fuels and
promoted domestic consumption over exports, and have thus been a major
constraint to achieving the GOI policy of replacing oil with other indigenous
energy resources. Finally, because the degree of subsidy is uneven among oil
products the demand among individual petroleum products has also been
distorted. GOI's stated policy has been to eventually withdraw the subsidies
subject to its concern that poorer consumers are protected from the adjustment
costs to the extent feasible. As noted above, it took a large step towards
correcting these distortions by increasing the entire range of domestic oil
prices by approximately 60% as of January 1982 (para. 10).
Coal Development
32.       Background.  Significant concentrations of coal resources and
reserves are assumed over large areas in Sumatra and East Kalimantan and coal
resources are known to exist on Sulawesi, Java, Timor, Irian Jaya as well as
Central and West Kalimantan. The attached map (IBRD Map No. 16367) identifies
these general areas. Though as much as 17 billion tce have been estimated by
GOI (para. 28), MME presently estimates "mineable" coal reserves at about
2.6 billion tons. Due to the variety of criteria used and the scarcity of
reliable exploration data, none of the estimates can be considered reliable.
Subtantial exploration work has been undertaken only in Sumatra, where about
80% of all Indonesia's geological coal resources are estimated to be and all
proven reserves are located in Sumatra (at Ombilin, Bukit Asam and North-West
Bangko). Coal quality varies from good anthracite to brown and lignitic coals
with high moisture but low ash and sulphur content.
33.       Coal has been produced in Indonesia for centuries; however, orga-
nized coal mining did not begin until the early 1900s, when private Dutch
interests became involved and a mine was opened at Ombilin in West Sumatra.
A second mine soon followed in the Bukit Asam concession in South Sumatra,
and later another in East Kalimantan; total production peaked at 2.0 million
tons in 1941. A gradual decline in production followed and this was later
accelerated by competition from much cheaper oil. The coal industry was
nationalized in 1958 and in 1968 a state coal agency, PN Tambang Batubara
(PNTB), was created through a merger of three autonomous mining companies.
Meanwhile domestic demand for coal dropped drastically, reaching a low of
150,000 tons in 1973. Interest in developing coal resources in South
Sumatra accelerated when in 1973 Shell Mijnbouw signed a production sharing
contract for the coal fields adjacent to Bukit Asam in South Sumatra; Shell
had intended to develop a large-scale export operation, with Japan as the
major market. However, after four years of exploration, Shell concluded
that though more than 2 billion tons of potential coal reserves had been



- 12 -
identified, no export potential existed because of high infrastructure cost
and poorer quality coal than anticipated. However, the Sheli piefeasibility
study indicated that the delineated resources could be promising for domestic
use. In 1975 PNTB launched a major rehabilitation effort for its two
remaining operating mines, at Ombilin and Bukit Asam, and managed to increase
total production to 300,000 tons per year (tpy).
34.        The Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Prc-ject
(Loan No. 2079-IND). In the mid-1970s GOI decided to examine the feasibility
of a major expansion of the Bukit Asam deposits for domestic consumption. To
facilitate this effort, financing for feasibility and engineering work was
provided under the Bukit Asam Engineering Loan (Loan No. S-9-IND), approved in
FY78. That Engineering Loan was successfully implemented and the Bukit Asam
Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project (Loan No. 2079-IND) was
approved by the Executive Directors on January 5, 1982. This integrated
project is directed at expanding the Bukit Asam mines to produce three million
tpy of coal and providing the transport infrastructure required to deliver the
coal to the Suralaya power plant in West Java. One of the major issues which
arose in finalizing the project was the need to create an independent
commercial entity to oversee implementation of the Bukit Asam mine develop-
ment. To address this concern in December 1980, a new state-owned commercial
company, P.T. Bukit Asam (PTBA), was created to own and manage the Bukit Asam
concession and all associated facilities. PNTB will be left to operate the
Ombilin mine and pursue mining ventures in other areas.
35.       Production Sharing Agreements in Kalimantan.  To explore and even-
tually exploit part of the coal potential in East Kalimantan (IBRD Map
No. 16368), the GOI, through PNTB, has recently invited various foreign
companies to negotiate production sharing agreements there. In 1981, three
wholly owned subsidiaries of foreign companies signed such agreements: ARUTMIN
Indonesia of the US; UTAH Indonesia of the US; and a joint venture between
AGIP OVERSEAS of Italy and the Indonesian division of CONSOLIDATED COAL of the
US. Under these agreements the foreign company will undertake at its own risk
and cost, general surveys, exploration and feasibility studies within a period
not exceeding five years; they will also subsequently develop the mining and
coal handling facilities. The foreign company is to pay 13.5% of total coal
production in kind as a royalty to PNTB and is free to market the remaining
86.5% of the output. However, PNTB has reserved the option to buy part or all
of the output at international prices for domestic use. While the foreign
firms retain the right to terminate their involvement if the ventures do not
prove to be profitable, these production sharing agreements are an effective
way to accelerate coal exploration and development at a time when local
expertise and qualified staff to manage coal projects are limited.
36.        Future Coal Requirements.  Given the long lead time involved, coal
from the production sharing agreements in Kalimantan cannot be expected to be
available in any significant quantities before 1990. After the Bukit Asam
project reaches full capacity in 1987, and a rehabilitation program in Ombilin
achieves its targeted output of 750,000 tpy, domestic coal production would



- 13 -
total only 3.75 million tpy while total domestic demand for steam coal and
anthracite is expected to reach 5 million tpy by 1987, 10 million tpy in 1990
as much as 15-17 million tpy by 1995. To meet these requirements from
domestic sources, the GOI must urgently accelerate coal exploration and
pre-investment work. The project described below begins to address this need
by financing exploration and pre-investment studies in a number of well-known
areas in South Sumatra (primarily in the areas identified in Shell's initial
exploration) and in other promising areas in Indonesia not covered by
production sharing agreements.
IV. THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of a Bank
mission to Indonesia in July 1981 and was appraised in November 1981. The
project was prepared within MME and reviewed by Bank staff and specialized
consultants during appraisal and a follow-up mission in February 1982. There
is no separate Appraisal Report. Negotiations were held in Jakarta from
April 20 to April 22, 1982, with a GOI delegation led by Professor Katili,
Director General of Mines in MME. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annexes III and IV.
Background and Objectives
38.       Based on the Bank's dialogue with GOI on energy strategy, the review
of PLN's power generation program and the increasing awareness within
Indonesia of its coal development potential, the advantages of developing
Indonesia's coal resources to meet increasing demand for coal in power
generation has become apparent. The 800 MW power station at Suralaya coming
on stream in 1985-86 will be supplied by the 3.0 million tpy produced by the
Bukit Asam Mine (para. 34 above). Further, additional coal-fired power
stations are scheduled to be commissioned at Suralaya in 1987 and in East Java
in 1988-90, representing an incremental coal demand of about 4-5 million tpy.
While availability of coal within Indonesia is not in doubt, limited drilling
and little coal quality testing has so far been undertaken and further
exploration and preinvestment studies are required to identify and evaluate
the most suitable coal deposits for development.
39.       The objective of the proposed project is to evaluate coal reserves
and assess the viability of specific promising coal deposits in South Sumatra
and elsewhere in Indonesia. The project would be aimed at providing GOI and
its agencies with a coal reserve inventory of major coal bearing areas and
feasibility/prefeasibility studies of specific deposits, thus enabling it to
establish investment priorities and define policies for short, medium and
long-term strategy for coal production and coal use. Specifically, the
objectives of the project are to:
(a) explore, delineate and assess coal deposits which are to supply
coal for power plants scheduled for commissioning in 1987-90;



- 14 -
(b) establish a coal reserve inventory for South Sumatra and selected
areas elsewhere in Indonesia in order to explore, delineate and
rank the most promising coal deposits. Such data will strengthen
GOI position when negotiating future production sharing contracts
with foreign interests or deciding on alternative development
arrangements; and
(c)  training programs designed to strengthen the institutions
responsible for (i) policy formulation in the coal sector;
and (ii) coal exploration and preinvestment work.
Considering the urgency of increased coal demand and the long lead time
required to achieve an increased level of coal production, highest priority
has been given to this project by the GOI and the Bank. To this end $5 mil-
lion was made available under the Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transportation Project (Loan No. 2079-IND) for the most urgent activities
related to the proposed coal exploration effort. Funds under that project
will be utilized to pay initial consultant fees and drilling expenses and
finance the laboratory equipment (for coal quality and geotechnical testing)
and bulldozers required to initiate the exploration program.
Project Description
40.       Over a period of four years (1983-86), the following activities
will be carried out:
(a) review all previous exploration data;
(b) field drilling, laboratory testing (coal quality and geotechnics)
of the Muara Tiga/Air Lawai and North-West/Bangko deposits in South
Sumatra followed by full-scale feasibility studies for mines and
associated infrastructure (preliminary engineering);
(c) field drilling, laboratory testing and preparation of prefeasi-
bility studies in other delineated coal bearing areas in South
Sumatra including Arahan, West Air Lawai, Suban Jeriji and
Central/South/Southeast Bangko;
(d)  drilling, laboratory testing and preparation of prefeasibility
studies for coal bearing deposits in other areas of Indonesia
(West-Central Sumatra in particular) to be identified
by the review of exploration data; and
(e) training of Indonesian personnel to (i) upgrade Indonesian coal
drilling and laboratory testing capabilities to international
standards, and (ii) strengthen local expertise in coal policy
formulation and coal investment decision making.
Five drill rigs and accessories and spares will be provided under the project
to augment the exploration resources available in Indonesia. Approximately



- 15 -
255 boreholes will be drilled in South Sumatra, involving a total depth of
25,000 m. Electric borehole logging and seismic survey equipment will be
used. Drilling and quality testing in South Sumatra will be undertaken over a
two-year period, followed by drilling elsewhere over a period of about a year
and a half.
41.       The training component of the project consists of three major sub-
components. First, training will be provided to upgrade Indonesian skills to
implement all aspects of the coal exploration and preinvestment program
described above. These activities will include: (a) on-the-job training of
drill operators, supervisors and coal quality laboratory technicians,
(b) visits of selected personnel to exploration sites and laboratory
facilities abroad to update Indonesian knowledge of equipment technology
international drilling methods and testing of coal and rock samples to
international standards; and (c) assistance in the head office of the
consultants during the feasibility/prefeasibility study preparation. A
detailed project related training program will be forwarded by May 1, 1983,
for Bank review and approval (Section 3.03 (b)(v) of draft Loan Agreement),
the project consultants (para. 48) will formulate this plan in consultation
with GOI; these consultants will also be charged with supervising its
implementation. Second, funds will be provided to finance a manpower
development plan for the coal sector. Finally, training will be provided to
strengthen the staff involved with coal policy formulation and investment
decisions within the MME. Specific activities include advice and training in
coal contract negotiations international coal trading, procurement matters
and selected overseas fellowships.
Areas to be Explored
42.       Muara Tiga/Air Lawai deposits are located southwest of Bukit Asam in
Southern Sumatra (IBRD Map No. 16249). They were identified, in very
approximate terms, by drilling after appraisal of the Bukit Asam mine area;
drilling exploration boreholes at Muara Tiga/Air Lawai is continuing in order
to define the full extent of the coal bearing area. To date the coal deposit
looks very promising as a mine development, with 30-40 million tons of coal
proven; present indications are that additional coal, possibly over 100
million tons, will be identified during 1982. Only a very limited amount of
coal quality testing has been undertaken so far, the main thrust of effort
being to define the total reserve. Preliminary testing has indicated the
quality ot the coal seams is similar to those proven at Bukit Asam but
considerable further coal quality evaluation is necessary to establish whether
these early indications of quality are representative and to identify any
major variations in quality that might exist. An integrated exploration
etfort is in the process of preparation that could allow completion of
exploration before the end of 1982 to a level that would give a data base
(reserves, coal quality and geotechnics) adequate for the preparation of a
detailed feasibility study during 1983. As noted above (para. 39), the
consultants required to define and supervise the ongoing exploration effort in
this area will be financed from Loan No. 2079-IND.



- 16 -
43.       North-West/Bangko.  North-West/Bangko was identified by Shell
Mijnbouw during their 1974-77 field exploration program and was initially
considered to be the most promising coal bearing area with the highest
potential for mine development. The total reserves calculated by Shell at
NIorth-West Bangko were 130 million tons; a total of 435 million tons was
estimated including an area in Central Bangko. A limited amount of additional
drilling would be necessary to fully classify these reserves as "measured" and
consequently adequate for feasibility study preparation.  However, extensive
further exploration is necessary to provide a clearer understanding of coal
quality and geotechnical parameters. The previous drilling at North-West and
Central Bangko identified essentially lignitic coals typified by high moisture             v
content (30%) and consequently low net heating values. Attention must be
focused on coal quality, geotechnics and its impact on coal utilization during
the project field investigations before a decision can be made whether a
feasibility study is called for.
44.       Remaining Coal Bearing Areas in South Sumatra.  The extensive
exploration undertaken by Shell Mijnbouw in the mid seventies (about 600 bore-
holes) identified six major near-surface deposits of coal in the area
surrounding PTBA's Bukit Asam concession. Subsequent to deposition, the coal
deposits were subject to folding and faulting as well as thermal metamorphic
effects of plug-like masses of andesite. As a result, the rank of coal in
this area ranges from lignite to anthracite. In addition to the North-West/
Bangko and Muara Tiga/Air Lawai deposits, the Shell exploration identified
coal prospects in Arahan, West Air Lawai, Suban Jeriji, Central/South/
Southeast Bangko, Bukit Kendi and Air Serelo.
45.       Other Areas.  As noted above (para. 33) the Ombilin region in West
Sumatra was the initial area for major coal production in Indonesia. Adjacent
to the existing Ombilin underground mine are additional coal reserves that
could be receptive to open pit mining and reserves recoverable by underground
mining could be exploited by expanding the existing mine. Further work is
needed to identify coal reserves and coal quality characteristics. Other
areas in West-Central Sumatra with coal potential include IWaringin (the site
of a proposed 600,000 tpy underground mine in the Ombilin coalfield), Sinamar
and Logas. Coal bearing areas to be explored under production sharing
arrangements account for less than 50% of known coal tracts in Kalimantan, a
number of additional areas there are available for exploration and study;
these could also be examined under the proposed project.
Project Execution and Implementation Schedule
46.       The Directorate General of Mines (DGM) in the MME would be the GOI's
executing agency for the project. DGM is responsible for the promotion and
supervision of all mining activities and is the regulatory agency for all
mineral exploration activities in the private sector; it also acts as the
executing agency for exploration activities in the public sector. Specific
implementation of the coal exploration program would be undertaken by the



- 17 -
newly created Coal Directorate within DGM. This Directorate would be assisted
by the Directorate of Mineral Resources (DMR) and the Mineral Technology
Development Center (MTDC) in respect to exploration. DMR's Nonmetallic
Minerals and Coal Exploration Division has a coal section which traditionally
has been responsible for providing drilling equipment and implementing and
analyzing exploration programs. MTDC, although essentially a research and
training institution, has developed coal quality testing and geotechnical
laboratory facilities.  Drill rigs and personnel, owned by MTDC essentially
for training purposes, have also augmented the equipment and field personnel
of DMR in exploration and coal analysis at Bukit Asam and Muara Tiga/Air
Lawai.  In addition PTBA and PNTB would provide an input into feasibility work
on coal operations, Perusahaan Jawatan Kereta Api (PJKA), the national
railway, would provide an input into feasibility work on transport
requirements, and the Ministry of the Environment would provide an
environmental input into the feasibility work.
47.       Under the Coal Directorate a Project Unit will be set up in
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.  Headed by a
Project Manager, the Project Unit will be subdivided into four subunits:
Initial Review and Master Plans, Exploration, Feasibility Work and Support
Services. DMR, MTDC, PTBA, PNTB, PJKA and the Ministry of the Environment
will second people to the Project Unit and make available equipment to the
subunits in line with their specialization. An Indonesian staff of about
fifteen professionals will be required full time for the Project Unit (project
manager, geologists, mining engineers, a coal chemist, coal technologist and a
geotechnician) in addition to part-time personnel such as a cost engineer,
transport engineer, coal preparation engineer and an environmental specialist.
A qualified Project Manager has already been appointed and the appointment of
key qualified staff to the Project Unit is a condition of effectiveness
(Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       Coal exploration/engineering consultants would be hired to assist
the Project Unit. Specifically, they would: (a) assist the Project Manager in
coordinating the overall program; (b) assist in managing the four subunits of
the Project Unit; (c) provide drilling supervisory assistance and training in
the field; (d) supervise coal quality testing and ensure that reliable data
are prepared for the feasibility study; (e) undertake all prefeasibility and
feasibility studies; and (f) coordinate and implement the project related
training program.  The qualifications, selection, terms and conditions of
employment of the consultants would be acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.02(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The selection of the consultants for overseeing
the South Sumatra Program is a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement). A shortlist of seven firms has been approved and
invitations to submit proposals have been sent out. It is envisaged that the
consultants should start work in Indonesia not later than January 1, 1983.
49.       The project will be implemented in phases to ensure that the
proposed studies and work are carried out only after previous results have
been evaluated and have established the desirability of proceeding further.



- 18 -
The Muara Tiga/Air Lawai exploration and feasibility program requires no
intermediate decision point because of the reliability of information already
available. Other project components will be phased as follows:
(a) the feasibility study for the North-West Bangko coal
deposit will be initiated following a review of the drilling
and laboratory test data by GOI and the Bank, with a view
towards confirming the economic potential of the deposit
(Section 3.03(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b)  the drilling and coal quality testing program for areas in
South Sumatra outside Muara Tiga/Air Lawai and North-West
Bangko will be initiated following review of available
exploration data by GOI and the Bank (Section 3.03(b)(iii)
of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(c) the drilling and coal quality testing program for areas
outside South Sumatra will be initiated following
agreement between GOI and the Bank on areas to be explored
and the scope of the program to be undertaken (Section
3.03(b)(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       Drilling in South Sumatra to establish a meaningful coal reserve
inventory is scheduled to be completed by early 1985, at which time equipment
and drilling activities can transfer to other areas. Drilling and data
evaluation in preparation for the project is in progress. In addition, Shell
has been approached to undertake a four-month coal quality data evaluation for
North-West Bangko, to be financed under the Fifth Technical Assistance Project
(Credit No. 898-IND). The feasibility study for Muara Tiga/Air Lawai is
expected to be completed by the end 1983 and the feasibility study for North
West Bangko by late 1984.
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project (net of taxes, which are expected to
be insignificant) has been estimated at $49.5 million, including a foreign
exchange component of $25.6 million (52% of total project cost). The physical
field exploration work, which includes the provision of equipment items and
personnel (Indonesian staff and foreign consultants) accounts for 75% of
project base cost, the preparation of preinvestment and prefeasibility reports
represent 17.5% and training about 7.5%. Cost estimates for equipment have
been based on 1981 quotations for similar equipment in Indonesia. The
engineering consultants' services have been estimated at 646 man-months at an
average cost of $9,200 per man-month, using recent consultant rates for the
Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project, with adjust-
ments for different emphasis on specific consultant disciplines. Approxi-
mately 60% of consultant costs represent the fee element and the balance
reimbursable costs. Physical contingencies represent about 10% of base costs.



- 19 -
Provisions for price escalation total $13.2 million and have been estimated on
local costs at 14% for FY82, 12% for FY83 and 10% each for subsequent years
and for foreign costs, 8.5% for FY82, 7.5% for FY83-85 and 6% thereafter.
52.       The Bank loan of $25.0 million would finance the estimated direct
foreign exchange cost of the project (including the front-end fee); indirect
foreign exchange costs (involving small consumable items) and all local costs
would be financed by GOI. DGM, as the GOI's executing agency, will receive
the Bank funds under its budget, with equipment being allocated primarily to
DMR, but also to MTDC.  Because the coal exploration/preinvestment program is
designed to identify a coal mine (or mines) for development as soon as
possible, the Bank loan could be refinanced (or a relevant portion thereof)
out of any mine projects which emerge from this project (Recital B of the
preamble to the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
53.       Procurement of all identified equipment to be financed under the
loan would be on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. This equipment will be procured in
one drilling equipment package (drill rigs, accessories and spares), the
base cost of which is estimated to total $4.9 million. If any additional
items between $50,000 and $300,000 are required for project activities they
can be purchased following limited international tendering; any packages below
$50,000 can be purchased following local prudent shopping. Advertisement for
the major equipment package has been approved by the Bank and been issued.
Disbursement
54.       The Bank loan will be disbursed against the following items:
(a) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures on directly imported equipment, and
75% of local expenditures on imported equipment procured locally; (b) 100% of
foreign exchange cost of consultant and training expenses; and (c) the
front-end fee. The proposed loan is expected to be fully disbursed by end
FY87. A condition of disbursement on exploration work and studies in areas
outside of South Sumatra would be that before these can be undertaken there
would be an agreement on the coal areas to be explored (para. 4(b) of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
55.       The Project Unit would maintain separate accounts for all costs
relating to project investments. These accounts will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audited accounts will
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
56.        The project's main benefit is the generation of reliable coal
reserve, coal quality and coal development cost data on the basis of which
the GOI can make educated decisions on (a) the optimal sequence of develop-
ing alternative coal deposits taking into account overall energy development
plans; and (b) the most appropriate means of exploring/developing its coal
reserves, i.e., relying on foreign participations, local companies, or
management contract arrangements. The most immediate benefit will be the
identification and preparation of a financially, technically and economi-
cally viable coal deposit to feed the 400 MW expansion of the Suralaya power
plant expected to start in 1987. By timely development of such a mine in
the vicinity of Bukit Asam, Indonesia may save up to $12 million per year
(in 1982 terms) for coal which would otherwise have to be imported. In the
medium term the knowledge of the size and characteristics of the coal
deposits will also strengthen the GOI's position when negotiating the terms
and conditions of future production sharing contracts with foreign
interests, or deciding on the scope of Indonesian public and private
development investments.
57.        In addition, the coal exploration/engineering program will
strengthen the capabitilities of Indonesian agencies, including the Coal
Directorate, DMR and MTCD to perform coal exploration and quality and
geotechnics testing work to international standards. This transfer of
expertise and technology will have an important impact on the continuing
effort of exploring not only Indonesia's coal reserves but also other
promising minerals (bauxite, copper, nickel, etc.).
58.        The risk of not finding economically, financially and technically
viable coal deposits to feed the immediate need for new domestic power plants
is very small, considering the existing knowledge of coal characteristics in
South Sumatra. There is a certain risk that additional funds will be needed
for more exploration before the medium- and longer-term objective of the
project of ranking several viable deposits can be met. However, only more
exploration will prove whether such funds are needed. Other risks associated
with carrying out the project include the possibility of (a) delays when
hiring consultants and purchasing equipment; and (b) the availability of
adequate qualified personnel for the Project Unit. As the former activity is
well underway and agreement has been reached as staffing of the Project Unit
these risks have been specifically addressed in preparing this project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.        The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special Conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. These include two conditions of effectiveness
(para. 47 and 48) and one condition of disbursement (para. 54).



- 21 -
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 3, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAUD SQ. KM.)                        I                                         MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)'8
ToTAL            1919.3                                            MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCCME
AGRICLLTIURAL     286.4                   196C  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        80.0        140.0            370.0             232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAXS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           130.1        128.4            237.1             499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (ThOUSANDS)       94680.0    116143.0          142870.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6         17.1             19.8              17.3                    40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                   219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                     388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                               2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                             49.3         60.5             74.4             153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND          355.9        417.9            487.3             360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
C-14 YRS.                               40.7         44.0             40.8              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                               56.2         53.5             56.3              59.2                   56.7
85 YKS. AND ABOVE                         3.1          2.5              2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.1          2.0              2.3               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                                    3.7          3.6              4.0               3.4                     3.8
CR10DE BIRTH RATh (PER THOUSAND)          46.7         40.8             36.2              27.7                    29.7
CLRDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           24.8         17.7             13.3              10.2                     7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.0          2.8              2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..        181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERChNT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..          0.2             27.1              20.4                   44.1
lOUD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                93.0        102.0            103.0             107.1                   123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                         89.0         92.0            105.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                41.0         41.0             47.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WhECH ANIMAL AND PULSE              6.0          6.0              6.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILA (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           31.2         20.4             13.7              14.6                     4.8
H1EALTH
LIFL EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          39.0         46.7             53.0              57.7                    64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                159.0        126.0            120.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPU LATIGN)
TOTAL                                     ..          3.0             12.0              30.1                   45.9
URBAN                                     ..         10.0             35.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                                     ..          1.0              6.0              20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPLIATION)
TOlAL                                     ..         12.0             15.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                                     ..         50.0             60.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                                     ..          4.0              5.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               46778.7      26498.5          13644.4            3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON               ..       7672.8           8851.9            6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 1364.1       1644.6           1606.0            1132.8                  588.5
URBAN                                  251.8           .-            697.3             322.3                  579.6
RURAL                                     ..           ..           3159.0            5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..           ..             22.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    4.4          4.8
URBAN                                    4.9          5.3
RURAL                                    4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..          1.5
URBAN                                     ..          1.6
RURAL                                     ..          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URbAN                                     ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..



- 23 -                                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b       ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASiA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJtSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                      71.0          78.0              94.0              85.9                     99.8
MALE                       86.0          83.0            100.0               94.4                    100.6
FEMALE                     58.0          73.0             89.(               64.5                     98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                        6.0          16.0              22.0              38.0/aa                  53.5
MALE                        10.0         21.0             27.0               34.6/as                  58.4
FEMALE                      3.0          11.0             18.0               18.0/aa                  48.6
VOCAT1ONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)          20.0         22.0              20.0                3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHiER RATIO
PRIMARY                                   39.0         29.0             30.0               32.8                     34.2
SECONDARY                                 14.0         13.0              17.0              19.9                     31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)               39.0         56.6              62.0               52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSANh
POPULATION                                 1.0          2.1               3.5                1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOESAND
POPULATION                                 7.2         22.0              38.5              35.3                    174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                 0.1          0.8               7.3                3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                           ..           *               17.7               14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA           ..           ..               0.8                3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           34752.5       41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                         27.9          31.0              29.5              29.3                     37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                     74.8         66.3              59.1              69.8                     50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                         8.4          9.7              11.8              14.1                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                       36.7         35.3              35.6               39.7                    40.2
MALE                                        54.2         49.5              50.1               51.5                    49.8
FEtALE                                      20.0         21.6              21.1              23.3                     31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                      1.2          1.3               1.2                1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RELEIVED bY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT oF HOUSEHOLDS            ..         33.7/c            23.5
HIGHENT 20 PERCENT OF HOLSEHOLDS            ..         52.0/c           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          6.8H,             6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..         17.3/c            14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (IS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                       ..           ..             136.0             134.1                   248.6
RURAL                                       ..           ..            112.0              111.6                    193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                       ..           ..             119.0                ..                    249.8
RURAL                                       ..           ..             98.0                 ..                    234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                       ..           ..              28.0              41.7                     21.2
RUKAL                                       ..           ..              51.0              51.7                     32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The &roup averages for each codicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on avadlability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China ineluded io total only.
/b   Unless otherwsie noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betweeo 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   In-coe recipients.
May, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL. INDRICATORS                                                     P    g            o      5       a    e
Mo.re:  Alihough the data are dree  from  a           Ior ...genraly  odged rht  east auhria      ad rlitable, It  hould also be noted that they say nor be inter-
nstionl.y. comparable because of the lank of erardardieed deti.ietona and no.n.pe  use..d by different   ..tt. coon -rlee .I olning the iota.  The dataI are, roes-
titele.., ue.fu  no t  des..ribe ordera of magitude, tafi.tt  treed., and                   --JIe-tenldafceot.t..major  _Offecaite
The red scarce arouraI ar       tee..cutr   ru  ofi the sobjert --utry cad (2) a toute ry grou.p etb    -1aatta  high- en                 9 Ioer  ..mter  then lbs.. outty gr..y
nfnt.    u)sr  onr   scp  for '.CapitalSuple             Eiifporters" groopoiter  "Middle IIn-m-  Nnnth Africe ad fiddle fast" Js cItoee  b-ee-s  of strnge
eoiuotralafnte)    In the reter..c. grop data rtr. Inrgeaepplro  reigtfe  artistnic meets fnceac,h  iniat n   h.- onlY when
erd  Is on   un tor, cation suet hr eee rciId in relating evegI f ova ihdicatnr tn .norher.  Three .. avrags  ar  only useful in<.rrn   he  -ee c
one iodicacorr canise among the  --utryar.d ref error. groups.
LAND1 ARiA (thb.u...d eq.he.)                                                                      youattprOela   ed-ccl  rtr   o   url-Pplto    ttl
Tonl -Tos)  ortso  ara cmpielg lndare  an  ilan, gnea.                     rbtl,,  and  urai  dIvide ti_ty tsrrapcir       Imtno  hospitl  bede,
for crops,yatre  maktad kitchen gerdane or no Ie. fallow; 197t date.                             hhiiitatio I.ente.rs.  tosPitlaareesna.Iblih. etete   peruanetly staffed
it, a-  IIIt one phyaioti.  Itetbllehaots prociding prircipa1ly Ousto-
IMP  in Cylik(I/S) -GNP Per capita  e  m .a   urn  sce   rcs   a-da  care are non  inluded.  Rura  hitcpit .itoeho-,-  include health
culatad  by ese cunoershon  echod as hnrl   hac  uts   11-79I bais); iMtI               an  _ad 1a centrant perannty scffe   yaprlca    htb
1970, and1979data.                                                                                 madic-1aston,toer  rideife, et. hichofet-yteneh -
dent- end prorido e 1Latad range of madical f_cllite.  Por Intis
end           Iifn,ytnrs.ntrlgen   itdro,   v-olearennortrlea-and  rrlhsInaqiclo   ue                                                        cnis en  meIca  an  eenntt
triciny) I              Iiore   f coal equIvalet pen cepite; 1960, 1970, end 1979                  neetara.  Ip-caicei.d hospitole are included only underine
data.                                                                                            Odlstn   e   oetlld-Ttlnee   f  dIs.......  to or discharges
Pro.   osItels divided by the tabrofbd.
POPUI.TION AND VITAL STuTISTICS
Intel ForoItcioc. rid-Teen  (ttosanfe) - hA. of July 1; I960, 1970. acd 1979                   HoOUSING
data.                                                                                          h-srag   iro.       osfl  (esnprbuaco)-irlorban., and pupl- -
uctbe  .P-tul-nI Pt Irerec  of ccca1( - Rtict  If orbitatn  ntnIt  Porulation;                     A ht.u..ihold cnIt  cI agrop of indtoida1e eit  ehar- ltndng vueters
di1ffeeo   dflinunIf orben areas say efetcea                    iyo   aaed thatr main meals.  1 boedec or  cdger nay ormynnbe in,cluded Ir
angcutries; 1960, 1970, and 1979 daa                                                        he hi.oo.eoid for enretilprpoe.
P.rltn   rjetosueAv se timber: of rersone Psrnod- toal  urban                                                                                                  oa  -Oeaere
rorleioti   erll       urn   ouano    rjcio    r   ae   n150hro   een   r   oni   l  urbn  edral ot-ueldco-oticnaI
noet   oulto   t tg   ndatadn1t bnaiyad  eni y                           re .doe)lige  repecticvr1y.-tsliaanluaonrrmtr -nocua-                                             t
Prjay-ho  paras...re  for.: eta tty  ana  comycta  of threetlevel  seeds .no-ccod coons
Ing lf    tnaruya  birh crutig wihcunr'  Per- cmpine inicakoes  to-II  fincrliclty locceert of d-ellinI)-ttl   rbn   n   ua
level, adfeml  if   na  Yeo  eeninn   a   15  rr.  Teer-CnntoafeIlog   oti  ectricIty  iv  iigqatr   spretg
eaneo  for fertility  rate  lchn  three leel a..           i   deoineI in                      of total, u-han, end cral. dr-ll ing  r-sp-ctinly.
ferrcilinyac__d nvg to trow lne  edpas  family 9lanIIgI yePforao_
lath coutry Is then eseignad nor of these oior c                   Ibotiv f socIality     IIOCATIOS
en   enltytedtoepoetonproe.d                                                                     u.ted forollarnt Ratzios
Sttoayrrlto-nasairy yPpnulaioIthere Is on groeth sic                                          rianabl-tta,ml end femas- Grne   itota1, sale and f-eal
cit bich  ateis  qua  t  the decth rac, and also the ege stutre  e                         nolet  falaea t             heIeiar  lee`srretee    frs     ine
maIns  trt  r."This istachi-wd only atner fertility canes decline no                            primary school-ag  ppoe toe  nralytrldechildre  age  6-11
thit  replacemen  level of unittnet rpoduoti- rate.Pnihe  eanh g-e..renion                       yer   u   djuateId for diffeen  lngh  o  pimc   duca. rion; fo
ofaatrymeftasf   ntty   The  ta toarpyutionsiesea                                      crnow    ih   nrce   dcaitarlmttsyece 00 Peccat
esimatedo  the baeie of ice proJected  chrctrs  c   fthe populaion                               since ..e. yyile ace below or above the official school as.
cncth.ea   MO. and tce ratn  fdeino    acltrntrrsa                                            tsod-yliolroa.aledfmisoeutoeehv;`e                                         dc
ant level.                                                                                       educao   eursa   es   oryaso  apprne  primaryntutIn
der  taicar  rri-non  .reached - The peat nhIta  anoniorry populetio-                     prooides general, ocatonal, cc teacherPtrancingmnto  in  for c,ipi
siea    ba itreret.ad.uully of 12 no 17 years  fag;crs  odac   ore   r   eeal
Fp.olnftion Is..sity                                                                                  nciuded.
Per s. he. - Mid-year populartion per sq..are lilomt-r (100 htectaresl of                        co(iPa,nolro    aroent of esoondany) - bocain...l instituti...
total acne; 19h1, 1970 ond 1979 dataI                                                            .ncud  teChnica~l, industril,or ot.,her progas   hictoeeIrdae-
Pe ts. II. accuorl.lad - omIpuited us nitv  foIeII             unua  land                        ael   ra  dprensofscnayintiuct
only; 19h0, 1971 and 1979 dotI                                                                 Puoil-tsehprto-pIay   n                             Tsrdeyftu1  -tdec  enrlldo
.Pooletc bI.Ag Stru.ituc   iw_rce-) -Children  (I-l4 y.racel .-noklg-age /15-                        pcsrY sod secondary ld-ls diodd by ...heca of teachers In rit
64years).  and retired (hi5Yeses and ovr) aa Percen tages of eid-ysnr pou                        r_eodo   lcl.-
latin    I91   97.sd 1979 dana.                                                                  Adult lit rcecv rare (rerc-t)  - Literate adults (able no reed and write)
Proloo   Grwh RatI    eren  - otl-   na  grow th care  of tota  aid-                             Iepn-c-nag              I fhoe  adulctouano    ged 15 yerssd over
yea  pcyulannr-  for 1950-ho, 19h0-7n.  _f 1971-7 9_
P uaioGrowh Rate (percene  -dritan- ocuol growth rates of urban popo-                   CONSMPTRrIONt
lations for 1950-h0. 1960-70. and1970-79.                                                      P...sa.rth as  ecnoundpouain)-Peeee:er   opis4oo
Crd   it    ae(lee thousand)- tAoua1 Ice births Per thousan.d of mid-yercrssaig  escr   night parsons   an .ide                                   ....enee .Pit are  aed
population; 1960, 1970, and 1979 dana.                                                           military vehicles,
Crude lath Rat  (oar  h-o...ndj-  ..Inaldedtht  pee t         Iosed   f mid-peer           Radio Receivers  foe  thouar   orlal(-All tppeofrceeeforai
popolthn  i9tl6  190,ed 1979 data.                                                            hadeer gmelpnItc Per thoue..nd of cPultinP                       srld1     n
Gross RPeordocncon Rats-Average1 vIr  oIf daughters a  ine   wI baar In                             tene    recfeei  tnocsad ic years aher..                  ierei If  .adc.
her norma  -eprductv Iperiod If she:nains rsn  ag-speific fec-                                   sets  a  in1 effet; dat  for ro_t yars may  -n  becosperbleetece.
ti, ity raes  uualyt!ins-year aveags  ending in 1960, 1970, end 1979.                            motouees         ablihef  i       inea.
Family  ?Iann _nA-tnentrsA--Iu (thousan ds) - Awnuo1 nuabr of  -osaoe                            TI: Roi_af  lor  thoendonlin   -  I recivers for bro-dnast cc
of bicth-co-clUdevice  une   uP""eofrtionl  am lypianin  rPnfsm                                  gees.e1 poblic per nitousnad Poplto;,a,,e&ltn                      M  eevr
Feenla PlntJ      -las..rnn  of earne-idfwnme   - Perce..ag  of mridin  larsadin Isr   h.s  reistratio   of. TI  ems n:in  ffect.
eda   f rhild-b-slnsg   (li-Al yIIe  wo  s  brt-onrldete  n                                     eerprCicl.tn(e  thousand II rlanon                     h- thn rt  averag  cir-
a,ll sandd w nin enragegroup                                                                     cution of "daIly genra  interes  -awpapa", dfinsdnIaPeodIt
publiletion devotd primarily ntrcodn   g                  I..l ev.  It is -cneine-d
FOO  AND1 MTfLITiOfI                                                                                 t. be "daily" tf in appears atles  fo.rt    _    seemsi.
Indee_of_Fond Pouno   e  Capita  1969M-Pl-100(  - Inda  of per capitaanua                        Cinem  dA-.ttue  dtmdancs nec Cadre P a       -Tra-hea..d yr the ooets  ofI
produnior of all fond coemdittee.  P-od-cnieoen-lodg  sod and feed antinhets sold during f be year. inldn    d.iseIrstoIdrive-in C,.-.e
Is or caledar year besie..Coemdiis  cover  primary goods (e.. sat-.na                            end mobile units.
instead of sugar) ehichItar  ediblei andconintiea  (eg               ,ofeed
tea erg naiu ).  Aggregate produtn  ofnntcoty IbaeonIogaE  FORCE
notiona       ..s.g p..du... Prieni.      s;lM-   1970, and 1979 data.                         Tona  Labor Prce (thousands) - Ec-ami-ally active persons, including
Pe  nnia   vyly of caloies  )peccgnt of  rnieetl-Computed f_n                              re I   torte  anI uemlyed but encludinghoseneaudt.ec,
enegy  quialet o  ne  fod spples  valabe ionutrypernapne                            oveingpoplaton  I  llbgle. ...nt ins  o vrlos-cuittemar
per da. hoallabl   suppl1s cospetdedoes9rtcprodoctio,  =eporn  Pas. notcomparabe; 1961,  97i andI979-date
qerorft  an  d chnesO I ro _it.  Oar, seieanodanmlfd,ed.                                    eslenreo)-Fale                   ctot   srrcraso totllao  fre
qogetinneeused  n fon  procssing  and  osar div terchutinn. Require-.iutr    resi  - LbrfreO   amn,frer,hontiag end
moons -re seLt.td by FO hase  on' Phtystlogten-de  for nor-a  atti-                            fishing asPaccerrags of tonal lbor f.crc; 1960, 1970 end197fe.
riyadhealth c...sidering evrean tmssue  body waighis, ear                               ladustroie       n - Lbor focrIin  lig  co..etrocIor             =auaruri
and esaddlcttulo ob         pp-  eo.  ndalown   10 percen  for  -ag  At                        end eleticity, etrsdgsa   evnaeo  hte.l lao                      1fre        .n,
hosh ld _te;1961-hi, 1970. end 1977 dana.                                                1970 enI   979 data.
Per canine ..,ply ofeotn  fg -eaoarda) - Prorefo conen  of pee cnpita                          partiiato   RaeIre        dnl- tonl, male, and femal  - Pactictetotc
can spply  f          Ifodpe  day,  Ie sipply of rood is d.Ire od  sabh-v R. h-                acliyrtseacsie   s total, sale, and temals lbor fnca
qoe ros for al Pdnie  esabihed by CSDA provide for eitiut                                Pe'enag I f total, male and feaepeplaIor. of all age  rePerti-sly;
allowace of 60 gras oftoa  poenPer day and 20 gna-  of animal and                                60b  1970, and 1979 data,  Thesa aen besed on 5o.0' PatinipatiOn- rae
po1sI protein, of which 1  gras   shold he ai"al protein.  Tbh... stand-                       refetn    g-r   trnture of rte. populeror  an1ogrmeted
eO  era lone  titan thtne of 71 grem= f total prote.in sad 23 grame of                       ion            Itis   c  fIns nationl souce.
anima  proteIn as an      . arcge for the rtl,  proposeId hy PAC In rte ThOrd               itnHnInrenyrto-Rtio of population order 15 end hi and dyer
norldPodure;16-ft91ad17df. Ato it  -ccu  labor forc.
Per c.. ita rn   -n url  from  anial aed roles   Protein suPPlY of food de-
rived fine animals end polegs In geema par day; 1~~~~~~~~~~961-ti, 197  and197  at    DISTRIBUISEON
Child (aese 1_-,      t enait, Rar  Irer thognd) - Aw-a dIahapertho.gd iw                        Pretg   fFrvr   n a(oy  ncs   o   Id  -  .i-oivd by rIchest
agegroipl1-i  yer.   tchtildc-si-tthi-eagegrooP; formosde...l1plogcoo                              -ecn,rcet(   eran pon2   ecn,adpno                                 40ttpercrn
tr   aadrvd   fIns life tables; 1960, 1970 ad17 d ata,                                     of h.o..sho1ds.
maLaTH                                                                                           PPRTT TBO! GOI
LieErcrnra  girtb (veers   -Avrag  otaber of peace of life remining                    The folloeigesiae  arIeyapoieemaue   f pnn...ny I.levls
en birtht; 1960, 1971 sod 1979 dat.'                                                             andhoud .b inepred eith cnIdeslnoir
Infant ftrtelitv Rate (,ranhousand) - lan..Ia  deaths of infants oadar ore peer                  Etimated Abenuta Povrty  an-   Lne1 (USS one reits) -  rban ed rur.-I
of ag   a   hoadhebeb.Abariote prysr  tanni  l-el Is that Income leve  ite    whic  amiima
be t f   nl  (ttl.ob-n,"ad rurl) a ithr.. Issnol  ercs  no eats                                effrrdbhl..
eter sopply (inclodee treted sufac  egtar  or utrpstad bhon -- -normiae                       Esiae-eeiv    oet   aoe    e.IIOre    etl-oba   m   ua
egeesuh.asfthatr fros protected honhole, spig,ed ..snitary onlij  .                          Aural re lative poety incom  leve  I  one-third of aveage Parcpa
yestesss of  heit reapernine papo1atin.-    na   urban area apblic                             perone  I-om   of the c-otnr.  Inter leve  Is derived fro. the rural
tooasi  ormadot locteddotmr  ha200mtt  rm     oe     be                                        level  htb edjuermar  for higher coa  of lining In urbanaes
conidre  asiLag rithi         .. resnal .omes of ohshoa    nrrlaesEtmtdPorolatior feln Absolote Poverty Incm  L-I,es   eret       r
do won hohvsdcc spendta dlsprhldrRionat  part of the fey-to fetchIng the.poot'
family's net-e  ne ,.e
Augstohnoat  l.idosl(aretofnnlaip-ore.uraPadYae
rte. unliantluean  diaposal, with or rithou.       reten,o I I mt sarta                                                               Em.ien   end Social laet iter
P...I.rion  rer Phybricia  - Poplariln  d1ividd by nombar of pr-oti.ia  physi-
mans qualified _fomaeical sooo  etnvsst                 ylevl
IPowulatio  "eec. reins Perso- Fopu1atioa dinSfdd by  =abe  of pr-oting,
maeadPaf       egeaduaet ures  p-ntina1  .o.s.s,Iand ...eieear   ort



ANNEX I
25 -                                                    Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                    Annual growth rate (%)
(million US$ at                              (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                          Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                             1980            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979         1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a          70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                      18,003            0.0    4.7      1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                         29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                         22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                        48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    8.7    7.8    7.2    8.2    6.0
Gross investment                   15,176           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5
Exports of GNFS                    21,365           -9.7   12.5   22.4       1.9   -1.0   -4.2   -5.5    8.2   13.6    1.0    2.5
Imports of GNFS                    15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6   20.1           7.2   13.4    3.2    0.5
Gross national savings             17,576          -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1          7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                            166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                        415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                            Average annual increase (x)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990           1960-70     1970-75      1975-80     1980-85      1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100               3.9          8.4          7.5         7.3          7.5
Agriculture                  54      47      32      26      22      17         2.7           4.1          4.1         3.5          3.5
Industry                     14      18      34      42      44      46         5.2          12.0         9.7          9.0          9.0
3ervices                     32      35      35      33      36      36         4.8           9.7          9.0         8.5          7.5
Consumption                  91      89      79      70      74      74         4.1           8.4         8.9          8.6          7.6
Gross investment              8      14      20      22      26      27         4.8          18.3        11.7         12.5          7.8
Exports of GNFS              13      13      23      31      23      18         3.6           9.2         8.7          3.7          3.2
Imports of GNFS             -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19              3.2          22.1        14.0          8.7          4.9
Gross national savings        8       9      17      25      25      22         6.1          23.1        14.4          4.8          7.3
As % of GDP
1960            1970           1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                             11.7            10.1            10.5                23.4
Current expenditures                                                         14.0             8.4             9.3                13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                   -2.3            +1.6            +7.1               +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                           n.a.            5.0            10.7                13.5
Foreign financing                                                             0.2             3.5             3.7                  3.4
1960-70          1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                 4.5              7.6                 6.9              7.3              7.3
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                      2.4              5.1                 4.5              4.9              5.0
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                  2.9             16.0                15.0             11.0             10.0
ICOR                                                       2.2              2.2                 3.1              3.4              3.8
Marginal savings rate                                      0.30             0.48                0.30             0.18             0.26
Import elasticity                                          1.2              2.8                 1.9              1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
75 Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 20, 1982



-26-                                                      ANNEX I
Population     :  147.4 million (mid-1980)                                                                            Page 5 of 5 pages
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                 Estimate                       ProNected
Indirator                   1977      1978      1979     i980      1981       1982      1983     1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,373    24,528   30,108   33,243   36,790   60,953
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)              7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   17,980    18,836   22,869   24,279   25,975   37,119
(b)  Nonoil                         3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,393         5,692    7,239    8,964   10,815   23,834
2.  Imports (including net NFS)       -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -23,135   -26,095  -31,886  -35,253  -38,187  -65,903
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -7,658    -8,606  -10,585   -9,972  -10,006  -16,051
(b)  Nonoil imports                -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,509   -16,389  -19,999  -23,755  -26,399  -46,657
(c)  NFS (net)                       -536      -586      -659      -975     -968    -1,100   -1,300   -1,526   -1,782   -3,195
3.  Resource balance                       175     -140    3,459    3,596        -762    -1,567   -1,778   -2,010   -,1397   -4,950
4.  Factor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -1,203          -732   -1,247   -1,529   -1,968   -4,430
(a)  Interest public debt            -441      -514      -772      -824   -1,012    -1,226   -,1520   -1,810   -2,119   -3,882
(b)  Other (net)                     -424      -501      -489      -381      -191       494       273       281       151     -548
5.  Capital grants                          66        46        52       76        67        100       100       100      100       10n
6.  Balance on current account            -624   -1,109    2,198    2,467   -1,898    -2,199   -2,925   -3,439   -3,265   -9,280
7.  Direct foreign investment              285       271      217       140       178        200       350      450       600    1,000
8.  Public N & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                   1,956    2,205    1,865    2,612    3,976         4,120    4,777    5,548    6,063    9,695
(b)  Amortization                    -825   -1,548   -1,329        -952   -1,168    -13,08   -1,493   -1,719   -1,983   -3,603
(c)  Net disbursements              1,131       657       536    1,660    2,808       2,812    3,284    3,829    4,080    6,092
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140       891   -1,261   -1,531   -1,418          500       800    i,no0       700    2,000
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651        -708   -1,690   -2,736         330    -1,311   -1,509   -1,840   -2,115          188
11.  Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    7,012         8,325    9,R34   11,674   13,789   17,543
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                       3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9       5.6       5.7       5.5       5.5       5.9      4.2
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system  /d                                -         -    6,906   10,787   10,357    11,670   13,179   15,019   17,634   22,388
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                           3.4      4.3       8.6      10.1       8.3        8.0      7.4       7.0       7.5       5.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                     1,956    2205    1 865    2,612
Concessional Loans                4        4     2 43 3 732
Bilateral                               381      448       399       684
IDA                                      49  -    29        30        42
Other                                    12         6        5         6
Nonconcessional Loans                   1 514    1 721    1 432    1 880
Official export credits                 218      271    t
IBRD                                    191      168       199       331
Other multilateral                       16        12       46        52
Private - source                      1,089    1,270    1,126    1,453
External Debt (fixed-tern)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,940
Official - source                  7,077    8,390    8,434    9,442
Private  - source                  4,583    4,717    4,799    5,497
Undisbursed debt                     4,475    5,839    7,932    8,889
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,262    2,062    2,101    1,777
Interest                             441       514       771       824
Payments as 2 exports /e               11.6     18.2      12.0       8.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(2)                                     6.3      7.6       6.6       8.1
Official - source                       5-4      4.6       5.0       5.0
Private  - source                       8.6      10.2      8.6      12.8
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                               20.5      18.7      19.1      18.9
Official - source                      23.9     30.1      25.8      24.8
Private  - source                      10.4      8.6      11.1      10.0
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1980
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                               30.5
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                              64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                               4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscai year basis.
7i  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
Th  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
/d  At end of period.                                                                                   East Asia and Pacific Programs
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                         January 20, 1982



- 27 -                    ANNEX IT
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Nine Loans and thirty-two Credits fully disbursed          467.0   473.30         -
300     1972   Population                                  -       13.20        0.31
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea           -       7.80        2.42
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -       16.50        7.84
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                  -       5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                -       16.00        3.67
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension              -       30.00        3.82
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                    14.50    -           0.95
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00    -            9.14
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension           21.50    -           3.93
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping          13.00    -           4.62
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00    -           22.79
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.00    -            8.28
1250     1976   Second Shipping                             54.00    -          10.66
1259     1976   Fifth Power                                90.00    -            1.14
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension               22.00    -           3.46
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00    -            8.63
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00    -                4.22
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                    52.50    -           7.87
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                          32.00    -           9.89
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00    -            0.02
1365     1977   Sixth Power                               116.00    -           34.04
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00    -            7.01
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00    -           11.62
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00    -           38.64
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00    -            8.87
1472     1977   Second Population                          24.50    -           14.23
1486     1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00    -            7.92
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00    -           30.23
1513     1978   Seventh Power                             109.00    -           40.41
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development                -       40.00        9.67
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00    -          119.30
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00    -           19.78
827     1978   Rural Credit                                -       30.00        7.79
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II          65.00    -           59.75
869     1979   Polytechnic                                 -       49.00       42.91



- 28 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00    -          56.59
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00    -          33.25
898    1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                  -      10.00        8.73
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00    -          39.50
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00    -          27.75
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00    -         101.93
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00    -          14.61
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -      67.00       41.87
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00    -          90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00    -         130.37
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00    -          32.96
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -      12.00       11.04
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III        99.00    -           74.42
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -      45.00       39.31
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -      45.00       36.43
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II           -      42.00       40.99
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                    116.00    -          104.03
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV         42.00    -           36.91
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research            35.00    -           35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research             -       30.00       29.57
1869    1980   Third Population                          35.00    -           34.81
1872    1980   Ninth Power                              253.00    -          230.62
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development           46.00    -           44.95
1904    1981   University Development                    45.00    -           44.76
1950    1981   Tenth Power                              250.00    -          225.27
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                         22.00    -           21.14
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.00    -          43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.00    -         160.24
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00    -              78.59
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.00    -          85.00
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                           170.00    -          170.00
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.00    -          15.00
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining /1
Development & Transport               185.00    -          185.00
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development /1                100.00    -         100.00
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.00    -          80.00
2102    1982   Second Textbook /1                         25.00    -          25.00
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation /1                    37.00    -          37.00
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation /                   70.00    -          70.00
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution /1    66.00    -              66.00
/1  Not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              4,562.00  931.80
less cancellations                            -23.13   -1.65
Total                                         4,538.87  930.15
of which has been repaid                     -119.73   -4.19
Total now outstanding                         4,419.14  925.96
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             4,418.11  925.96
Total undisbursed                             2,981.09  287.33   3,268.42
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



30 -ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1        0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material            48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market          4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                            118.8      18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 77.5       3.4       80.9
Total held by IFC                                   41.3      14.6       55.9
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   50.0           0.3       50.3



- 31 -                   ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1982
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                            6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects   (400, 1318, 1707/919, 1499,                 10-13
1604, 1751, 1835, 984, 1898 and
2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996, 1840/1014 and 2066)   13-15
Rural Development (946)                                                    15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                15-16
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056 and 2079)                        19-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                   21
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                       21
Population and Nutrition
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                 22
Nutrition (1373)                                                         22-23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                     23
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                            24
Highways (1236, 1696, 2049 and 2083)                                      24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                    25
Ports (1337)                                                               26
Tourism (479)                                                                26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                    26-27
Water Supply (1709)                                                          28
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514  Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension:  $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. Because of the continuing
delays in this project the Closing Date has been postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was
expected to be completed by March 1982. The construction of North Sadang
has suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late
award of contracts. The completion of the project by March 1984 depends on
the timely provision of budgetary allocations from GOI.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. Only the drainage works and
road improvement in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be
delayed due to budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI will
maximize the use of consultants to overcome this latter problem.
Disbursements are currently about 63% behind the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects, Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage II),
with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku irrigation drainage
rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared to appraisal
estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has progressed
well, with pumps commissioned and trial runs made. The main and secondary
canals are also completed and the tertiary network 80% completed.
Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems of Sungai Dareh-
Sitiung (Stage II) have been completed. Disbursements are about 71% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. Due to initial
delays in survey and mapping of the irrigation service areas, delay in decid-
ing canal capacities till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage
during the years 1979 and 1980, the implementation of Way Seputih and Way
Sekampung components are behind schedule by about two years. However, the
field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the staffing
situation has improved. The construction tempo and standard of construction
in the Kali Progo area has also improved. Among its large dams construction
projects the GOI is proposing to give priority to the construction of the



ANNEX II
- 34 -                        Page 8 of 28 pages
Batutegi Dam which will ensure full benefits of the Way Sekampung irrigation
studies.  The Dumoga irrigation project studies were completed and included
in Irrigation XV (Credit 995-IND). Disbursements are currently 33% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date.
December 31, 1983.
The Cipamingkis irrigation subproject, to serve an area of about
7,600 ha is progressing well, the headworks with intake structure were com-
pleted by end 1981. The main and secondary canals to serve 3,820 ha are pro-
gressing on schedule, but there is a setback of nine months in the last
3,450 ha.  A delay of 9-12 months is expected in assigning consultants for
tertiary design, with a consequent delay in tertiary construction. The pro-
ject is currently estimated to be completed by mid 1984, a delay of 18 months
compared to appraisal estimate. The hydrological measurement program is
expected to be completed by March 1984, with a delay of about 2 1/2 years.
Disbursements are about 41% of appraisal estimate.  It is expected that there
will be $4 million savings which will be used to finance the tertiaries for
the Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension Project (Credit 514-IND) which did not
cater for the intensity of canals as needed.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees, bank
stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river, widening of
the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control structure at
Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control operating and
flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has been made on the
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed by
mid-1984. The latest supervision mission recommended that the implementing
agency should consider using the savings under the project for procurement of
additional Operation and Maintenance equipment such as large to medium-size
dredgers, dozers, draglines, dump trucks and loaders. The equipment will be
useful for emergency repairs of other rivers such as Cisanggarung which causes
damage during the wet season.  The latest project cost estimates indicate that



35 -                  ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
$6-8 million loan funds will remain unused by the completion of the project.
The list of equipment to be procured using the savings under the Loan is being
reviewed.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation: $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean
subprojects. The project contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one year's delay. The project also experiences
budget constraints. Works in the Madiun area and the tertiary development are
progressing well ahead of schedule.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. Construction of the
Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main canal commenced in
early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award by mid-1982,
behind schedule 12 months. The Dumoga catchment protection and Nature Reserve
is yet to be started, and was delayed awaiting approval of a management plan
and budget allocation by GOI. Implementation of this component is behind
schedule by 12 months. All the consultants for studies and institutional
support to the DGWRD are engaged and contracts signed. Disbursements to end
September 1981 were 54% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by
implementing a 9,000 ha swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang
Agung, South Sumatra. In addition to physical works, the project comprises
the preparation of future swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an
investigation of groundwater for drinking, and project monitoring. The major
works contract for construction of canals was awarded end-1981 and consultants
for construction supiervision were assigned in March 1982. Consultants for
studies are being recruited. The project completion is likely to be delayed
due to the eight months' delay in the start of construction.



- 36 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2118 Sixteenth Irrigation: $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and
local farmer lands; improvement of management systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for
water users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological
data network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin
and detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province):
$70 Million Loan of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project to be concentrated in a
single province and implemented through a provincial irrigation service. It
will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems serving about 50,000
ha; developing groundwater irrigation systems to serve about 13,000 ha;
upgrading operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irrigation
systems already rehabilitated; and strengthening of the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides for credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia
(BRI) to improve productivity on 10,000 ha smallholder tea and 3,200 ha
private estates tea, rehabilitation of five private estate tea factories,
construction of two new factories for smallholder leaf; training of exten-
sion staff and tea growers, studies for marketing, diversification and BRI
management. The project is making a substantial contribution to smallholder
tea industry with 8,500 participants against the appraisal estimate of
7,000. Of the five private tea estates participating, two are excellent,
two are fair and one is poor. Progress on construction of the PTP XII
factory, to process smallholder and estate tea, is satisfactory. Extension
and training has helped about 16,000 smallholders. Due to availability of
inputs on the open market at lower price, performance of P. T. Pertani
regarding input distribution has been disappointing during 1981 resulting in
slowing down disbursements. The project still suffers from weak management,
although, at the request of the Association, the GOI has initiated a series
of actions to accelerate the disbursement rate. It is doubtful if the
balance of Credit of over $2 million can be disbursed by December 31, 1982,
the new Closing Date, unless the situation improves.



ANNEX II
- 37 -                     Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After a rather slow start which resulted in extension of the
Closing Date to December 31, 1982, the project has shown continuous progress
since mid-1980 and is expected to be completely disbursed by end-1982. In
Baturaja, 4,400 families (98% of target) have been settled and 1,300 shallow
wells (91% of revisedL target) have been established. The pasture develop-
ment program is well established in Baturaja and Way Abung and 8,800 cattle
(93% of target) have been distributed in both sites. Rubber development
is almost completed with only 400 ha (6% of target) to be planted in 1982.
Disbursements have now reached 75% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Uncertainties about land availability, slow land clearing, and
weak management and coordination have caused implementation delays. In
particular, detailed surveys indicated that only about 12,000 of the
anticipated 30,000 families could be settled in the area originally
designated based on a food crops farm model.  Disbursements to date are
about 56% of appraisal estimates. However, in recent months, progress has
been made in resolving these difficulties.  GOI has put foward a plan for
settling 30,000 families in Jambi and adjacent provinces; detailed surveys
of the proposed areas and procedures for compensation for local landholders
are awaited. Performance of the first land clearing contractor has
improved; and a seconld land clearing contract has been signed. Several
steps are being taken to improve project coordination by the office of the
Junior Minister of Transmigration. The substantial program of screening and
evaluation of future transmigration sites, executed by 11 consulting firms,
will be completed in June 1982.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The nucleus estates have planted about 60% of the 11,500 ha of
rubber to be established for smallholders and will complete about 72% by the
end of the 1981 planting season; have constructed about 3,400 settler houses
and settled about 1,035 families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates
have rehabilitated 18,400 ha of rubber, planted 7,200 ha of rubber, 3,700 ha
of coconuts, and 5,600 ha of oil palm, exceeding project targets for rubber
planting and rehabilitation. Three rubber factories and one palm oil mill
have been constructed. However, as there were start-up delays in some
smallholder planting, and some civil works construction will not be completed
on schedule, an extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been
agreed to.



- 38 -                    ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress with rubber and infrastructure development has slowed
but construction of settler houses, preparation of food crop areas and the
enrollment of settlers are on target.  Action has been taken to speed up the
logging operations and the project is expected to be mainly completed by
June 1985, except for the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province
where farmer response has been poor.  Particular efforts are being made to
encourage farmer participation but the 4,500 ha replanting target is
unlikely to be achieved by that date. The project Closing Date will have
to be extended to June 30, 1985.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under
NES I (1499-IND).
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to progress satisfactorily, by early 1982 over
9,700 ha rubber or 85% of plan was planted.  Disbursements by end 1981
amounted to $3.8 million out of an estimated $5.0 million but are expected to
catch up soon. Delays in road construction are affecting project implementa-
tion and supervision, and measures to speed up progress are under review.
Training of field staff and smallholders will be kept strictly practical;



ANNEX II
- 39 -                 Page 13 of 28 pages
visual aids are being prepared. Creation of a trainer/coordinator position
at provincial level but working at the Project Management Unit level is being
considered. The creation of an internal audit unit and timely recruitment of
staff to deal with financial matters is urgently required. Four studies,
including a feasibility study, for an eventual second project are nearing com-
pletion and after review by GOI will be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment. There are no major problems with this project, apart from the
requirement to strengthen management and the seriously delayed procurement of
vehicles.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The development and rehabilitation of coconut plantings are about
30% ahead of appraisal estimates but there is need for improvement in project
management. The transfer of responsibility for administrative and technical
control from the provincial estate crop services to the project implementing
unit is delayed and is expected to take place shortly.
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents. The project has made a good start including the
nurseries establishment, initial planting for the smallholders in West Java,
construction of some roads, estates offices and smallholders' houses.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agric:ultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress in the project continues. Civil works in Sungai
Putih and Sembawa (rubber) and Sukamandi (rice and palawija) are still
behind schedule and are now expected to be completed by mid-1982.  Most of
of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received
and contracts for laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu (highland
vegetables) and for Sungai Putih and Sembawa have been awarded. Ten agri-
cultural information centers (AICs) under the Agency for Agricultural
Education, Training and Extension have been constructed, furnished and
equipped and two additional centers at Aceh and Ambon are under construction.
Extension materials are being produced and distributed from the completed
AICs. Dibursements under the project have been improving consistently.



-40-                        ANNEX II
Page 14 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 MillionT Loa- of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project management unit now has all six Assistant Directors on
a full-time basis. As of December 1981, the total number of field level
extension workers and middle line extension workers is 11,396 against the
target of 11,620, and of subject matter specialists 399 against the target of
320. All civil works are expected to be completed shortly. Procurement of
all vehicles, equipment and furniture has been completed. In-service train-
ing of extension staff and short-term and long-term courses abroad have been
conducted more or less according to target. The project and all disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by the Closing Date of December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate
crops, livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition
to food crops in 26 provinces.  The project management unit now has all six
Assistant Directors, all Divisional Chiefs and all sectional heads, except
two, on full-time basis. As of December 1981, the strength of field level
extension workers (PPL), middle level extension workers (PPM) and subject
matter specialists (PPS) in the thirteen new provinces are 1,705, 356 and
104 against target of 2,956, 1,069 and 318, respectively.  The shortfall is
due to difficulties in recruiting PPLs and PPSs for the Other Islands.
Construction of 57 Rural Extension Centers (RECs) and renovation of 31 RECs
in East Java has been completed.  Tenders for all the remaining civil works
are in the process of issue. Procurement of vehicles out of GOI funds in
lagging behind. In some provinces the Training and Visit system has also
been introduced for subsectors other than food crops.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
Directors for the Central Research Institutes and for Research Institutes
and Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture have been
appointed. Civil works for the six locations planned for 1980/81 are going



-41-                     ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
ahead and contracts for most of the civil works planned for 1981/82 have been
awarded. More than fifty candidates for long-term local fellowships have been
selected, as well as a consulting firm to provide technical assistance.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of
January 15, 1982; Effective Date:  March 11, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Locations for the five medium
SPCs to be constructed in the first year have been decided and land
acquisition is in progress. Tender documents for the SPCs are being
finalized for issue of tender shortly. Long-term consultants are also
expected to be appointed shortly.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Now that thLe problem of shortage of vehicles has been resolved,
progress with physical implementation and field operations has been good.
Previous delays of about one year, such as those in the agricultural
components of the prcject, have been reduced to six months. Temporary
financing gaps due to delays in the release of FY81/82 project funds have
largely been covered by the provincial government. The current estimate of
mid-1987 for project completion should be made earlier during the next
supervision mission, if the present momentum is maintained. In the meantime,
this project is no longer considered a project with major problems.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. The three
field units established under the project in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in



ANNEX II
- 42 -                   Page 16 of 28 pages
project promotion and preparation. On the whole, progress under this project
(SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project has been
fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be fully
disbursed for two years. The Closing Date has been postponed to enable
disbursements for the technical assistance component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project is expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises by the Ministry of
Industry. This is being financed by $6 million from the proceeds of this
loan. Following a slow start, the latter component is beginning to move
forward satisfactorily. The credit component is progressing satisfactorily
and disbursements are on schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management.  The
project would establish a Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), six
polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and include technical
assistance and associated studies. The project is making good progress and
implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The TEDC building has
been completed and construction of the six polytechnics started in 1982.
Equipment contracts for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded.



ANNEX I1
- 43 -                 Page 17 of 28 pages
The expert servi.es and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays, is now making good progress.
Study contracts have been awarded or are being awarded. Disbursements are on
schedule.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Toan of April 15, 197;
Effective Date;  June 17, 1976  Closing Date:  December 31,
198,2
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC), (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and 25
mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16%, cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for over two years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. Furniture and equipment procurement has
not commenced. It is unlikely that this component will be completed by the
present Closing Date. The GOI has been informed of the overall status and
urged to take remedial actions.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily.  About 36% of
civil works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished this year.  Furniture is
being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began in
July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred teacher trainers and
administrators are being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project
studies are nearing completion. While disbursements are currently only 31%
of appraisal estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate consider-
ably during the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disburse-
ment level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.



ANNEX II
- 44 -                   Page 18 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial
centers, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed.  All furniture and equipment are already on site.  About 90%
of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets and production and
distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.  The technical
assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually replacing foreign
consultants.  Disbursements will increase substantially this year and are
expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979, Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. On average 45% of construction has been com-
pleted at the 47 project institutions and implementation is well ahead of
schedule.  Disbursements exceeded the revised estimate by more than 200% by
March 31, 1982. Technical assistance is now well underway, fellowship
utilization remains up to schedule, and the curriculum is being revised.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university development
program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level man-
power and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. Arrangements for physical development are about
six months behind schedule except at the University of Indonesia. The addi-
tional land required for the University of Gadjah Mada and the new site for
the University of Andalas have been acquired. Short lists of campus planning
and architectural consultants for all the universities are being finalized.
The initiation of technical assistance provisions are about fifteen months
behind schedule.  A contract is being negotiated with an external agency to
administer the program of fellowships and visiting professors. Two contracts
are being finalized with the British Council for the training of university
administrators and textbook editors.  There have been no indications to
suggest that project costs will be other than estimated at appraisal.



ANNEX II
45 -                      Page 19 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project seeks to improve the skills, competence and
effectiveness of the education staff involved in primary and secondary
education and educational administration.
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project, a pernanent organization to plan and manage textbook development
activities; a Center for Curriculum Development, which would develop improved
curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an improved national
distribution system for all textbooks for primary and secondary schools.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 is expected to be in
commercial operation around July 1982. The associated studies have been
completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the origi-
nal loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to the
inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the project:
(a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of location of
future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information system design;
and (d) energy pricing study. Construction work at the site has been delayed
by about 15 months. Commercial operation of the 200 MW generating unit is
expected in July 1983. Construction of the associated transmission lines is
progressing satisfaLctorily. The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has progressed to the point of selection of a suit-
able site. Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have
been signed, and work is progressing satisfactorily. There has been no
progress on item (d) so far.



- 46 -           ~~AiNNEX II
- 46 -              Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project continues to encounter a number of problems and slipped
nearly eleven months behind schedule by September 1981 compared to eight
months in May 1981. However, progress since then has improved and the
estimated delay as of January 1982 was 48 weeks. The main causes of the delay
were: (a) late finalization of contracts, and (b) tardy performance of the
local contractor for piling work. Most contract awards have now been made and
the commissioning date for Unit No. 1 at Suralaya is expected to be October
1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the appraisal estimates, are in
line with the revised projections prepared in July 1981. The project cost is
expected to remain within the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e. two
months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year due to
delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts are expected to be
finalized by May 1982. Progress of land acquisition for the substation and
the transmission lines is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generating
equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been placed
with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million. Con-
struction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and has encoun-
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels which are
crucial to achieve river diversion planned end-May 1982. However, during 1982
steps are being taken by the GOI to divert the river and modify the later
construction program to ensure that original construction targets are met.
Other project subcomponents are progressing satisfactorily. No cost or
unanticipated time overruns are expected.
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Contracts
worth about $30 million have already been evaluated and approved by the Bank.
No problems are foreseen at this stage.



47                     ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
Not yet effective; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
The project would provide indigenous coal as a substitute for oil
(mainly for power generation in West Java) and strengthen the institutions
involved in Indonesia's coal mining sector. The project consists of: an
expansion of the existing coal mine and the provision of the necessary
infrastructure at Bukit Asam; the upgrading of the railway link to Panjang;
and the provision of a ship for the transportation of coal across the Sunda
Strait to Suralaya; together with associated terminal.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Cadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210C firms. At full capacity production, employment is
expected to be around 23,000 workers; 9,700 of whom have been hired so far.
Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in protracted disburse-
ment of the credit aLnd substantially higher cost than estimated at
appraisal, PT JIEP's; financial performance has been satisfactory. Some
adjustments of its dlividend, cost and price policies were nevertheless
called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last supervision
mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.6 ha of the Pulo Gadung Industrial
Estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT JIEP as the sole adminis-
trator. The Closing Date of the Credit was therefore postponed by two years
to December 31, 1982, reallocating the remaining funds for the establishment
of the EPZ. However, development of the EPZ has been delayed because the
required Presidential Decree and subsequent operating license by the
Department of Trade and Cooperatives have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. BAPINDO is making
good progress in implementing the General Improvement Program provided under
the project which involves major institutional reforms and wider delegation of
authority to branches. Commitments have increased rapidly since the last
supervision mission. Disbursements have also caught up and are expected to be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.



- 48 -                   ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
All civil works are completed and the buildings are occupied and
operational. The mobile service units provided under the project are making a
significant contribution to the recruitment of contraceptive acceptors.
On-going activities comprising training, population education and research are
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1982. A loan saving of $7.0 million
has been reallocated for the purchase of equipment in support of project
activities and procurement is expected to be completed by December 1982.  Only
about $10.3 million, or 42%, has been disbursed out of the loan. A sizeable
proportion of the balance will be disbursed by the Closing Date, but not
the full loan amount. The GOI does not intend to request an extension of the
Closing Date.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date.
March 31, 1985
While some progress has been made on the implementation of non-
construction components, civil works have experienced start-up delays due to
(a) a protracted process of hiring consultants to prepare building plans and
contract documents, (b) difficulties of land acquisition, (c) inadequate
staff, and (d) failure to make adequate provisions in the budget for the first
year of project activities.  Consultants have been engaged and contractors are
expected to be awarded in July 1982 and construction is schedule to start in
August. A sufficient number of building sites have now been acquired. The
staff dealing with civil works has been augmented by detaching four engineers
from the Ministry of Public Works to assist the National Family Planning
Coordinating Board with civil works. Adequate budgetary provisions have been
made. Initial delays in physical implementation are reflected in slow
disbursement. The Bank is intensifying supervision efforts in order to
accelerate physical progress and improve the rate of disbursement.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Most of the civil works are completed and the buildings are
functioning. The ongoing construction work is scheduled to be completed by
the end of 1982.  Staff training, both in-country and abroad, is proceeding
rapidly, as well as the use of consultants. Many of the on-going activities



- 49 -                    ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
are additional to the original project activities as a result of the
reallocation of loan savings of $4.0 million. They are, however, expected to
be completed by December 1982. Sustained efforts are being made to help
expedite the implementation of these activities. Disbursement is lagging
somewhat because only $6.0 million, or 46% of the loan, has been disbursed.
When the on-going activities are completed towards the end of 1982,
disbursement should rise sharply.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory. It is expected to
be fully disbursed by the pending closing date.
Credit No. 898  Fifth Technical Assistance:  $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date:  April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Nationa1 Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed. Computer
equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed
plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result oE which the Bank agreed to extend the Closing Date
until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started in July
1981 and is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.



-50 -                    ANNEX II
Page 24 of 28 pages
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia by
substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport projects,
including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project although now substantially completed has been under
implementation for nearly six years. Because of slow execution, the Closing
Date has been postponed by two years to December 31, 1982. The only component
still ongoing is the road betterment program and the related consultancies for
works supervision. Other consultancies have been completed satisfactorily,
sometimes with substantial delays. Four road sections have been transferred
from the Fifth to the Fourth Highway Project. Bank participation in
expenditures to be incurred in 1982 on these contracts would fully utilize the
surplus.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards.   However, work has
now been started on nearly all project components, and a firm action program
has been set up for the bridge replacement program and the last consultancy
in the original program. There is still a reasonable chance of completing
the project with a total delay of only one year. The Provincial Departments
of Public Works programs of support works were just started in January
1982 with mobilization of consultants and after road maintenance equipment
had been ordered. $6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to
misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.



ANNEX II
- 51 -                     Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No, 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date:  February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations are underway. Bid opening
for the four sections of road works is somewhat behind schedule but is now
scheduled for late May 1982.  Land acquisition has been completed up to and
including negotiations with property owners, and payment of compensation is
impending.
Loan No. 2083  Rural Roads Development:  $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works agencies
and implementing an expanded program of rural roads works; and support a rural
road development program for a three-year period in five Indonesian provinces.
The project also contains components for training and technical assistance.
Implementation of the various project components is still at an early stage.
Bids were received in March 1982 for road construction and maintenance
equipment and bid evaluation is being carried out at present. Steps have
been taken for hiring consultants to provide technical assistance to the
district public works acquires and to assist the Directorate General of
Highways in preparing further rural roads programs.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Develcpment Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Commitment of funds for
ship procurement, dlelivery and rehablitation has reached $46.8 million of the
$47.4 million allocated. All but $1.0 million of the balance, which is
allocated for technical assistance and preparation of the proposed Maritime
Transport project has been committed.  The Closing Date of the loan has been
extended by one year to December 31, 1982. Funds amounting to $5.8 million
have been received by P.T. Pengembangan Armada Niaga Nasional (PANN) the
shipping development corporation and project entity for ship procurement, from
insurance on the loss of one vessel financed by the loan. These funds will be
utilized to procure replacement tonnage as if they were original loan funds.
All PANN financial and physical operations appear to be satisfactory.



Page 26 of 28 pages
- 52 -
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, the Basin III civil works financed by
the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, and civil works financed
by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are completed. Several Bank-financed
studies which are proposed or have been completed, will enable the GOI to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing
probably in FY84. Overall estimated project costs remain approximately at
appraisal levels despite an increase in civil works costs.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. The market for tourism to Bali
has held up well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard
hotels in Bali exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by
Caruda at Nusa Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The
negotiations with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village are underway with
the expectation that a final agreement will be reached in May, before the
loan Closing Date of June 30, 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for the provision of about 19 health clinics
(out of 45 planned), the physical program, covering about 3,435 ha kampungs
(neighborhoods) in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya, is essentially complete.



ANNEX II
- 53 -                     Page 27 of 28 pages
Supplementary technical assistance studies related to future projects
preparation and utilizing the accrued loan residual have been recently
agreed upon. To facilitate the financing of these studies, the Bank, in
December 1981, extended the loan Closing Date from December 31, 1981 to
June 30, 1983.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date:  September 26, 1979;  Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities (KIP) includ-
ing roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished,
low-income kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha),
Surabaya (580 ha) Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta
(170 ha), benefitting a total population of about 2.25 million. A
comprehensive solid waste management program is also included in Jakarta and
Surabaya, together with a drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community
health workers are to be trained in the above two cities to work in the
improved kampungs. The KIP component of the project is nearing completion
in all project cities. The implementation progress of sectoral components
(solid wastes and drainage), even though better than in the previous years,
has been affected by land acquisition problems, lack of counterpart
financing and a less-than-satisfactory project management. These problems
are being resolved and the progress of the components should accelerate
during FY82/83. The overall project is expected to be completed by
mid-1984, still within the appraisal completion date.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project expands the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter
programs evolved in earlier projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and
the major cities of East Java to nine provincial capital cities spread
throughout Indonesia. Basic infrastructure and housing facilities will be
provided through slum improvement and sites and services developments on a
total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an estimated 500,000 persons. Improvements
to citywide infrastructure deficiencies in main drainage, water supply and
solid waste disposal will be studied and implemented in three cities. A
national urban mapping program covering 125 cities will be undertaken
providing base data for future city planning, land registration and valuation
programs. Institutional development is a prominent feature and technical
assistance for management, training and feasibility studies to various urban
authorities and agencies will be provided. Physical provisions under the
kampung (neighborhciod) improvement program have been underway in the project
cities and improvement in their management is expected from the field
appointment of consultants in March 1982. Field implementation of the sites
and services scheme in these project cities commenced in September 1981.



- 54 -                   ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
The technical assistance program is proceeding satisfactorily with the
appointment of all crucial management advisory staff completed.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of trans-
mission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) most of the International Competitive Bidding
procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and materials are currently
under execution. The execution of the civil works in the project cities has
just commenced. The organizational and management training for the WEs has
been underway since September 1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 55 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    Six months
(b)  Project prepared by:                       Directorate of Mineral
Resources within the
Ministry of Mines and Energy
(c)  First presented to the Bank:               July 1981
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:            November 1981
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                April 1982
(f)  Planned effectiveness:                     August 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
$5 million in start-up funds for this project have been provided under
the Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation Project
(Loan 2079-INDI.
Section III: Specia'L Conditions
(a)  The project related training plan will be submitted to the
Bank for review by May 1, 1983 (para. 41);
(b) Appropriate key staff must be appointed to the Project Unit
(condition of effectiveness, para. 47);
(c) Consultan,ts must be selected for the South Sumatra Program
(conditicin of effectiveness, para. 48);
(d) Studies and work will be carried out only after previous work
has been evaluated and the justification for proceeding has been
established (para. 49); and
(e) Exploration work and studies in areas outside of South Sumatra
will be undertaken after agreement on the areas to be explored
between the Bank and GOI (condition of disbursement, para. 54).



- 56 -                       ANNEX IV
INDONESIA
COAL EXPLORATION ENGINEERING PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
($ million)
Bank Fiscal               Quarterly Disbursements          Cumulative Disbursement
Year/Quarter                Amount          % total          Amount         % total
1983   II                    1.3              5.2               1.3            5.2
III                   1.7              6.8               3.0            12.0
IV                   1.8              7.2               4.8           19.2
1984    I                    1.0              4.0               5.8           23.2
II                   1.1              4.4               6.9           27.6
III                   1.3              5.2               8.2           32.8
IV                   1.4              5.6               9.6           38.4
1985    I                    1.6              6.4              11.2           44.8
II                   1.7              6.8              12.9           51.6
III                   1.4              5.6              14.3           57.2
IV                   1.5              6.0              15.8           63.2
1886    I                    1.9              7.6              17.7           70.8
II                   1.8              7.2              19.5           78.0
III                   1.3              5.2              20.8           83.2
IV                   1.3              5.2              22.1           88.4
1987    I                    0.8              3.2             22.9            91.6
II                   0.8              3.2              23.7           94.8
III                   0.7              2.8              24.4           97.6
IV                   0.6              2.7              25.0          100.0
25.0           100.0



IBRD 16249
3"40'                                                                                                                                                                                          3040                     .       0JH
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -do - -)°0 - -0 -@/ -. - -0fi0 -   
-  -  /                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUMATRA  0NK
g _ X $ X t & % t [ I M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  E
Y   0   COAL   EXPLORATION    PROJECT            ,           J    -/       )        E    =   <            \               W      \_                   \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P CAL CA
.. ..... ....... S HIN   STR ATA
| TABA CONCESSION AREA     -i-X JELAWATAN                                                     9                                    [        M             _      ___ ....... ....          ELAzATA
SYNCLINE AXIS  '  =  MAN US lAI                                         \     <    FSirln4~~~~~~~~~ ~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~.M0\<,                                       A GU 14117
R2VERS /  /                                                 r    00                 -
- -  INTERNATIONL BOUNDARIES                            )         t         H          /              XTheywheaeentodvlheWuwloanKsseasez"lI VERTCL 0roECTISrn
COAL40 EXPLORATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                    O CA '  2TRATA
GEOLOGICAL STRUCTURE CONJECTED AROUND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-11 SYNCLINE AXIS  SUBAN IBI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUA  2
ANTICLINE AXIS  ........ PETAI (C)~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10   EO C
R VE RS                                                                                                                                 4-00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
LIZ MUARA TIGA POTINTEIALTIONAL AREADARIES
I/ANGUS Al                                                                        --~~m LES
SYNCLINE AXIS                  --~~~~~~~~~~~~10-40( SURAN 110410A






T9\; ATHALAND    '6y                        liOs                      aj5-    ffilsD;          liD       CB o               <  J                   riE                   __5_                           iA
P' ~~'~~~~"   \   \Brunlc   >}FHILIPPINES  ICOAL  EXPLORATION  PROJECT
PHILIPPINES                               ~ ~~~~COAL  DEPOtITS
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A  ABS-NEhCOD AOn a00SeCOA
.   *  ^ i      MALAYSIA              SoAH.. C-hin              Sa0C eUOF
.,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .0- -0- SMdA   '
eco                                                                                 /   C' R ul Lmu                                     OtJALEII 00007.5 0R 0120 40010071
A~~~~~~~~    r
< l J ~~~~~~~~i.                                                                        /f      _      <6L^~>T,h V                                                                               100001  VAIL ODDcTZR N AT5LSI
. -\Au                                        )                       -  .  x 0 MALAYSIA                                                                  )                     - - DRIOJAO  0CC0OAAIIA
AJ   ~ j~'   \-D (J SNGAPORE
o : .. -a. \WligA                                ;_                                                          A\N, >>  /g6(iY
\~~ DS Oi28G   /                              1<            /    \           /J1 ~= S\   _>V9
b 1  A   S    (Cr       "A                                                                               If                                    C  V-NHA"MAHERA                                                               0 
A  A                   P000000W0   ~--A                  NAA 
*  *~~~A                    L1    K ~A        IM A           I~A        A-
.5 NL           XA                 ,-/                                                                                      . 
ArfRRh=ATTA  > i   >)tRTAJ A V A   'I                                    A A                      N
TI ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    SNr DUJ T SM  }Bndn    *o               2                                     .ofy 
SULAWESI                                                ii
14rt7uru ~                                                      ,_,_ C L> CAt,                             ^         R   o      E   L     :         Q  , _ s r
(I                                        AI&*ACNC
COLDEPOSIT              ARIRI
4AP A-OC  -_-                                                                                                         14-Sl                                                         -o0                 4     O
57-.&  _LA/I= rar7... _To
,.                               . w                                                                                    
t3 -CACAM                             >Co          JAARTWA
10.20000            V<   ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ D&pa 7Cieoboo                                                                                                                      00     swlo
SOLO COO         S                                 MA/ADA~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Kpa                                                                                          W
7000AOIONCL 00CC                               o                    9             C                                       V1-                                                                     135






- I A t8F^wa    = ; = <    rn  MkliNif;  I:: f  ' o -                       11'8i   ;   X ='    g = ID l16368
)AWIMMST       '~160                         11A IV1, 1 82
MLAY IA
C  MAT~~~AJ
-40                                                                  4L
4.<>                       \    °    -    -     -'-          -    -         *'0t'    9   0 i44
2 0   _    =               1140             /
K  --z                .  9    ~~~~~K A L I M A N T A N                   <       t4          <   t0Et    u
,  ,)  j        \.                   >          i - ~~~IND.ONFSI&A 0        0 
ARTRALK                /              )EPLORAIO7  PROJECT
KALItANlfa WEST  /t                                 ,+3   00  iitEST  KLIMANTAN;
< 0 0 0 . ; 0 E i~~~~~~PRDUCTION; SHARING  AIGREEMENT
2°                   COAL E\   XPLORATNCESSION PAREAS
PRODUCTIONPRODcTION SHAtRfNG AGREMENTES
S1IGNED NIOVEM13ER 198T.
I73AGiP/ CON$OL
PRODUCTION SH-ARTNG AGREEMENTS
K    AS\  iL\  I   M   A  s  m   .   ;   ;      S  DP=ENDfNG   S1GNATURE:
_____   + >   <>rtpur   B   J    9  ; 0 00 0 0 0  ;t; 7  RIOTINTO/B.P.
i; t;?;  S 0   f aSS  S00  L;0E' f S)   e    k0    fi 0 0 3 0  ; X f 0    ;NISSHO IWAI:
--    _PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
,1,T5RNATIONALBOUN4DARIES
50  10 __ 15-
J Ag- V~~~~~~~~~~MIE   -  . 
,';                                              f  >; '=*'\   :;"A,- ha00o, d                                     20



