                           64611 v1
           Document of
        The World Bank


                                      Report No:




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

              ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
              OF

   (GRANT {LOAN/CREDIT}-AF)


            TO THE

ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

          September 2011
                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARTF       Aghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
DABS       Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat (the national electricity utility)
MEW        Ministry of Energy and Water
PDO        Project Development Objective




Regional Vice President:                      Isabel M. Guerrero
      Country Director:                       Nicholas J. Krafft
       Sector Manager:                        Jyoti Shukla
     Task Team Leader:                        Mohammad Anis



                                              2
                               AFGHANISTAN
                KABUL AYBAK MAZAR-E- SHARIF POWER PROJECT
                           (TF 091120-AF, P106654)
                                     Restructuring Paper
1.      This Restructuring Paper seeks RVP approval to extend the closing date of the
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) grant for the Afghanistan: Kabul, Aybak and
Mazar-e-Sharif Power Project from September 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012. This proposed second
extension, bringing the cumulative extension period to 30 months, is required to provide
adequate time to complete the remaining project activities and thus allow full completion of the
Project Development Objective (PDO). The activities have been delayed due to several factors,
some of which have been outside the control of the project implementing entity. The project
background, reasons for the proposed extension and the task team’s recommendation are
provided below.
Background
2.      TF 91120 in the amount of US$ 57 million for the project was approved by the ARTF
Management Committee on October 4, 2007. The Grant Agreement was signed and became
effective on December 26, 2007. The PDO is to help the Recipient provide reliable and quality
power in the target areas of the cities of Kabul, Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif and to improve
accountability and commercial management practices in Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat
(DABS, the power utility). The project has four components: (i): distribution system
rehabilitation for Kabul; (ii): extension of Mazar-e-Sharif 220/20 kV substation and construction
of a new 220/20 kV substation at Aybak; (iii): low voltage (LV) distribution rehabilitation for
Mazar-e-Sharif; and (iv): supply of single & three phase digital meters.
3.     At the time of project approval, the parent ARTF Grant Agreement (TF 50576) had a
closing date of June 30, 2010. The original closing date of TF 091120 was set as December 31,
2009, with the understanding that once the parent ARTF Grant Agreement (TF 50576) was
extended, the closing date of the project TF would be extended to enable project completion. In
December 2009, the closing date of TF 091120 was extended by 21 months to September 30,
2011.
Implementation Status and Progress Towards Achieving PDO
4.      Overall implementation progress of the project has been mixed over the last few quarters.
Rehabilitation of the Kabul distribution system and extension of the Mazar-e-Sharif 220/20kV
substation have made good progress and are near completion. The digital meters have been
supplied. Although all the goods have been delivered to the sub-project sites, construction of the
220/20 kV substation at Aybak and LV distribution rehabilitation work in Mazar-e-Sharif have
fallen behind schedule for reasons which are discussed in greater detail below. Disbursement as
of August 31, 2011 stands at 66 percent, and a further 26 percent in Special Commitments are in
place.
5.      Despite delays in implementation, the PDO is on track to be fully achieved. The outcome
indicators have surpassed their end target for Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif distribution works by 57
percent and 20 percent respectively, in part because other donor projects and power imports from
Uzbekistan have contributed to them. The digital meters – now largely installed – have


                                                3
contributed to improved commercial practices by DABS,which has made consistent
improvements in customer numbers, revenues and collections. The Moderately Satisfactory
rating in the most recent ISR of June 2010 reflects the concerns over whether the Aybak
substation will be able to contribute to the PDO.
6.     There are no overdue audit reports/other financial reports or ineligible expenditures for
this project. The audit report for Solar year 1389 (ending on March 20, 2011) is due by
September 22, 2011 and is expected to be received by the due date.
Factors Contributing to Poor Implementation Progress
7.      The project as a whole has suffered significant delays due to both factors within and
outside the control of the implementing agency, Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW).
Whereas the other sub-projects have been able to overcome many of the challenges and can be
expected to be completed by the project closing date, neither the construction of the 220/20 kV
substation at Aybak nor LV distribution rehabilitation work in Mazar-e-Sharif will be.
8.      Many of the difficulties that lie within MEW’s control result from its weak capacity,
particularly for project management which has been addressed by the extensive reliance on
supervision consultants. The consultant went through a period of poor performance because of
under-staffing. Consequently contractors were not adequately supervised, contracts were
managed poorly and work fell behind the agreed schedule. Technical oversight has also been
poor, most notably relating to the mis-specification of the concrete poles used for medium and
low voltage overhead lines which interrupted supply for several months, causing delays in
subprojects which needed them. Although the consultant’s performance did improve, an
administrative error resulted in its contract not being renewed in time and consequently the
consultant demobilized in July 2011; MEW is temporarily without consultant support.
9.      Some of the factors outside MEW’s control might be expected in any country with low
capacity. They have included a long standing dispute between Ministry of Finance (MoF) and
MEW which delayed the processing of letters of credit for contractors, causing delays in the
supply of goods and slowing down of work; this issue was finally resolved in mid 2011. Access
to subproject sites – particularly in urban areas where rights of way are restricted and often
disputed – has been problematic. The arrival of goods has been delayed by slow issuing of duty
exemption certificates and so goods have not been released by customs. Other factors are more
country specific. Combinations of bad packing of containers and poor roads as well as intrusive
and occasionally destructive border security checks have resulted in equipment arriving damaged
and requiring repair or replacement. Additionally there was a series of attacks on Indians and
Indian interests in Kabul; many of the Indian contractors – which are responsible for both the
Mazar-e-Sharif distribution subproject and the Mazar-e-Sharif and Aybak substations subproject
– recalled much of their managerial and skilled work force thus bring work to a halt for some
months.
Government Request for Closing Date Extension
10.    MoF has submitted a request for a nine month extension to the closing date, from
September 30, 2011 to June 30, 2012 as most of the issues that caused delays are resolved. The
dispute pertaining to LC issuance has been resolved and so MEW has been able to reach
agreement with the contractors on revised contract completion dates. Supply of new concrete
poles required for Mazar distribution works is also expected by November 2011 with



                                               4
specifications as per original design and to the satisfaction of MEW. Furthermore, MEW has
made provision of additional materials for the Mazar distribution system (from another non-Bank
financed project) to allow rapid completion of the remaining works. MoF has also committed to
provide necessary supports in expediting the customs clearance processes to allow timely
completion of the remaining activities, as demonstrated in its request. The new supervision
consultant is now being hired. Bank’s RPM office has already given the necessary clearances to
facilitate the hiring process. The consultant is expected to be mobilized within six weeks.
MEW’s Commitment and Work Plan
11.     As part of its request it has also provided a Work Plan for the extension period, setting
out how implementation will be completed. The task team has reviewed MEW’s Work Plan and
found it both realistic and practicable. The Plan shows that all project implementation activities
can be completed before the revised closing date. The task team believes that the government is
fully committed to achieving the completion of the project by the revised closing date.
Recommendation
12.    In view of: (i) the project development objective remains achievable; (ii) MEW has
submitted a work plan for the extended period acceptable to the Bank; and (iii) some factors
causing implementation delays that were outside the control of MEW are now resolved; we
recommend approval of extension of the grant closing date from September 30, 2011 to June 30,
2012.




                                                5
