                      Document of
                   The World Bank


                                                   Report No: 70010 v1




                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                        ON A

          PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                        OF
AFGHANISTAN KABUL AYBAK MAZAR E SHARIF POWER PROJECT

                 (GRANT TF091120-AF)


                       TO THE

           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                     June 13, 2012
                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARTF       Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
DABS       Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat (the national electricity utility)
MEW        Ministry of Energy and Water
MoF        Ministry of Finance
PDO        Project Development Objective
TF         Trust Fund




Regional Vice President:                      Isabel M. Guerrero
      Country Director:                       Robert J. Saum
       Sector Manager:                        Jyoti Shukla
     Task Team Leader:                        Richard Spencer



                                              ii
1.      This Restructuring Paper seeks RVP approval to extend the closing date of the
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) grant for the Afghanistan: Kabul, Aybak and
Mazar-e-Sharif Power Project from June 30, 2012 to March 31, 2013. This proposed third
extension, bringing the cumulative extension period to 39 months, is required to provide
adequate time to complete remaining project activities and thus allow full achievement of the
Project Development Objective (PDO). The activities have been delayed due to several factors,
some of which have been outside the control of the project implementing entity. The project
background, reasons for the proposed extension and the task team’s recommendation are
provided below.
Background
2.      TF 91120 in the amount of US$ 57 million for the project was approved by the ARTF
Management Committee on October 4, 2007; the grant agreement was signed and became
effective on December 26, 2007. The PDO is to help the Recipient provide reliable and quality
power in the target areas of the cities of Kabul, Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif and to improve
accountability and commercial management practices in Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat
(DABS, the power utility). The project has four components: A: distribution system
rehabilitation for Kabul; B: establishment of a new 220/20 kV substation at Aybak and inter-
connection with the distribution system; C: rehabilitation of the Mazar-e-Sharif power system;
and D: institutional capacity building and support.
3.     At the time of project approval, the parent ARTF Grant Agreement (TF 50576) had a
closing date of June 30, 2010. The original closing date of TF 091120 was set as December 31,
2009 with the understanding that once the parent Trust Fund (TF) was extended, the closing date
of the project TF would be extended to enable project completion. In December 2009, the
closing date of TF 091120 was extended by 21 months to September 30, 2011. On September
20, 2011, the project was further extended for nine months from September 30, 2011 to June 30,
2012.
Implementation Status and Progress towards Achieving PDO
4.      Overall implementation progress of the project has been mixed over the last few quarters.
Rehabilitation of the Kabul distribution system and extension of the Mazar-e-Sharif 220/20kV
substation have made good progress and are near completion. The main part of Component D –
the supply of digital meters and related training – is complete and project management support is
ongoing. Construction of the 220/20 kV substation at Aybak and the MV and LV distribution
rehabilitation work in Mazar-e-Sharif have fallen behind schedule for reasons which are
discussed in greater detail below. Disbursement as of June 4, 2012 stands at 80 percent, and a
further 16 percent in Special Commitments are in place.
5.      Despite delays in implementation, the PDO is on track to be fully achieved. The outcome
indicators have surpassed their end target for Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif distribution works by
115 percent and 15 percent respectively, in part because other donor projects and power imports
from Uzbekistan have contributed to them. Under Component D, the digital meters – now

                                              -1-
largely installed – have contributed to improved commercial practices by DABS, which has
made consistent improvements in customer numbers, revenues and collections. The Moderately
Satisfactory rating in the ISR of December 2011 reflected the concerns over whether the Aybak
substation will be able to contribute to the PDO, but this has been upgraded to Satisfactory in the
most recent, May 2012, ISR.
6.      There are no overdue audit reports/other financial reports or ineligible expenditures for
this project. The audit report for Solar Year 1389 (ending on March 20, 2011) was received on
time and was unqualified. Monitoring and evaluation reporting has been problematic but is
being tackled now that most of the major implementation issues have been addressed.
Factors Contributing to Poor Implementation Progress
7.      The project as a whole has suffered significant delays due to both factors within and
outside the control of the implementing agency, Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW). Many of
the difficulties that lie within MEW’s control result from its weak capacity, particularly for
project management which has been addressed by the extensive reliance on supervision
consultants. The previous project management firm (PMF) demobilized in July 2011, which
resulted in a considerable slowdown in physical progress on site, delays in payments to
contractors and progress reporting. A new PMF was appointed and mobilized in January 2012.
There has been a notable improvement in the pace of implementation, including the certification
and payment of invoices, resulting in a significant increase in the rate of disbursement. Quality
and timeliness of reporting has also improved.
8.     Some of the factors outside MEW’s control might be expected in any country with low
capacity. The arrival of goods has been delayed by slow issuing of duty exemption certificates
and so goods have not been released by customs. All the subprojects rely on collaboration
between on the one hand MEW and its contractors, and on the other hand the power utility
DABS. MEW has requested that DABS supply additional materials that are needed for
completion of the system but they have not been provided and this has delayed all further work.
9.      Other factors are more country specific. Combinations of bad packing of containers and
poor roads as well as intrusive and occasionally destructive border security checks have resulted
in equipment arriving damaged and requiring repair or replacement, which must be imported
again from abroad. Additionally there was a series of attacks on Indians and Indian interests in
Kabul. Many Indian contractors – including those responsible for both the Mazar-e-Sharif
distribution subproject and the Mazar-e-Sharif and Aybak substations – recalled much of their
managerial and skilled work force thus bring work to a halt for some months. Though most
contractors have now returned, they must work hard to retain the necessary skilled personnel in
country.
Government Request for Closing Date Extension
10.     Ministry of Finance (MoF) has submitted a request for a nine month extension to the
closing date, from June 30, 2012 to March 31, 2013 on the grounds that delays caused by the
absence of a PMF have now been resolved. MoF states that not extending the project would
result in the substations at Mazar-e-Sharif and Aybak not being completed and in consequence
the work so far completed would be wasted and the remaining materials at site would be likely to
be damaged and possibly pilfered. It also states that the completion of Aybak substation is
important to allow the import of power from Tajikistan by enabling the release of one circuit on


                                               -2-
the 220kV line between Naibabad and Pul-e-Khumri which is currently being operated at 20kV
for local supply of Aybak.
11.     There is a strong case for extension of the project to allow the completion of the Mazar-e-
Sharif and Aybak substations. Given the fiscal position of the government, it is unlikely that the
$5 million needed to complete the contract could be found from other sources if ARTF financing
was not available. In this case it would be most likely that the Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif
substations would remain incomplete until the start of the next financial year, risking damage
and theft of parts of the substation. The release of the 220kV Naibabad to Pul-e-Khumri circuit
would allow substantial flows of cheap Tajik power to major load centers, including Kabul, and
thus alleviate shortages and support the economy.
12.     With the completion of deliveries of materials from abroad, expected in June, the Mazar-
e-Sharif branch of DABS will have the wherewithal to complete the project and has the
necessary skills to do so. To eliminate the risk of further delays in supply of materials by DABS
to the Bank-financed contractor, MEW has indicated its willingness to close the ARTF-financed
Mazar-e-Sharif contract and assign responsibility to DABSto complete the works. The extension
period would allow a smooth handover of responsibilities from the contractor to DABS,
supervised by MEW.
MEW’s Commitment and Work Plan
13.     MEW has provided a work plan for the extension period for both Aybak and Mazar-e-
Sharif substations, setting out how implementation will be completed. The task team has
reviewed MEW’s work plan and found it both realistic and practicable. Two months are needed
to complete the commissioning of the Mazar-e-Sharif substation. Four months are needed to
complete the work at Aybak and commissioning a further two months after that. The work plan
shows that all project implementation activities, including an adequate cushion for unexpected
events, can be completed before March 31, 2012. The task team believes that the government is
fully committed to achieving the completion of the project by that date.
14.     The plan for the completion of the Mazar-e-Sharif distribution works envisages that when
the imported materials arrive, they will be handed to DABS as a free issue, with the caveat that
they are used for the completion of the Mazar-e-Sharif distribution project. Contract closing
procedures may then be undertaken, which can be expected to take place within a month of
receipt of materials, currently scheduled for June 2012.
Recommendation
15.     Considering that: (i) the project development objective remains achievable; (ii) MEW has
submitted a work plan for Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif substations and the proposed arrangements
for completing Mazar-e-Sharif distribution system are realistic; (iii) some factors causing
implementation delays that were outside the control of MEW are now resolved; and (iv) full
disbursement can be achieved by the proposed revised closing date, we recommend an extension
of the grant closing date from June 30, 2012 to March 31, 2013.




                                               -3-
