                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00002901



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-91120)



                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$57 MILLION)

                                      TO THE

                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                      FOR A

            KABUL, AYBAK, MAZAR-E-SHARIF POWER PROJECT



                               September 28, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Afghanistan
South Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective September 28, 2013)

                Currency Unit        =       Afghani
                Af 1,000             =       US$18.03
                US$ 1.00             =       55.460Afghani
                US$ 1.00             =       0.6525 Special Drawing Rights

                      AFGHAN FISCAL YEAR

           March 21 – March 20 (until December 2011)
               March 21 – December 20 (in 2012)
        December 21 – December 20 (from December 2012)


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian Development Bank
AEIC    Afghanistan Energy Information Center
APSDP   Afghanistan Power System Development Project
ARTF    Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
DABM    Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa
DABS    Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat
DO      Development Objective
EIRP    Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
EPRP    Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project
ESSF    Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework
ESS     Environmental and Social Safeguards
GoA     Government of Afghanistan
GWh     Gigawatt hour
IANDS   Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
ISDS    Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
KAMPP   Kabul, Aybak, Mazar-e-Sharif Power Project
KfW     Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
kV      Kilovolt
LC      Letter of Credit
LV      Low Voltage
MACA    Mine Action Center for Afghanistan
MEW     Ministry of Energy and Water
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MoU     Memorandum of Understanding
MV      Medium Voltage
MVA     Megavolt Amperes
NEPS    North East Power System
NTS     Northern Transmission System
PCB     Polychlorinated Biphenyl
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMF     Project Management Firm
PISU    Project Implementation Support Unit
QALP    Quality Assessment of the Lending Program
SDU     Special Disbursement Unit
TA      Technical Annex
USAID   United States Agency for International Development



                     Vice President: Philippe Le Houerou
                  Country Director: Robert J. Saum
                   Sector Manager: Julia Bucknall
              Project Team Leader: Richard Spencer
                 ICR Team Leader: Richard Spencer
                                      AFGHANISTAN
                         Kabul Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif Power Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 20
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 26
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 27
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 44
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
  Map: Project Area ........................................................................................................ 47
A. Basic Information
                                                                       ARTF - Kabul-
Country:               Afghanistan              Project Name:          Aybak/Mazar-e-Sharif
                                                                       Power Project
Project ID:            P106654                  L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-91120
ICR Date:              09/28/2013               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                      Grantee:
                                                                       AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                       USD 57.00M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 49.90M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 57.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Energy and Water
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/22/2007    Effectiveness:          11/20/2007
                                                                              09/19/2011
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
                                                                              06/14/2012
Approval:              10/04/2007    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                12/31/2009       03/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory     Government:                Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing               Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       8
Power                                                                  92
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                                             100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                   33                  33
Infrastructure services for private sector development                 67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou                Praful Patel
Country Director:          Robert J. Saum                        Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Julia Bucknall                        Salman Zaheer
Project Team Leader:       Richard Jeremy Spencer                Sunil Kumar Khosla
ICR Team Leader:           Richard Jeremy Spencer
ICR Primary Author:        Gilles Marie Veuillot


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective of the project is to help provide reliable and quality power to
the consumers in the target areas of the cities of Kabul, Aybak, and Mazar-e-Sharif.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
NA




                                                   ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target      Completion or
                                                documents)          Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in power supply to project areas in Kabul.
Value
                  427 GWh (in Afghan SY 482 GWh (in
quantitative or                                                               1,219 GWh
                  1386)                 Afghan SY 1389)
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/18/2008                03/30/2010                        03/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %          253% of the baseline target achieved by originally expected completion date.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Providing grid power supply access to the people of Aybak (% of population).
                25% of Aybak population 25% of Aybak                       25% of the
Value
                connected to local grid    population                      population now
quantitative or
                fuelled by diesel          connected to                    connected to the
Qualitative)
                generators.                substation.                     substation.
Date achieved 06/18/2008                   06/30/2010                      03/31/2013
Comments        All customers previously connected to local
(incl. %        grid who received power from diesel generator now receive power from
achievement) substation.
Indicator 3 : Increase in power supply to customers in Mazar-e-Sharif.
Value
                92.24 GWh (in Afghan
quantitative or                            113 GWh                         197 GWh
                SY 1386)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/18/2008                   03/31/2011                      03/31/2010
Comments
                Grid-supplied electricity by 2010 was already 197 GWh in Mazar-e-Sharif;
(incl. %
                174% of the target had been reached.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                  Strengthen the low voltage (LV) distribution network in parts of Kabul supplied
Indicator 1 :     by Junction 2 as measured by number of transformers installed and
                  commissioned.
Value
(quantitative     None.                     Works completed.                  Works completed.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/18/2008                06/30/2010                        05/31/2011
Comments
                  100% achieved with 11 months delay. Installed and commissioned 135
(incl. %
                  transformers.
achievement)



                                                 iii
                  Strengthen the low voltage (LV) distribution network in parts of Mazar-e-Sharif
Indicator 2 :     City, and measured by the number of 20/0.4 kV transformers installed and
                  commissioned.
Value
(quantitative     None.                     Works completed.                       Works completed.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/18/2008                06/30/2010                             05/31/2011
Comments
                  100% achieved with 11 months delay. Installed and commissioned 62
(incl. %
                  transformers; delivered 161 for future installation by DABS.
achievement)
                Construct a 220/20kV substation and associated 20kV lines at Aybak to provide
Indicator 3 : quality, reliable and clean grid power to the residents of Aybak town (indicator
                being completion of Aybak substation).
Value                                     220/20kV Aybak                     220/20kV Aybak
(quantitative   No substation.            substation                         substation
or Qualitative)                           completed.                         completed.
Date achieved 06/18/2008                  06/30/2010                         12/08/2012
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved with 18 months delay.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                        Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                              IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                    (USD millions)
  1     06/19/2008            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    11.61
  2     12/02/2008            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    11.61
  3     05/23/2009            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    18.60
  4     11/13/2009            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    27.88
  5     05/27/2010            Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    26.11
  6     12/11/2010            Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory             33.67
  7     06/27/2011        Moderately Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                   36.71
  8     01/01/2012        Moderately Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                   38.37
  9     06/20/2012            Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory             45.47
 10     12/30/2012        Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             47.97
 11     03/25/2013           Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                   48.47


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 09/19/2011               MS     U           38.30   Extension of closing date


                                                    iv
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 06/14/2012               MS     U           45.47   Extension of closing date




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
With the establishment of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and presidential elections
in 2004, Afghanistan emerged from two decades of instability. Parliamentary elections
followed in 2005 and a new Government was established in 2006. Significant progress
was noted in a number of sectors over this period and strong economic growth was
recorded. The Bank’s Interim Strategy Note (ISN) of 2006 recognized that security
remained extremely volatile and that the country was confronted to daunting governance
and capacity challenges – all of which called for continued, massive support to secure
Afghanistan’s stabilization and recovery.
The long lasting conflict had a severe impact on the power sector, both directly from
dilapidated generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure and indirectly from
serious management issues at Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa (DABM) including lack
of appropriate governance structure; overstaffing and under-qualification of staff; poor
customer management; billing and collection; and below cost-recovery tariffs. 1 As a
result, access to power was estimated at 6%, one of the lowest rates in the world – with
only 234,000 people connected to the public grid, of whom 30% were in Kabul with
other provinces having even less access, and rural areas being virtually un-served.
The World Bank provided limited support to the sector in 2002 under a multi-sectoral
grant, the Emergency Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (EIRP). In 2004, drawing on a
series of studies2, the Bank approved a more comprehensive US$105 million Emergency
Power Rehabilitation Project (EPRP, IDA Credit 3933) which provided financing for
rehabilitation of the 100MW Naghlu hydropower plant and transmission line to Kabul,
and extensive rehabilitation of the Kabul distribution system. In 2005, the Bank also
started processing a second Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project (EPRP II). It was to
support one of the government’s identified priorities for the sector: completing the North
East Power System interconnector for the transmission of low-cost power from
Uzbekistan to Kabul and points along the route. Delays in implementation led to a
“Highly Unsatisfactory” rating for EPRP, and EPRP II was subsequently dropped. In
2006, EPRP underwent a major restructuring in which support to rehabilitation of
distribution networks in Kabul was significantly reduced and funds were reallocated for
the rehabilitation the NEPS Interconnector.




1
  Until September 2009, the entity responsible for power supply, Da Afghanistan Breshna Moassesa
(DABM), was a department of the Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW). With World Bank and other
donor support, DABM was converted into Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat (DABS), focused on
developing into a fully commercial power utility outside the MEW while remaining under state ownership.
In this ICR, for clarity we refer to DABS as the national electric utility, the reader should note however that
pre-September 2009 the term DABS refers to its predecessor, DABM.
2
  Including a review of short term critical investment options; a road map, outlining measures needed in the
midterm and an electricity sector policy setting forth strategic sector reform issues.


                                                      1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDO, as stated in the Grant Agreement, reads: “The objective of the Project is to
help provide reliable and quality power to the consumers in the target areas of the cities
of Kabul, Aybak, and Mazar-e-Sharif.”
The following indicators were retained:
    PDO: no high level Project outcome indicator provided.
    Outcome 1 – Increase the power supply in project areas in Kabul: total grid
       electricity supplied to Kabul increased to 482 GWh by March 2010.
    Intermediate Result indicator 1: strengthen the low voltage (LV) distribution
       network in parts of the capital city of Kabul supplied by Junction Station 2, as
       measured by the number of transformers installed and commissioned.
    Outcome 2 – Providing grid power supply access to the people of Aybak: twenty
       five percent of population of Aybak with access to grid-based power.
    Intermediate Result indicator 2: construct a 220/20 kilovolt (kV) substation and
       associated 20 kV line to Aybak to provide quality, reliable and clean power to the
       people of Aybak town with the indicator being the completion of the Aybak
       substation.
    Outcome 3 -Increase in power supply to customers in Mazar–e-Sharif : total grid
       electricity supplied to Mazar–e-Sharif increased to 113 GWh by March 20113;
    Intermediate Result indicator 3: strengthen the low voltage (LV) distribution
       network in parts of the Mazar-e-Sharif City, as measured by the number of 20/0.4
       kV transformers installed and commissioned.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
Neither the PDO nor outcome indicators were modified.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The underlying rationale for supporting the power sector was that improving access to
power would bring both a relief to households and contribute to private sector
development, and eventually to economic growth. After early donor support focused on
restoring generation and transmission, improving distribution emerged as a priority to
ensure that the new supply of power could reach consumers. The Project was primarily
aimed at the people of Kabul, Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif.

1.5 Original Components
The Project consisted of the following four components:
       (i)      Part 1 - Distribution System Rehabilitation for Kabul: through the
                rehabilitation and extension of the distribution system to connect medium
                voltage (MV) trunk lines and cables to customers in Kabul; and reorganizing



3
    This is after the expected Closing Date at the time of Project approval.


                                                        2
            the existing distribution system to optimize loading to reduce losses and
            provide satisfactory power supply voltage to customers in Kabul.
    (ii)    Part 2 - Establishment of a 220 kilovolt (kV) Substation at Aybak and
            Interconnection with Distribution System: through the establishment of a new
            220/20kV, 16 Megavolt Amperes (MVA) substation at Aybak and 20kV
            interconnection with the existing Aybak distribution system.
    (iii)   Part 3 - Power System Rehabilitation for Mazar-e-Sharif: through the
            rehabilitation of the distribution system in Mazar-e-Sharif by upgrading the
            existing MV distribution network from 6kV to 20kV; connecting the
            distribution network to the 220/20kV substation; rehabilitating and replacing
            the low voltage distribution network; and upgrading the Mazar-e-Sharif
            substation capacity to meet the requirements of the distribution network.
    (iv)    Part 4 - Institutional Capacity Building: through the provision of capacity
            building and implementation support to MEW and DABM including for: (a)
            operation and maintenance of the distribution systems; (b) implementation of
            infrastructure metering and accounting of energy supplied in Kabul, Aybak
            and Mazar-e-Sharif, (c) establishment, operation and hand-over to DABM of
            customer care centers; (d) communication of Project plans to consumers; (e)
            Project management support; and (f) other capacity building needs identified
            during implementation.

1.6 Revised Components
No revision of Project activities was recorded.

1.7 Other significant changes
The Closing date for the Project was extended three times: (i) by 21 months (to
September 30, 2011) in November 2009 4 ; (ii) by 9 months (to June 30, 2012) in
September 2011; and (iii) by 9 months (to March 31, 2013) in June 2012.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Choice of activities: Analytical work had identified the need to increase electricity access
and quality of supply on the NEPS, focusing on urban centers to support growth and to
avoid possible conflict with underserved populations. Donor support had been identified
for projects in a number of cities along the route of the NEPS interconnector. More
funding was needed in some of them to complete connection to the grid, in particular in
Aybak, whose power supply relied exclusively on a diesel plant at the time, and Mazar-e-
Sharif, the largest urban center supplied by the NEPS after Kabul. Further financing was
also needed in Kabul, which, in addition to the new power from the NEPS interconnector,


4
 A three year implementation period was expected but only two years agreed at project approval, pending
extension of the parent Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund.


                                                  3
was to benefit from an additional 100 MW of thermal generation financed by USAID.
Preparation documents indicate that the decision to support the rehabilitation and
expansion of distribution networks in Kabul, Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif was made on the
basis of extensive discussions with GoA and donors, to match ongoing investments in
each of those cities. Analysis underlined the importance of moving the sector towards
financial sustainability, including through a move to cost recovery tariffs. In keeping with
the notion that structural reform was a long run agenda and that a first step should be to
corporatize and improve commercial practices of the utility, it was decided to provide
support complementary to the commercialization of DABM, including through the
provision of metering equipment and development of customer care centers. Selection of
physical investments was thus based on a sound analysis and a good understanding of
government priorities.
Capacity building: the Project design focused almost exclusively on the rehabilitation of
infrastructure. Capacity building was only addressed through limited support to project
implementation under Component 4 and by suggesting that supply and installation
contracts should include a provision for operations and maintenance. The lack of capacity
had, however, been recognized to be a challenge in 2006 and had been a contributory
cause to the initial failure of EPRP. Balancing the support to infrastructure rehabilitation
with support to capacity building seems to have been overlooked.
Implementation arrangements were adopted wholesale from EPRP, following its
restructuring in late 2006. Procurement strategy relied, again, on a small number of
design, supply and install contracts, for speed and to minimize implementation
complexity. Disbursements followed existing practices, with a high degree of
centralization in the Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance (MoF). The
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between MEW and MoF in 2006 to
address coordination problems under EPRP was amended to make it applicable to the
Project. The duties of the external Project Management Firm (PMF) to assist in day-to-
day implementation, contract management and supervision were extended to cover the
Project. There appears to have been some attempt to define the respective roles of MEW
and DABM, although coordination between them was not discussed. With the
restructuring of EPRP so recently completed, implementation design benefited from the
experience it had provided, while also offering some economies of scale.
Risks and mitigation measures: risks were identified covering substance and process,
with two, deterioration of security or reversal in political process and weak
implementation capacity rated high and substantial respectively. Several other risks were
rated moderate or low. Project design was adjusted to take into account the main risks
by: building enough time and flexibility into the Project to address security risks; and by
following infrastructure designs standardized by previous studies, using experienced
consultants and establishing counterpart core teams for subcomponents. In the light of
experience with EPRP and other Bank-financed projects in Afghanistan, the risk
assessment may have been over-optimistic, especially with respect to the implementation
period.
Quality assessment: no QER was carried out for KAMPP. A Quality Assessment of the
Lending Program review of the Project was carried out in April 2010. Project appraisal is
not documented.


                                             4
2.2 Implementation
Three main supply and installation contracts were planned under KAMPP, namely for: (i)
the rehabilitation of the Kabul distribution network; (ii) the rehabilitation of the Mazar-e-
Sharif distribution network; and (iii) the construction of a new 220/20 kV substation at
Aybak and augmentation of 220/20 kV substation at Mazar-e-Sharif. All three were
concluded within six months from Project effectiveness.
The main factors affecting project implementation, of varying degrees of predictability,
have been reported as follows.
            Overall country context: Afghanistan remained a difficult environment in which
             to operate and the following are reported to have affected the Project:
             o Security: security concerns have affected implementation throughout
                 including, for example, the need for demining in Aybak, persistently volatile
                 security in Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif, and attacks upon Indian nationals in
                 2008 in Kabul which resulted in Indian contractors recalling employees.
                 There has been a marked deterioration in security in the project areas,
                 especially in Aybak between 2008 and 2013, rendering it impractical to
                 conduct site visits.
             o Resistance to change and vested interest: in a country where rebuilding an
                 operating administration remains a challenge, implementing some activities at
                 the local level sometimes proved difficult, for example implementation by
                 local branches of DABM. Similarly, resistance to change was reported due to
                 opposing local interest as well as interference by individuals and other
                 government departments which are reported to have included demands for
                 financial compensation to allow work to continue.5
             o Transportation and climate: poor roads and careless handling resulted in
                 damage to some equipment. Winter conditions in Afghanistan make
                 construction possible only during part of the year and harsher than normal
                 conditions are reported over the life of the Project, resulting in delays in
                 works.
            Institutional: Despite adapting project design to take into account the experience
             with EPRP, institutional factors still affected project implementation, including:
             o Poor government coordination: including: (i) lengthy approval of LCs; (ii)
                lengthy approval of customs clearance which resulted in delays in bringing
                equipment on site and sometimes in the destruction of goods; (iii) budgeting
                issue and availability of funds including a haitus in funding at the start of each
                fiscal year; (iv) difficulties in securing and retaining rights of way; (v) poor
                coordination with municipalities on their plans and insufficient consultation
                with local stakeholders and (vi) poor coordination between DABS and MEW
                after DABS became autonomous from MEW. This became particularly acute
                as contractors reached the key milestones of completion, commissioning and
                handover. The contractor was bound to MEW, but MEW was informally



5
    Although no formal complaint is reported in this respect.


                                                       5
      bound to accept assets only with DABS’s agreement which was often not
      forthcoming.
    o Weak implementation capacity: underlying a number of those problems is the
      overarching capacity deficit in post-conflict Afghanistan. Country systems for
      disbursements and auditing are centralized in MoF to make up for the lack of
      sufficient qualified personnel, but this creates bottlenecks and limited
      incentives to develop capacity within MEW. The use of a PMF could not
      eliminate all the challenges. Under the PMF each problem was solved on an
      ad-hoc basis which did not resolve the underlying problems. The performance
      of the PMF deteriorated significantly from about 2010, and its contract was
      allowed to lapse which led to a six-month hiatus during which project
      progress was negligible, until a new PMF was hired.
   Technical issues: KAMPP has been confronted with technical problems,
    affecting the quality of goods and installation:
    o Goods: problems are reported with respect to the quality or appropriateness of
        goods. In particular availability, quality, and installation of poles used in
        distribution networks hampered the progress of work by all contractors.
        While this was addressed through increased supervision by the authorities,
        shortages of poles meeting appropriate standards were also later reported.
        Transformers supplied under the Kabul distribution rehabilitation component
        experienced early failures which were initially attributed to overloading but
        which later were found to be the result of defective manufacture. The meters
        procured under the fourth component were found to be unfit for purpose, due
        both to their dimensions and to their high level of sophistication.
    o Contractors: quality issues are also reported with some contractors including
        the civil works to construct a sub-station in Aybak. Although technical
        specifications had to be met for recruitment, there is general agreement that
        the overall Afghan environment remains unattractive for most qualified
        bidders, resulting in less qualified contractors and suppliers bidding.
        Examples are reported of contractors without adequate experience or showing
        poor procurement planning. Low technical capacity by MEW and DABS may
        also have contributed to this situation.
    o Design change and time overruns: A change to the scope of work under the
        Mazar-e-Sharif distribution component is reported when the authorities asked
        that the MV and LV system be installed underground, thus significantly
        increasing costs while also requiring a change to the materials used. Funds
        under the Project were not sufficient to cover this change and GoA had in part
        to commit to provide the additional goods needed from separate sources, and
        DABS was assigned to do the work which was also a source of delay.
    o Operations and maintenance: starting in 2012, supervision documents report
        issues in connection with the operation and maintenance of rehabilitated
        infrastructure, caused in part by the protracted handover from MEW to
        DABS, raising serious concerns over the sustainability of those assets, in
        particular the distribution system installed in Kabul.




                                        6
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Choice of indicators: no high level outcome indicator was stated for the Project. One
outcome indicator was defined for each of the three components covering infrastructure
rehabilitation, but not for the institutional capacity building component. The outcome
indicators appear to have three shortcomings. First, they were not stated clearly or
consistently across the three components although they each had the same broad
objective of providing or increasing grid power supply; for Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif
they were stated in terms of an increase in the quantity of electricity supplied, while for
Aybak in terms of the proportion of Aybak’s population with access to grid-based
electricity. Second, the indicator measured an increase in the aggregate supply of
electricity while the PDO was to provide reliable and quality power. The causal link
between an increase in the amount of power and the quality and reliability of that power
is by no means straightforward. Better distribution is not the only factor affecting quality
and reliability. Third, other activities in the sector were being financed from other
sources in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif. While acknowledged, they were not taken into
consideration, thus raising attribution issues.

Quality of baseline and monitoring data appears to be questionable; the data source is
unknown and may have underestimated the start-of-project baseline. It may also have
conflated generation, which has been systematically captured since 2006, with
consumption which has not, thus ignoring losses. For example the end of project
indicator for Kabul was the supply of 482 GWh by March 2010, yet according to
published data in Afghanistan Energy Information Center (AEIC), generation in Kabul
was 649 GWh in 2007. In Aybak, the goal was to reach 25% of the population with grid
power as opposed to diesel. In 2007, DABS records indicate that there were 4,646
residential customers in Aybak, equivalent to about 23-46,000 people. Yet the
population of Aybak city, according to the Central Statistics Office, was just 26,400 in
2010 implying that the substantial majority of households in Aybak were connected. In
any event, all those connected to the Aybak distribution system, whether within the city
proper or in the surrounding area, would benefit from the change once the substation was
complete, thus making any headcount of population or connections irrelevant.
Use of monitoring data is documented throughout the project lifetime, although
sometimes infrequently, especially in 2010 and 2011 when there was no resident TTL.
The first data for the Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif components were provided by the end of
2009 and were used to monitor project progress, although a little inconsistently. The
Aybak indicator was not useful for monitoring progress in the substation, although
completion of civil works, electrical installation and energization were used as proxies.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards
The Project was rated Category B and not expected to raise significant environmental
concerns. No Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) was prepared. The Environmental
and Social Safeguards Framework (ESSF) prepared for EPRP was used without change.
The ESSF was based on the following principles: (i) recognition that detailed designs of
activities may not be known at appraisal; and (ii) requirement that all proposed


                                             7
components be screened to ensure that environmental and social risks can be adequately
addressed. Two potential safeguards issues were identified: presence of polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCBs) in transformer oil and land acquisition for the substation in Aybak.
While the ESSF provided for arrangements for land acquisition, it was agreed that PCB
testing would be conducted and appropriate handling procedures subsequently prepared if
necessary.
Efforts to strengthen capacity were pursued during the early implementation stage
through the PMF. Streamlined Environmental and Social Safeguards (ESS) to be used by
contractors were also prepared. A safeguards focal point was selected and regular
monitoring is reported with the support of PMF. Significant training was also provided
to improve the government’s and contractors’ capacity to implement safeguards, with
materials translated in local languages. During the implementation stage, safeguards
issues arose as follows:
         Mine clearance, which was handled by Mine Action Center for Afghanistan
           (MACA) as per the ESSF;
         Rights of way, which was handled in compliance with the provisions of the
           ESSF and the ESS, including consultation with local community along the
           proposed routes at preparation and implementation stages. A complaint
           handling committee was also established at each Project site. No land
           acquisition was necessary under the project;
         PCB testing: testing took place but did not reveal the presence of PCBs.
Safeguards supervision is regularly documented through 2009, but less information was
made available from 2010 through 2013 and supervision aide memoires did not include a
specific section on safeguards. This may have been because few safeguard issues were at
stake under the Project by this stage but changes in TTL with an interim period in 2010,
and departure of the PMF in 2011, which was only replaced in 2012, may also have
affected safeguards supervision.
Financial Management
Some financial management concerns were reported, including lack of internal control
mechanisms and late submission of the external audit for SY1391 (2011-2012). Auditing
procedures are handled at the central level through the Control and Audit Office and so
the delay was not considered a Project-specific shortcoming. There was some delay in
responding to the auditor’s recommendations following the SY1391 audit, but these were
resolved before final project closing. The Project was consistently rated in the
satisfactory range.
Procurement
Very few contracts were to be procured under KAMPP and they all were awarded
promptly after effectiveness. The project did not experience procurement problems
although institutional and capacity constraints affected contract management such as in
connection with LCs and customs clearance.




                                           8
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The sub-station in Aybak was energized and in operation before Project close but some
civil works and commissioning were not completed. Concerns also exist over the
sustainability of the infrastructure rehabilitated under the two other components, due to a
mixture of poor operation and poor quality of the equipment installed. Contractual
remedies including liquidated damages, cashing of performance bonds and extended
warranty periods are being employed to ensure both the completion of the Aybak
substation and the correction of faults in the Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif distribution
systems. These are complex tasks and the PMF whose contract is now funded under a
separate project (Afghanistan Power System Development Project, TF 093513, APSDP)
has been tasked to assist the Government on this front. A new power project is under
preparation, expected for delivery in FY15 that would aim at developing DABS’s
capacity for planning, operation and maintenance of electricity distribution infrastructure.
It is part of a longer term plan to shift investment activities to DABS and seeks to address
the need to mitigate the risk of dilapidation of infrastructure.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Afghanistan remains in the bottom 10 percent globally in electricity consumption per
capita (~ 100 kWh per year) and only 25-30 percent of its population is connected to the
grid, giving it one of the lowest rates of electrification in the world. The Afghanistan
National Development Strategy (ANDS) notes that “Energy is [Afghanistan’s] top
economic development priority, and [its] economy’s hope,” singling out electricity as
“the motor that powers [Afghanistan’s] growth.” The National Energy Supply Program
(NESP), a national priority program developed in the context of setting out a strategy of
support for Afghanistan post the 2014 transition, further demonstrates the priority both
country and donors place on support for the power sector. The Bank’s FY12-14 Interim
Strategy Note also recognizes the need to continue to address the energy needs of
businesses and people, and to support cross-border trading of energy. In light of the
rapidly evolving demand for power in Kabul, and the importance of Mazar-e-Sharif as a
commercial and industrial center, and Aybak as a provincial city, the choice was sound.
Hence the objective was and remains relevant.
Project design was simple and informed by experience with EPRP, in particular taking
account of country conditions. Implementation started well and demonstrates the solid
design, but the Project soon became bogged down as a result of deteriorating security,
weak coordination in government, poor contractor performance, including of the PMF
and limited oversight by MEW and the Bank. This suggests weaknesses in the
implementation support plan, and coincided with both the absence of a dedicated TTL in
country and relatively low budget spent on supervision.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Assessing the achievement of the PDO is difficult for several reasons. First, no high
level outcome indicator was defined. Second, uncertainties about the quality of the
baseline and, to a lesser extent, the end-of-project data for Kabul and the relevance of the


                                             9
indicator for Aybak cloud evaluation. In Mazar-e-Sharif, accounting for 40 percent of
project cost, it can be said with reasonable certainty that the component indicator was
achieved. In Kabul, accounting for a further 36 percent of cost, the increase in power
supply between from 649 GWh in 2007 to 1,219 GWh in 2010 is a larger absolute
increase than can have been envisaged when the indicator of 482 GWh for March 2010
was set during preparation. Hence it might also be argued that the Kabul objective for
quantity of power was reached.
Third, additional quantities of power do not necessarily demonstrate better quality or
reliability. There is some limited evidence to suggest that better quality electricity is now
being more reliably supplied. Evidence drawn from bidding documents and reports at the
time suggest that in 2007 power was rationed in Kabul with households receiving 4 hours’
supply every other day. With the completion of the NEPS interconnector, most of Kabul
now receives power 24 hours a day6. Attribution is an issue as many donors contributed
to the completion of the NEPS interconnector, but the Project may claim some credit,
since the rehabilitation of the LV distribution system was needed to complete the “last
mile” to consumers.
Another proxy for improved quality is the peak load that can be served per household,
since it implies that there will be fewer voltage excursions while also making power
available at the time needed by the consumer. Empirical evidence from 2006 to 2011
shows a steady increase in both the number of households served and the peak load
served in Kabul after 2008 when the NEPS interconnector was completed, as shown in
Figure 1. This suggests a likely improvement in the quality of supply because brownouts
and other quality problems are normally symptoms of overloading, which has been
significantly reduced.
                                                     Figure 1: Peak Load and Households Served in Kabul
                                         400,000                                                                        1.60
    Number of Households and Peak Load




                                         350,000                                                                        1.40


                                                                                                                               Peak Load per Household (kW)
                                         300,000                                                                        1.20

                                         250,000                                                                        1.00
                  (kW)




                                         200,000                                                                        0.80

                                         150,000                                                                        0.60

                                         100,000                                                                        0.40

                                          50,000                                                                        0.20

                                              -                                                                         0.00
                                                        2006       2007        2008        2009      2010        2011
                                                  Residential Customers (Left axis)           Peak Load (Left axis)
                                                  kW Per Household (Right Axis)


6
    Some areas of greater Kabul have yet to be connected to the grid.


                                                                                      10
In Mazar-e-Sharif, there is some limited evidence that suggests that the upgrading of the
MV distribution system from 6kV to 20kV has improved the quality of power delivered
to consumers, as shown in Figure 2. The evidence is limited to a survey of five houses at
evening peak and is thus not statistically robust.
      Figure 2: Delivered Voltage to Households in Mazar Served at 6kV and 20kV


                                     Proper 220 V Line
D
eli
ve
re
d
V
ol
ta




The Aybak indicator must be disregarded, but the qualitative change from diesel to grid
supply has been achieved with the energization of the substation, and with this an
approximately 15-fold increase in the amount of power available for distribution. Again,
quantity is not a direct indicator of quality but it the same arguments adduced for Kabul
and Mazar will apply in principle.
Hence there is some evidence that the PDO has been achieved, but it is circumstantial and
uncertain.

3.3 Efficiency
For economic evaluation purposes, the project is divided into three subprojects: the Kabul
distribution rehabilitation; the Aybak substation; and the Mazar substation extension and
network rehabilitation. Between them, the three subprojects accounted for 95 percent of
project costs. For evaluation of the Project, only the Aybak and Mazar subprojects are
considered. The project financing for the Kabul subproject was for two contracts, for LV
systems and meters, with a total value of $22.9 million, or about 30 percent of total costs,
with the balance financed by EPRP. To avoid risk of double counting benefits, the
results from the Kabul subproject have been excluded from the evaluation of the Project,
which means the efficiency assessment is based on about 56 percent of total project
financing. Table 1 gives details of the economic benefits from each of the three
subprojects and further details of the analysis of the two considered in the Project are in




                                            11
Annex 3. The analysis for the Kabul transmission, substation rehabilitation project is
included in the ICR for EPRP.7
                Table 1: Economic Costs and Benefits of KAMPP Subprojects
                        Sub-Project                 Cost        Estimated NPV     IRR
                                                  (million $)     ( million $)    (%)
           Kabul Transmission, Substation and          74.14         405.63        118
           Distribution Rehabilitation8
           Aybak Substation                             8.11           6.71       25%
           Mazar-e-Sharif     Substation    and        23.66          13.12      0.15%
           Distribution Rehabilitation

Based on this analysis, the Aybak subproject was economically efficient, but the Mazar-
e-Sharif subpoject was not. Combining the net present value of these two subprojects
gives a negative net present value for the project. [Some element of economic efficiency
will have been lost as a result of the delays in completion of the subprojects by about 39
months].

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating:      Unsatisfactory

The project was relevant and well designed. While the outcome indicator for one of the
three subprojects has been met, it is hard to tell whether they have been for the other two,
and in any case are of questionable value in demonstrating the achievement of the
objective. There is circumstantial evidence sufficient to show that the quality and
reliability of supply has been improved in Kabul but not in either Mazar-e-Sharif or
Aybak. Efficiency was poor for the two subprojects entirely financed by the project.
There are thus major shortcomings in the achievement of the objective and in its
efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
No specific poverty or social impact study has been carried out. Per capita electricity
consumption and economic growth are 90% correlated suggesting access to electricity is
not only critical for improving livelihoods but also allow the private sector to grow,
implying the project would eventually have a poverty reduction impact.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project did support some institutional change to support the transition of operation of
the power sector by MEW to DABS, but it was limited in extent. The project may have
heightened awareness of the need for improved capacity in both MEW and DABS.



7
    Report No. ICR435
8
    Included for reference only


                                                  12
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable as this is a core ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating:   High

Development outcomes have been limited, and they are at risk from three factors. First,
poor quality of some of the goods and installation work may curtail its useful life.
Second, overloading and misuse, the result of poor training, weak technical capacity and
inadequate operational and maintenance may result in damage to the assets created.
Third, country factors such as insecurity, political instability and weak governance also
represent risks that could directly affect the achievements of the Project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating:   Unsatisfactory

Activities chosen for financing by the Project were in line with available analysis and
country priorities. They were discussed with GoA and underwent a systematic internal
review process. The QALP assessment carried out in 2010 rated design to be satisfactory,
taking into account the simple design and choice of implementing arrangements.
There was no QER and appraisal was not formally documented. The Project documents
seem to suggest that it was a spin off from the larger and more well-established EPRP,
aimed at filling gaps it had not been able to finance following its restructuring. Judging
from the budget expenditure during preparation (Annex 4) the Project seems to have been
prepared on a shoestring. It is possible that supervision and restructuring of EPRP may
have served many of the purposes of project preparation, but without documentation this
cannot be assessed. The division of the LV and the MV contracts for the Kabul
distribution rehabilitation across two projects was a significant failing and provides the
strongest evidence that the project was never thought of as a discrete entity separate from
EPRP.
The risk presented by weak capacity and institutional rivalry between MEW and DABS,
were not mitigated, and if any capacity was built it was at MEW which is not the body
which will be responsible for future investment or operations and maintenance. The
balance of support between infrastructure rehabilitation and capacity building, in
particular contract management and supervision, should have been debated as should the
means by which operations and maintenance were to be carried out. Monitoring and




                                            13
evaluation design seems to have been weak with no arrangement for collection of data
put in place.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating:   Moderately Unsatisfactory

Supervision is well documented throughout the life of the Project. There is a sense of
disconnect between the realities of KAMPP and the willingness to address its specific
problems. Quality, contract management and government coordination problems
continued to arise and as soon as one was solved, another seemed to appear, necessiting
several extensions. Despite this, and the questions on the Project’s sustainability,
satisfactory ratings for achievement of the PDO extended through 2012. Both the 2010
and 2011 requests for an extension of the Closing Date displayed confidence that the
PDO remained achievable. This appears to show a want of candor in supervision.
There seems to have been insufficient attention to rigorous monitoring of project progress,
and may have been caused by a mixture of: security issues that made visits difficult;
overreliance on the PMF, the quality of whose work started to deteriorate in about 2010
and the interruption of whose mandate further increased delay and left quality issues
unaddressed; and a global handling of all three power projects in the portfolio in which
the Project represented just a fraction of the many issues that affected all of them. Some
of the values for indicators were not completed or updated over several supervision
periods and using one of the many restructurings to review the results framework and
update it was a missed opportunity.
The closing of the Project left a number of technical issues unresolved, in particular
defects at the Aybak substation and the Kabul distribution network. Legal remedies
including liquidated damages, performance bonds and extended warranty periods may be
available to address faults and MEW is applying these as each contract is closed, with the
support of the PMF, the services of which continue, financed by another project.
Bank supervision showed a number of significant shortcomings that could have been
avoided and which, if addressed, may have been able to compensate for some of the
weaknesses in design.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating:   Unsatisfactory

As one dimension of Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory and one Moderately
Unsatisfactory, overall rating is Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating:   Unsatisfactory

Continuing coordination issues among Government stakeholders, first experienced with
EPRP, between ministries and with DABS, from central level to local level, from
fiduciary to technical issues, was one of the main impediments to implementation. To a


                                            14
large extent, this is a result of Afghanistan’s post-conflict situation and an illustration that
rebuilding an operative, capable public administration remains one of the country’s
greatest challenges. The decision to rely on country systems for disbursement and
financial management, while justified in terms of capacity building, may also have
contributed to the problems encountered. It should be underlined that this rating is not
geared towards one institution in particular, as the various authorities involved in the
Project, in particular MEW and MoF are said to have always shown, when solicited,
responsiveness and willingness to sort problems out. Seeking speedy, coordinated action
from various public stakeholders required an almost day-to-day involvement from those
involved in Project implementation. The project took twice as long as originally planned,
and as such was a major shortcoming warranting an Unsatisfactory rating.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating:     Moderately Unsatisfactory

The lack of capacity at MEW significantly impacted the Project and timely
implementation continued to be an issue throughout. Weak contract management was
probably the single most important constraint, and the inability to address technical issues
in contracts, especially relating to equipment quality, for example poles and distribution
transformers, caused serious delays. Some positive aspects were reported over the life of
the Project, in the fields of financial management and procurement coordination between
MEW and DABS remains problematic. Several of these shortcomings are significant and
indicate a Moderately Unsatisfactory rating.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating:     Unsatisfactory

As one dimension of Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory and one Moderately
Unsatisfactory, overall rating is Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
Based on this evaluation, five lessons present themselves:
 Even when conceived as a follow up to an existing operation, any new project
    must be properly assessed as such
    It is hard to avoid the impression that the project was seen as a means of adding funds
    to EPRP for rehabilitation investments, based on needs identified, feasibility and
    implementation arrangements prepared earlier. Yet a rigorous appraisal of the project
    on its own merits might have revealed its design shortcomings. By this association,
    the lessons from EPRP, set out in the ICR also apply to the Project.9
      Capacity is often the main issue – and is as important as the infrastructure itself
       As is common for infrastructure projects in post-conflict environments, priority was
       given to physical rehabilitation. While this may have been justified in terms of
       country and donor dialogue, it was also recognized at the time that this effort was


9
    Ibid.


                                              15
    somewhat marginal given the immense needs of the country. Infrastructure has been
    rehabilitated but at risk of falling into the build-neglect-rebuild cycle due to lack of
    capacity for operation and maintenance. The proposal to provide for an obligation of
    operation and maintenance of the infrastructure rehabilitated under the contracts did
    not prove effective because contractors demobilized and enforcement of legal
    remedies to complete works or correct defects now needs to be sought.
   Power projects call for a precise definition of indicators, in particular when the
    sector is also supported by other donors
    Indicators chosen for two of the three rehabilitation components under KAMPP
    related to the quantity of power supplied and proved of little use to measure the
    quality and reliability goal of the project. Data adequacy was also a problem, and an
    early restructuring might have been an effective way to allow the approach to
    monitoring to be rethought. In countries with a history of conflict and poor capacity,
    consideration should be given to relative or incremental indicators, for example the
    number of households connected and metered, and the PDO framed around these
    simpler and more easily measured metrics.
   On site supervision is necessary
    It is unclear the extent to which infrequent supervision may have contributed to the
    quality issues encountered but more site visits could at least have allowed for a
    swifter, more informed reaction by the Bank. Security conditions in Afghanistan
    make field visits difficult and sometimes impossible to arrange. Some flexibility in
    design is essential, including the early identification of alternative activities to finance.
    Similarly, the inability to travel on site should be considered at inception, including
    by exploring alternative options through modern technology. In the end, though,
    there is no substitute for seeing for oneself.
   Corporatization and commercialization of utilities is a multifaceted reform and
    has significant institutional implications
    Poor coordination between MEW and DABS is a serious challenge to the smooth
    development and operation of the sector. It is, therefore, important that those issues
    be considered together at project design, especially if it is known that further sector
    development is planned during the project’s lifetime. At the time the Project was
    prepared, the corporatization of DABS had not yet been completed and thus MEW
    continued to own both the project and the assets created by the project as well as have
    authority over DABS. Many of the coordination problems encountered towards the
    end of the Project could have been avoided had responsibilities for project
    implementation been considered sooner.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
MEW noted that the main challenge it faced during project implementation was the
evolution of its roles and those of DABS. In the early part of the project DABM was a
department within MEW. Upon corporatization, DABS became autonomous and hence
MEW’s authority was reduced but its implementation responsibilities were not. MEW
recognizes that its capacity is an area in need of continuous improvement, and was
disappointed to note that its performance had been rated Unsatisfactory, though it agrees


                                              16
with the reasons given for this rating. MEW also considers that the project was impacted
by the lack of an in-country TTL from 2010 to 2011.
Country specific factors are also noted as affecting the ability to implement the project
satisfactorily, most notably the post-conflict situation, the physical situation and the
geographical location. It also points to the weaknesses of contractors affecting the
timeliness of implementation.
(b) Cofinanciers/Donors
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Consultations were carried out with ADB, KfW and USAID as part of the preparation of
this ICR. All donors confirmed the challenges of operating in the Afghan environment –
on the same issues that KAMPP was confronted with: volatile security; coordination
among institutions (including MEW and DABS); weak planning, implementation and
project management capacity (the use of PIUs offering only a limited solution); and
quality of contractors. ADB, which has the largest power portfolio, confirmed facing
significant delays as a result.
Overall, there is recognition that power remains an issue of primary importance for the
development of the country – with efforts needed on generation, transmission and
distribution. While Kabul is now relatively well served compared with the rest of the
country, in part thanks to the combined efforts over the past decade (including the
project), there is also a sense that continued efforts will be required in the Kabul
subproject, in particular for distribution.
The three following challenge emerge as priorities:
   Training: need to focus on capacity building in operation, maintenance and
    supervision – with more efforts needed on design (availability of translated materials,
    training with clear deliverables; proper monitoring and follow-up);
   Institutional reform: need for clarification of mandates, in particular between MEW
    and DABS – as a normal evolution should be for the power utility to be in charge of
    managing infrastructure investments and operation (which, in turn, may mean
    channeling external assistance through DABS); and
   Coordination among donors: whereas dialogue and exchange of information are said
    to have been good, more coordination is needed. This applies in particular to the
    planning of assistance (ensure coherence of interventions) and institutional
    arrangements (use of DABS, role of MEW and of other institutions, e.g. the
    Environmental Agency). The preparation of the new Power Sector Master Plan is
    considered by all as a positive step for improved coordination.




                                            17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                           Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
             Components                                    Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                              millions)
Distribution System
                                               17.00              20.66               122
Rehabilitation for Kabul
Establishment of a 220kV
                                                6.00               9.86               164
Substation at Aybak
Power System Rehabilitation for
                                               25.00              23.60                94
Mazar-e-Sharif
Institutional Capacity Building                 4.00               2.83                71
              Total Baseline Cost              52.00              56.95               110
Physical and Price Contingencies                6.50               0.00                 0
              Total Project Costs              58.50              56.95               97.4
       Total Financing Required                58.50              56.95               97.4

(b) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of        Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
             Source of Funds
                                        Cofinancing       (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)  millions)10
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust
                                                          57.00           56.95             100
Fund
IDA (from existing Cr. 3933)           Joint               1.50            0.00              0




10
     As of September 28, 2013


                                                 18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

    1) Outputs based on Outcome Indicators

Outcome                                 Indicator(s)                             Achievements by close of Project

Outcome 1 – Increase the power supply Total grid electricity supplied to Kabul Target met by 253%, with 1,219 GWh
in project areas in Kabul.            increased to 482 GWh by March 2010. attained by 2010.

Outcome 2 – Providing grid power Twenty five percent of population of Target met - substation completed; all
supply access to the people of Aybak. Aybak with access to grid-based power consumers on Aybak distribution
                                                                            system now connected to the NEPS
                                                                            interconnector
Outcome 3 - Increase in power supply Total grid electricity supplied to Target met by 174%, with 197 GWh
to customers in Mazar–e-Sharif.       Mazar–e–Sharif increased to 113 attained in 2010.
                                      GWh.



    2) Outputs per Project component

Component                         Achievements by the Close of the Project

Part 1: Distribution System       The work has been substantially completed – with completion and operational
Rehabilitation for Kabul          acceptance certificates issued in 2012. Since then, however, a series of transformer
                                  and other equipment failures have occurred. Those issues are being addressed by
                                  corrective actions by MEW or DABS and through legal remedies/actions against the
                                  contractor.

Part 2 : Establishment of a 220   The Aybak substation is reported to have been commissioned and energized by the
kilovolt (kV) Substation at       contractor without involvement of MEW and there have been several equipment
Aybak and Interconnection with    failures. In addition, several essential civil works including retaining walls, drainage
Distribution System               and internal access roads have not been completed which put at risk the stability of
                                  the substation. Those issues will need to be addressed by corrective actions by
                                  MEW or DABS and through legal remedies/actions against the contractor.



Part 3 - Power System             The Mazar substation work was substantially completed in 2011 and is in operation.
Rehabilitation for Mazar-e-Sharif Major problems were later reported and MEW has directed that the commissioning
                                  be redone. Distribution networks have also been rehabilitated; however, additional
                                  materials (made necessary by a design change) still need to be handed over by MEW
                                  to DABS. In addition, cracks appeared on some poles and 519 of them may need to
                                  be replaced – which, again, is a warranty issue to be dealt with by the contractor.


Part 4 - Institutional Capacity   All the single phase and three phase meters have been shipped and received by the
Building                          contractors. Also, meter reading devices, computer base stations and testing
                                  equipment have all been handed over to DABS in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif.
                                  Necessary training has been conducted in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif for the DABS
                                  staff.




                                                       19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
For economic evaluation purposes, the project is divided into three subprojects: the Kabul
distribution rehabilitation; the Aybak substation; and the Mazar substation extension and
network rehabilitation. Between them, the three subprojects accounted for 95 percent of
project costs. For evaluation of the Project, only the Aybak and Mazar subprojects are
considered. The financing for the Kabul subproject was for two contracts, for LV
systems and meters, with a total value of $22.9 million, or about 30 percent of total costs,
with the balance financed by EPRP. To avoid the risk of double counting benefits, the
results from the Kabul subproject have been excluded from the evaluation of the Project,
which means the efficiency assessment is based on about 56 percent of total project
financing. Table 3.1 gives details of the economic benefits from each of the three
subprojects and further details of the analysis of the two considered in the Project are in
Annex 3. The analysis for the Kabul transmission, substation rehabilitation project is
included in the ICR for EPRP.11
                Table 3.1: Economic Costs and Benefits of KAMPP Subprojects
                         Sub-Project                     Cost         Estimated NPV        IRR
                                                       (million $)      ( million $)       (%)
             Kabul Transmission, Substation and            74.14             405.63        118
             Distribution Rehabilitation
             Aybak Substation                               8.11               6.71        25%
             Mazar-e-Sharif       Substation    and         23.66            13.12       0.15%
             Distribution Rehabilitation
            * The Aybak and Mazar-e-Sharif substation work was contracted together so it is not
            possible to precisely match actual disbursements with Aybak or Mazar-e-Sharif substation
            specific line item costs.


Aybak Substation
The benefits of Aybak Substation sub-project are estimated based on the avoided costs of
the next-least-cost alternative to achieve the subproject objective. The objective of the
subproject was to provide grid-connected power to the residents of Aybak. Before the
project, Aybak received power from a local distribution system connected to a 1,100
kVA diesel generator that connected the generator to approximately 3,500 households.
Thus the counterfactual is simple – to continue to run the existing diesel generator. The
following assumptions are relied upon to conduct an economic benefit analysis.
(a) The existing diesel generator has a heat rate of 14,000 Btu/kWh, an efficiency of 24%,
    which amounts to diesel fuel consumption of 375 liters per MWh;
(b) The cost of diesel is 60 Afs per liter ($1.09 at the current exchange rate of 55
    Afs/USD). This is the current cost and is assumed to hold constant in real terms;
(c) The resulting fuel cost of generation is 40 cents per kWh. The capacity factor of the
    plant is 80%. It is high because the average capacity per household is just 250 Watts,
    so the load factor (average/peak) is quite high.


11
     Ibid


                                                      20
(d) The cost of grid power is 6 cents per kWh. This is the cost of the imported power
    from Uzbekistan delivered by the substation. Although this does not include the full
    cost of delivering the power, it is approximately the weighted average residential
    tariff, so it is the price of electricity if not the full cost.


Based on these assumptions, the results of the economic benefit of the project is
computed to have a net present value $6.7 million at a discount rate of 12%, and an
internal rate of return of 25%. More details are presented in Table 3.2.
                     Table 3.2: Economic Benefits of Aybak Substation
      Item                                           Without Project            With Project
      Cost of Project ($)                                                        8,146,428
      Available Capacity (MW)                               0.88                    12.8
      Households Connected                                 3,500                   3,500
      Household Peak Load Served (KW)                       0.25                    3.66
      Price of Power (Cents/kWh)                             40                      6
      Annual Generation (MWh)                              6,167                   6,167
      Annual Cost of Generation ($)                      2,466,816                370,033

      Net Present Value, $ (@12%)                                                 6,710,226
      IRR                                                                            25%


This is the most conservative analysis possible. This analysis is simple as it compares the
cost of the project to the avoided cost of the least-cost alternative which was continuing
to run the existing diesel generator. The project however not only replaced the need for
this 100 kVA (about 0.88 MW) of diesel generation; it provided a substation and
transformer with a capacity of 12.8 MW, which can deliver nearly 15 times the power of
the diesel. Given the existing distribution system, this allowed the average peak capacity
per household to increase from 0.25 kW to 3.66 kW, which is more than twice the
average capacity per customer in Kabul of 1.5 kW. There was no formal benefit analysis
done at appraisal.


Mazar-e-Sharif Substation and Distribution Rehabilitation12
The primary quantifiable impact of the project was increasing the capacity of the Mazar
substation from 32 MVA (26.6 MW) to 82 MVA (65.6 MW), an increase of over 250%.
This allowed DABS to increase the number of customers by nearly 50% from 2008 to
2010 and still nearly double the peak capacity available to each customer from 0.56 kW



12
  The total cost for the sub-project was $23.7 million. Since the Mazar sub-project included one complete
contract (MEW/S-502) plus only components of two others (MEW/S-503 and MEW/S-508) that also
included the substation in Aybak and meters for Kabul, it is not possible to precisely match actual
disbursements with Mazar’s specific line item costs. However, for MEW/S-503, the Mazar portion of the
contract value is taken to be effectively the same as the actual project cost. For MEW/S-508, the actual
disbursed amount ($2.8 million) is pro-rated by the share of the meters that were supplied to Mazar (10,000
of 50,000, or 20%).


                                                   21
to 0.98 kW over the same period. The impact of the project on DABS customers in
Mazar-e-Sharif can be seen in Table 3.3

                       Table 3.3: DABS Customers in Mazar-e-Sharif
                                                                                  Change
       Type                  2008                  2010                Number               Percentage
     Residential            45,531                66,779                21,248                 47%
     Commercial              3,131                 4,901                 1,770                 57%
       Total                48,662                71,680                23,018                 47%
Given the significant unmet demand, this should have allowed a corresponding increase
in consumption. However, because the project didn’t rehabilitate the low voltage (LV)
distribution system, install any meters, or connect any additional customers, the actual
project benefits were far more modest.
The benefits of the project are estimated based on the avoided costs of the next least cost
alternative to achieve the project’s objective. The objective of the project was to improve
the quality and reliability of grid-connected power in Mazar-e-Sharif. Before the project,
the substation was insufficient to meet local demand and the distribution system was
unreliable. 13 Mazar-e-Sharif substation received power from a 110 kV line from
Uzbekistan and had two 16 MVA transformers.
The project with enabled an increase in consumption that the expanded substation and
partially-rehabilitated distribution system allowed. From 2008, before the project started,
to 2010, when the project was substantially complete, consumption in Mazar increased
from 177 GWh to 197 GWh, an 11% increase over two years. Crediting the project with
this benefit, and assuming that it continued each year over a 20 year payback period, the
estimate of the project’s economic benefit, in this case the negative NPV are not marginal
as summarized in Table 3.4.




13
   As stated in the MEW/S-502 contract, the condition of the Mazar distribution system was described as
follows:
The reliability of the electricity supply is at a very low level due to load shedding as well as due to the
frequent failures of the distribution network. The existing distribution system is also constrained by
inadequate capacity of the network components such as power lines, cables, transformers etc. This has
caused excessive voltage drops in most parts of the network causing severe difficulties to the consumers. It
has also prevented new customers from being added to the network who are waiting for supply connection
over a long period of time. The present condition of the network also poses a serious safety hazard to the
general public, as well as to the operational (DABM) staff due to exposed or unprotected live network
components, inadequate clearances etc.


                                                    22
 Table 3.4: Summary of Benefits of Mazar Substation and Distribution Sub-Project
                                           Without Project         With Project
     Cost of Project ($)                                            23,664,328
     Available Capacity (MW)                     25.6                  65.6
     Households Connected                       45,531                66,779
     Household Peak Load Served (KW)             0.56                  0.98
     Price of Power (Cents/KWh)                   6                      6
     Annual Consumption (MWh)                  177,258               197,283
     Theoretical Capacity (MWh)                177,258               454,224
     Annual Cost of Generation ($)           106,534,480            11,836,980
     Net Present Value, $ (@12%)                                   (13,115,886)
     IRR                                                              0.15%


The reasons for the negative NPV and marginally positive IRR can be attributed to the
following:
(a) The distribution system rehabilitation represented over 85% ($20.5 million) of the
    subproject cost, but since much of the LV work was left unfinished, the project failed
    to deliver the benefits of the increased substation capacity to customers.
(b) Meter installation and actual customer connection were not part of the project scope.
    Therefore, the benefits of additional customers and increased access to electricity
    remain largely unrealized by the project.
(c) The project includes the cost of meters, although no meters were actually installed as
    part of the project. The meters were delivered, but they did not fit in the meter boxes
    supplied.
For the relatively minor marginal cost of properly completing the LV system, installing
meters, and making customer connections, this project could have offered the people of
Mazar-e-Sharif a much more significant benefit for the investment.




                                            23
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                            Title              Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Nagaraju Duthaluri          Lead Procurement Specialist      ECSO2
Minerva S. Espinosa-Apurada Program Assistant                SASDO
Deepal Fernando             Senior Procurement Specialist    ECSO2
Abdul Wali Ibrahimi         Operations Officer               SASDU
Asila Warkdak Jamal         Consultant                       SASDE
Sunil Kumar Khosla          Lead Energy Specialist           ECSEG
Asha Narayan                Sr Financial Management Specia   SARFM
Kenneth O. Okpara           Sr Financial Management Specia   SARFM
Asta Olesen                 Senior Social Development Spec   SASDS
Mohammad Arif Rasuli        Senior Environmental Specialis   SASDI

Supervision/ICR
Toufiq Ahmed                Procurement Specialist           SARPS
Mohammad Anis               Energy Specialist                SASDE
Abdul Mohammad Durani       Social Development Specialist    SASDS
Nagaraju Duthaluri          Lead Procurement Specialist      ECSO2
Minerva S. Espinosa-Apurada Program Assistant                SASDO
Deepal Fernando             Senior Procurement Specialist    ECSO2
Julia M. Fraser             Sector Manager                   EASTS
Mariam Haidary              Program Assistant                SASHD
Ahmad Rafi Hotofat          Team Assistant                   SASDO
Abdul Wali Ibrahimi         Operations Officer               SASDU
Asila Wardak Jamal          Consultant                       SASDI
Sunil Kumar Khosla          Lead Energy Specialist           ECSEG
Arun Kumar Kolsur           Senior Procurement Specialist    SARPS
Asha Narayan                Sr Financial Management Specia   SARFM
Mohammad Yasin Noori        Social Development Specialist    SASDS
Wahida Obaidy               Team Assistant                   SASDO
Kenneth O. Okpara           Sr Financial Management Specia   SARFM
Asta Olesen                 Senior Social Development Spec   SASDS
Abdul Hameed Quraishi       Operations Officer               SASDE
Mohammad Arif Rasuli        Senior Environmental Specialis   SASDI
Mohammed Edreess Sahak Program Assistant                     LCC3C
Richard Spencer             Country Sector Coordinator       SASDE
Gilles Veuillot             Consultant                       SASDE
Ameet Morjaria              Energy Economist - YP            SASDE




                                            24
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
     FY08                                   9.40                    37.51
                          Total:            9.40                    37.51
Supervision/ICR
 FY08                                     21.34                     49.63
 FY09                                     19.53                     64.14
 FY10                                     16.92                     55.65
 FY11                                     33.35                     50.50
 FY12                                     27.48                     66.70
 FY13                                     19.38                    118.48
 FY1414                                    2.55                     24.60
                          Total:         140.55                    429.70




14
     To August 31, 2013


                                       25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
No beneficiary survey was carried out.

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
No stakeholder workshop was carried out.




                                         26
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower’s ICR is reproduced in full here.

I.      Introduction
This report was prepared by the Ministry of Energy and Water of the Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan (MEW), the implementing agency for the Kabul Aybak Mazar-e-Sharif
Power Project (KAMPP). The KAMPP was composed of the following contracts:

      Status of KAMPP Physical Components

            Contract No.                          Description                Contractor
                               Kabul Distribution Rehabilitation Project
      MEW 300/3                                                              Angelique
                               Phase I
                               Mazar-e-Sharif Distribution Rehabiliation       JV
      MEW/S-502
                               Works                                        ATSL/AEPC
      MEW/S-503                Mazar-e-Sharif and Aybak Substations           IRCON
                               Procurement of Single and Three Phase
      MEW/S-508                                                              Angelique
                               Electronic Energy Meters

The KAMPP development credit agreement was signed on December 23, 2007. It was
originally a two-year project with a closing date of December 31, 2009, although this date
was required by the scheduled expiry of the ARTF grant, and the project was actually
envisioned to last at least three-years. As it was, the project was extended just prior to its
expiry three times by a total of 39 months. In November 2009, it was extended 21
months to September 30, 2011; in September 2011, it was extended nine months to June
30, 2012; and in June 2012, it was extended by a final nine months to March 31, 2013.
With the four-month grace period for project close out, it would have ended July 31,
2013, but the grace period itself was extended by two months, so the revised closing date
is September 30, 2013.

The KAMPP was funded from an Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) grant.
The ARTF grant (TF091120-AF) was for $57 million. Since the project is not closed as
of the writing of this report, the final disbursement amount is not yet known. However, it
is expected that final disbursements will essentially equal the total allocated funding.

II.     Objectives of the Project
The World Bank’s project development objective (PDO) stated in the grant agreement for
KAMPP was the following: “The objective of the Project is to help the Recipient provide
reliable and quality power to consumers in the cities of Kabul, Aybak, and Mazar-e-
Sharif.” There was no formal performance indicator stated for measuring the
achievement of this objective. However, in addition to the PDO, the project had a
number of intermediate outcomes, indicators, and intermediate result indicators that are
summarized in the following table:



                                             27
   KAMPP Objective, Outcomes, and Indicators

              Outcome                       Indicator              Intermediate Result Indicator
   PDO:
   To help provide reliable and None Provided
   quality power to the
   consumers in the target areas
   of the cities of Kabul, Aybak,
   and Mazar-e-Sharif.
   Intermediate Outcome 1:
   Increase in power supply to Total grid electricity supplied   Strengthen the low voltage (LV)
   project areas in Kabul         to Kabul increased to 482      distribution network in parts of the
                                  GWh by the end of SY 1388      capital city of Kabul supplied by
                                  (March 2010)                   Junction Station 2, as measured by
                                                                 number of transformers installed
                                                                 and commissioned.
   Intermediate Outcome 2:
   Providing grid power supply 25% of population of Aybak        Construct a 220/20 kV substation
   access to the people of Aybak with access to grid-based       and associated 20 kV line to Aybak
                                 power                           to provide quality, reliable, and
                                                                 clean power to the people of Aybak
                                                                 town (indicator being the
                                                                 completion of the Aybak
                                                                 substation).
   Intermediate Outcome 3:
   Increase in power supply to Total grid electricity supplied   Strengthen the low voltage (LV)
   customers in Mazar-e-Sharif to Mazar-e-Sharif increased       distribution network in parts of
                               to 113 GWh by the end of SY       Mazar-e-Sharif City, and measured
                               1389 (March 2011)                 by the number of 20/0.4 kV
                                                                 transformers installed and
                                                                 commissioned.

The following were the components of the project:

               1.   Distribution System Rehabilitation for Kabul: Rehabilitation and
                    extension of the distribution system to connect medium voltage (MV)
                    trunk lines and cables to customers in Kabul; and reorganizing the
                    existing distribution system to optimize loading to reduce losses and
                    provide satisfactory power supply voltage to customers in Kabul.
               2.   Establishment of a 220 kilovolt (kV) Substation at Aybak and
                    Interconnection with Distribution System: Establishment of a new
                    220/20kV, 16 Megavolts Amperes (MVA) substation at Aybak and
                    20kV interconnection with the existing Aybak distribution system,
                    currently fed through diesel generated power to switch to the grid
                    based supply.
               3.   Power System Rehabilitation for Mazar-e-Sharif: Rehabilitation of the
                    distribution system in Mazar-e-Sharif by upgrading the existing MV
                    distribution network from 6kV to 20kV; connecting the distribution
                    network to the 220/20kV substation; rehabilitating and/or replacing the


                                                 28
                   low voltage distribution network; and augmenting transmission
                   facilities to meet the requirements of the distribution network.
              4.   Institutional Capacity Building: Provision of capacity building and
                   implementation support to MEW and DABM including for: (a)
                   operation and maintenance of the distribution systems; (b)
                   implementation of infrastructure metering and accounting of energy
                   supplied in Kabul, Aybak and Mazar- e- Sharif, (c) establishment,
                   operation and hand-over to DABM of customer care center(s); (d)
                   communication of Project plans to consumers; (e) Project management
                   support; and (f) other capacity building needs identified during
                   implementation.

Note, however, that the institutional capacity building of Part 4 was effectively never
implemented. There were also no performance objectives associated with this component.

III. Assessment of Outcome
       Achievement of the Objectives
KAMPP technically achieved its objectives, although the objectives were generally ill-
defined and measured with poor indicators. The PDO was simply to “help” provide
reliable power in the target areas of the target cities, which of course any project could
hardly fail to do. The Intermediate Outcomes were a bit more meaningful:

                      Intermediate Outcome 1: Increase in power supply to project areas
                       in Kabul
                      Intermediate Outcome 2: Providing grid power supply access to
                       the people of Aybak
                      Intermediate Outcome 3: Increase in power supply to customers in
                       Mazar-e-Sharif

KAMPP did technically achieve the performance indicators of the Intermediate
Outcomes. The indicator for Outcome 1 (Kabul) was for grid electricity supply to
increase to 482 GWh by the end of SY 1388 (March 2010). However, in fact Kabul grid
consumption was already 649 GWh in 2007, before the project even started. There was a
significant increase in electricity consumption in Kabul after the project started, with
consumption reaching 978 GWh by the end of 2009, although this was well before the
project work in Kabul was actually completed, so the achievement of the indicator was
entirely unrelated to the project. (In fact, the improvements realized in Kabul were
almost entirely attributable to projects under EPRP, since the Kabul component of
KAMPP was limited to rehabilitating the distribution system connected to a single
junction station.)

The indicator for Outcome 2 (Aybak) was for 25% of the population of Aybak to have
access to grid-based power. While again, the project technically achieved this indicator,
it is in fact an indicator that is unknowable and unaffected by the project. Calculating the
percentage of the population connected to the grid requires three data points: (1) the


                                             29
number of customers, (2) the average household size, and (3) the total population.
Unfortunately, none of this information is accurate or even consistent. According to
DABS, there were 7,492 residential customers in Aybak in 2010. With average
household size conservatively estimated at 6 – 10 people, this corresponds with 45,000 –
75,000 people. However, according to the Central Statistics Office (CSO), the population
of Aybak City, the urban center connected to the grid, was just 26,400 in 2010. Since the
total population of Aybak (including the rural areas of the district) was about 100,000, the
only way that the 25% number makes any sense is if it refers to the urban population as
share of the total population of Aybak Province. In fact, if this is the case, the indicator
was technically achieved before the project began, and since the project did not include
any expansion of the distribution network, the project could not affect the indicator in any
event.

The indicator for Outcome 3 (Mazar) was that total grid electricity supplied to Mazar-e-
Sharif should increase to 113 GWh by the end of SY 1389 (March 2011). This indicator
was valid and legitimately achieved by the project. Reliable data for 2011 isn’t available,
but by the end of 2010, consumption in Mazar had increased to 197 GWh, 174% of the
goal, and this can reasonably be attributed to the KAMPP project, specifically the
expansion of the Mazar Substation. Also, while there were significant problems with the
distribution system portion of the work in Mazar, upgrading parts of the system from 6
kV to 20 kV did at least anecdotally improve the quality of the delivered power. The
improvement in delivered voltage is seen in the following graph:


                                        Mazar Peak Load Power Quality Improvement
                                  250
                                                         Proper 220 V Line Voltage

                                  200
          Delivered Voltage (V)




                                  150


                                  100


                                   50


                                   0
                                                   Before                               A er
                                           (Previous 6 kV Network)               (New 20 kV Network)
         Source: SMEC. Average voltage from five houses at evening peak load in March and May of 2010.



The outcomes, indicators, and achievements are summarized in the following table:




                                                                     30
KAMPP Achievement of Performance Indicators

                                         Intermediate
       Outcome            Indicator     Result Indicator           Achievements           Assessment
   PDO:
   To help provide        None
   reliable and quality   Provided
   power to the
   consumers in the
   target areas of the
   cities of Kabul,
   Aybak, and Mazar-e-
   Sharif.
   Intermediate                          Strengthen the low       Consumption was
   Outcome 1:             Total grid      voltage (LV)              978 GWh in
   Increase in power      electricity     distribution network      2009, 202% of
   supply to project      supplied to     in parts of the           the baseline.
   areas in Kabul         Kabul           capital city of Kabul    Consumption was         Significantly
                          increased       supplied by Junction      1,219 GWh in           Exceeded Goal
                          to 482          Station 2, as             2010, 253% of         (Not attributable
                          GWh by          measured by               the baseline.            to project)
                          the end of      number of                Installed and
                          SY 1388         transformers              commissioned
                          (March          installed and             135 transformers.
                          2010)           commissioned.
   Intermediate                          Construct a 220/20       Aybak substation
   Outcome 2:             25% of          kV substation and         completed.
   Providing grid power   population      associated 20 kV         All customers
   supply access to the   of Aybak        line to Aybak to          previously            Achieved Goal
   people of Aybak        with access     provide quality,          connected to local     (Not due to
                          to grid-        reliable, and clean       grid who received      project, and
                          based           power to the people       power from diesel        indicator
                          power           of Aybak town             generator now           irrelevant)
                                          (indicator being the      receive power
                                          completion of the         from substation.
                                          Aybak substation).
   Intermediate                          Strengthen the low       Grid-supplied
   Outcome 3:             Total grid      voltage (LV)              electricity was
   Increase in power      electricity     distribution network      already 197 GWh
   supply to customers    supplied to     in parts of Mazar-e-      in Mazar in 2010,
   in Mazar-e-Sharif      Mazar-e-        Sharif City, and          174% of the goal.
                          Sharif          measured by the          Installed and
                          increased       number of 20/0.4          commissioned 62
                          to 113          kV transformers           transformers;         Exceeded Goal
                          GWh by          installed and             delivered 161 for
                          the end of      commissioned.             future installation
                          SY 1389                                   by DABS.
                          (March                                   Significantly
                          2011)                                     improved power
                                                                    quality.




                                                31
        Implementation Status of the Physical Components
The status of the works of the component contracts is summarized in the following table:

   Status of KAMPP Physical Components

     Contract No.                    Description                   Contractor    Consultant*         Status
                     Kabul Distribution Rehabilitation Project
   MEW 300/3                                                       Angelique         GFA          Completed 1
                     Phase I
                     Mazar-e-Sharif Distribution Rehabiliation        JV
   MEW/S-502                                                                         GFA          Completed 2
                     Works                                        ATSL/AEPC
   MEW/S-503         Mazar-e-Sharif and Aybak Substations           IRCON            GFA          Completed 3
                     Procurement of Single and Three Phase
   MEW/S-508                                                       Angelique         GFA          Completed 4
                     Electronic Energy Meters

   *SMEC was original PMF for all contracts. GFA assumed the PMF role on indicated projects in January 2012
   under contract MEW 257b-SSS implemented under the Afghanistan Power System Development Project
   (APSDP).
   (1) Assets in service and operational acceptance issued September 30, 2011, but a significant number (4,345)
   corrective action reports still outstanding, primarily concerning meter boxes.
   (2) Assets in service and operational acceptance issued July 31, 2012. However, 795 defective 9-meters are
   being replaced.
   (3) Assets in service and completion certificate issued December 8, 2012. Operational acceptance not issued
   since substations were commissioned without a witness from client or PMF.
   (4) Equipment delivered. Completion certificate issued June 20, 2011.


There were, however, significant delays in the implementation of all project components,
including delays in executing the contracts and performing the work. For executing
contracts, the average period between MEW receiving bids to signing a contract was 125
days. The fastest turn around was 90 days and the worst was 190 days. The average
period between contract signing and contract effectiveness was 95 days. These delays
were caused by the multiple steps required to make the contract effective, including
securing bank guarantees, navigating the internal processes between MEW and MoF,
making the advance payment, issuing the letter of credit (LC), and finally getting the
special commitment (SC) letter from the World Bank. However, these delays were
significantly shorter than those previously experienced under EPRP. The times required
to sign and make effective each contract are illustrated below:




                                                        32
                             KAMPP Contract Signing and Effec veness

         MEW 300/3



         MEW/S‐502



         MEW/S‐503



         MEW/S‐508


                         0          50              100                150             200             250         300
                                                                       Days


                               Bid Received to Contract Signing         Contract Signing to Effec veness




All of the KAMPP contracts experienced enormous implementation delays. The most
on-time project (in absolute terms), the meter supply contract, still took 320 days longer
than expected, which was actually the worst delay in relative terms (178% of the original
schedule). The worst-delayed project was the Mazar-e-Sharif distribution rehabilitation,
which took 850 days (155%) longer than originally planned. The reasons for the delays
included revisions of scope, delays in equipment, complications in installation, security
and logistics issues, and generally poor performance of the contractor. With all of this,
the average time of actual completion was over 2.5 times (153%) the original contractual
time for completion. The original and actual completion times for each of the KAMPP
contracts are illustrated below:


                                    KAMPP Implementa on Delays

        MEW 300/3



        MEW/S‐502



        MEW/S‐503



        MEW/S‐508


                     ‐        200          400         600             800        1,000       1,200        1,400   1,600
                                                                       Days


                                    Original Time for Comple on           Addi onal Time Required



All of the relevant contractual and performance dates are seen in the following table:




                                                                  33
Original and Actual Completion Dates of KAMPP Physical Components
                                                                                            Original                                    Actual                  Total
                                                                                            Time for    Contractual      Actual       Completion              Elapsed
                                                               Contract       Contract     Completion   Completion     Completion        Time    Percentage     Time
 Contract No.           Description          Bids Received      Signed       Effective*      (Days)       Date           Date**         (Days)    Delayed      (Days)
                Kabul Distribution
MEW 300/3       Rehabilitation Project
                Phase I                      Dec 24, 2007    Mar 23, 2008   Jun 9, 2008          500    Oct 22, 2009   Sep 30, 2011       1,208       142%      1,376
                Mazar-e-Sharif
MEW/S-502       Distribution Rehabiliation
                Works                        Feb 7, 2008     Jun 12, 2008   Sep 30, 2008         550    Apr 3, 2010    Jul 31, 2012       1,400       155%      1,636
                Mazar-e-Sharif and Aybak
MEW/S-503
                Substations                  Jun 21, 2008    Dec 28, 2008   Mar 17, 2009         540    Sep 8, 2010    Dec 8, 2012        1,362       152%      1,631
                Procurement of Single and
MEW/S-508       Three Phase Electronic
                Energy Meters                Jul 11, 2009    Oct 15, 2009   Feb 5, 2010          180    Aug 4, 2010    Jun 20, 2011         500       178%       709

*Contract is effective upon issuance of special commitment (SC) letter from World Bank.
**Date of operational acceptance for MEW 300/3 and MEW/S-502. Date of completion certificate for MEW/S-503, which was never formally commissioned, and MEW/S-508,
which was just a supply contract.



            Economic Viability
Unlike the EPRP, which provided significant economic benefit, the KAMPP provided
relatively little economic benefit to the people of Afghanistan. The KAMPP was broadly
divided into two sub-projects, the Aybak Substation and the Mazar-e-Sharif Substation
and Distribution Rehabilitation. The Aybak project, which built a new substation and
replaced expensive diesel-generated power with cheap, reliable imported power, provided
a significant economic benefit to the people of Aybak. Unfortunately, the Mazar-e-Sharif
project, which did the beneficial work of expanding the Mazar Substation, but expended
85% of its costs on an ill-planned and executed distribution system rehabilitation,
provided a net-negative economic benefit. The costs and economic benefits of the
KAMPP sub-projects are summarized in the following table:

Summary of KAMPP Economic Benefits

                                 Sub-Project                                                Cost 1             Estimated NPV2                IRR
Aybak Substation                                                                            8,114,428                 6,710,226                 25%
Mazar-e-Sharif Substation and Distribution Rehabilitation                                  23,664,328               (13,115,886)              0.15%
Total 3 =                                                                                  31,778,756                (6,405,660)

(1) Based on sub-project cost elements. Cost does not include all KAMPP costs, including non-subproject
costs and taxes.
(2) Based on 12% discount rate and assumptions outlined in Sub-Project Completion Report.
(3) Costs and benefits for Kabul were incorporated in Kabul Transmission, Substation, and Distribution sub-
project, which is considered part of the EPRP since the majority of the costs expended (and nearly all of the
benefits realized) were from the EPRP-funded portions of the work.


The following two subsections provide a brief summary of the economic assessment of
the sub-projects. A complete summary can be found in the relevant sub-project
completion reports (SCRs) prepared for MEW by the PMF.
            Aybak Substation
The benefits of the Aybak Substation project are estimated based on the avoided costs of
the next least-cost alternative to achieve the project’s objective. The objective of the
project was to provide affordable grid-connected power to the residents of Aybak. Prior
to the project, Aybak received power from a local distribution system connected to a
diesel generator. The generator was a 1,100 kVA Caterpillar generator previously


                                                                              34
supplied by the World Bank, and the distribution system was a USAID-funded project
that connected the generator to approximately 3,500 households.

The assumptions for the economic analysis of the project are summarized below:

              The diesel generator has a heat rate of 14,000 Btu/kWh, an efficiency of
               24%. The diesel consumption is approximately 375 liters per MWh.
              Cost of diesel is 60 Afs per liter ($1.09 at the current exchange rate of 55
               Afs/USD). This is the current cost and is assumed to hold constant in real
               terms.
              The resulting fuel cost of generation is 40 cents per kWh.
              The capacity factor of the plant is 80%. It is high because the average
               capacity per household is just 250 Watts, so the load factor (average/peak)
               is quite high.
              The cost of grid power is 6 cents per kWh. This is the cost of the imported
               power from Uzbekistan delivered by the substation. Although this does
               not include the full cost of delivering the power, it is approximately the
               weighted average residential tariff, so it is the price of electricity if not the
               full cost.

Based on these assumptions, the results of the economic benefit of the project are seen in
the following table:

           Summary of Economic Benefit of Aybak Substation Sub-Project

                                              Units     Without Project       With Project
           Cost of Project                                                        8,146,428
           Available Capacity                  MW                    0.88              12.8
           Households Connected                                    3,500              3,500
           Household Peak Load Served         KW                    0.25               3.66
           Price of Power                  Cents/KWh                  40                   6
           Annual Generation*                MWh                   6,167              6,167
           Annual Cost of Generation                           2,466,816            370,022

           Net Present Value (@12%) =                                              6,710,226
           IRR =                                                                         25%

           *Generation is constrained to the diesel generation displaced by project.
           However, the project's transfomrer can deliver 15 times as much power as the
           diesel generators.
           If that amount of power was replaced by diesels, the annual fuel cost would be
           $17.9 million.

       Mazar-e-Sharif Substation and Distribution Rehabilitation
The benefits of the project are estimated based on the avoided costs of the next least-cost
alternative to achieve the project’s objective. The objective of the project was to improve
and expand access to grid-connected power in Mazar-e-Sharif. Prior to the project, the
substation was insufficient to meet local demand and the distribution system was
unreliable.


                                                   35
The primary benefit of the project was increasing the capacity of the Mazar substation
from 32 MVA (26.6 MW) to 82 MVA (65.6 MW), an increase of over 250%. This
allowed the number of DABS customers to increase by nearly 50% from 2008 to 2010
and still nearly double the peak capacity available to each customer from 0.56 kW to 0.98
kW over the same period.

Quantifying the project benefits is difficult, but it is at least reasonable to credit the
project with enabling the actual increase in consumption that the expanded substation and
partially-rehabilitated distribution system allowed. From 2008, before the project started,
to 2010, when the project was substantially complete, consumption in Mazar increased
from 177,000 MWh to 197,000 MWh, an 11% increase over two years. Crediting the
project with this benefit, and assuming that it continued each year over a 20 year payback
period, the estimate of the project’s economic benefit is seen in the following table:

               Summary of Economic Benefit of Mazar Substation and Distribution Sub-Project

                                                  Units        Without Project      With Project
               Cost of Project                                                         23,664,328
               Available Capacity                  MW                      25.6               65.6
               Households Connected                                     45,531              66,779
               Household Peak Load Served         KW                      0.56                0.98
               Price of Power                  Cents/KWh                     6                   6
               Annual Consumption*               MWh                   177,258             197,283
               Theoretical Consumption**                               177,258             454,224
               Annual Cost of Generation                            10,635,480          11,836,980

               Net Present Value (@12%) =                                               (13,115,886)
               IRR =                                                                          0.15%

               *Actual consumption data comparing 2008 and 2010. Data from DABS and AEIC.
               **Based on substation capacity and empirical capacity factor of 79% prior to project.


As implemented, the economic benefit (net present value) of this sub-project is negative,
and it has an IRR of just 0.15%. The reasons for this are as follows:

                The distribution system rehabilitation represented over 85% ($20.5
                 million) of the sub-project’s cost, but since much of the LV work was left
                 unfinished, the project failed to deliver the benefits of the increased
                 substation capacity to the customers.
                Meter installation and actual customer connection were not part of the
                 project scope. Therefore, the benefits of additional customers and
                 increased access to electricity remain largely unrealized by the project.
                The project includes the cost of meters, although no meters were actually
                 installed as part of the project. The meters were delivered, but they did
                 not fit in the meter boxes made by the PCU unit of DABS.

For the relatively minor marginal cost of properly completing the LV system, installing
meters, and making customer connections, this project could have offered the people of
Mazar a much more significant benefit for the investment.


                                                          36
       Environmental and Social Aspects
       Environmental
       The KAMPP did not have any appreciable negative environmental impact. The
       Aybak Substation had a minor localized environmental impact. The size of the
       project-affected area was approximately 5 hectares (200 x 250 meters), which
       includes the area for the substation and additional space for a 110 kV switchyard and
       future expansion. This was sloping land on a hillside that had to be graded and
       terraced to be used for the substation. The major environmental impacts at the site
       were the following:

              Local vegetation destroyed
              Soil erosion at site
              Changed local drainage patterns

       A water well was drilled onsite, but since it failed to reach water, there was no water
       contamination or effect on the local water table.

       However, since the Aybak Substation allowed inefficient diesel generation to be
       replaced by imported Uzbek power (generated primarily by natural gas), it actually
       had a net environmental benefit. The avoided diesel consumption from the 1,100
       kVA generator that supplied the local grid was about 2.2 million liters per year. In
       addition, the improved access and reliability of electricity from the substation allowed
       for a significant reduction in the use of personal generators.

       The other components of the project had no appreciable environmental impact. The
       Mazar substation expansion was on land already used by the existing substation, so
       the total footprint was not expanded. The distribution system rehabilitations in Kabul
       and Mazar only rehabilitated existing lines. In fact, to the extent that the rehabilitated
       lines reduced line losses and allowed for the more efficient transmission of
       electricity, they effectively reduced the system’s environmental impact. Also, since
       as noted in the original contract, the existing lines were dangerous and likely to kill
       someone, the rehabilitation work mitigated that potentially significant impact.
       Social Impact
There were no land acquisition or resettlement plans prepared by the KAMPP contractors.
However, all work was done on lands already used by DABS (the national utility). The
new Aybak Substation was constructed on an unused slope of land provided by DABS,
the Mazar substation expansion was on land already dedicated to the existing substation,
and the distribution system rehabilitations in Kabul and Mazar was work on existing lines
using existing rights of way (ROW).

       Technical Assistance
There was no technical assistance funded under KAMPP.




                                              37
       Project Sustainability
While the KAMPP provided some benefits to the people of Afghanistan, there are serious
questions about the sustainability of the projects implemented under KAMPP. Key
issues affecting sustainability include the following:

              Some of the equipment installed was of poor quality. There were
               particular issues with the concrete poles and distribution transformers
               installed in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif. There is an open question, which
               is still under investigation, regarding whether the poles installed under
               MEW 300/3 (as well as MEW 300/2, which was part of EPRP) are too
               thin to meet the contract specification. A large number of the transformers
               installed failed, and while this was initially blamed by the contractor on
               overloading, inspections by the PMF confirmed that there were in fact
               significant defects in the manufacture and installation of the transformers.
              The installation work of the contractors was not consistently acceptable,
               especially for the distribution work in Kabul and Mazar-e-Sharif. For
               example, the PMF issued the contractor for the Kabul distribution project
               (contract MEW 300/3) 4,345 corrective action reports (CARs) to address
               defects in their work, but they never responded.
              The operation and maintenance training during the projects was often
               inadequate. While O&M training was generally included in the
               contractor’s scope of work, there was no standard of quality or
               competence specified. As a result, training hours were delivered, but not
               necessarily to the appropriate local staff or in an effective manner (e.g., in
               a language understood by the participant).
              The installation contracts included provision of spare parts and equipment,
               but the lists were incomplete and the quantities often inadequate. This,
               coupled with the lack of comprehensive O&M training, will mean that the
               assets installed or rehabilitated under the project will fall into disrepair
               much faster than necessary.

Some of these issues may be resolved during the warranty period, but it must be
acknowledged that the systems installed, particularly the distribution systems, were not
implemented with a focus on quality, longevity, or sustainability.

IV. Performance Assessment
       Bank Performance
       MEW is satisfied with the World Bank’s performance. The KAMPP effectively
       started in 2008, well after early failures implementing EPRP in 2004 – 2006
       prompted significant process improvements in late 2006. Therefore, the KAMPP
       benefitted directly from the following two key administrative improvements made
       under EPRP:

              The memorandum of understanding (MOU) between MEW and the Ministry
               of Finance (MoF) that detailed a streamlined process for procurement and


                                            38
               payment. This created the procedures that allowed the project to be
               successfully implemented.
              The establishment of an outside consultant to serve as the project
               management firm (PMF). MEW’s internal project implementation unit
               lacked the capacity to successfully implement such a large and complex
               project. The PMF provided the necessary technical and project management
               expertise required to successfully implement the project.

       One shortcoming in the Bank’s performance was that the task team leaders (TTL)
       were not able to directly supervise the work in Aybak and Mazar. Although this was
       primarily due to legitimate security concerns, it did contribute to the delays and poor
       implementation of the projects in those cities.

       A second area of concern was that the KAMPP lacked any capacity building or
       institutional development components. Since KAMPP was effectively implemented
       as a supplementary project to EPRP, it relied completely on the technical assistance
       components of EPRP (and later APSDP). However, given that EPRP’s capacity
       building deficiencies were already noted at the time KAMPP was developed,
       KAMPP represents a missed opportunity to improve the capacity building that could
       have supported the implementation and sustainability of both the EPRP and KAMPP.

       Borrower Performance
       As the implementing agency, MEW is satisfied with our performance and that of the
       Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in implementing the KAMPP. In
       reviewing and evaluating our own performance implementing KAMPP, MEW
       recognizes that it needs to continue to improve in the following two areas:

              Facilitating coordination among the various Afghan institutional stakeholders,
               including MEW, MoF, and DABS.
              Project management and technical expertise.

As with EPRP, the challenge during the project implementation was that the roles of
MEW and DABS evolved significantly. Until September 2009, Da Afghanistan Breshna
Mossesa (DABM) was essentially a department within MEW, but after this, DABM
became the commercialized state utility Da Afghanistan Breshna Sherkat (DABS)—a
transition that was supported by the World Bank as part of the EPRP. Prior to the
transition, MEW was the asset owner and DABM was the operator, so the coordination
could generally be managed by directive. After the transition, DABS became both the
asset owner and operator, which made MEW’s role as implementing agency significantly
more complicated. While MEW’s responsibilities as implementing agency didn’t change,
our authority and autonomy to unilaterally fulfill our role was diminished. Since most of
the KAMPP projects started before this transition, the projects were based on
implementation plans that were incompatible with the new institutional organizational
structure.

MEW’s project management and technical capacity are also in need of continuous
improvement. MEW has many dedicated and capable staff working very hard to improve


                                             39
the energy infrastructure of Afghanistan. However, in order for the energy infrastructure
investments of the World Bank and other donors to provide a sustainable benefit to the
people of Afghanistan, the staffs of MEW and DABS need significantly more capacity
building to improve technical expertise and overall project management ability.

V.     Key Lessons Learned
       There were a significant number of lessons learned during the KAMPP. The
       following subsections outline the project-specific lessons learned during the Aybak
       Substation construction and the Mazar-e-Sharif Substation expansion and
       rehabilitation of the distribution system. The third subsection highlights some
       recommended areas of improvement in the general contracting procedures, along
       with some suggestions on how the identified problems might be mitigated.

       Aybak Substation
Key lessons learned from the Aybak Substation sub-project include the following:

          There was no land acquisition or resettlement plan prepared by the contractor.
           The project site was land that DABM (the national utility at the time, which
           has since become DABS) designated for the substation.
          The site design was inadequate. The design firm failed to visit the actual site
           and produce a site-specific design. Most notably, the design excluded the
           line-in line-out (LILO) required to connect the substation with the existing
           transmission line, an access road to the site, and proper drainage. The LILO
           and additional civil works had to be included in Contract Amendment 3 for an
           additional $1.9 million.
          The site provided was on a steep grade. However, the design and scope of
           work were based on a level-graded site, and they were never changed based
           on the actual site conditions. Therefore, significant changes were required in
           the civil design, including two 4-meter retaining walls and additional
           drainage, that were done informally by the contractor without the review and
           approval of the client or the project management firm (PMF).
          There is no water available at the site. The contract specified that a well
           should be drilled, but there was no site assessment done to confirm that water
           would be available. A well was drilled to over 600 meters, the practical
           drilling limit in Afghanistan, but no water was available. Therefore the site
           has to be served by water trucks, which is not a sustainable solution for the
           ongoing operation of the site.
          In general, the front-end engineering required for proper project planning and
           implementation was not performed.
          The factory acceptance test (FAT) procedures were never prepared or
           submitted for approval, and there was no provision in the budget for the PMF
           to supervise the tests. As a result, there were issues with the delivered
           equipment that could have been avoided.
          The security situation in the project area was poor, and the site was threatened
           and attacked several times. Many of the contractor’s staff were Indian
           nationals, and unfortunately the staff and project were targeted. Fortunately,


                                            40
           no one was killed as a result of the attacks, but the security situation did cause
           operational issues and delays.
          The contract specified that the contractor must provide training to the local
           staff. Unfortunately, there was no requirement that the training be suitable,
           sufficient, or even in the local language. As a result, the training provided
           was completely useless, which significantly affects the sustainability of the
           project.
          The Afghan Ministry of Finance (MoF) would not extend the letter of credit
           (LC) beyond the original contract completion date, despite the fact that due to
           delays works were still ongoing. Since the client (MEW) is contractually
           required to maintain a valid LC while works are still ongoing, this meant that
           the client was in breach of contract. The PMF was able to resolve this issue
           by preparing a contract amendment that created and extended the
           contractually meaningless “contract closing date”, which then allowed the
           MoF to extend the LC.

       Mazar-e-Sharif Substation and Distribution Rehabilitation
Key lessons learned from the Mazar-e-Sharif sub-project include the following:

          The original project scope only included rehabilitation of limited parts of
           Mazar’s distribution network. However, when the project started, local
           DABS officials and various political figures demanded that the works be
           shifted and expanded to cover their various constituencies. This resulted in an
           ineffective patchwork of rehabilitation that ultimately achieved very little over
           a wide area. Major distribution projects either need to be well-defined and
           strictly implemented or cover an entire geographically or politically-defined
           area.
          The poor implementation of the LV works and the exclusion of customer
           connections from the project scope—the “last kilometer” and “last meter”
           problems—meant that the benefits of expanding the substation went largely
           unrealized by the residents of Mazar.
          For the distribution system, there was extremely limited front-end engineering
           and design, and a general lack of project management experience by all
           parties. As a result, the program of works in the contract was not sufficiently
           detailed, yet it was accepted by the client, project management firm, and the
           World Bank.
          The project management firm had a project office on site in Mazar.
           Unfortunately, the staff failed to maintain their independence from the
           contractor and DABS, which resulted in overly-optimistic progress reports.
           This was enabled by poor oversight by the PM main office in Kabul.
          Despite the distribution lines being handed over by DABS, there were still
           right of way issues during the project that caused delays.
          Since the contract was awarded with only a preliminary system design, there
           were significant delays caused by final design preparation, review, and
           approval.



                                            41
   There were significant manufacturing defects in the 9-meter poles.
   The contract said that contactor was required to provide a warehouse for
    materials and spare parts, but since the contract only defined an area and not
    the specifications of the warehouse, the contractor decided to call their outside
    laydown yard a “warehouse.” As a result, equipment was damaged in storage.
   The contractor failed to hand over to the client proper procedures and
    documents for operation and maintenance. O&M training of local staff was
    also limited, while will limit the sustainability of the project.
   There were major changes to the scope of work throughout the project, but
    these were implemented with change orders and proposals rather than done
    properly with contract amendments. As a result, the impact on the budget,
    period of performance, and overall project implementation were never
    formally assessed or approved.

General Contractual Issues
The following table highlights some general contracting issues that arose during
implementation of KAMPP. These are presented with some recommendations for
possible means to mitigate these issues in the future.

                     Issue                                    Possible Mitigation
Contractors front-end load major Supply-Install    Change terms of payment to have some
contracts leaving very little incentive to         material/equipment payments due only after
compete installation at site                       installation. Rear-end load payment conditions.
                                                   Prepare separate contracts for material and
                                                   equipment supply with LCB installation
                                                   contracts.
O&M training carried out by contractors was        Training should be a separate component under
not successful                                     Capacity Building, include needs assessment
                                                   and carried out by professionals.
While the Project Manager is required to           Introduce a Special Condition requiring
respond to contractor submissions within 14        Contractor response within a deadline.
days there is no time period for contractors’
responses.
Sanctions for Contractor non-performance           Should include the ability to withhold payment
clauses are limited in the GCC. Only notice of     of invoices during any period of default notice.
default followed by move to terminate is
available.
Contractors can ignore instructions to renew       GCC/SCC should allow withholding payment
Advance Payment or Performance Guarantees.         if BG’s not renewed.
Adequate sanctions not available in GCC.
Effective date is Advance Payment. Delay in        Make effectiveness when LC is effective (i.e.
LC has caused contract delays and claims.          SC)
Poor contract management by contractors.           Contract management processes should be
Claims for extensions of Time for Completion       systematised and available on the WB website.
not properly documented causing loss of
productive time for all parties in negotiating
claims.
Bid evaluation reports were required to be         More stringent selection criteria. More time to
completed in 21 days. As a result not enough       investigate and verify past performance claims.
time and effort was given to investigation and
verification of contractors past performance and


                                           42
                      Issue                                      Possible Mitigation
submitted documentation. Generally
documentation had to be taken at face value to
meet the BER timetable. Result being selection
of poorly performing contractors. (Lowest price,
minimum technically acceptable selection)
Advertised bids have not attracted a large field      Targeted advertising of bids in neighbouring
of good quality bidders. Partly due to the            countries. Road show to attract potential
“Afghanistan Factor” where some bidders do            bidders. Meet with commercial attaches of
not want to enter the Afghan market.                  Embassies.
GCC Clause 40 requires that the Employer and          The contractor can delay agreement thereby
Contractor agree on the extension of Time for         affecting the Employers ability to apply
Completion.                                           liquidated damages.
Contract management processes and procedures          Contract management processes should be
have differed due to changes in interpretation by     systematised and available on the WB website.
different stakeholders
Sanctions available for the Employer for poor         Consider withholding payment or part until
performance or non-performance by the                 performance is satisfactory.
contractor are limited or non-existent.
Contractors front-end load supply & Install           Rear-end load payment terms. Have LD’s
contracts so that there is little (or no) incentive   calculated on the total value of works that
to perform the installation portion on time or        cannot be put into commercial service.
with acceptable quality of work. Liquidated
damages, being applied to the value of
uncompleted work, have little impact.




                                             43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
There were no cofinanciers to this project except ARTF which is Administered by IDA.




                                         44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Sector background – development strategies

-       Afghanistan National Development Framework, April 2002
-       Bank Transitional Support Strategy, February 2003
-       Power Sector Reform Roadmap, August 2003
-       Power Sector Policy, August 2003
-       Power Sector Master Plan, October 2003
-       “Securing Afghanistan’s future” and technical annex on power, January 2004
-       Bank’s Interim Strategy Note FY07-08, April 2006
-       Interim Afghanistan National Development Strategy, 2006
-       Afghanistan National Development Strategy 2008-2013
-       DABS customer database, June 2011
-       Bank Interim Strategy Note, March 2012
-       Bank’s strategy for improving the performance of the power portfolio, September
        2012
-       Power Sector Master Plan – draft March 2013

Preparation stage

-       Project Concept Note (PCN), comments and minutes of review meeting of EPRPII
-       Project Concept Note (PCN), comments and minutes of review meeting
-       Trust Fund proposal (comments and minutes to decision meeting)
-       TF Grant Agreement (comments and clearances)

Implementation stage

Supervision

    -    Implementation & Statues Reports (ISRs) – Sequences 1 to 11
    -    Supervision Missions Aide Memoires and Management Letters:
        - Implementation Review, April 30-May 07, 2008;
        - Implementation Review, November 11-17, 2008;
        - Implementation Review, May 17-24, 2009;
        - Midterm Review, December 14-24, 2009;
        - Implementation Review, August 2- 9, 2010;
        - Implementation Review, December 2011;
        - Implementation Review, May 31, 2012;
        - Implementation Review, March 2013.

Restructurings

-       2009: restructuring paper, comments, clearances and notification
-       2011: restructuring paper, comments, clearances and notification
-       2012: restructuring paper, comments, clearances and notification



                                               45
Others

-   Quality Assessment of Lending Program Report, April 2010
-   Memorandum of Understanding between MOF and MEW, November 2006 (and
    subsequent amendments)
-   ARTF Proposal, Afghanistan Power System Development Project, September, 2008
-   ARTF Proposal, Afghanistan Power System Development Project II, January 2011




                                       46
                       60°E                                                           65°E                                                                                                      70°E                                                                                                75°E

                                                                                                       U Z B E K I STA N
                                                                                                                                                                 TA J I K I STAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                     Surkhan

                              AFGHANISTAN                      TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                 Jawzjan                    Hayratan
                                                                                                                     Hayratan 220kV

                                                                                                                              Naibadad
                                                                                                                                                                 Kunduz                                         Badakhshan
                                                                                                           Mazar-e-Sharıf
                                                                                                            ¯           ¯                Khulm                                         Takhar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          h
                                                                                                              Project Site                                                                                                                       s
                                                                                                                             Balkh                                                                                                       u
                                                                                                                               Aybak Project Site
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  K
                                                                                                                                                      Pul-e-Khumari
                                                                                                                                                                         Baghlan
                                                                               Faryab
                                                                                                                                         Samangan
                                                                                                                                                            Dowshi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         u
                                                                                                   Saripul                                                                                      jsh
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ir           d
                                                                                                                                                                                             an          n
               35°N                                                                                                                                                               H        iP                    Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                      Charikhar                                                                                                                     35°N
                                                                     Badghis                                                                                                          Kapisa
                                   P
                                       a                                                                                        Bamyan
                                           r o                                                                                                                Parwan                                Laghman              Kunar
                                               p a                             e
                                                   m i s u s           R a n g                                                                                         Chimtala
                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                  KABUL
                                                                                                                                                       Kabul Project Site
                                                                                                                                                       Wardak                     Kabul                                               PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nangarhar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INDIA
                                               Herat                           Ghor
                                                                                                                                                                             Logar                                           Khyber Pass
                                                                                                   Day Kundi
                                                                                                                                                                                  Paktia

               ISLAMIC                                                                                                                   Ghazni
                                                                                                                                                                                                Kowst

               REPUBLIC
               OF IRAN                                                                           Uruzgan                                                                                                                              AFGHANISTAN
                                                       Farah                                                                                                     Paktika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KABUL AYBAK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAZAR-E-SHARIF
                                                                                                                     Zabul



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 POWER PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (KAMPP)
                                               Dasht-I Margo                                                                                                                                                                          General Project Area
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT LOCATION
                                                                   Hilmand
                                              Nimroz                                  Kandahar                                                                                                                                                   SUBSTATIONS
                                                                                                                                  0              50        100         150 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NORTHERN TRANSMISSION LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (NTL)* 220kV
               30°N
                                                                                                                                  0                   50                  100 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                                             30°N                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
OCTOBER 2013




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 40291
                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                           GSDPM                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                60°E                               PA KI S TA N                65°E
                                                                                                           Map Design Unit      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     70°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      *NTL financed by other donors and under
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       World Bank Emergency Power Rehabilitation Project (EPR).
