 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14800

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 08/31/2015

               Country: Zambia
             Project ID: P070063                                                    Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Agricultural                  Project Costs (US$M):                      39.58                40.26
                         Development Support
                         Program
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      37.24                37.49
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):                       0.00                 0.00
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                05/16/2006
                                                               Closing Date:            06/30/2012          05/15/2014
          Sector(s):       Agro-industry; marketing; and trade (39%); Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways
                           (38%); Central government administration (12%); Agricultural extension and research (11%)
          Theme(s):        Rural markets (33%); Rural services and infrastructure (33%); Other Private Sector
                           Development (17%); Rural policies and institutions (17%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Hassan Wally               J. W. Van Holst         Christopher David          IEGPS1
                           Pellekaan               Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, pp.5&6) the Project Development Objective (PDO) for the
Agricultural Development Support Program (ADSP) was to: "support increased commercialization of smallholder
agriculture through improved productivity, quality and efficiency of value chains where smallholders participate.

According to the Financing Agreement (FA, p. 4) the PDO for the ADSP was to: "support increased commercialization
of smallholder agriculture through improved productivity, quality and efficiency of value chains where smallholders
participate.

This Review evaluates the ADSP's achievements against the objectives as stated in the Financing Agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  1. Support to Farmers and Agribusiness Enterprises (appraisal cost US$33.2 million; actual cost: US$27.28 million
). This component aimed to increase the degree of smallholder commercialization in Zambia by promoting the
development of a network of well functioning and competitive value chains. The component had the following three
sub-components:
      (a) Supply Chain Credit Facility . The Supply Chain Credit Facility would support three activities: (i) productivity
      improvement and up-scaling of existing outgrower/contract farming schemes; (ii) establishment of new contract
      farming enterprises; and (iii) upgrading processing and marketing capacity of those agribusinesses working with
      smallholders. Funds would be provided for: short term loans to agribusinesses/commercial farmers to finance the
      purchase of inputs, working capital, trade, and inventory/ warehousing loans to smallholders; and medium to long
      term loans to agribusinesses/commercial farmers to finance: investments in assets and technology to improve
     the productivity and quality of the supply at the smallholder level; and technology and marketing investments at
     agro-enterprise level that enhance market access and/or add value to the produce along the supply chain.
     (b) Market Improvement and Innovation Facility . The facility would provide financial resources, on a matching
     grant basis, for the development of innovative business linkages between smallholders and other actors in
     agricultural value chains. Eligible applicants for matching grants would include: (i) organized producer
     associations and related smallholder organizations with developed or developing linkages to agricultural value
     chains, and supporting the development of smallholder farmers; (ii) agribusinesses linked with smallholders,
     involved in processing, trading, and marketing of agricultural and food products/commodities which help to
     improve the growth and competitiveness of smallholder farmers; (iii) input suppliers; (iv) nucleus commercial
     farms working with smallholders; and (v) publicly and privately funded agricultural and industrial institutions and
     trusts.
     (c) Rural Roads Improvement facility. Activities include: (i) road rehabilitation and maintenance works using the
     Output and Performance Based Road Contracts concept; (ii) supervision services for Output and Performance
     Based Road contracts; (iii) capacity building and training for Road Development Agency and National Road Fund
     Agency to enhance their management capacity; and (iv) resources for the Environmental Impact Assessment
     studies.
2. Institutional Development (appraisal cost US$3.9 million; actual cost US$6.67 million).
The component would finance the following activities:

     (a) Improve the public sector’s capacity to provide core public services required to enhance smallholders’
     access to the market as well as improve their productivity and quality. The project would address institutional
     capacity constraints in the provision of public services that are required for strengthening the competitiveness of
     smallholder production systems and planning for exports
     (b) Provide capacity building support to the Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives Department of Policy and
     Planning, Agricultural Marketing Information Centre, Seed Control and Certification Institute, and Zambia
     Agricultural Research Institute. Support would also be provided to the Ministry of Agriculture and Co-operatives
     Financial Management and Procurement and Supplies Units to strengthen their capacity to handle the
     incremental work load related to this project. In addition, since cotton is the main commodity in Zambia organized
     through contract farming arrangements, involving over 200,000 smallholders, the project would support the
     industry's public/private sector partnership institution, namely the Cotton Development Trust.
     (c) Provide support to selected Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives core functions . It would strengthen
     Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives services related to: data and policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation,
     market information and capacity in trade negotiations; seed certification and control; food safety and quality
     standards and phytosanitary services. Activities included staff training (both short term and long term), study
     tours, participation in domestic and regional workshops, consultancy services, limited procurement of equipment
     (office, computing, laboratory and testing), vehicles, civil works and incremental operating costs.
     (d) Increase the capacity of the Cotton Development Trust to conduct entomological research with respect to
     cotton production and to supply an increased amount of foundation seed for further multiplication by the cotton
     industry in order to improve smallholder farmers’ access to quality seed.
3. Project Management and Coordination (appraisal cost US$2.6 million; actual cost US$3.28 million). Project
management and coordination would largely rely on existing Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives institutions and
structures. The proposed project would strengthen Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperative’s implementation capacity
by establishing within it a National Coordination Office (NCO). The NCO would include the following staff: National
Coordinator, Safeguard Specialist, M&E Specialist, and support staff, The salaries of the externally hired staff would
be competitive but within the guidelines for harmonized salary structures in Zambia. The project would finance the
salaries of externally hired staff, limited technical assistance and training, office equipment and vehicles, project M&E
costs, and operational costs.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Cost. According to the PAD (Annex 5) the total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$39.58 million.
The ICR (Annex 1) reported that the total project cost at completion was US$40.26 million. There was a currency
exchange gain of US$2.6 million. This gain was used to "offset increases in project costs due to inflation and the
longer implementation period, and to cover government activities designed to ensure continuity and sustainability of
(project) activities beyond the original closing date" (ICR, p. 6).

Financing. The project was expected to be financed through an IDA Grant worth US$37.23 million. The ICR (Annex 1)
reported that at completion US$37.49 million of the IDA Grant were disbursed representing 100.79% of the amount at
appraisal. Note that rehabilitation of 494 km of roads in two districts were financed by the European Union through
direct budget support to the RDA (Road Development Authority).

Borrower Contribution . The project was 100% financed through an IDA Grant. No counterpart funding was expected
from the borrower according to the financing parameters for Zambia at the time of appraisal (PAD, p. 27). Project
beneficiaries contributed US$2.76 million of counterpart funding compared to an estimated US$2.35 million at
appraisal.

Dates and Restructuring . The project closed 23 months later than the date stated in the FA. Delays resulted from the
complex nature of project design especially procurement activities under the Market Improvement and Innovation
Facility and the Output and Performance Based Road Contracts. These activities were innovative, but needed
up-front awareness by project participants to avoid implementation delays.

The Agricultural Development Support Program (ADSP) was restructured three times (all level two restructurings).

    The first was on September 30, 2008, to "extend the project closing date by 21 months to March 31, 2014; to
     accommodate implementation of the five year Output and Performance-Based Road Contracts; and to reallocate
     US$5.5 million of project funds from Category 3 (sub-loans under Supply Chain Credit Facility) to Category 1
     (goods, works, consultant services and training) to cover higher than expected costs of civil works and consultant
     services" (ICR, p. 4). The Supply Chain Credit Facility was cancelled (ICR, para 18).
    The second was on November 26, 2012, "to reallocate US$6.55 million from the Supply Chain Credit Facility to
     other components, so as not to tie up limited resources. Also, the restructuring involved a change in
     implementation arrangements of one sub-component; amendment of the definition of operating and training
     costs; revision of the Results Framework (RF); and extension of the project closing date to May 15, 2014 to
     accommodate the closing out of all grant activities, especially the rural road contracts under Rural Roads
     Improvement Facility as well as the matching grants under the Market Improvement and Innovation Facility" (ICR,
     p. 4).
    The third was on November 30, 2013, to reallocate funds to cover cost overruns under Category 2 (operating
     costs) arising out of the extension of the project (ICR, p. 4) - but without a change in the closing date.

The Mid-Term Review was conducted on November 9, 2009, one week earlier than the planned date.

The project's restructuring did not result in the need for a "split" evaluation of outcomes.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
Agriculture and agro-processing account for more than 40% of Zambia’s GDP and contribute about 12% of export
earnings. At appraisal the agriculture sector provides employment to some 67 % of the labor force and supplies raw
materials to agro-related industries, which account for some 84% of manufacturing value-added in the country. The
country had 1.5 million hectares of cultivated land with 800,000 small holders whose land accounted for 80% of the
cultivated area (PAD, p. 1).

At project appraisal, objectives were highly relevant to the Government of Zambia strategy for smallholder
commercialization. The objectives were also consistent with the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Zambia (CAS, FY04 to FY07 ) and Zambia’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), covering the period
2002-2004, since both called for sustained economic growth anchored in an export oriented and diversified economy.
The CAS (p. 18) emphasized that a critical part of the diversification strategy was the development of "agriculture that
facilitates opportunities for outgrowers and assists with the additional infrastructure needed to bring agricultural
produce to the market." The project's objectives were also consistent with the Government's National Development
Plan; and with the second strategic priority of the World Bank's Africa Action Plan (AAP), which was to support the
private sector as a driver of growth, through improving export competitiveness, and building skills, especially for the
rural poor.

At project completion, objectives continued to be highly relevant to the country conditions and Government priorities
with respect to the agriculture sector. Objectives are also consistent with the Bank’s current Country Partnership
Strategy for Zambia (CPS FY13-FY16) which "emphasized the importance of the Bank’s support to the agriculture
sector to directly improve the livelihood of rural Zambians (CPS, p. 16)", also, the CPS (p. 22) identified promoting
agricultural growth and diversification as one of the main areas selected to receive financing support. Objectives are
also consistent with Zambia's Sixth National Development Plan (SNDP 2011-2015). The SNDP (p. 9) emphasized
stimulating agriculture productivity and promotion of agro-businesses as one of the main tools to reduce rural poverty
levels. The SNDP (p. 110) reported that the goal in agriculture was to "increase and diversify agriculture production
and productivity so as to raise the share of its contribution to 20% of GDP". This was to be achieved through crop
diversification, improving marketing systems, developing the value chain in agriculture production, and increasing
productivity in farming to ensure national food security, employment and exports.

b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The results framework in the PAD (Annex 3) did not provide a summary of the project's results chain. To the contrary
it merely listed objectives, intermediate outcomes and their indicators. Nevertheless, the detailed component
description (PAD, Annex 4) provided clear and logical links between project inputs and activities, outputs and
expected outcomes.

To achieve the stated objectives, design relied on an integrated approach featured through two main components.
The first would contribute to achieving the objectives through supporting the commercialization of smallholder produce
by supporting the development of well functioning value chains. This would be achieved through providing short and
medium term loans to agribusiness/commercial farmers to finance the purchase of inputs, working capital, trade, and
inventory/ warehousing loans to smallholders and investing in assets and technology to improve the productivity and
quality of the supply at the smallholder level and allow better market access. The project also supported extension,
technology development, technical assistance, and training for organized farmer associations/groups. In addition the
project provided resources for the rehabilitation and maintenance of a network of selected feeder and district roads of
economic importance in high agricultural potential districts on the basis of core feeder roads network management.
These activities were expected to increase number of smallholders linked to market supply chains and high value
markets; movement of increased volumes and value of agricultural products from smallholder production systems;
increased agricultural exports; and reduced transportation costs between producers and markets.

The second component would support improving the public sector’s capacity to provide core public services (data and
policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation, market information and capacity in trade negotiations; seed certification
and control; food safety and quality standards, and phytosanitary services) required to enhance smallholders’ access
to international markets. As a result of supporting these activities, there would be improved information on smallholder
commercialization activities, analytical work on smallholder commercialization issues relevant to the private sector,
increased volume of certified seed, improved SPS services for enterprises and commercial smallholders, and
increased production of quality foundation cotton seed. The third component details project management
arrangements.

However, design suffered from two shortcomings. The first was complexity because it included a diverse set of
stakeholders with varying capacities and roles which were ambitious for the Zambian context. The project also aimed
to introduce several features that were new to Zambia such as the Output and Performance Based Road Contracts
and matching grants through the Market Improvement and Innovation Facility. These approaches were challenging for
the implementers and potential participants. The second was a major shortcoming. The project's design had set up a
potential conflict of interest by assigning the Bank of Zambia (Central Bank) to be both the implementer and regulator
of the Supply Chain Credit Facility (SCCF). The SCCF was therefore cancelled. Had the Facility been implemented it
would have provided a demand-driven line of credit of $12.2 million representing 30.8% of the estimated project cost
at appraisal.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The PDO was to: support increased commercialization of smallholder agriculture through improved productivity,
quality and efficiency of value chains where smallholders participate.

To assess the extent to which the PDO was achieved, this Review divides the PDO into the following two
sub-objectives:

(i) Support increased commercialization of smallholder agriculture through improved productivity

(ii) Support increased commercialization of smallholder agriculture through improved quality and efficiency of value
chains where smallholders participate.

The outputs and outcomes for each of these sub-objectives will be assessed below.

(i) Support increased commercialization of smallholder agriculture through improved productivity
Modest.

Outputs
  By project completion 28 sub-projects (target: 40) were funded under the Market Improvement and Innovation
    Facility. The largest funding share was approved to extension and technology support (79%), followed by
    capacity building support (12%) and studies and pilots (9%). According to the ICR 45,180 beneficiaries were
    targeted through the matching grants compared to a target of 40,000 (ICR, data sheet).
  By project completion 39 technologies were demonstrated and adopted in project areas compared to a target of
    50. These technologies benefitted either smallholder farmers at the production stage, or activities further down
    the value chain as part of the processing of agricultural commodities. No information was provided on the
     adoption rate of new technologies (ICR, data sheet).
    The project was expected to achieve a target of 12,000 ton per year of certified seeds for sale during the project's
     implementation, however, the quantities achieved were only 1,416 tons in 2012 and 1,054 tons in 2013 and by
     the project's close the target had not been achieved because the start of this activity was delayed until 2012 (ICR,
     Data Sheet).
    By project completion, 6,709 tons of fingerprinted seeds were made available on the Zambian seed market
     compared to a target of 7,000 tons and a baseline of none (ICR, data sheet).
    The project supported the establishment and operation of a genetic finger printing bio-technology laboratory at th
     e Seed Control and Certification Institute in Chilanga and the establishment of a seed testing laboratory in
     Choma. According to the ICR (p. 36) both facilities were operational. However, the biotechnology lab is still
     missing the construction of a seed store and a screen house which were delayed due to procurement processes.

    By project completion 60.9 tons of quality foundation cotton seeds were produced, controlled and distributed by
     Cotton Development Trust compared to a target of 68.9 tons and a baseline of 21.9 tons (ICR, data sheet). The
     project supported the Cotton Development Trust with necessary infrastructure including, irrigation system,
     Integrated Pest Management Unit and laboratory, farm equipment and vehicles; and construction of seed storage
     shed. However, the Integrated Pest Management laboratory was not utilized to full capacity due to inadequate
     laboratory equipment (ICR, p. 39).
    The project supported the Seed Control and Certification Institute as well as the Cotton Development Trust. This
     was expected to have a positive impact on productivity through improving seed inspections and provision of
     certified seeds to farmers. The biotechnology laboratory was expected to improve the capacity of the Seed
     Control And Certification Institute to accurately distinguish varieties on a genetical basis, as opposed to visual
     methods. The project met 88% of its production target for sales of certified seeds (Data Sheet).
    The project through the Cotton Development Trust IPM laboratory in collaboration with cotton ginners (ICR, para.
     56) trained cotton farmers in the use of advanced technologies associated product development and quality
     improvement.

Outcome

    According to the ICR (p. 16) the "average yield over the past 4 years for a model group has increased from 607
     kg/ha in the 2008/09 season to 1,158 kg/ha in the 2012/13 season." However, these data came from a group of
     model farms participating in an Integrated Pest Management program. Therefore, although the result for this
     group of model farms was impressive, this group was not a representative sample of farms affected by the
     project. Hence the achievement of this sub-objective was rated as modest.

(ii) Support increased commercialization of smallholder agriculture through improved quality and
efficiency of value chains where smallholders participate .
Substantial.

Outputs
  To facilitate agricultural trade and negotiations, the project supported capacity building activities to the Agriculture
    Market Information Center to upgrade the market information system to help improve the delivery of up-to-date
    and accurate market data to satisfy the needs of farmers, traders and processors (ICR , p. 42).
  By project completion the Development Bank of Zambia was supporting over 6,762 farmers with an average loan
    size of K1,700, thereby supporting commercialization of smallholder agriculture (ICR, p 17). There is no
    information in the ICR of the extent to which this result was attributable to the project.
  A total of 1,131 km of rural roads in five districts were rehabilitated. 637 km were financed by the project
    compared with a target of 540 km and 494 km were financed by EU funds against an unknown target.
  The project helped to strengthen the capacity of the Zambian Agriculture Research Institute in several areas
    including: issuance of phytosanitary certificates; fumigation inspections, nursery inspections, tobacco nursery
    inspections, and tobacco premises inspections (ICR, p. 37).
  The project also provided capacity building support to the Agricultural Statistics and Early Warning Unit to
    perform its mandate including included maintenance of an agricultural database, the Ministry Website and the
    dissemination of information through reports and publications (ICR, p. 41).
  The Policy and Analysis Unit produced only two policy studies compared to a target of seven. According to the
    ICR (p. 42) "the PAU faced several challenges including weak staff capacity and lengthy procurement processes
    that resulted in delays and non accomplishment of the planned tasks."
  The project supported the Agricultural Market Information Center through training 100 staff on market information
    management. At project completion a total of six community radio stations were working with the Agricultural
    Market Information Center on the dissemination of market information (ICR, p. 42).
  The construction of three modern facilities at three border posts was dropped due to "inadequate funds" (ICR, p.
    43). This was a significant shortcoming because Zambia is landlocked and border posts are important for
    international trade. Modernizing these posts would have had a positive impact on the efficiency of value chains.
   Zambia's total exports of targeted value chains/commodities with high export potential (cotton, paprika, chili, soya
    beans, groundnuts, sunflower, honey and coffee) products reached 116,119 tons/year in 2013 (pre-project
    baseline: 65,164 tons/year and target: 80,000 tons/year). The ICR (para 38) while acknowledging that the growth
    in national exports cannot all be attributed to ADSP, noted several project outputs that contributed to an increase
    in exports.
Outcomes

   According to the Output and Performance-Based Road Contract impact study conducted in 2012 which covered
    Choma, Katete and Lundazi districts where roads were rehabilitated using Bank funds resulted in:
      o An increase in traffic volume on rehabilitated roads by over 270% from 52 vehicles per day in 2007 to 194
         vehicles per day in 2012.
      o Average household income increased by four fold from ZMW3,900 per year in 2009 during the baseline
         period to ZMW21,800 per year in 2012.
  The project provided capacity building activities to support relevant departments within the Ministry of Agriculture
    and Livestock, such as the Zambian Agricultural Research Institute (ZARI) and grant facilities, which led to an
    improved capacity of these institutions to provide public services required to support enhanced smallholders’
    access to markets.
      o ZARI, which has the authority to issue sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) certificates, improved its capacity to
         provide agribusinesses, smallholder and commercial farms individuals with phytosanitary certificates;
         fumigation inspections, nursery inspections, and tobacco premises inspections with high rates of satisfaction
         (ICR, para 43) which improved prospects for exports (ICR, para 40).
      o The ICR (p. 32) highlighted several technologies supported by the project which added value to different
         areas of the agriculture value chains including: production and processing of dairy products, Aflatoxin
         management in groundnuts, processing of Jatropha into biodiesel, soya bean production and processing,
         production of high quality organic honey, cage fish farming, modern fish hatchery, and tobacco curing with
         highly efficient use of fire-wood.
      o The ICR also provided some encouraging examples of how the Market Improvement and Innovation Facility
         (MIIF) matching grants were able to facilitate access to export markets, for example, honey exports to
         Norway and dried fruit and mangoes to Denmark (ICR, p. 11).
  Evidence provided in the ICR indicates that the project financed substantial improvements in district (rural) roads
    and enabled considerable achievements in the facilitation of trade in agricultural products.
Based on these results it is plausible to conclude that ADSP achieved substantial increases in commercialization of
smallholder agriculture and improved efficiency of value chains.

 5. Efficiency:
  Ex-ante
The project was expected to generate direct benefits to smallholders participating in organized supply chains through
increased production of high value crops and increased farm gate prices due to quality improvement. This, combined
with improved access to markets, was expected to contribute to increased farmers’ incomes. Economic and financial
analyses were based on the eight representative farm models namely cotton (rainfed and irrigated), paprika (rainfed
and irrigated), coffee (irrigated), soybeans (rainfed and irrigated) and chilli (irrigated), which were developed based on
underlying crop budgets to analyze expected project impacts on farmer incomes. The financial rate of return (FRR) -
before labor, of these farm models ranged from 26% for the development of irrigated soybean production (with US$4
income per day) to above 100 percent for irrigated paprika and chili production (with US$5.3 and $7.8 income per day,
respectively). If all project costs were included in the economic analysis, including investments in public goods, the
economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to be 22%. Sensitivity analysis showed that a 30% increase in costs
would yield an ERR of 13%, while a 30% reduction in benefits would cause the ERR to drop to 7%.

Ex-post
The ICR (Annex 3) adopted an economic and financial analysis of the project that followed the same approach at
appraisal. It was based on five value chains (dairy, mushroom, pre-basic seed cotton, tobacco, and soya beans) that
benefitted from project interventions through the Market Improvement and Innovation Facility, Rural Roads
Improvement Facility and Institutional development components. The analysis was built on the assumption that no
new farm level models needed to be developed since there was no support directly to the farmers, but to their
associations at an aggregate level. The "before the project intervention" scenario was assumed to be zero such that
only the costs and benefits that took place during the project period are included in the calculations of the NPV and
IRR (ICR, Annex 3, para 63), In addition, 2009 constant prices and not current prices were used in the financial
analysis, land cost was not included. On the other hand 15% income tax and 16% value added tax to the Zambian tax
authority were factored in as costs to the enterprises. Annex 3 of the ICR concluded that the financial rate of return
was estimated to be between 45% and 50% but, as explained in footnote 10 on page 17 of the ICR, many costs were
not included in this analysis. The economic rate of return for the value chain activity was estimated to be between
18% and 29.5% (p. 46).
Regardless of the methodology use to estimate rates of return, the ICR (para 59) highlighted that the analysis was
constrained by limitations on the availability of empirical data. Among the reasons was the unwillingness of some
agro-enterprises financed by the Market Improvement and Innovation Facility to release information, especially on the
value of sales and their operational costs.

The ICR did not include an economic analysis of road rehabilitation investments (61% of project costs); and the
discussion on the impact of exchange rate on the competitiveness of the targeted value chains was brief despite the
fact that the PAD (p. 4) highlighted the possibility that exchange rate appreciation (caused by the surging exports of
copper) could undermine the export competitiveness of agriculture. In a communication between IEG and the project
team during the preparation of this Review it became known that 1,131 kilometers of roads) were rehabilitated in the
five districts at the cost of US$27 million or US$23,000 per km. The team also explained that road rehabilitation was
carried out by the Government under the Road Development Authority (RDA); and that financing figures under the
project were comparable to RDA's figures for similar works. However, this is not an adequate basis for judging the
efficiency of road rehabilitation in this project.

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
The project suffered from implementation delays and closed 23 months later than originally agreed in the Financing
Agreement. Delays resulted from the complex nature of project's design especially activities under the Market
Improvement and Innovation Facility and the Output and Performance Based Road Contracts. While these activities
were innovative, they needed up-front awareness by project participants to avoid implementation delays. Significant
implementation delays also resulted from the need to resolve a conflict of interest that arose due to assigning the
Bank of Zambia to be the implementer and also the regulator of the Supply Chain Credit Facility. Finally, procurement
effectiveness suffered from weak capacity which also led to implementation delays.

Efficiency is rated modest due to concerns on the quality of the data used in the economic analysis of the value
chains; the absence of any economic analysis on the benefits/costs of rural road rehabilitation which received 61% of
the project funds, and the implementation delays.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                      Yes                                      22%                                     39%

     ICR estimate                   Yes                                     23.5%                                    39%
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives was rated high while relevance of design was rated substantial. Efficacy of the first sub-
objective was rated modest because the project fell short of achieving a number of its output/intermediate outcome
targets and due to inadequate evidence on the extent to which this sub-objective was achieved, namely improvements
in agricultural productivity. Efficacy of the second sub-objective was rated substantial because of plausible evidence
on improved quality and efficiency of value chains to support the increased commercialization of smallholder
agriculture, benefits based on the important project-financed rural road rehabilitation, and successful support for
capacity building activities in relevant public sector institutions which had positive impacts on the effectiveness of
value chains. Efficiency was rated modest due to concerns on the quality of the data used in the economic analysis of
the value chains; and the absence of any economic analysis of the benefits and costs of rural road rehabilitation or of
the impact of implementation delays. Overall there were moderate shortcomings in the project's achievements.
Outcome is therefore rated as moderately satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    The project's main objective was to support increased commercialization of smallholder agriculture. A major risk
     to the development outcome is the appreciation of the Zambian currency which could undermine the export
     competitiveness of the targeted value chains supported by the project. The ICR (p. 5) reported that mitigation
     would be "coordinated development partners' engagement with Government on policy matters and an active high
     level inter-sector advisory group to advise on volatility risks and related budget support". However, it was not
     clear what complementary actions would be taken by the Government to mitigate the risks. In addition,
      constrained export markets due to the appreciation of the exchange rate would also depress prices in local
      markets.
     Another area of concern is the ability of public institutions to retain the capacity built through this project's
      investment support. The project supported various capacity building activities to relevant departments under the
      Ministry of Agriculture, Zambian Agriculture Research Institute, and the Cotton Development Trust, among
      others. It also financed a biotechnology laboratory at the Seed Control and Certification Institute. The concerns
      are that retaining the capacity built in these institutions would (after project completion) be completely dependent
      on Government budget support.
     Finally, there is a concern that the Government will also not provide adequate budgetary support to road
      maintenance after the expiration of the OPRC contracts. The absence of proper maintenance of rural roads could
      offset gains achieved under this project. In a communication with the project team it was explained that some
      OPRC contracts had already expired and that maintenance for these roads were now covered under the Road
      Development Authority although this does not ensure adequate funding.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    At the request of the Zambian Government, and to contribute to the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) pillar of promoting economic growth and export diversification, the Bank appraised a project that addressed
increasing smallholder commercialization as a means of reducing poverty and enhancing exports.
   Project objectives were consistent with Government priorities and Bank's CAS. Project preparation was
     informed by a number of studies including Zambia Smallholder Agricultural Commercial Strategy. Preparation
     also benefitted from field visits and consultations with smallholders and agribusinesses.
   The project design benefitted from the Bank's experience in other agriculture development projects. Most
     notable was that access to credit was a critical element for the success of supply chain development; the
     need to align matching grant investments for supply chain development with industry needs; and increasing
     the efficiency and sustainability of road rehabilitation works and post-rehabilitation maintenance operations
     for several years through combining them both in one contract. Also, the experience from donor funded
     smallholder commercialization projects in Zambia suggested that funds for smallholder mobilization and
     capacity building should be channeled through industry associations, agribusinesses and farmer
     organizations, in order to have a lasting impact.
   The project's design at entry suffered from two shortcomings; first, it was a complex project that included a
     diverse set of stakeholders with varying capacities and roles in the system which seemed very ambitious. It
     also aimed to introduce several features that were new to Zambia such as the Output and Performance
     Based Road Contracts and the Market Improvement and Innovation Facility which would require more time
     for the implementers and potential participants to fully understand. While design complexity contributed to
     implementation delays, the project managed to overcome these and achieve notable results. Second, there
     was a lack of understanding at appraisal that a conflict of interest would arise by assigning the Bank of
     Zambia to be both the implementer and regulator of the Supply Chain Credit Facility which led to significant
     implementation delays and eventually cancellation of the Facility.
   Several risks were identified at the preparation stage (PAD, p. 17) including limited market opportunities,
     coordination of implementation among several agencies, and elite capture. Appropriate mitigation measures
     were included. OPRC awards and weak contract management due to lack of experience were identified as a
     moderate risk at appraisal, however, implementation experience proved that this turned out to be a high risk
     that needed more attention than anticipated. It was also not clear in either the PAD or the ICR what mitigation
     measures should address the sustained appreciation in the exchange rate of the local currency that resulted
     from a surge in copper exports.
   M&E arrangements suffered from design weaknesses and challenges during implementation (see Section
     10b of this Review).

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Bank conducted regular biannual supervision missions which included visits to the project areas. These
missions reviewed different aspects of the project including implementation progress, financial management and
procurement, safeguard compliance, M&E activities and overall project management and coordination.
   The Bank facilitated restructuring after the Mid-Term Review and worked with the client to bring the project
     back on track after considerable implementation delays
   The Bank team provided support to improve M&E activities and the Results Framework during the Mid-Term
     Review. The indicators were revised to better link them to the components and logically reflect the impact of
      ongoing activities specifically supported by the project. The Results Framework was also updated to include
      the Bank’s mandatory core indicators on gender, roads, finance, and agricultural technology, which were not
      required at the time of project appraisal.
     The team worked to address problems related to the location of the Supply Chain Credit Facility (SCCF) in
      the Bank of Zambia. The team's efforts, in cooperation with the Government, led to the reallocation of some
      funds from the SCCF in the Bank of Zambia to the Development Bank of Zambia to finance management
      support for the provision of term finance as part of a Bank-financed Enterprise Development Project. The
      Bank team also provided support to the financial management unit in the NCO to successfully adopt the
      integrated a financial management information system, and use country financial management systems to
      manage donor funds.
     The Bank was proactive in addressing environmental safeguards with respect to involuntary resettlement
      issues. To address this matter a safeguard mission was sent to Zambia and an Abbreviated Resettlement
      Action Plan was prepared in coordination with the client. This prompt action by the Bank prevented the delay
      and/or suspension of road rehabilitation works supported by the project.
     The Bank team maintained good rapport with the European Union (EU financed road work in two districts
      through Government budget support) and worked together to ensure the success of the Rural Roads
      Improvement Facility.
     The ICR (p. 33) noted that all supervision of the Output and Performance Based Contracts for road
      rehabilitation (including roads financed by the EU) were supervised by ADSP.
     Finally, Bank supervision prepared detailed Aide Memoires that documented Mission findings and
      agreements.


     Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government demonstrated strong ownership of the project. Counterpart funds were provided to the
project annually to supplement IDA resources and office accommodation was provided for the National
Coordination Office. The Government, separately, also supported the private sector to help it contribute to the
project's outcomes. The Government cooperated constructively with the Bank during the MTR to address
implementation challenges and pursue subsequent remedial actions necessary to bring the implementation back
on track and ensure successful completion.

     Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

     The project was implemented under the guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (later
      changed to Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock) through establishing a National Coordination Office (NCO).
      The NCO was to include a National Coordinator, Safeguard Specialist, M&E Specialist, and support staff. The
      NCO was committed to project activities and demonstrated strong effort to get the initially delayed
      sub-components off the ground.
     The NCO was responsible for implementation coordination between several implementing agencies. The
      NCO also provided critical support to the Market Improvement and Innovation Facility that enabled the
      beneficiaries to become successful participants in the value chain.
     The M&E unit at the NCO suffered from weaknesses at the beginning of implementation including limited
      capacity, unfamiliarity with the project's objectives, and lack of coordination between different implementing
      agencies with regards to M&E activities. After restructuring, M&E activities improved and the M&E unit
      successfully collected M&E data and supported several surveys to capture the impact of the project. There
      were also weaknesses in procurement activities (see section 11b of this Review), but the ICR concluded that
      "most procurement resulted in good value for money" (para 30).
     Despite implementation challenges and initial delays, the NCO managed to deliver notable results by project
      completion.

     Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   According to Annex 3 of the PAD the project M&E system was designed to be integrated with the country systems
already in place in order to minimize the need for parallel M&E frameworks. M&E data would be gathered through the
Central Statistical Office and the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit of the Policy and Planning Department of Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives. The Results Framework (PAD Annex 3) featured three outcome indicators to assess
the achievement of the project outcome. In addition, the Results Framework (RF) included fourteen
output/intermediate outcome indicators geared towards assessing the achievements of the project activities. However,
very few of the indicators provided adequate measures of the extent to which the project's objectives were achieved.
The RF design could have benefitted from the inclusion of PDO level indicators that could directly assesses improved
productivity and quality in the targeted value chains, and assess the reduction in post-harvest losses as a result of
road rehabilitation.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Various institutions associated with the project were required to provide information to the M&E unit at the Policy
and Planning Unit of the Ministry of Agriculture. At the beginning of project implementation, M&E was weak because
there was no effective data collection system nor was M&E information produced on timely basis. M&E activities
improved following the MTR. The indicators were revised to better link to the components and logically reflect the
impact of ongoing activities specifically supported by the project. The Results Framework was also updated to include
the Bank’s mandatory core indicators on gender, roads, finance, and agricultural technology, which were not required
at the time of project appraisal. The M&E unit also helped in conducting the impact assessment of the Rural Roads
Improvement Facility that included establishing a baseline in 2009 and carried out a follow up assessment in 2012.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   By project completion the M&E system collected relevant data on various project indicators and helped disseminate
project results among different stakeholders and implementing agencies. The ICR did not provide further details on
how the M&E data was utilized to manage project activities or assess outcomes.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The Project was assigned an environmental category B under OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. The Pest
Management (OP 4.09) safeguard policy and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) were both triggered at appraisal. An
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) was prepared to address the requirements of the OP4.01
and OP4.09. In addition, a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) was prepared to address potential land acquisition
issues of the project under OP4.12 (ICR, p. 7).

Environmental Safeguards . The project funded a full time environmental specialist at the National Coordination Office
to support safeguard compliance by the project and its different implementing agencies. The ICR did not explicitly
report on environmental safeguard compliance, but pointed out (p. 7) that the project "maintained good progress in
implementing the ESMF requirements."

Involuntary Resettlement . An involuntary resettlement issue arose in February, 2009 when some households built
their structures on roads in the Katete district, Eastern province that were subject to rehabilitation works funded by the
project. An Abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan (ARAP) was followed to resolve the issue. The ICR did not provide
further details on whether the issues were resolved. In a further communication between IEG and the project team it
was confirmed that the resettlement issue was satisfactorily resolved.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . Financial management performance was weak in the period prior to the MTR. This was
mainly due to the incomplete computerization of the project's accounting system, and late submission of audit reports.
Also, the attempt by the financial management unit and the National Coordination Office to develop the
Integrated Financial Management Information System was unsuccessful. This system was later substituted with an
integrated financial management system that was successfully used for public financial management. The ICR did not
report whether the project complied with the Bank's policies and guidelines regarding financial management, also, no
information was provided on the status of audit reports. In a further communication, the project team reported that
external audits were unqualified.

Procurement. Procurement suffered from long procedures and inadequate capacity among personnel at the
procurement and supplies unit which contributed to implementation delays. The Bank supported procurement through
carrying out annual post procurement reviews. These were to ensure that procurement standards such as efficiency,
transparency and accountability were being observed and acceptable to the Bank. The ICR (p. 8) highlighted that the
"procurement and Supplies Unit followed sound procedures acceptable both to the Bank and government." The ICR
did not report any cases of misprocurement. To the contrary the ICR concluded that most procurement resulted in
good value for money (para 30).

 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Positive. Rural feeder road improvements have resulted in satellite agricultural depots and collection points by the
side of new roads and the emergence of new village markets.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately         The project's efficiency was rated
                                                            Satisfactory       modest due to concerns about the
                                                                               quality of data used in the economic
                                                                               analysis of value chains, no economic
                                                                               analysis on road investment, and
                                                                               significant delays in implementation.
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate           There were concerns regarding the
                     Outcome:                                                  effect of the appreciation of the
                                                                               exchange rate on export
                                                                               competitiveness and the Government's
                                                                               ability to finance public institutions to
                                                                               support the project beyond its
                                                                               completion date. Also, future
                                                                               maintenance arrangements for
                                                                               rehabilitated roads were uncertain.
            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately         There were shortcomings in Quality at
                                                            Satisfactory       Entry. More diligence should have been
                                                                               exercised at the design stage to reduce
                                                                               the project's complexity and the
                                                                               emergence of a potential conflict of
                                                                               interest in the Bank of Zambia. Both
                                                                               shortcomings resulted in
                                                                               implementation delays.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         M&E was weak at the beginning of the
                                                            Satisfactory       project, but it improved after
                                                                               restructuring. There were also
                                                                               significant procurement delays in
                                                                               connection with the important Output
                                                                               and Performance Based Road
                                                                               Contracts, although the ICR asserted
                                                                               that procurement decisions resulted in
                                                                               good value for money.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR included six lessons, two of these are emphasized below with some editing to reduce the length of the
text:

    Projects with innovative design s should address capacity limitations up -front in order to assure
     implementation success . In particular, when projects include ‘innovative’ activities, time needs to be set aside
     at the project's inception to ensure a clear understanding of project implementation capacity needs.
    Links between producers and markets are critical in a project that seeks to increase commercialization in
     agriculture. Channeling funds through industry organizations, agribusinesses and farmer organizations in
     viable value chains can raise their productivity and quality, and improve incomes.

This Review would add another lesson as follows:

    M&E design must include relevant and measurable outcome indicators . A project that has a complex core
     objective, such as increasing commercialization of smallholder farmers, must establish relevant and
     measurable indicators to assess the extent to which objectives are achieved.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provided thorough coverage of project activities and reported candidly on most implementation
shortcomings. It included six lessons that drew on the project's experience. The ICR also provided clear connections
between various activities supported by the project and included a logical discussion of the outcomes.
However, there were some shortcomings.
   The ICR did not provide cost break down by component and the cost figures in Annex 1 were reported in SDRs
    rather than US dollars as required by the ICR Guidelines. This had to be requested from the project task team in
    a further communication.
   Discussion on Quality at Entry in the ICR was too brief. It did not cover strategic relevance, environmental and
    fiduciary aspects, implementation arrangements, risk assessments and monitoring and evaluation.
   The ICR provided very little information under 'Implementing Agencies' Performance' on the contributions of the
    many public institutions involved in implementation including such as the Seed Control and Certification Institute,
    the Zambia Agricultural Research Institute, and the Cotton Development Trust.
   The ICR did not provide explicit information on safeguard and fiduciary compliance and this required follow up
    with the task team.
   The ICR did not report on the candor of the periodic Implementation Supervision Reports.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
