Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
r i  1     N I., 1   I
Au'ni .1rot No. P-5905-BUL
S.'.t  ,, ei,', I-X a.    I ',   ..i '-   1 ''1, F
lE1ORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECtIVE DIRECTORS
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$93.0 MILLION
TO THE
NATSIONALNA ELEKTRICHESKA KOMPANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR AN
ENERGY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 3, 1993
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CMF    EQUI S  ] =VALE NTS
Currency unit  lev (plural leva), abbrev. Lv
US$1   182 Lv average 1991
US$1 - 232 - 23.5 Lv est. average 1992
1 Megawatt (MW)                                1,00 kilowaus (101 lCw)
1 Gigawatt (GW)                                I mulion kIlowatts (1  Kw)
1 Gigajoule (GJ)                               239,000 kilocaloies (kcal)
1 Terawatt (W)                                 I billion kilowa
1 kIlocalorie (kel)                            3.968 British Thermal Units (btu)
1 Gigacalorie (Gcal)                           1 million dlocories
1 Joule (J)                                    .24 calories
1 Gigajoule                               -   109 joules or 948 million btu
1 klowatt hour (Kwh)                     =   3411 BTU, 859.6 kcal
1 kilovolt (kV)                                1000 volts
1 kilogram (kg)                                2.2 pounds (lb)
I tonne (metric ton)                           1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
1 meter (m)                               =   3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kn)                          =   1,000 m = 3,281 ft
I billion m' (bcm)                             353 bilLion ft3
1 hectare (ha)                                 2.47 acres
ACRONYMS
CEC        Commison of European Communities
CMEA       Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
C uE       Committee of Energy
COM        Council of Ministers
COP        Commission on Prices
CHP        Combined Heat and Power
EIB        European Investment Bank
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMS        Energy Management System
FGD        Flue Gas Desulfurization
FSU        Former Soviet Union
IAA       International Atomic Energy Agency
ICB        International Competitve Bidding
IEA        International Energy Agency
IFS        Interconnected Power System (of CMEA)
MA.SI,   Meters above sea level
MCE        Maimum Credible Eartiquake
MOF        Minity of Fmiace
NDC        National Dispatch Center
NEK        Natsionalna Elktcheska Kompania
NMP        Net Material Product
NODRC   National Organization of Dams, Reservoirs and Cascades
PIU        Project Implementation Unit (witlin NEK)
RDC        Regional Dispatch Center
SCADA    Supervis    Control and Data Acquisition System
SRDC       Sub-Regional Dispatch Center
UCFTE    Union for the Coordinat    of Production and Transport of Electrity (West European Grid)
UDF        Union of Democratic Forces
USAID      US Agency for Interional Development
USTDP    US Trade and Development Program
WANO    World Association of Nuclear Operators
WASP       Wien Automated System Planning Model
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMICIL USE ONLY
BlULGARIA
Lm and ZWPummamm
*                                                    Natsionalna Elektricheska Kompania (NK
Guarantor                           Republic of BulgWia
AmQnIt                              US$93 Millina Equivalent
-Ten=                               17 yews, incding 4 years of gace
cinsdag PhM.                        IBRD Loan    USS 93.0 milon
NEK           US$ 33.0
Total       US$126.0 m;llion
=== ====._
EconmicRat atRetrn*19.0%
AmmD   alRegOOM                    Report No. 11250-BUL
No No.:                             IBRD 24233
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizn,'-



* 
MEMORANDU QAED RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE NATSIONALNA ELEXTRINCESKA KONPANIA OF BULGARIA
WITH A GUARANTEE FROM THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR AN ENERGY PROJECT
Part I: Introduction
1.          The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed Loan to the
Natsionalna Elektricheska Kompania (NEK) of Bulgaria, guaranteed by the Republic
of Bulgaria, for a total amount of US$93 million equivalent is submitted for
approval.   The proposed Loan would be on standard IBRD terms with 17 years
maturity, including four years of grace.  It would help finance completion of a
pumped storage project, improvements in the supervisory control and network
transmission systems, and technical assistance for NEK.  The benefits would
include increasing efficiency of NEK, reducing generating costs, enhancing the
stability of the electric grid, and improving dam safety.
Part II: Country Policies and Bank GrouD8s Assistance Strateaw
Background
2.          Bulgaria joined the World Bank in September 1990. An economic report
entitled "Bulgaria - Crisis and Transition to a Market Economy* (Report No. 9046-
BUL), which provided a detailed analysis of the Bulgarian economy as of end-1990,
was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1991. Sector reports on
energy and the environment hav, also been completed.' An Economic Review is
currently under preparation for the upcoming CO meeting.
Recent Political and Economic Developments
3.          Bulgaria is a lower-middle income country with a population of about
9.0 million. Under the Communist Government (1946-89), economic activity was
controlled by the state, with the exception of small family plots in agriculture
and private housing.   Centralized economic control promoted industry at the
expense of Bulgaria's comparatively competitive agriculture, resulting in the
expansion of the industrial sector from about 26X of Net Material Product (NMP)
in 1946, to an estimated 60X of NHP in 1989. Industrial development was heavily
influenced by Bulgaria's strong ties with the CMEA block and, in particular, the
Soviet Union. The Bulgarian economy was also characterized by massive price
distortions and direct state control over resource allocation, and was insulated
from international competition via a complex mix of subsidies, taxes and foreign
exchange rationing.   Nonetheless, international trade continued to play a
significant role in the economy, with total trade (exports plus imports)
1/  See, Bulgaria:  Environment Strategy Study, Report No. 10142-BUL, March
17, 1992 and Bulgaria: Energy Strategy Study, Report No. 10143-BUL, April 30,
1992.



-2-
equivalent to an unusually high. 80X of GDP in 1989. Two-thirds of this trade was
with CMEA member countries. As a result of the trade and industrial orientation
of the economy towards the CMEA, Bulgaria was especially vulnerable to the crisis
which enveloped Eastern Europe and the Former Soviet Union (FSU).
4.          The political and economic crisis of the Communist system caught up
with Bulgaria in November 1989. Todor Zhivkov, the country's leader since 1956,
was removed from power, and free elections took place in June 1990.   The
country's first elected government, led by the (formerly Communist) Socialist
party, was formed in September 1990. Unable to gather support for its reform
program and beset by popular opposition, it ¶esigned in November 1990 and was
replaced by a broad-based coalition government in December 1990. This coalition
government was charged with implementing economic reforms and holding new
national elections.   The coalition government achie-ed these objectives,
launching bold economic reforms in February 1991 (see below) and holding
elections in October 1991.
5.          The elections were a confirmation of the public's support for the
reform program in that the pro-reform party, the Union of Democratic Forces
(UDF), won a plurality of seats in the Parliament. However, the UDF required the
cooperation of the Turkish-minortty party (the Novement for Human Rights and
Freedom--MRF) for an absolute Parliamentary majority. During the latter half of
1992, political tensions grew both within the UDF and between the UDF and the
MRF. In October 1992, these tensions culminated in the Government's resignation,
after a parliamentary vote of no-confidence. A new Government, supported by
centrist members of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, the MRF and some elements of
the UDF, was approved by Parliament in late December 1992. It is headed by a
former economic advisor to the President and is considered to be a 'Government
of experts" without strong political affiliations. The Government has publicly
endorsed structural reforms and announced its intention to accelerate their pace.
6.          At the onset of the transition in 1990, Bulgaria's ecjonamic
Rer"MM=  deteriorated rapidly, due to the collapse of the communist system,
external economic shocks and delays in implementing required economic reform
measures. The disintegration of CMEA trade during 1990, coupled with the overall
contraction of East European economies, disrupted supplies of vital imported
inputs and caused a considerable decline in Bulgarian exports. The Government
was unable to service its large external debt obligations as result of these
shocks and unilaterally suspended debt payments by the Foreign Trade Bank, which
is responsible for virtually all of Bulgaria's foreign commercial debt. Thus,
the trade shock could not be offset via imports from convertible currency
countries, as access to foreign capital inflows was cut. The situation was
exacerbated by the Gulf Crisis which resulted in higher oil prices, and curtailed
oil supplies. As a result of these developments, GDP declined e" estimated 12X
in 1990, with inflation accelerating (see Table 1).
7.          In response to the rapidly deteriorating economic situation, Bulgaria
began implementing comprehensive economic reforms.  The reform program was
initiated in February 1991 by the coalition government. After a slowing in the
pace of structural reforms in the period before and after the October 1991
elections, the UDF Government moved to accelerate and deepen the reforms. Much
has been achieved. A firm macroeconomic stabilization program was put in place,
supported by a consistent incomes policy and the adoption of a unified, market-



based, floating exchange rate.   Important structural reforms were also made:
(i) price liberalization (with the exception of certain energy rnd transport
prices) and the establishment of market-based relative prices as the economy was
opened to external competition; (ii) passage of legislation and implementing
regulations for returning agricultural land to private owners; (iii) initiation
of a program for the sale of small state-owned enterprises, demonopolization of
large state enterprises, passage of a broad Prioratization Law and establishment
of a Privatization Agency; (iv) major adjustments in energy prices; (v) banking
sector reforms including the creation of a two-tier banking system and agreement
with the Ban1' .n a comprehensive restructuring of the financial sector; and (vi)
steps toward strengthening the social safety net by amending the Pension Law and
developing a social assistance program. In addition, two meetings with the Paris
Club have been held rescheduling Bulgaria's official obligations through early
1993. The Government also initiated direct negotiations with external commercial
creditors regarding a possible debt and debt service reduction (DDSR) deal.
Table lo BUWSIMA - IMEY MCROlMlC IIIICATIR8
Actual
1990           1991             1992
Roil Groqth Rates LZ uo.q.
GDP                                   -11.8         -22.9              -8.1
Export. of aGYS                      -27.5          -27.6              -7.7
imports of =Ws                        -15.1         -42.1              -4.0
Total Consuwtion                       0.6          -11.9             -10.4
Total Imvestagt                       -21.9         -67.5              14.9
Maroeconamic Balamees (Z of GD?)
Current account balanes /k
Doe basts /k                        -13.2          -7.5              -9.0
Cash basis /k                        -9.0           2.5              -0.6
Nm-interest urret account /,          -4.2            3.1               0.3
Geneeal goverment balance /I
Due basis /k                        -12.7         -14.8             -14.2
Cash basis /k                        -8.S          -3.8              -6.0
Debt servtce/ezport
Due beais                            76.9 I/       91.8              144.6
Paid basis                           26.4 /j        4.9               8.2
Debt/exports                          149.6 /j      207.0             258.0
Debt/GDP                               48.4 /S      136.4             126.0
Stratmre of the geonom  (Z of GDP) /a
Gross national sav*ng                 21.4           15.3              14.8
Fixed investment                      21.3           10.0              11.4
Total aonsumption                     74.4           85.0              84.4
FNM am:
Tnflation /j                          30.0          295.8              76.9
International reserves (Use blna) /&/g  0.1           0.7               1.4
Fibths of imports /i                  0.2           1 9                8.6
Debt outstanding 6 disbursed /^       10.2 /i        10.4              12.2
(DS9 bina)
/j For the last year of mlti-yoar petiods
/k The difference between cash and due basis is unpaid interest an Bdulgarias external debt
/L As measured by GDP deflator
/i Includes escow account for WUS deal
/j bstimates based an incoWplet data
source: Wold Damk Staff Estimates



-4-
8.          The transition to a market economy has been especially difficult with
drastic declines in output, employment, and incomes, primarily due to Bulgaria's
heavy dependence on CMEA trade. Recorded real GDP is estimated to have declined
by about a third since 3990. International trade has also fallen to about 401
below the 1990 level. Unemployment increased significantly, from 1.6X at the
beginning of 1991 to about 10 by the end of the same year, and reached 15X in
late 1992. Measured real wages fell by about 341 in 1991, but this needs to be
interpreted in the context of a large rise in wages during 1990 and the use of
official prices (and corresponding shortages and black market prices) in the base
period.  Since the major price liberalization in February 1991--when prices
almost tripled over a two month period--the underlying rate of inflation has
slowed dramatically.  Estimates of inflation during 1991 indicate an annual
inflation rate of almost 300X but inflationary pressures moderated during 1992,
averaging about 801, as a result of the easing of the secondary effects of the
adjustment to world prices and the contraction in domestic demand.
9.          Political uncertainty and unavoidable expe.nditure pressures led to
some loss of fiscal discipline in late 1992. The budget deficit exceeded the
Government's target, reaching about 6X on a cash basis. Unavoidable expenditure
pressures arising from the partial resumption of foreign interest payments (in
the context of DDSR discussions with commercial creditors), and mounting
unemployment (reaching about 151), combined with a considerable erosion of the
revenue base, were the primary cause of the higher deficit. But, in addition,
concessions on wages and salaries and a postponement of energy price increases,
which were a direct result of the political crisis, also contributed. Therefore,
containing fiscal pressures is a key policy objective for 1993 and the new
Government is actively formulating its 1993 budget based on the need to reduce
inflationary pressures in the economy. One bright spot in 1992 was the upturn
in exports to convertible currency markets, which offers an early indication that
the economy is beginning to respond to improved economic incentives.
World BanJk Activities
10.         Bulgaria has been very receptive to Bank support and advice since
November 1989, and the policy dialogue has been close and productive through the
various governmental changes.  Beginning with the preparation of the first
economic report, the Bank's assistance strategy to Bulgaria has been: (i) policy
advice and institution building attached to adjustment lending; (ii) analytical
and financial support for a long-term solution to the external debt problem;
(iii) preparation of investment lending; and (iv) aid coordination through the
recently established Consultative Group.
11.         The centerpiece of the Bank's initial activities in Bulgaria was a
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) of US$250 million, approved in August 1991.
This loan supported structural reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors,
trade policy, and the social safety net. The SAL was prepared in parallel with
a Technical Assistance Loan of US$17 million, which was approved in June 1991,
and laid the groundwork for the reform program in the SAL. The first US$150
million tranche of the SAL has been fully disbursed. Second tranche release is
delayed due to the need to adopt prudential regulations for the banking sector;
it is expected to be disbursed shortly. The Bank's economic work has supported
adjustment lending, and sector reports in energy, the environment and
telecommunications have laid the basis for future investment lending. Under a



-5-
Japanese Grant Agreement, the Bank is providing technical assistance in debt
management. The Bank also prepared the major analytical inputs for the first
Consultative Group meeting in April 1992.
Develonment Agenda and Key Challengea fox t:h 1990s
12.         Despite progress  to date,  Bulgaria still  faces  a formidable
development agenda.   The ultimate objective of this agenda is to place the
economy on a sustainable growth path consistent with greater economic efficiency
and both external ard internal stability. This will require confronting six key
economic challenges.  Firzti , macroeconomic policies must stabilize the economy,
while helping to establish a foundation for sustainable growth in the medium
term.   Sacon, transforming state enterprises, including privatization and
*         enterprise governance, is the key to laying the foundation for a strong supply
response.   Third,  reforming the banking sector,  i.e.,  the restructuring,
recapitalization and privatization of state commercial banks, is essential to
support private sector development. Egith, restituting land and decontrolling
agricultural prices are keys to unlocking Bulgaria's agricultural potential.
Fifth, developing a more effective social safety net and efficient delivery of
social services are essential to avoiding serious social dislocation. And sixth,
modernizing Bulgaria's physical infrastructure, especially in energy/electricity
and telecommunications, and building environmental safeguards are needed to
support and ensure the sustainability of private sector growth.
13.         Macroeconomic stabilization.  The core element of the macroeconomic
agenda for both near-term stabilization and longer-term structural change is far
reaching fiscal reform.   Progress has been made in controlling the budget
deficit, but further budgetary reforms in both expenditure management and tax
policy are required, as are procedures to manage fiscal decentralization.
Additional expenditure pressures are arising from: the costs of enterprise and
financial sector reforms; the public investment program; rising external debt
payments; and the social safety net. At the same time, fiscal revenues have
fallen significantly from 531 of GDP in 1990 to 341 in 1992, primarily due to the
contraction of the revenue base--mostly financial and non-financial public
enterprises--and as it takes time to tax the emerging private sector.
14.         Neeting critical expenditure needs requires controlling wages and
salaries, reducing subsidies, and rationalizing and controlling expenditures in
other areas, such as defense and non-critical social expenditures, e.g., poorly
targeted cash benefits.   The Government has made progress in restructuring
expenditures, reducing subsidies from 15X of GDP in 1990 to about 31 in 1992, and
imposing ceilings on wage growth. While a further reallocation of expenditures
towards priority areas can help, public resource mobilization must bear most of
the burden. The Government has proposed a fundamental restructuring of the tax
base: a VAT, supplemented by a new system of profit and personal income taxes.
Tax legislation has been presented to the Parliament and is expected to be
approved during 1993. The current versions of these tax laws, however, have high
marginal rates and rates which differ across sectors of the economy. The rate
structure of the new tax system must be made consistent with private sector
development, equalizing tax treatment across sectors and tax instruments, and
ensuring that high marginal rates do not result in widespread evasion by the
emerging. private  sector.      Furthermore,  careful  management  of  fiscal



-6-
decentralization will be required to ensure that expenditure assignment in key
areas is matched with local revenue potential.
15.         Transftormtion   of   the   state   entexprise   sector.        The
co_mercialization, restructuring, privatization and, as necessary, liquidation
of thousands of state enterprises lies at the heart of Bulgaria's structural
reform. Making existing enterprises operate more efficiently is essential to
free resources for the private sector and to ease pressures on credit markets.
The Government has acted in four key areas: (i) the demonopolization of large
conglomerates; (ii) the restitution of small service and trade enterprises;
(iii) the strengthening of financial discipline through the elimination of
budgetary subsidies (outside of the energy sector), a tightening of credit and
controls on wage bills; and (iv) the establishment of a framework for
privatization with a broad Privatization Law and its implementing regulations,
and the formation of the Privatization Agency (PA). In addition new managers
have been appointed in many enterprises, and a process of identifying chronic
loss-making enterprises has been initiated.
16.         Actual privatization has been slow, due to the Government's limited
administrative capacity as well as the priorities given to restitution and to the
proper valuation of assets sold.  Furthermore, many small service and trade
enterprises are owned and controlled by municipal governments which have little
incentive to privatize them. Financial discipline is, to some extent, undercut
by inter-enterprise arrears and some access to bank credit.   lnterprise
anagements have limited ability to carry out effective restructuring programs,
and the Government has taken a proactive role only reluctantly, partly because
of its limited technical and financial capacity to do so. The actual closing of
nonviable enterprises is inhibited by the weakness of the banks and the lack of
a suitable bankruptcy law.
17.         Swift action to transform the enterprise sector is essential to a
successful transition.   While the legal framework for privatization is now
established and the PA's annual privatization programs for 1992 and 1993 have
been approved, progress on privatization has only just begun. For small-scale
privatization, auctions are scheduled for early 1993 to privatize some small
enterprises, but fiscal incentives may be necessary to induce more of the
municipalities to act quickly. For large enterprises, intensive negotiations are
currently underway for several privatizations. Also, li"LdjLtion of non-viable
enterprises must be accelerated; recent Government action to close the uranium
mines and related activities is a positive first step, but needs to be replicated
in other subsectors. Finally, a restruc lng and rationalization of the energy
sector and other critical industries needs to be undertaken. The energy sector
is the major remaining source of budgetary subsidies (primarily district heating
and briquette production) and inter-enterprise arrears, and its rationalization
bas important implications for the soundness of the financial soctor, budget
balance and social stability.
18.         Financial sector reform. Significant progress has already been made
in establishing the framework for financial sector reform.   In 1992, after
intensive consultation with Bank and Fund staff, new central banking and
commercial banking laws have been enacted and supported under the SAL. Moreover,
the shares of the state-owned banks have been transferred to a new Bank
Consolidation Company (BCC), which is responsible for directing the process of



-7-
bank mergers into larger, more viable institutions. The first consolidated bank,
involving the merger of 22 banks into one, began operation in 1993. A number of
private banks have been established over the last two years and are fully
operational. Also supported by the SAL, basic prudential banking regulations
have been drafted and will soon be formally adopted, and banking supervision is
being strengthened.
19.         With the institutional and legal framework for banking reform largely
in place, actions need to be taken in four inter-related areas: (t) comlete the.
consolidation of state banks, leaving 8-10 state banks; (ii) clean oUt the
*        inhexited bad debts in the portfolios of these state banks; (iiI) recapitalize
them; and (iv) adopt a suitable bankruvtcy Xaw to allow banks appropriate legal
recourse in dealing with bad loans. Eventually, the remaining state banks should
be privatized. The Government recognizes the need to take action in these areas,
but rapid action is required to put the financial sector on a sound basis. Good
progress is now being made in consolidating existing state banks, as more
consolidations have been proposed by the BCC. Regarding bad loans, Bank staff
have commented extensively on a new regulation approved by the Council of
Minis:ers establishing the institutional mechanism for the exchange of bad debts
for government bonds, and have suggested a detailed plan for its implementation
which is within budgetary parameters. Finally, a new Bankruptcy Law is being
drafted by the Council of Normative Acts, and it is expected to be approved in
early 1993.
20.        A4icultural reforms.   Bulgaria's agriculture sector has great
potential. Land ownership reform is a key priority for unlocking this potential.
Without the quick restitution and distribution of agricultural land, Bulgaria
could face rising food imports and the loss of potential export revenues as the
agricultural collectives would cease production and the lack of ownership rights
would inhibit a supply response from private farmers. A strong supply response
in agriculture is also necessary to support economic growth. To complement land
reform, the Government needs to liquidate the non-land assets of the agricultural
collectives, and to bring more competition into food distribution and agro-
processing.  Finally, indirect price controls in the form of maximum profit
margins, which are supported by export restrictions, applied to the retail prices
of six essential foodstuffs during 1992, which constitute about 40X of
agricultural production. These indirect price controls and the associated trade
controls depress returns to farmers and lower agricultural output.
21.         In 1992, the Government took steps to accelerate progress in land
restitution, by amending the Land Act and reorganizing the institutional
arrangements. As a result, about 10-15X of land has now been returned to the
original owners. The Government has also committed to an ambitious schedule for
implementing land restitution, which implies that it will be largely completed
by end-1993. Moreover, export quotas for grains were replaced by export taxes,
albeit at very high rates, in September 1992; the Government also signalled its
intention to remove the remaining export quotas on agricultural products. Four
key steps are needed to ensure a strong recovery in the agriculture sector:
(i) accomplishing the land restitution on schedule; (ii) completing the shift
from export quotas to export taxes, and gradually lowering these taxes;
(iii) phasing out the remaining indirect price controls; and (iv) liquidating the
non-land assets of the cooperatives and allowing competition in the distribution
network.



-8-
22.         SocIal sector policies. An effective program of social insurance and
assistance and efficient delivery of social services are essential to avoid
serious social dislocation and its attendant political instability.   At the
beginning of the transition, Bulgaria had a comprehensive social safety net
(contributory social security, and free social assistance, education and health
care services).   However,  these programs were not well targeted.   As a
consequence, the system was not cost effective and posed a threat to
macroeconomic stability, while, at the same time, it did not help adequately the
truly needy.  Under the first SAL, progress has been made in a number of areas:
a program has been developed to provide social assistance on the basis of income,
wealth and employment tests and to lessen the incentives to remain unemployed;
social insurance contribution rates have been adjusted; the Pension Law was
amended to raise the retirement age, to scale back rights to early retirement,
to tax the pensions of those who continue to work and to provide an incentive to
work beyond the minimum retirement age; and some changes have been made in family
allowances.
23.         A substantial agenda, however,  still remains.   A draft sggial
assistance law. to increase real cash benefits while improving targeting to
lower-income groups, needs to be passed and implemented. Adjustments are needed
in sick-leave provisions, as the current system invites fraud and abuse. Also,
a comprehensive reform of the social security system, along with an exploration
of options to stimulate the provision of private insurance, is required to ensure
adequate old-age income security at an affordable cost.   The Government is
committed to a comprehensive reform of the social security system. However, as
in most countries, undertaking a comprehensive reform of the social security
system will not be easy. To facilitate the necessary consensus building, the
Government indicated that it wishes to prepare a White Paper on social insurance
and reform options, with funds provided by the Bank's Technical Assistance Loan.
Finally, reforms in the organization, management and financing c' social service
delivery are needed to maintain Bulgaria's high social indicators in the face of
political decentrolization and the transition to a market economy.
24.          odernizing Dhysical infrastructure.  Public investment fell to the
extremely low level of about 3X of GDP in 1992, as a result of the need for
expenditure compression for macroeconomic stabilization.   This low level of
public investment poses a threat to the growth of productive capacity in the
economy.  In telecommunication.4 and the energy sector, large investments are
required to modernize sector capacity to meet even existing demand.   In the
electricity subsector, for example, repair of existing plants, additional peaking
capacity and strengthening of the supervisory control system and transmission
network are needed to reduce outages and control frequency. In other sectors,
particularly transport, there may be a need to scale back plans for expansion.
Building up the capacity to evaluate and screen investment projects according to
economic criteria and, to budget adequately for their execution in the medium-
term budget framework are also key priorities.
25.         The environment in Bu1.S&ria deteriorated significantly during the
past 45 years.  However, the probiem is less widespread in Bulgaria than in many
other Eastern European countries and is primarily concentrated in certain hot
spots. The most serious environmental concerns are: air pollution from heavy
industry which endangers health in several cities; serious river pollution from
industrial plants, feedlots and municipal sewerage systems; contamination of



-9-
drinking water with nitrate in some regions and with heavy metals in a few
locations; and, an unsafe nuclear power plant at Kozloduy. The Government is
developing a strategy to address these issues.   Rational pricing of energy
resources will eliminate incentives to overuse energy and other resources,
thereby reducing pollution. Furthermore, the Government is developing plans to
improve the safety of its Kozloduy nuclear plant though this will be expensive
because of the large size of the plant which provides around 36X of domestically
produced electricity.
The External Environment
26.         In addition to the challenges of macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reforms, Bulgaria's development prospects face two important external
constraints:   (i) access to foreign markets for Bulgaria's exports;  and
(ii) access to adequate levels of external finance, including a reduction in
Bulgaria's external debt burden.
27.         Resuscitating and reorienting international trade is a key priority
for the Government. While improving Bulgaria's export performance will depend
critically on its macroeconomic policies and structural reforms, the
receptiveness of foreign markets will also be an important element in Bulgaria's
success. Two factors are important: Bulgaria's ability to penetrate western
markets, particularly the EC; and the revival of growth in other former C2EA
countries, particularly the FSU. Currently, Bulgaria's comparative advantage is
highest in commodities such as iron and steel, textiles, clothing, footwear,
certain chemicals, food and food products, which are among the most heavily
protected commodities in western markets. Bulgaria's association agreement with
the EC has now been initialled and is expected to be signed in the next several
months.   This agreement does increase Bulgaria's access to EC markets, but
Bulgaria will continue to face restrictions on some important cormodities, such
as textiles, steel, chemicals and wine. Progress on securing furtaer access for
Bulgarian exports will be a key factor in the economy's medium-term prospects.
Also, much of Bulgaria's industrial development had been geared towards CMEA
markets. As a result, the collapse of Eastern European and former Soviet markets
has had a severe effect on international trade. In addition, the conflict in the
former Yugoslavia and the associated embargo have eliminated an important market
and raised the cost of shipping Bulgarian goods to western markets. The limited
prospects for a revival of CMEA markets is another important factor likely to
continue to constrain Bulgaria's medium-term prospects.
28.         Restoring Bulgaria's access to normal capital flows, including trade
finance, will also be a key factor in the economy's medium-term prospects.
Reducing the economy's external debt burden by reaching satisfactory agreements
with Bulgaria's creditors will be crucial in this regard. Progress has already
been made toward resolving this problem. A recent meeting of the Paris Club
rescheduled Bulgaria's official obligations through April 30, 1993 and indicated
that Bulgaria's remaining 1993 obligations should be rescheduled early in 1993.
Regarding Bulgaria's commercial debt, both the Government and the commercial
banks have agreed that debt and debt service reduction (DDSR) is necessary if
Bulgaria is to normalize its relations with international financial markets.
Concluding a DDSR agreement with commercial creditors is a key priority of the
new Government. Broad agreement on basic principles, as well as a consensus on
the menu of options, has been achieved. However, several factors complicate the



- 10-
negotiations which, as in the experience of other countries, may be protracted:
these include the large share of short-term debt; the dispersion of debt among
more than 300 creditor banks; and the limited capacity of Bulgaria to make
interest payments over the medium term. These difficulties notwithstanding,
discussions with commercial creditors have recently advanced and the Government
started making partial interest payments in October 1992. Agreement in 1993 is
now considered feasible.   A successful agreement and further Paris Club
rescheduling would be significant steps towards restoring external credit-
worthiness and ensuring an adequate level of external finance to implement the
Government's adjustment program.
Medium-Term Prosnects
29.         The Government has embarked on a far-reaching domestic reform
program, at the same time that the economy has suffered a large decline in the
terms of trade and the level of trade. The situation was compounded by the
difficult external circumstances which prevailed at the outset of the program,
namely a large external debt overhang and severely limited access to foreign
capital. Consequently, the economy has been forced to adjust to a sharp fall in
the level of real income over a very short time period. Bulgaria's economic
performance will continue to be constrained by both external factors, and the
need for economic adjustment.
30.         In the medium-term, however,  the bold policy reforms that the
authorities have taken are expected to result in increased productivity and the
restoration of growth. Agriculture and services are expected to register the
first supply response.   Agriculture could resume growth in 1993 and begin to
grow more strongly over the medium term. The service sector is also relatively
well placed to respond to the new policy environment, particularly tourism.
Foreign investors have expressed interest in Bulgaria's tourist infrastructure
(e.g., the Black Sea and the mountainous regions). Other segments of the service
sector (e.g., finance, retail outlets, restaurants) are relatively under-
developed, and liberal foreign investment laws and the planned reactivation of
auctions of small enterprises (including tourist facilities) should support
growth in this area.
31.         The industrial sector will continue to decline in the near term.
Constrained by both the disruption in CMEA trade and the sharp curtailment of
domestic demand, growth will depend primarily on increased exports to the non-
CMEA countries. While radical changes in the regulatory and incentive structure
are leading to a new and more efficient private sector developing alongside a
declining state sector, overall industrial sector growth is likely to remain slow
over the medium term.
32.         International trade has already begun to turnaround, albeit from an
extremely depressed level. Exports to Western Europe, which grew strongly in
1992, are anticipated to continue to grow at a moderate rate, but at a faster
pace than GDP growth, reflecting expected productivity gains. The opening of the
economy to foreign trade and the demonopolization of domestic trade and industry
should promote greater efficiency. This, coupled with Bulgaria's exchange rate
policy, is expected to continue to enhance Bulgaria's competitiveness. On the
import side, growth in the medium term will primarily reflect the investment



- 11 -
demands of an industrial sector undergoing extensive restructurinj, plus the need
for imported inputs into the agricultural and service sectors.
The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
33.         Given Bulgaria' s progress on structural adjustment and macroeconomic
stabilization, as well as the new Government's announced intentions to continue
the adjustment program, the Bank's assistance strategy would: (i) support our
policy dialogue and analytical inputs with adjustment lending; (ii) provide funds
and technical advice for a DDSR deal; (iii) provide investment financing and
technical assistance to assist the productive sectors and the establishment of
an effective safety net; and (iv) cuntinue donor coordination through the
Consultative Group. Also, the use of the Institutional Development Fund to
expand the implementation capacity of the programs financed by the Bank and other
donors, together with well-targeted EDI courses in the context of the programs
for Eastern and Central European countries, are being considered.
34.         Adjustment lending.   Structural reforms in  the enterprise and
financial sector constitute the core elements of Bulgaria's development strategy.
Therefore, the heart of the Bank's strategy for supporting Bulgaria's economic
reforms is adjustment lending to support policy reforms in these sectors. The
Bank's next adjustment operation will build on the progress already achieved
under the SAL program by supporting measures to strengthen the financial system- -
i.e., removing pre-1991 bad debts from the commercial banks, completing the
process of bank consolidations, and recapitalizing the state banks--and the
liquidation, restructuring and privatization of state enterprises. The Bank's
adjustment lending will also reinforce the Government's efforts to enforce
financial discipline on the enterprises, and thereby, discourage renewed growth
of bad debts in the banking system. Further adjustment lending will support
continued enterprise and financial sector reforms, structural fiscal reforms, and
social insurance reforms. The level of adjustment lending would be geared to
help ensure an adequate level of balance-of-payment support, as well as a tool
to further the Bank's policy dialogue.
35.         DDSR suort.   Should the Bulgarian Government reach a viable
agreement with commercitl banks on a DDSR deal, which appears likely in 1993, the
Bank would be prepared to provide financing for some of the options offered to
creditors, and thus facilitate this operation. Viability of the debt deal will
require that the Government is making sufficient progress on economic reforms,
including the structural reform agenda.
36.         Investment lending.  The  bulk of the lending program would be
investment financing aimed at:  (i) stimulating a supply response from the
private sector through lines of credit for the agricultural and industrial
sectors; (ii) assuring adequate infrastructure for economic growth by financing
energy, telecommunication, transport and water supply and sanitation projects;
(iii) helping establish an effective social safety net by providing financing for
a restructuring of the health sector, pro-active labor market interventions, and
technical assistance in social security and insurance issues; and (iv) adapting
the educational and research systems to the needs of a private sector economy.
Credit operations in agriculture and industry are needed to support the growth
of exports which is being inhibited by tight credit, a lack of foreign exchange,
and the weakness of the financial sector. These operations will be accompanied



- 12
by measures to facilitate private sector development and hence, raise the demand
for credit. Investment projects will also be closely coordinated with sectoral
policy reforms, e.g., the energy loan, being discussed today, is linked to
electricity pricing policy.
37.         The size and balance among sectors and between quick-disbursing and
investment elements will vary depending on the reform program and balance of
payments needs.   The current five-year lending program in Bulgaria of about
US$300 million per year is roughly divided in the following sectors: agriculture
(101), adjustment loans, trade and finance (40%), energy and industry (202),
infrastructure (20%) and PHR (10%). A DDSR loan would be financed with some
funds additional to the lending program, as well as set asides. Because lending
to Bulgaria started only in FY91, with an important component of adjustment
lending, financial flows from the Bank to the country during FY93-97 are positive
and sizable.   The remaining financing gaps are expected to be met by other
official donors, both multilateral and bilateral.
38.         ESW Lprogrm. The Bank's lending program will be coordinated with and
supported by a full complement of economic and sector work. The economic work
program will focus on macroeconomic issues to provide a basis for our policy
dialogue and adjustment lending, as well as to disseminate such information among
the donors through the Consultative Group. Country economic memoranda will be
prepared for the CG meetings.   Economic work on public finrtnce and local
government reform will examine issues of fiscal reform, fiscal decentralization,
and institutional reform in the public sector. A poverty study, including a
poverty assessment, will examine issues related to the process of transition and
the social safety net.   Other ESW will have a sectoral focus and will be
undertaken in connection with future Bank operations. Currently, sector work in
the following areas is planned: an agricultural issues and strategy paper, an
industry and agro-industry sector review, a transport sector study, and a
forestry study.
39.         Risks and Bank response.   The assistance program outlined above
assumes that the Government continues to implement a strong growth-oriented
adjustment program. The principal risk to this scenario is domestic policy
slippage, in which the Government fails to take appropriate measures to control
aggregate demand or to implement key structural reforms. In this situation, the
Bank's assistance strategy would be limited to a smaller core program of
investment financing in infrastructure and the social sectors, and economic and
sector work. While this scenario is pcssible, it does not appear to be as likely
as the base case, as there is a general recognition among political parties and
interest groups that the current direction of reform is basically correct.
Areas of Special EmDhasis
40.         The World Bank's assistance program would include measures to
establish an effective social safety net, address environmental considerations
and address WID issues, particularly the needs of women during the transition.
Although extreme noverty is not currently a major problem in Bulgaria, recent
income declines have undoubtedly hurt people in lower income groups, especially
the elderly and those on fixed incomes.   Establishing and maintaining an
effective social safety net during the transition is, therefore, a key priority
of the Government and for Bank assistance in the next several years. The SAL



- 13-
incorporated provisions for developing a more effective social safety net, as
will our future ESW and lending operations.  As discussed above, a poverty
assessment is planned to identify the poor and help target the Government's
assistance program.
41.         Improving the environment will also be an important objective of the
Bank's strategy. Future investment operations, particularly in the energy, water
and sanitation, and industrial sectors, will incorporate environmental
provisions. The Bank's operations will be consistent with the Environmental
Action Plan adopted by the Government following the Bank, USAID and EPA
comprehensive Environment Strategy Report.
42.         The Bank's traditional WID indicators are favorable in Bulgaria, as
illustrated by the prominence of women in the labor force and their high
education levels which are comparable with men.   Women do suffer a higher
unemployment rate and may suffer proportionately more in the transition process
from various factors such as the decline in child-care facilities.   Human
resource projects will be designed to address these issues.
Creditworthiness
43.         This medium-term scenario, which assumes a successful conclusion of
the DDSR, leads to a gradual restoration of Bulgaria's creditworthiness. Even
with a DDSR agreement, the debt indicators remain high during the 1993-96 period,
but a gradual improvement restores creditworthiness by the late-1990s. By 1997,
the debt-to-export ratio--a key indicator of ability to pay--is reduced to about
1501 and the debt service ratio to about 221, both of which are consistent with
a restoration of creditworthiness.   Given Bulgaria's reliance on preferred
creditors in the early 1990s, their exposure increases over the medium term.
Preferred creditors debt service to public debt service rises to almost 501
between 1995-1997. When combined with debt service payments connected with the
DDSR deal, Bulgaria's debt service profile will show considerable inflexibility
in the mid-1990s. However, this inflexibility coincides with an improvement in
Bulgaria's creditworthiness, thereby lessening the risk to all creditors,
including preferred creditors. Moreover, the level of Bank exposure will be
closely linked to policy reforms, thereby limiting to some extent the Bank's
risk. Other Bank creditworthiness indicators--the share of IBRD portfolio and
IBRD debt service to exports and GDP--remain low throughout the projection
period, and by the end of the decade, the preferred creditor's ratio is expected
to be below 30X.
Portfolio Management
44.         The Bank's initial efforts at building a project pipeline indicate
that considerable attention will need to be paid to issues of portfolio
management.   Public agencies still have structures which are not yet fully
adapted to the new demands being placed upon them and their personnel are
inexperienced in both public administration and corsensus building. The capacity
of public agencies has been further weakened by an exodus of public sector
employees, as a result of declining real wages and an increase in job
opportunities outside of the public sector. The Bank's Technical Assistance Loan
(TAL) was a first step in helping the Government to strengthen its implementation
capacity, particularly for undertaking structural reforms. Disbursements on the



-14-
TAL, however, have been slow, due to the Government's reluctance to borrow on
Bank terms for technical assistance. In order to ensure that adequate levels of
technical assistance are available, the Bank is helping to identify bilateral and
EC-funds for technical assistance through the CG process. Moreover, during
project preparation for some of our lending operations, the Bank is forming
inter- and intra-ministerial groups to assist in project design and
implementation.   Finally,  another headquarter-based staff member is being
recruited for the Resident Mission to work directly with the Government in
project preparation, procurement and other project-related matters.
The IFC and MIGA
45.         Recent reforms of the regulatory framework and approval of new
foreign investment and privatization laws, along with prospective financial
sector reforms, have substantially improved the environment for private sector
activity.   The IFC's strategy is to pr,7ide a broad range of technical and
financial support for the future development of the private sector by assisting
manufacturing, services, and banking industries. Thus, the IFC's is addressing
the remaining obstacles to efficient private investment and profitable private
enterprises by:   (i) exploring the potential for investment in greenfield
projects with strong export potential in line with Bulgaria's comparative
advantages; (ii) advancing foreign direct investment seeking out joint ventures,
including the privatization of state-owned enterprises, and acting as a neutral
broker to facilitate private, foreign investment in Bulgaria; and (iii) assisting
in the development of the financial sector through financing and technical
assistance.
46.         Bulgaria signed the MIGA convention in July 1991 and became a full
member on September 23, 1992. So far, MIGA has not insured any investments in
Bulgaria. Some investors have registered projects in Bulgaria and these projects
may seek MIGA insurance in the future.
Relations with the IMF and other International Financial Institutions
47.         Relations between the Bulgarian Government and the IMF have been very
good. The Fund has supported the authorities' stabilization and reform agenda
through an SDR 279 million Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) and an SDR 93 million
Compensatory Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF) approved in March 1991. A
second SBA for SDR 155 million was approved in April 1992. Performance under the
current SBA in the first three quarters conformed to all performance criteria,
but on the basis of preliminary data, bank financing of the budget appears to
have exceeded the criteria at end-1992, during the interregnum period between the
UDF Government and the new Government. Discussions on the continuation of the
current arrangement are ongoing, and these negotiations are expected to lead to
a successor arrangement which will provide continuing support for reforms and
stabilization. Bank staff have worked closely and constructively with Fund staff
in developing a medium-term framework.
48.         Regarding other multilateral institutions, both the EBRD and EIB are
developing an active program of support for Bulgaria.   In 1992, the EBRD
committed US$100 million to Bulgaria supporting energy and telecommunications.
The EIB provided US$161 million in 1992 for supporting two projects in the same
sectors. While these institutions are still developing their lending programs,



- 15 -
it can reasonably be expected that they will provide similar levels of support
in the next several years.
Consultative Grou, and Bilateral Support
49.         The Bank participated in and provided the major analytical inputs for
a Consultative Group meeting which took place in April 1992 under the
chairmanship of the European Commission.  The meeting agreed that Bulgaria
deserved the support of the international community in its reform program and
indicated that the balance of payments gap identified for 1992 would be met by
the donor community. The G-24 participants recommended approval of the requested
US$240 million in additional G-24 balance-of-payments support, and also, a
speeding up of disbursements from 1991 G-24 commitments. A second Consultative
Group meeting, to be chaired by the Bank, is scheduled for Kay 1993 and will be
organized in tandem with an EC-chaired meeting of the G-24, which will focus on
the need for short-term balance-of-payments support.
Summary Assessment
50.         In the past two years,  substantial progress has been made in
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms.  The transition to a market
economy has been made especially difficult by Bulgaria's heavy dependence on GMEA
trade and the debt overhang. As a result, Bulgaria has experienced substantial
declines in output, employment and incomes.
51.         Despite the progress already achieved, a large agenda remains, if
Bulgaria is to reach its goal of sustainable long-term growth in a market-based
economy. The new Government has endorsed an economic adjustment program
consisting of macroeconomic stabilization, structural reforms and infrastructural
investments, supplemented by social sector policies to maintain a viable social
safety net. The main elements of the Bank's assistance strategy, which are
tailored closely to the Government's adjustment program, are:  economic and
sector work to provide the analytical underpinning for the reform effort and our
lending program; financial support for the balance of payments and the reform
effort through adjustment lending, to finance infrastructure to foster private
sector development, and to protect vulnerable groups during the transition by
establishing a viable social safety net; and technical assistance to improve
administrative and implementation capacity throughout the economy. There are
downside risks to the Bank's assistance strategy. Failure to sustain the pace
of stabilization and structural reforms or an inability to restore credit-
worthiness through a viable DDSR deal are the most important risks to the Bank's
assistance strategy. The Bank will continue to monitor developments in these
areas and adjust its program accordingly.
Part III: The Prolect
52.         In the past,  Bulgaria has  followed a very energy  intensive
development strategy in spite of the fact that the country is peculiarly lacking
in economic energy resources, which consist primarily of a single large deposit
of low grade, high sulfur lignite (Naritza East). This strategy was based on
imports of energy from the former USSR at favorable prices, development of



- 16-
nuclear power using Russian designed units (which often do not meet Western
Safety Standards) and maintaining low domestic prices for energy. The primary
results of this strategy are currently that: (a) Bulgaria has a highly energy
intensive GNP with energy use per unit of output which is 25X-35X higher than for
comparable market economies; (b) 75Z-85X of energy is imported - largely from the
former USSR; (c) energy imports are the largest single import category; and
(d) the country is heavily dependent on nuclear power with the Kozloduy nuclear
plant accounting on average for about 36X of electricity generated domestically
during the past two years.
53.         The Government, over the past two years, has taken two major steps
to improve  this situation.    First,  prices of energy products have been
liberalized or increased very sharply. Prices for petroleum products and natural
gas are now set by market related formulas, are adjusted regularly and are close
to parity with their economic cost of supply. Prices for electricity and heat
have been increased four times since July 1990 (the last increase being
January 1, 1993), and are now 10-20 times their level in mid 1990 depending on
the customer and product. Coal prices have been raised three times and are about
18-30 times their mid-1990 level. Coal, electricity and heat prices are still,
however, set by the Council of Ministers based on a mixture of political
considerations and cost information and tend to lag behind costs, especially
electricity and heat prices. Second, the Government at the beginning of 1992,
broke up the Committee of Energy, the government organization which included all
coal mines, electricity transmission and distribution, 90X of electricity
generation, and almost all district heating plants. This reorganization resulted
in the creation of: the Natsionalna Elektricheska Kompania (NEK) for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; 16 coal companies;
22 district heat companies; a residual Committee of Energy with oversight and
coordination functions; and several smaller, mainly service organizations.
54.         In order to better formulate an integrated program of reforms for
addressing the sectoral issues, the Government has launched a number of studies
in the power subsector including the preparation of: a long term least cost
development program, an organization study including electricity price setting
systems, and a feasibility study for the rehabilitation and retrofitting of the
thermal power plants. A quick Probabilistic Risk Assessment study has also been
completed for Kozloduy and a decision by the international community on what sort
of assistance to provide for Kozloduy and under what conditions is awaiting
further studies.
55.         The measures implemented thus far, however, represent but the first
steps in addressing the sectoral issues. A number of issues remain including:
(a) a very energy intensive and energy inefficient economy; (b) distortions in
the level and structure of prices for electricity, heat and to a lesser extent
coal; (c) lack of an effective mechanism for setting the prices of energy
monopolies such as electricity transmission and distribution, and district
heating; (d) a high degree of dependence on imports combined with limited
capacity to earn foreign exchange; (e) a less than acceptable degree of safety
at the Kozloduy nuclear plant; (f) an inadequate dispatch and control system for
the electricity grid; (g) an unstable electricity system with insufficient
reserves and inadequate frequency and voltage control; (h) shortages of
domestically produced lignite and coal due to inefficient mining or lack of
economic reserves; (i) need for rehabilitation at certain energy facilities



- 17 -
including thermal power plants; (j) inefficient structures and procedures in many
sector operating organizations; and (k) lack of an appropriate governmental
organizational structure to deal with the sector. The Bank's gray cover Energy
Strategy S&USd for Bulgaria (Report No. 10143- BUL) outlines a strategy aimed at
addressing these priority sectoral issues over the medium term. The proposed
Project follows from this Study.
56.         Project Objectives.  The Government has requested funding from the
Bank for the proposed Project which has the following objectives: (a) improving
the operating efficiency and reliability of the power system; (b) reducing the
need for electricity imports or other high cost electricity sources to meet peak
demand; (c) realigning electricity tariffs to rationalize the consumption of
electricity, reduce pollution associated with electricity production, reduce
imports and mobilize resources for NEK; (d) improving voltage and frequency
control; (e) enhancing the operational and organizational efficiency of NEK;
(f) improving and depoliticizing the electricity tariff setting mechanism; and
(g) improving the safety of the Belmeken and Chaira dams and associated saddle
dam.
57.         Project Description.  The proposed Project would help finance the
implementation of the following three components.
(a)   Imnrovement of the sunervisory control and the transmission systems
of the electricity grid. This would involve the installation of
improved communication equipment, more advanced computer hardware
and software, and unit control equipment to improve supervisory
control over the Bulgarian electricity system and increase
efficiency. In addition, shunt reactors and fault recorders would
be installed on the EHV transmission network to increase the
reliability of the electricity system and help stabilize the voltage
level. This would cost US$41.5 million equivalent.
(b)   ComDletion of units 3 and 4 at the Chaira pumped storage project.
These units are about 90X complete with all major construction
having been accomplished.   The project would provide funds to
complete this pumped storage project, thus providing 432 KW of
peaking capacity and some reserve capacity. This would reduce the
need for imports to meet peak demand, help stabilize the grid, and
help control frequency. The dams connected with the Chaira project
would  also  be  strengthened.        This  component  would  cost
US$40.3 million equivalent.
(c)   Technical Assistance.  This would cover primarily the services of
consultants for reorienting the operations of NEK along commercial
lines through the implementation of a financial management
improvement program. This program would cover establishment of:
a modern accruals based accounting system; a cost accounting system;
a control budgeting system; a computerized management information
system; and improved billing, collection and cash management
systems. It would also cover technical assistance for overseas
training in dam safety monitoring and for a redundancy study. This
component should considerably improve the efficiency of NEK by
introducing modern accounting and financial controls and improve



-18 -
monitoring of the dams associated with the pumped storage project.
It would cost US$6.5 million equivalent.
58.         The  estimated cost  of  the  three  components  listed above  is
US$88.3 million - the base cost of the project. With the addition of physical
and price contingencies of US$26.4 million and interest during construction (IDC)
of US$11.3 million, the estimated cost of the total project is US$126 million
equivalent. The 74X foreign exchange component would be financed by a proposed
Bank Loan of US$93 million. This loan amount would include US$7.8 million for
IDC on the proposed Bank Loan.   This is justified by the high degree of
illiquidity of NEK (current ratio .74) and its very limited cash flow, which is
currently insufficient to cover an adequate share of its capital program or even
some major repairs, though this should improve over the course of the project.
A breakdown of costs and financing is shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods
of procurement and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B.   A
timetable of key project processing events and the status of Bank Group
operations in Bulgaria are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A Staff
Appraisal Report, No. 11250-BUL, is also attached.
59.         Bank Strategy and Rationale for Bank Involvement. The project, which
is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Bulgaria (Part II
above) which emphasizes the importance of the electric and telecoms
infrastructure of the country; follows from the Bank's recent Energy Strategy
itudy for Bulgaria. This latter study recommended: (a) increasing efficiency
of energy use through more realistic prices and energy saving investments thereby
reducing energy imports, pollution and costs; (b) expanding domestic energy
production and reducing costs of this production thereby reducing imports and
costs; and (c) substantially improving safety and reducing the environmental
impact of the electricity industry. This strategy has been accepted by the
Bulgarian government and by most of the other donors, many of whom participated
in its development. The present project is designed to support this overall
strategy by assisting the electricity subsector and to continue the Bank's active
dialogue with the Government on energy issues. The particular components were
chosen because they could be implemented rapidly, would maximize the impact of
Bank funds (by completing projects underway) and would have a major beneficial
impact on the efficiency and stability of the electricity grid.  Also, by
improving the efficiency of the electricity subsector the project fits well with
the environmental strategy contained in the recent Environment Strategy Study.
Finally, the project will increase the safety of three hydro-electricity dams
(two major dams, one minor) in Bulgaria (see below).
60.         Environment/Dam Safety.   The primary environmental issue is dam
safety. There are three dams involved in the project: the Belmeken dam which
creates the upper reservoir of the pumped storage project, the Chaira dam which
creates the lower reservoir, and a small saddle dam which helps create the upper
reservoir. The dams are completed, the Belmeken and saddle dams have been in use
for about 20 years and there is no resettlement of people involved in the current
project. All these dams appear to have been well designed and constructed; but
at the time of their design and construction, seismic risk analysis was under-
taken assuming very low seismicity. A revised analysis was needed, given the
high seismicity of the area in which the dams are located. The Bank arranged for
a study to be undertaken by the Swiss consulting firm Electrowatt Engineering and
Energoproekt of Bulgaria, which produced the required seismic risk analysis of



* 19 -
these dams. This study was then reviewed by an independent panel of experts,
which recommended additional safety measures. Agreement on implementation of
these recommendations was reached at negotiations.  Other environmental aspects
of the project are secondary since construction work is largely complete and the
project should have a modest though beneficial effect on air pollution by
increasing energy efficiency. In accordance with Operational Directive 4.00,
this project has been ranked at the B level.
61.         Actions agreed.  During negotiations, the following agreements were
reached:
(a)   with the Government that it will: (i) increase the real level of
electricity tariffs, so that the average electricity price attains
a level equivalent to 3.5 US cents/kWh by September 1, 1993;
(ii) maintain an average electricity price equivalent to at least
3.5 US cents/kWh until the new average price determined by the
independent regulatory mechanism (see iii and iv below) is
implemented; (iii) establish, by June 30, 1994, a new independent
regulatory mechanism; and (iv) enable this new mechanism to set, by
September 30, 1994, and maintain thereafter, an average level of
electricity prices equal to the higher of the long-run marginal cost
of supplying electricity or the level required for NEK to achieve
the financial covenants set out below.
(b)   with the Government and NEK,  that NEK will:  (i) increase its
provision for the depreciation of its fixed assets for 1993 to three
times its depreciation for 1992 and charge it against its taxable
income or take other measures which would have the same effect on
its generation of funds from internal sources; and (ii) gradually
increase its provisions for the depreciation of its fixed assets in
real terms, so that it is consistent with its revalued fixed assets
by December 31, 1997 and charge such provisions against its taxable
income or take other measures which would have the same effect on
NEK's generation of funds from internal sources.
(c)   with NEK that: (i) starting in 1993, the company will generate funds
from internal sources sufficient to finance 30X of average capital
investments; (ii) starting in 1.993, it will also generate net
revenues equal to at least 1.5 times its required debt service;
A                       (iii) by the end of 1993, MEK will have a current ratio of 1.2;
(iv) starting with fiscal year 1992, the company will produce
financial statements (income statement, balance sheet, statement of
cash flow) according to international accounting standards;
(v) starting with fiscal year 1992, the company will have the
financial statements, audited by independent accountants according
to international auditing standards; (vi) by October 31 of each
year, the company will produce yearly a rolling five-year corporate
plan and this plan will be presented to the Bank and the Government
for review; (vii) by June 30, 1993, NEK will establish a new
independent panel of dam safety experts for further assistance with
the Belmeken, Chaira and associated dams; (viii) by December 31,
1995, NEK will take additional strengthening measures for these dams
recommended by the previous Panel of Experts, expand safety



-20 -
training, and acquire additional instrumentation; and (ix) by
July 1, 1993, NEK shall submit a plan for streamlined decision
making and for strengthening its corporate planning, finance and
accounting functions, and a timetable for its implementation and,
thereafter, take all necessary measures to implement such plan in
accordance with the timetable.
62.         Condition of Effectiveness. A special condition of effectiveness for
the project would be the increase in the average price of electricity sold by NEK
to 2.9 US cents/kWh.
63.         Implementation. The Project is in a state of preparation which would
permit timely implementation because: (i) work is underway at Chaira (primarily
covering units 1 and 2, but also to some extent units 3 and 4); (ii) terms of
reference for detailed studies of the dispatch center's requirements are being
drawn up; (iii) certain required studies of the transmission system (primarily
funded by the CEC) are underway; and (iv) initial Terms of Reference for the
financial manaaement improvement program have been prepared. Furthermore, NEK
has established , special unit to implement the project which is staffed and
operating. CEC is providing technical assistance to this unit and USTDP has
agreed to provide additional technical assistance.
64.         Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. While previous Bank
involvement in Bulgaria is limited (SAL, TAL), this project does take into
account the two sector reports on the country, The Environment and Energy
Strategy Studies, from which the project evolved. It also takes into account
other Bank experience including the conclusions of the portfolio management task
force, Effective Imnlementation: Kea to Develonment Impact (September 22, 1992),
by inter alia, keeping the project simple thus improving, implementability and
simplifying supervision, and by obtaining strong commitment from the borrower for
the project, which it considers of highest priority.
65.         Benefits. The major measurable benefits attributable to the project
are lower costs and increased stability of the Bulgarian electricity grid. Nore
specifically, these benefits result from: (a) increased capacity for active load
management; (b) automatic generation control including primary and secondary
regulation; (c) improved voltage and reactive power control including reducing
transmission losses. Active load managoment consists largely of the use of the
Chaira pumped storage project, to replace expensive peak power with cheaper off
peak power by pumping water into the upper reservoir (Belmeken) during off-peak
periods and releasing water from the upper reservoir to the lower reservoir
(Chaira) during peak periods. The operation of the Chaira pumped storage will,
moreover, be significantly strengthened by the improved generation control
system, which will also be installed as part of the proposed Project. Atggmatic
generation control including grimary and secondary regulation consists primarily
of increasing the efficiency and stability of the system. Automatic generation
control would improve merit order dispatching,  thus reducing costs.   The
automatic generation control capacity of the system combined with the Chaira
project should also result in substantially improved primary and secondary system
regulation, including a lower loss of load probability and better frequency
control. Improved voltage and reactive nower control would reduce system
electricity losses and improve stability. This would occur primarily through
investments to strengthen the transmission network, especially the investments



*21-
in shunt reactors and fault recorders. However, improved system controls and the
Chaira project will also assist in this area. In addition, the project will
improve the economic and managerial efficiency of NEK, improve hydro-generating
plant scheduling, increase dam safety and reduce slightly the emissions related
to electricity generation.
66.         Proiect Risks and Sustainabilty.  There are three major sources of
risk for the project. First, in order for NEK to be financially viable over
time, electricity tariffs must be increased in real terms and a mechanism
established to set tariffs based on actual costs. The present system of having
the Council of Ministers set electricity tariffs makes them a highly political
issue and results in extremely low electricity prices. However, the necessary
increase in real electricity prices and the establishment of a tariff setting
mechanism will be politically difficult to accomplish. To reduce this risk and
to improve the financial sustainability of the project, an increase in the
average electricity price to 2.9 US cents/kWh from the current level of about
2.5 US cents is required for effectiveness.   Also, a further increase to
3.5 US cents/kWh is required by September 1, 1993, and by September 30, 1994, a
new mechanism should be in place for setting tariffs based on long-run costs and
NEK's financial needs. The second risk is that the Government must be willing
to substantially increase depreciation for NEK or substantially reduce taxes and
levies, in order to increase its cash flow. This will be difficult given the
current Bulgarian budget constraints. To reduce this risk and further ensure the
financial sustainability of the project, there are four financial covenants in
the Agreements reached, which would specifically require improvements in NEK's
cash flow. Finally, the third risk is created by the fact that the borrower,
NEK, is a very new company having been spun-off from the Government at the
beginning of 1992.   It has little experience with the Bank or with Western
methods of managing projects.   Such experience is also rare in Bulgaria in
general (as discussed in para 44). This lack of experience will require a fairly
high degree of Bank involvement in the project during the first couple of years.
However, as described under the implementation paragraph above, a number of steps
have been taken to reduce this risk and improve institutional sustainability.
Furthermore, this risk should decline fairly rapidly since the Bulgarians and NEK
have strong technical capabilities and are expected to rapidly adapt to
management approaches used in market economy countries and to Bank procedures.
67.         Regommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Lewis Preston
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
February 3, 1993



-22 -
ScheduleA
NERgwY PROECT
Estimated Project Costs
Local      FUoxeig    Total
(US$ millions)
Chaira Pumped Storage                  10.4        29.9       40.32
Improvements in Control and             6.0        35.5       41.53
Transmission Network Systems
Technical Assistance                    0.3.
Total Baseline Costs               16.7        71.6       88.3
Physical Contingencies                  2.0         6.9         8.9
Price Contingencies                    10.          6.         17.5
Total Project Costs                29.5        85.2       114.7
Interest During Construction           3.5          7.8      .11,3
Total Financing Required           33.0        93.0      126.0
Einancing Plan
Loal        Foreign     Total
(US$ millions)
Bank Loan                        93.0       93.0
NEK               3.0-                      33.0
Total           33.0           93.0      126.0
2/   excludes over 8300 million spent by Bul6aria authorities.
;ffi/  excludes 835 million already spent by Bulgarians cn control astem.



.23-
page 1 of 2
SVmmarv of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
Procurement Packages
ICB           LCB             Other             Total
1. Equipment & Goods         45.6 (36.5)    4.1 (0.0)       2.2 ( 2.1)IJ/    51.9 (38.6)
2.  Civil Works &            32.1 (23.3)    2.4 (0.0)               -         34.5 (23.3)
Installation
3. Technical Assistance       9.3 ( 5.5)                   18.6 (17.4)/       18.6 (17.4)
4. Dam Strengthening                                        0.4 ( 0.4)/        9.7 ( 5.9)
5.  Interest During                                                           11.3 ( 7.8)
Construction
Total              87.0            6.5           32.5              126.0
The Bank A/          (65.3)          (0.0)        (27.7)              (93.0)
International hopping (IS)
V Direct Contracting
Consiti;ng sericea
Tf Includes $5 milUlo in rettoactive finnnicg
Estimated Bank Disbursements:4
IBRD FISCAL YEARS
(US$ millions)
94   95    96    97    98
Annual      13   31    29    15       5
Cumulative  13   44    73    88    93
/ Based on Standard Disburasemt pofile for 1hera projects.



. 24-
Schedule B
page 2 of 2
BULGALRIA
ENERGY PROJECT
Disbursement by Category
Amount of the        Percent of Expenditures
Categorv            Loan Allocated             to be financed
(US$millions)
(1) Materials and               34,200,000     100l   of foreign expenditures,
Equipment                                 1001 of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of
local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2)  Consultants' services      17,400,000      100l
(3)  Civil vorks and            25,400,000     66%
installation
(4)  Interest during             7,800,000     Amounts due on Bank loan
construction                              pursuant to Section 2.02 (c)
of Loan Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                 8.200.000
Total                93,000.00Q



.25-
Schedule C
BULGARIA
ENERGY PROJECT
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare               9 months
(b)   Prepared by                         NEK, with Bank assistance
(c)   First Bank Mission                  March 1992
(d)   Appraisal Mission Departure         June 1992
(e)   Negotiations                        January 1993
(f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness       May 1993



- 26 -
Schedule D
ENEGY PEROJECwT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
A.  Statement of Bank Loans5
(As of December 31, 1992)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
NO,         Year             Borrower              Purpose       Loan .      Udisbursed
3384-BUL     1991       Republic of Bulgaria          TA           17.0          14.92
3397-BUL     1992       Republic of Bulgaria          SAL         250.0         101.85
Total                           267.0
Total Undisbursed                             116.77
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1992)
There are no IFC investments in Bulgaria as of this date.
~/    SThe status of thee projects is described in separate report ca all Bank/IDA fianced projects in
execution, whicb in updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors an April 30 and
October 31.



243
23'                3~~~~~~~~~4'            25-                      23'                     27'
R O    M  A  N  I A                                            Danube River
44.                                  To lsholnitsa    To Tsuntsareni
To Isakdh and
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or c ..
J.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
BU LGARIA
MAJ O R E L E C T R I C FAC I L I T I E S
.,~~~~~~,.o~~~~~~~~7.Wo4dBoni ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     oaek
d,fh'Wddoj,, ELEVATIONSINMETERS:  [   YDROkPOWER5TATIONS            750RkVTRANSMiSSIONLINES                       RIVERS
co ihx p ndonp6  o.6
*W,,B~l,           ,, L2200                LI THERMALJPOWERSTATIONS            -    400FkVTRANSMISSIONLINES                       NATIONALCAPITAL
r    600
200               0  1 110 kV - 750 kV SUBSTATIONS        220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DECEMBER 1992



