Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
,-tl,',''.  ',:1  75';.. rsli  v.:s>I
-i t I-   ;'J JlfEN i  F1 r i  F ,; T
iitxer4*    tp .Ar  M  M                                          Report No. 11250-BUL
* i!;:~  P~cnvHr- 137   er 3J
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BULGARIA
ENERGY PROJECT
FEBRUARY 3. 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
7 his document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQVE2
Currency unit  lev (plural leva), abbrev. Lv
USS1  18.2 Lv average 1991
US$1 = 232 - 23.5 Lv est average 1992
WEIGHTS AND  ASURES
1 Megawatt (MW)                                1,000 kilowatts (103 kW)
1 Gigawatt (GW)                                1 million kilowatts (106 kW)
1 Gigajoule (GJ)                          =   239,000 kilocalories (kcal)
1 Terawatt (TW)                                1 billion kilowats
1 kilocalorie (kcal)                           3.968 British Thermal Units (btu)
1 Gigacalorie (Gcal)                           1 million kilocalories
1 Joule (J)                                    .24 calories
I Gigajoule (GJ)                          =   IV0 joules or .948 million btu
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                          3411 BTU, 859.6 kcal
1 kilovolt (kV)                           =   1000 volts
1 kilogram (kg)                                2.2 pounds (Ib)
1 tonne (T, metric tonne)                 = 1,000 kg = 2,205 lb
1 meter (in)                              =   3.281 feet (ft)
lklometer (km)                           =   1,000 m = 3,281 ft
I billion m   (bcm)                       =   35.3 billion ft3
1 hectare (ha)                            =   4.47 acres
1 mega pascal (MPA)                       =   106 pascals = 102T/m2
1 tonne coal equivalent (TCE)             =   7 x 10' kcal
ACRONYMS
CEC        Commission of European Communities
CMEA      Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
COE        Committee of Energy
COM        Council of Ministers
COP       Commission on Prices
CHP       Combined Heat and Power
EIB        European Investment Bank
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMS        Energy Management System
PGD        Flue Gas Desulfirization
FSU        Former Soviet Union
IAEA       International Atomic Energy Agency
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IEA        International Energy Agency
IPS        interconnected Power System (of CMEA)
MA.S.L   Meters above sea level
MCE        Maximum Credible Earthquake
MOF        Ministry of Fimance
NDC        National Dispatch Center
NEK        Natsionaina Elektricheska Kompania
NMP        Net Material Product
NODRC   National Organization of Dams, Reservoirs and Cascades
PIU        Project Implementation Unit (within NEK)
RDC        Regional Dispatch Center
SCADA    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
SRDC       Sub-Regional Dispatch Center
UCPTE    Union for the Coordination of Production and Transport of Electricity (West European Grid)
VDF        Union of Democratic Forces
USAID      US Agency for International Development
USTDP    US Trade and Development Program
WANO    World Association of Nuclear Operators
WASP       Wien Automated System Plnning Mod_l
FISCAL  YEAR
January I1- December 31



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
1WXMJA
CUM PROZO
Table of Contents
Page No,
LOAN AND PROECT SUIlhRY.            . ...  ... . . . . . .           . .
I.                 . . . . .    . . .    ..   . .    . . . . . . . . . .   .  1
II.   THESENERGYSEG    .                          .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   5
A.  Background  ........  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..                   .  5
B.  Power Subsector   ......  ..  .          ..  .  ..  .  ..    .  . 9
III.  INt             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
IV .8ROJECT
A.  Project Setting ................... . 18
B.  Project Objetcives .................. . 19
C.  Rationale for Bank Involveent  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
D.  Project Description . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 19
B.  Project Origin .................... . 20
P.  Project Costs .............  .....  ...                         . 22
G. Project Financing Plan .23
H. Retroactive Financing .24
*. Procureent .24
J. Disbursement .26
K. Special Account .26
L.  Project Implementation Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
M1. Dam Safety Aspects  .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  .            ..    . 27
N.  Envirormental Aspects ................. . 28
0. Benefits ....................... . 29
V.     IhNANC&  ASPE TS ..................... . 30
A. Background ...................... . 30
B.  Balance Sheet ..................... . 30
C.  Income Statement ................... . 33
D.  Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds  . . . . . . . . . . 35
VI. BER? WS MND RISKs . ..37
A. Project Benefits              .37
B. Least-CostInvestmentProgram  . . . .39
C. EconomicRateofeturn .39
D. Risks .40
VII.   R>]OF           SUMRECHD ............... . 41
This document has a restrctod distribution and may be used by rcipients only In the performance
of their ofkci dutiesL Its contnts may not otherwis be disclsed without World Bank authofization.



VIII. ANMNS
AnnexA   -  Organization Chart of Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
AnnexB    -  Energy Balence 1990  ............... . 44
Annex C   -  Estimates of Electricity Demand  . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Annex D   -  Electricity Data .................. . 48
Annex E   -  Articles of Association - NEK  . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Annex F   -  Organization Chart - NEK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Annex G   -  Belmeken and Chaira Dams  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Annex H   -  Dam Safety Organization.   . . .             . . . .74
Annex I   -  Recommendations of the Panel of Experts. . . . . . 76
Annex J   -  Project Monitoring Guidelines  . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Armex K   -  NEK's Capital Investment Program  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 83
Annex L   -  Load Management with Chaira  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 86
I{aP No.:         IBRD 24233



EPER6 r EC
Loan and Protet SUgmar!,
Natelonalna Elektricheska Kompania (NEK)
Guarantor:              Republic of Bulgaria
Augsutzt:               US$93 Hillion Equivalent
Te=ua                   Seventeen years, including a four-year grace period, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Oblectivsos             The Project has the following objectives: (i) improve
the operating efficiency and reliability of the power
system, thus reducing supply disruptions; (ii) improve
voltage control and frequency regulation; (iii) realign
the level and structure of electricity tariffs to
rationalize consumption of electricity, reduce imports,
reduce the pollution associated with electricity
generation, and mobilize resources for NEK; (iv) improve
and depoliticize the tariff setting system by
establishing an independent regulatory mechanism to set
electricity tarlffs; (v) reduce the need for electricity
imports or other high cost sources to meet peak demand;
(vi) reorient the operations of NEK along more
commercial lines; and (vii) strengthen dam safety at the
Belsken and Chairs dams and associated saddle dam.
Dig eLition:            The Project consists of three components.  First is
improvement of the supervisory control and transmission
network system for NEK. The second is completion of
units 3 and 4 of the pumped storage project at Chaira,
which is owned by NMK. Third is technical assistance,
primarily to help NEM in operating more efficiently and
in a more commercial manner.  These components were
chosen becuse they could be implemented relatively
rapidly, would maximize the impact of Bank funds
(by completing projects underway), and would have a
major beneficial Impact on the electricity subsector.
proleatrBenefit         The Project follows from the Bank's recent gray cover
Energy Straterr Stuy (Report 10143) and Envroment
Strategy Studv (Report 10142) for Bulgaria.   These
reports, especially the Ener=y Strategy Study, outline
an approach to improving the problems in Bulgaria's
energy sector by increasing energy conservation and



- ii -
efficiency of energy usage, and by encouraging domestic
production of energy. This Project, building on these
studies, would: (a) increase efficiency in electricity
production, transmission, distribution and usage;
(b) improve the stability of the electric grid;
(c) improve voltage and reactive power control; and
(d) increase domestic output of electricity relative to
imports.
Riska.                  The major risks to the Project occur from three sources.
First, for the project to succeed, the Government must
be willing to increase electricity tariffs substantially
and to create an independent regulatory mechanism to set
these tariffs in the future, both of which will be
politically  difficult.    The  second  risk  is  the
willingness of the Government to increase NEK's
depreciation or reduce taxes in order to provide it with
sufficient funding to carry out more of its investment
program.   Finally, the Beneficiary (NEK) is a new
organization with very limited commercial experience,
having been spun-off from the government at the
beginning of 1992. This lack of experience will require
a fairly high degree of involvement in this project by
the Bank in the first couple of years.
Estimated Pro1ect Costs:
-                              _uc~~~~~~~~~al   Foreig  Total
(US $ millions)
Chaira Pumped Storage            10.4    29.9      40.31
Improvements in Control and       6.0    35.5      41.5'
Transmission Network Systems
Technical Assistance              0.3      .2L      6.5
Total Baseline Costs         16.7    71.6      88.3
Physical Contingencies            2.0      6.9      8.9
Price Contingencies              M.A    _.7.    17.5
Total Project Costs          29.5    85.2    114.7
Interest During Construction      .5       7.8    _11,
Total Financing Required              2 9      126.0
J/  .mbisovw# &5N _l. qeby l4mdnoudadil.
a/  miis $5mll_5a_-y etby 4pamsoaio sis



- iii -
Finanig Plan:
L&oal          1        Ua
(US$ millions)
Bank Loan     -            93.0       93.0
NUK                        -          330
Total
Estimated Bank Disbursents 3
IBRD FISCAL EASS
(US$ millions)
94 2 2i 22 21g
Annual        13   31   29   15    5
Cmulative   13   44   73   88   93
Egonomic Rate of Retrn:  191
S/Dm os       ZSSiht*.SNFS rNrgpuu



I.  THE EL  9
1.01        jjs14ggjn.  Bulgaria, one of the maller countries of Europe in
terms of area and population, emerged from World War II with an economy based
primarily on private agriculture, supported by a relatively small industrial
sector. The Communist Government that assumed power in 1946 declared the country
a People' s Republic and embarked on a program aimed at rapid industrialization.
Private industry was nationalized and production in both industry and agriculture
was increasingly organized to facilitate central planning and to capture
perceived economies of scale.   The development of the industrial sector,
particularly the choice of industries, was heavily influenced by the country's
strong ties with the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA) block,
especially the former Soviet Union (FSU).
1.02        In support of this strategy detailed annual plans were prepared,
specifying input and output levels, marketing arrangements and wholesale/retail
prices.   To insulate domestic prices from international trends, taxes and
subsidies were centrally administered and a complex system of multiple exchange
rates was determined administratively. This strategy, together with access to
the CMEA market and cheap raw materials - especially energy from the former USSR,
resulted in high rates of growth. According to the official statistics, the
economy grew over the next two decades by an average of 7 to 8X annually, with
the share of industry in Net Material Product (NMP) increasing from about 261 in
1948 to about 492 in 1970.
1.03        The structural transformation of the Bulgarian economy during this
initial phase, as well as the abrogation of the traditional policy instruments,
created many of the deep seated problems which have persisted since the decade
of the 7Os. These problems include a longer term decline in productivity growth,
a slow pace of technological change, the misallocation of resources through the
iposition of overambitious investment plans without regard to efficiency and
quality and the channelling of resources into producer goods industries at the
expense of higher return activities in consumer goods and the agricultural
sector. Administered wages and prices also worsened the terms of trade for
agriculture and further compounded the problem of under-investment in the sector.
Although the strong orientation of trade towards CNEA countries provided a ready
market for the country's g.,owing maanufacturing sector, it made Bulgaria more
vulnerable to developments in those countries and, because of the isolation, less
competitive in Western markets.
1.04        Economic growth, though positive, slowed down substantially during
most of the 1980s, and the first decline in NMP since World War II was reported
for 1989. This deterioration reflected, in general, many of the common problems
that had begun to emerge in most centrally planned economies and in the case of
Bulgaria in particular, the continued poor performance of the agriculture sector
throughout the 1980s as well as a more marked slow down in industrial growth
during the second balf of the decade.   The increases in money wages, the
expansion of credit and extensive price controls that accompanied this decline,
led to the emergence of a large monetary overhang and shortages of goods.
Moreover, Bulgaria's external position, which was characterized in the mid-1980s
by a persistent and increasing deficit with convertible currency countries and
a surplus with the CMIA, worsened during the latter half of the decade. The
current account deficit with convertible currency countries increased and payment
arrears began to accumulate on sizeable export credits that Bulgaria had extended
to developing _ountries. As the resulting deficit was financed primarily through



-2-
borrowing in convertible currencies from private commercial banks. frequently
with short maturities, the country's foreign debt increased from US$3.2 billion
in 1985 to US$9.2 billion In 1989.
1.05        Recent Developments.- In November 1989, following the rapid and
momentous political changes, the monopoly position of the Communist Party was
abolished and, after almost four and a half decades, the first free multi-party
elections were hold in the country In June 1990. The new Government, which was
dominated by the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP), took office in September 1990,
but it failed to mobilize support for its reform program and in the midst of a
national strike resigned and was replaced by a coalition government composed
primarily of the BSP and the opposition, the Union of Democratic Forces (UDF).
1.06        The combination of the political changes and adverse external shocks
during 1990, delayed the implementation of the required reforms measures and
resulted  in  economic  performance  deteriorating  rapidly.    The  initial
disintegration of the CMEA trade and payments arrangements, coupled with the
overall contraction of East European economies, disrupted supplies of vital
imported inputs and caused a considerable decline in Bulgarian exports. The Gulf
Crisis further exacerbated the external imbalances through higher oil prices, the
curtailment of oil supplies from Iraq, and a sharp reduction in trade with both
Kuwait and Iraq. Faced with declining convertible currency earnings, a bunching
of amortization payments and the depletion of foreign exchange reserves, the
Government declared a moratorium on most debt obligations and the country lost
access to foreign commercial bank lending in mid-1990. Largely because of these
developments, GDP declined by an estimated 11.81 in 1990, with industry,
agriculture and services declining, respectively, by an estimated 16.32, 6.71 and
6.41. Fueled by both increases in nominal wages and a large monetary overhang,
inflation accelerated to an estimated average annual rate of 26X and the budget
deficit increased on a cash basis from 1.41 of GDP in 1989 to 8.52 in 1990.
1.07        In order to contain the decline in GDP and address the structural
imbalances in the economy, the coalition Government that assumed office in
February 1991 launched a radical and comprehensive economic reform program with
the support of: (a) the IMF through a Stand-by Arrangement (SDR 279 million)
attached to which was an external contingency mechanism for crude oil and natural
gas prices; and (b) the World Bank through a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) of
US$250 million and a Technical Assistance Loan of US$17 million. As envisaged,
priority was initially accorded to the implementation of reforms aimed at
reducing the economic imbalances to sustainable levels and to establishing
market based relative prices, necessary to create an environment conducive to
supporting the systemic reform of the real economy. Accordingly, price controls
imposed by the central government were removed - except for energy products, a
unified market-based floating exchange rate was adopted and all barriers to
international trade were substantially reduced. A tight monetary policy was
adopted, including substantially higher interest rates, supported by an incomes
policy designed to reduce real wages by 351 to contain inflationary pressures.
Industry, transport and dwmnstic trade were demonopolized and a two-tier banking
system was created.
1.08        The economy in 1991, however, contracted at a faster pace than was
envisaged under the stabilization program, due to the collapse of trade with CKHA
countries, a sharp contraction in domestic demand and the lower than anticipated
access to foreign financing. Output declined by about 231 in real terms and
unemployment increased significantly, from 1.61 at the beginning of the year to



-3-
10% by December, with another 2X of the work force on unpaid leave. Following
the liberalization of prices, monthly inflation, after having slowed downed,
picked up slightly in the last few months of the year. Measured real wages fell
by about 35X in the course of 1991, though this needs to be interpreted in the
context of a large rise in wages in the last quarter of 1990 and the use of
official prices in the base year. Inability to borrow from foreign commercial
banks due to the moratorium on foreign debt payments constrained economic
activity. The accompanying import compression, however, resulted in a modest
trade surplus.
1.09        Despite the worsening economic situation, the Government continued
to implement its reform program, albeit, at a markedly slower pace after July
1991 as the various political parties began to position themselves for the
elections. The new Government that was formed In November 1991, after the
election, reaffirmed its commitment to the reform program with particular
emphasis on the development of an efficient and large private sector. In support
of this program, agreement was reached with the Fund on a Second Stand-by
Arrangement, involving the implementation of a combination of fiscal, monetary
and exchange rate policies to reduce inflation to 2X per month and structural
reforms to contain the decline in GDP to about 42.
1.10        Reflecting the satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program,
the encouraging trade trends that became evident in late 1991 have continued,
with exports in convertible currencies showing unexpected buoyancy. This has
resulted in a small surplus in the trade account for the first half of 1992 and
has also offset to a limited extent the contraction in domestic demand, thus
limiting the decline in GDP. Inflation, however, has been higher than expected,
ranging between 4-5 percent per month, due to adjustments in the prices of some
energy products and the decontrol of food prices. To further dampen inflation,
wage ceilings have been adjusted only partially, implying a further decline in
real wages in 1992.
1.11        Given the emphasis accorded to the development of private sector, the
Government has removed all legal barriers to new private business activity. A
comprehensive privatization law, covering both small and large enterprises, was
enacted in April 1992, which provides for a flexible and multi-track approach to
privatization, including its initiation by the Government, the Privatization
Agency,  municipalities,  enterprises and investors.   The regulations and
institutions required to implement the law have established and are expected to
become operational shortly.
1.12        Following demonopolization, the state enterprises have now been
transformed, under the Company Law of July 1991, into smaller commercial
companies with new boards of directors and managers to prepare them for
privatization. To foster this process, and improve efficiency and accountability
in the state enterprise sector, financial discipline is being strengthened
through the removal of budgetary subsidies, introduction of tight credit and
interest rate policies and control over wage bills. In the agricultural sector,
the Government has adopted a comprehensive amendment to the Land Reform Act,
which will greatly reduce obstacles to the reform process and help create a land
market. In the financial sector, two basic laws were enacted during the first
half of 1992 that establish an independent Central Bank and create conditions for
universal as well as specialized commercial banks. In addition, the Government
has agreed with the Bank on medium-term strategy for restructuring the energy
sector.



-4-
1.13        Notwithstanding the progress made by the Government in establishing
the framework for restoring the country's growth potential, domestic policy
reform by itself will not be sufficient to support continued economic recovery,
given the external shocks and the dislocation resulting from the reform program.
These have already reduced domestic consumption and imports to levels where
further substantial cuts could jeopardize the sustainability of the program.
This, together with the prevailing resource constraints, clearly augment the need
for a negotiated resolution of the present debt overhang and for channelling,
over the medium-term, official financial assistance toward priority investments
to sustain the restructuring of the economy. The Project, which is an integral
part of the agreed medium-term strategy, is designed to assist the Government in
meetlng the forecast demand for electricity at least cost.



II.  THE Y NLJ G  SC¶Y)
A. 3 kund
2.01        Energy Resources.   Bulgaria's endowment of commercial energy
resources is extremely poor. The very limdted initial reserves of oil and gas
have declined steadily and are now estimated at about 3 million tonnes of oil
equivalent, representing less than 3 months of the country's petroleum
consumption. The hydropower potential is also limited as most of Bulgaria's
rivers are small, except for the Danube which, however, has a fairly small drop
in altitude where it forms the country's northern border with Romania. Largely
because of this constraint, hydro capacity accounts for about 16X of the
country's total installed generating capacity and an even smaller percentage of
generation. The reserves of the presently active coal mining areas are estimated
at about 2.6 billion tonnes, with lignite accounting for about 90X of these
reserves and sub-bituminous and bituminous coal for the remaining 10X. The
latter are spread thinly across the country, which renders their extraction
uneconomic. As for the lignite reserves, over 95% of these are located in the
southeast of the country, at Maritza East, and are sufficient to meet the
requirements of the existing three mine-mouth power plants and the briquette
factory for another 75 years.   Because of the generally favorable mining
conditions, which are characterized by an easily accessible terrain, low
overburden to lignite ratio, a thick lignite seam and the absence of groundwater
problems, the reserves at Maritza East are likely to remain the country's
principal economically exploitable energy resource in the medium to long term.
However, as the lignite is of poor quality (heating value of about 1,500 kcal/kg,
a sulfur content of about 2Z), and cannot be transported economically over long
distances, it would continue to be the main source of primary energy for the
generation of electricity at pit-head power plants and for the production of
steam for industries located in the vicinity of the mines, as has been the case
tbhs far.
2.02        Sector _XOr ization.  Until November 1991, when Decree 46 of the
Council of Ministers (COG) was promulgated, the energy sector was dominated by
two large, vertically integrated groups: (i) an integrated coal, electricity, and
heat supply enterprise under the Committee of Energy (COE); and (ii) an oil
refining and petrochemicals conglomerate, an oil product distribution company,
and a gas import and distribution company, all under the purview of the Ministry
of Industry and Technology. As with most industrial enterprises in Bulgaria, the
efficiency of these organizations was masked by the complex of administratively
set prices and exchange controls on all inputs and outputs.
2.03        Following the promulgation of Decre. 46, the energy sector was
reorganized and the operating entities involved in the sector were established
as Joint stock or limited liability companies, with the Government as the sole
share holder. The entities that are responsible for the day-to-day management
and operations include: the Natsionalna Elektricheska Kompania (National Electric
Company or NEK), which is responsible for the generation, transmission and
distribution of electricity throughout the country; Neftochim, which is
responsible for the operation of the country's largest refinery at Burgas; Petrol
for the distribution and marketing of petroleum products; Toplivo for the
marketing of coal, propane/butane and briquettes to the household sector, as well
as for activities outside the sector; Bulgargaz for the transmission of gas;
Sofia Energy Company for the largest district heating system in the country in
Sofia; and the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Company. In addition,



-6-
there are about 16 coal mining companies, including the three at Maritza East,
two small refineries, a briquette factory, district heating companies in the
major cities and towns, and service organizations.
2.04        The responsibility for coordinating the activities of the operating
entities is vested in a number of Ministries and organizations, as is shown in
Annex A.  The Ministry of Industry has jurisdiction over gas transmission,
refining, petroleum distribution and marketing of transport and household fuels.
The Committee of Energy (COE), which reports directly to the Council of Ministers
(COM), oversees the power, coal and district heating subsectors. The Committee
of Geology and Mineral Resources, also an independent body reporting to the COX,
is responsible for oil and gas exploration and production and minerals
exploration.  The Commission on Prices (COP), in addition to overseeing prices,
assists in setting the prices of electricity, heat and coal. In addition, also
involved in the energy sector is the Commission to the Council of Ministers on
Energy and Raw Material Supplies for the country, which is essentially a standing
committee, comprising representatives of various ministries and energy
organizations. However, it has no staff and meets only as required for dealing
with immediate criaes.
2.05        The Government has realized the implications of this fragmentation
of responsibility among numerous ministries and organizations and is favorably
disposed to establishing a new agency for coordinating the activities of all the
operating entities involved in the sector. Decisions relating to the exact
structure and location of this agency, however, are pending.
2.06        Energy PrLcing. Under the Communist Government, energy prices were
administered by the Government and were kept at levels substantially below those
in market economies, though this was masked by the overvaluation of the official
exchange rate of the leva relative to convertible currencies. Since 1991, with
the launching of the reform program, prices of petroleum products were
liberalized and are now set monthly based on formula established by the CON,
which links the retail price to world market prices and provides for freight,
taxes and duties as well as a fixed margin for marketing and distribution.
Likewise, the price of natural gas was partially liberalized and is now linked
to petroleum product prices.   As part of its mandate, COP monitors the
developments in the price of petroleum products and natural gas.
2.07        As for the price of  electricity, heat and coal, these continue to
be set administratively. However, these also have been increased four times
since the Government launched its reform program, first in February 1991 and then
again in June 1991, May 1992 and finally, in January 1993 (though this last price
increase excluded coal).   Adjustments in the prices of these products are
approved by CON, based on the recommendations of COP. which are not binding.
Consequently, in setting prices, which is still a politically sensitive issue,
CON bases its. decision on a combination of political, economic and financial
considerations. The distortions resulting therefrom are failing to provide the
consumers the signals needed to rationalize the consumption of energy and
denying the sector the resources required for meeting the demand at least cost,
as is discussed below.
2.08        Electricity. While the average electricity tariff is set by CON, the
structure of tariffs that would yield the approved average tariff is determined
jointly by COP and COE. During the past two years, the average electricity
tariff has been increased about twelve fold in nominal terms, from .0524 leva/kUh



7-
in late 1990 to .57 leva/kWh in Kay 1992 and an estimated .64 leva/kWh in January
1993. In addition to these increases, a uniform structure of tariffs was also
introduced in May 1990, which, as is shown below, differentiates between
consumers at the various voltage levels (high, medium and low voltage), and
varies by season, time-of-day and peak/off-peak. The high voltage category
includes industrial consumers such as steel, cement, fertilizer, etc. The medium
voltage category includes all small industries and municipalities whose voltage
ranges between 10 kV and 35 kV. The low voltage category encompasses all other
consumers except households. Though differentiated by time-of-day, tariffs for
household consumers are substantially lower than those paid by all other
consumers, implying that the latter are subsidizing the consumption of the
former.
E~~~~~~~~Tm L                                                | 
2.09        Overall, the prevailing tariff structure, with the notable exception
of the cross-subsidization of households, is generally consistent with the
structure dictated by the principles of marginal cost pricing; that is, tariffs
are differentiated by time of day and season to reflect the differences in cost
incurred by the utility in meeting the consumers demand for electricity. Despite
the improvements in the level and structure of tariffs, COR's estimates show that
the average tariff does not reflect fully either the economic or financial cost
of supply. The average cost of supply is underestimated primarily because
depreciation is based on historical costs, which are far below not only
replacement costs, due to changes in the value of leva and the high rate of
inflation over the past two years, but also below the cost of maintaining the
existing assets.   Therefore,  in view of prevailing resource constraints,
agreement was obtained during negotiation of the Project on adjustments in the
level of tariffs that should enable NEK to finance 301 of its investment program
from internal sources (see para 5.11).
2.10        District Hea. District heating plants supply hot water to about 222
of the households and meet 58X of the requirements of industry for hot water and
steam. In addition to heat, some of these plants also produce electricity which
is sold to NEK. Most of the largest industrial plants and a few of the smaller
ones that use heat are metered and billed on the basis of their specific
consumption, while the other are billed on the basis of estimated consumption.
By contrast, the consumption of hot water by households is not metered and their
heat bills are based on cubic meters of living space. As of May 1992, the price
of heat was 334 leva/Gcal for industrial consumers and 115 leva/Gcal for



households, representing, respectively, a 19 and an 11 fold increase in the price
of heat for the two categories of consumers during the past two years.
(Effective January 1, 1993, prices were increased an additional 10 for industry
and 201 for households.)
2.11        The estimated average revenue of about 260 leva from heat in 1992 is
substantially less than the estimated average cost of supply of about
420 leva/Gcal. This is largely due to the underpricing of heat for households,
which is less than one half the cost of fuel used in its production.
Furthermore, the January 1993 price Increase for heat will have only a small
impact on this situation. The price of heat to households is kept low not only
for political but also for equity reasons, given that households have no control
over their heat bills. In the absence of a mechanism that would allow individual
consumers to regulate their heat bills, upward adjustments in prices are unlikely
to promote the efficient use of heat by households. As a first step toward
addressing this constraint, the Government has initiated a study for the district
heating system in Sofia, financed by the Danish government, to test the viability
of metering and regulating the consumption of heat by households. For the same
system, another study is to be carried out with the assistance of consultants
financed by the US Trade and Development Program, to identify the means for
improving the efficiency of the heat supply system. These studies are expected
to form the basis for a project to be financed by EBRD.
2.12        CaAl. Based on COP's recommendations, COX sets a reference price for
domestically produced coal.  This reference price is for a tonne of coal
equivalent (tce) with a heating value of 7,000 kcal/kg. As the quality of coal
in Bulgaria is poor and varies significantly, its price is set in relation to the
reference price, taking into account the heating value and other factors such as
moisture and ash content. Presently, there are about 400 different prices of
domestically produced coal. The prices of imported coal, by contrast, are not
set administratively except for a very small amount sold on the retail market for
which the pricing mechanism is the same as for domestically produced coal.
2.13        The reference price of coal, like other energy prices, has been
increased significantly between July 1990 and May 1992, from 20 leva/tce to
606 leva/tce for industrial consumers, including the power subsector, which
absorbs the bulk of the domestically produced coal, and from 28 leva/tce to
506 leva/tce for households. Largely because of these increases, the retail
price of coal for industrial consumers is now at about 821 of the average cost
of production for the sector, estimated at about 737 leva/tce and about 201
higher than the cost of production at the main mining complex at Maritza East,
which is estimated at about 510 leva/tce. The average cost of production for the
sector as whole could be reduced substantially through a restructuring program,
including the phasing out of uneconomic mines and the rehabilitations and
upgrading of the economic ones, such as taritza East. The Government, as a part
of its overall reform program, has already identified the largest loss makers in
the mining sector and is in the process of developing programs for restructuring
their operations.
2.14        The price of coal for household consumers, like the prices of other
energy products, is kept low for social and political reasons. Moreover, of the
coal that is currently being consumed by households. the bulk is in the form of
briquettes, produced at the Naritza East plant. These briquettes have a heating
value of 4,300 kcal/kg and are sold by Toplivo at 340 leva/t while their cost of
production is estimated at about 1250 leva/t. The losses incurred in meeting



the demand for briquettes by households are only partially covered by a subsidy
from the Government, and as a result, the briquette factory has built up large
accounts payable with the Naritza East Nines and NEK. As a first step towards
improving this situation, the Government is being assisted by consultants
financed by the Dutch government to identify the means for reducing the cost of
briquette production. This study would form the basis for adjusting the price
of briquettes.
2.15        Medium-Term Prospects for the Sector.   As was noted earlier
(para 1.01), the Communist Government upon assuming power in 1946 embarked on a
strategy aimed at the rapid industrialization of Bulgaria, with priority being
accorded to the development of heavy industry and organic and inorganic
chemicals. Given the limited endowment of domestic energy resources, Bulgaria
has had to rely heavily on imported energy, mostly from FSU, to support this
strategy.   Historically, the relative share of imports in gross domestic
consumption of energy has ranged between about 701 to 751. In 1991, almost all
of the oil, gas and nuclear fuel, 30X of coal (by heat content) and about 101 of
the electricity that was consumed in the country was imported. Energy imports
continue to be the single largest import item, typically 20-251 of total imports.
Details relating to the supply and consumption of energy in 1991 are shown in
Annex B.
2.16        The emphasis on rapid industrialization and the accompanying increase
in its share of total output, has resulted in Sulgaria's total consumption of
energy per unit of GDP being higher than that of most western countries; about
201 to 251 higher than for a comparable market economy when national incomes are
compared on the basis of parchasing power parity and about 351 higher when
national incomes are compared on the basis of conventional exchange rates. For
most industries, energy intensity per unit of industrial output is also higher
than in the West: for example, 321 for cement and about 671 for cardboard.
2.17        Given the structure of the economy, it is unlikely that in the short
to medium-term there will be a rapid decline in the energy intensity of Bulgaria.
The decline in aggregate energy consumption that has occurred over the past two
years is more a reflection of the economic difficulties than a fundamental
structural change, which is likely to be a protracted process, as it would
involve reducing the relative importance of industrial production and of energy
intensive branches such as chemicals. The Government's recent initiatives,
especially the large upward adjustments in energy prices, are expected to
contribute to this process of transformation and to the rationalization of
consumption; however, these would have to be supplemented by non-price measures
to further reduce aggregate energy consumption and hence imports, to alleviate
the pressures on the external balances. One such non-price measure to which
priority has been accorded by the Government is the improvement in the efficiency
of the power sub-sector, the single largest consumer of primary and secondary
energy in Bulgaria.
B. Power Subsector
2.18        Until November 1991, COS was one of the two vertically integrated
enterprises in the energy sector. It had, under its purview, the production of
coal, briquettes and heat and the generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity. As the operator of the national grid, it was also responsible for
imports and exports of electricity and for the purchase and distribution of
electricity produced by power plants owned and operated by industry. Following



- 10 -
its reorganization, all of COE's operating responsibilities have been assigned
to NEK, except those relating to the production of coal, briquettes and district
heat which were assigned to other operating companies.
2.19        Develogments in the Consumption and Sunly of Electricity. Between
1980 and 1988, gross domestic consumption of electricity increased at an average
annual rate of about 3.2Z, from 38.7 TWh in 1980 to an all time high of 49.2 TWh
in 1988.   Since then, however, it has declined rapidly, dropping to about
41.0 TWh by 1991.  Further declines are expected through 1995, after which
consumption is expected to start increasing again (see Annex C). The decline is
attributable to contraction of economic activity, some restructuring of the
economy and to capacity constraints, which became particularly acute in 1991 when
emergency assistance was provided by the Commission of the European Communities
(CEC) to minimize load-shedding.
2.20       As is summarized in Table 2.2 below, the sectoral shares in the gross
consumption of electricity have been changing over time especially since 1988.
Losses in transmission and distribution have increased significantly, as a share
of gross consumption and in absolute terms. Partially, this is caused by higher
household consumption of electricity, with low voltages where losses tend to be
greater, but there are also indications that misappropriation of electricity is
increasing. Industrial use of electricity (which includes construction) is
declining both as a share of gross consumption and absolutely, as a result of the
deterioration in the Bulgarian economy and the restructuring which is underway.
Household use of electricity is increasing both in terms of its share of gross
consumption and absolutely as individuals have shifted to heating with
electricity due to the sharp rise in the price of home heating oil. The share
of the public sector in electricity consumption has decreased somewhat, while the
shares of agriculture and transport are largely unchanged.
~~ _
2.21        Bulgarias's total installed generating capacity increased   from
8,854 NW in 1980 to 12,074 KW in 1991, wLth almost all of the now capacity that
was added to the system being in the form of nuclear power. This simply reflects
the continuation of the Goverrnment's policy of expanding nuclear generating
capacity, which was adopted in the 1970s, as a means for offsetting the
constraints aris:ing from the country's limited endowment of commercial energy
resources. The firsit nuclear reactor (unit 1), a Soviet designed and built VVER



- 11 -
440, model 230, with a capacity of 440 MW was commissioned at Kozloduy in 1974.
Over the next 16 years,  another 3,320 MW were added to the plant at Kozloduy,
comprising 3 X 440 MW (VVER 440, model 230s, units 2-4) and 2 X 1000 MW (VVER-
1000s, units 5-6). The last unit of 1000 MW, unit 6, was brought on stream in
1991 and is in the process of being commissioned. As a result, the share of
nuclear in total Installed capacity has more than doubled, from 151 in 1980 to
311 in 1991, while that of thermal and hydro has declined correspondingly: from
641 to 53X for the former and from 211 to 161 for the latter, respectively.
Details relating to the growth in capacity are presented in the Table 2.3 below.
Further information is provided in Annex D.
1~~~~~~~L1  198                                                  E .
2.22        While the rapid growth in Bulgaria' s nuclear capacity and generation,
over the past two decades, reduced the need for imported power or fossil fuels,
it has resulted in considerable concern about the safety of the Kozloduy nuclear
plant. In particular, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in their
1991 report on this plant expressed concern about its condition, primarily the
VVER 440s, units 1-4, which lack many safety features considered standard in the
West. Over the past 18 months, major technical assistance has been provided for
these units, primarily by the CEC, in conjunction with the World Association of
Nuclear Operators (WANO) and their operations have been improved.
2.23        The issues involved in the safety of units 1-4 are difficult. In the
short run, they are needed to meet winter demand due to: (a) operational problems
with existing thermal plants; (b) fuel shortages; (c) the low availability of
units 5 and 6; and (d) the high cost and uncertain availability of imports. In
the medium term, with increased availability of power from the thermal plants and
units 5 and 6, the need for the VVER 440s would greatly diminish. However, these
units are the lowest cost source of power, aside from hydropower, for the country
and their replacement by thermal power plants would involve a major economic cost
for the country. Nevertheless, the continued operation of these units in the
medium term without major upgrading of their safety systems and perhaps even with
it, would be unacceptable to much of the international community. No decisions



- 12 -
have yet been made about what to do with units 1-4, though studies on this issue
are on-going including work requested by the 0-7 summit meeting in Munich.
2.24       Chart 2.1 provldes the
details relating to fuels used by the   COE's Electricity Generation in 1991
COE  to  generate  electricity  in             In Percent by Fuel Type
Bulgaria  in  1991.    The  Koaloduy
nuclear plant provided about 37X of
the  electricity,  domestic  lignite
(mostly the Naritza  asst Complex),                          Nuclear Pewi
provided 33.71, Imported coal (mostly
used at the Varna plant) provided
14.31 and there were small amounts
generated by fuel oil, gas and by                 .. ....
hydro plants accounting cumulatively
for 14.61 of the total. Historically,    O5. S 12
very little gas has been used in power                            7.54
generation,   with   gas   primarily                        bT.,T1"
reserved for industrial uses.  While                          14.3
it  would  be  advantageous,  for
environmental reasons, to expand gas                 Chart 2.1
usage in power generation, COB and NEK
are opposed at this time to a major expansion because the country has only one
source of supply, Russia, which is not viewed as being very stable and the gas
pipeline to Bulgaria also has to traverse the Ukraine and Romania.
2.25       The development of Bulgaria's power subsector was dictated more by
the availability of fuels, technology and unit sizes from the CMEA block
countries, especially the FSU, than by the requlrements for its optimal operation
as an isolated system. As a result, Bulgaria depends not only on imports of
fuels from FSU for about 20X of the country's thermal capacity and almost all of
the nuclear fuel, but also on imports of energy and capacity from the CMEA
(mostly Ukraine) for meeting its peak demand, as well as the operational
requirements of the system for spinning reserves and frequency control.
2.26       Interconnection and Electricitv Exchange.   The Bulgarian power
system is interconnected with all neighboring countries including Ukraine,
Romania, Turkey, Greece, and Yugoslavia. The country is linked with Ukraine
through a 750 kV line and a 400 kV line, with Romania through two 400 kV lines
and a 220 kV line, and with Greece, Turkey and Yugoslavia through 400 kV
transmission lines. In the past, about 800 MN could be imported from the FSU
(Ukraine) at periods of peak demand with about 4-5 TWh imported yearly. Although
the contract was to be renewed annually, experience in 1991 suggests that Ukraine
may be unable or unwilling to provide the energy and capacity that was previously
supplied and for which the 750 kV transmission line was originally installed.
2.27       The interconnection with Romania, near Kozloduy, was to serve largely
as a means for wheeling the power from the Ukraine through Bulgaria and for the
trade of electricity between the two countries. However, Bulgaria's trade in
electricity with Romania, Greece, Turkey and Yugoslavia remains small. Trade
with Romania will remain very limited because both countries suffer from
available capacity shortages, trade with Greece is also limited by capacity,
trade with Yugoslavia is currently restricted by the embargo (though it was never
large), while electricity trade with Turkey is limited by technical factors and
costs.



- 13 -
2.28        The interconnections to the Ukraine and Romania are in parallel
(synchronized systems) whereas those to Yugoslavia and Greece are operated on the
"isolated Island" principle which allows synchronized operation of an isolated
part of one power system with the other. The 'isolated island" method of
operation limits flexibility and Bulgaria's ability to import power and energy,
but this is necessitated by the fact that Bulgaria (as well as the other
countries of the former CNEA) belongs to the Eastern Europe interconnected system
known as IPS or more informally as MIR (Peace); whereas Greece and Yugoslavia
belong to the Western Europe interconnected system known as UCPTE.   The
difference in the standards of the two systems does not allow synchronization of
the systems at the present time. Turkey, on the other hand, is not a member of
either system and operates its own independent power grid. This gives it more
flexibility to interchange power with either system. However, being a member of
a large system has major advantages in that the immediate availability of power
through the system interconnections contributes to a higher reliability than
would be the case without them and, if rationally utilized, also to a more
economic operation of the interconnected system.
2.29        Bulgaria is in tripartite discussions with Greece and Yugoslavia for
enhancing future exchanges, strengthening of the interconnections and possible
synchronization.  This would require the adoption by Bulgaria of the UCPTE
standards including adequate generating capacity, peaking units, and frequency
and voltage regulation which they currently cannot meet. Also at present, it is
questionable whether Bulgaria could do without imports of electricity from
Ukraine at peak periods and, therefore, it may not be able to join UCPTE until
that issue is resolved.  There are, however, ongoing discussions between UCPTE
and IPS about establishing closer links and eventually even synchronizing the two
systems and if this occurs it would eliminate the necessity for Bulgaria to make
a decision between the two systems. The completion of the supervisory control
system, a component of the Project, would facilitate Bulgaria's consideration for
membership in UCPTE at a later date, and allow parallel operation of the
Bulgarian power network with the UCPTE network.   The Chaira pumped storage
project would also help by providing peaking capacity and limited reserves.
2.30        Ongoing Technical Assistance.   The power subsector and NEK are
currently receiving considerable technical assistance.   The part of this
technical assistance which deals with the Kozloduy nuclear plant is discussed
briefly at para 2.22 above. The non-nuclear technical assistance to the power
subsector is quite broad and extensive (approximately 15 studies) and is being
provided primarily by the Phare program of the Commission of the European
Communities (CEC), the US Trade and Development Program (USTDP) and USAID. It
is aimed primarily at analyzing; what additional investments need to be
undertaken in the power sector to improve efficiency and stability in the short
and long run (including rehabilitation needs), the likely future levels of
demand, how the sector should be organized including the organizational structure
for setting electricity tariffs, how pollution created by the power plants should
be reduced, and at developing recommendations on tariff structures. These studies
would mostly be completed between the end of 1992 and late 1993. They should
provide the COE with, inter alia, a more detailed least-cost investment plan for
the subsector including timing and costs of rehabilitation, an estimate of NEK's
long run marginal costs, organizational recommendations and recommendations on
how electricity tariffs should be set. The Government is awaiting the results
of these studies before finalizing its plans for the sector.



- 14 -
III.  THE BORROVER
3.01       Ogygie. Following the promulgation of Decree No. 46 of the Council
of Ministers dated November 7, 1991, the Natsionalna Elektricheska Kompania or
National Electric Company (NEK) was established as a joint stock company on
January 1, 1992, and took over the assets from COE for the centralized supply of
electricity. As a successor to COE, it is charged with the responsibility for
(a) the construction, operation and maintenance of the centralized system for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; (b) purchase and sale
of electricity generated by autoproducers and district heating systems; and (c)
the import and export of electricity. The Government is the sole shareholder of
NEK, which has an authorized capital of 2 billion leva, all of which has been
subscribed and paid. NEK's articles of association are presented in Annex E.
3.02        Mmnagimen. The overall responsibility for the management of NEK is
vested in a Supervisory Board, a Managing Boa d and a Board of Branch Nanagers.
The Supervisory Board, headed by a Chairman, oversees the operations of NEK on
behalf of the state as the sole share-holder. The Chairman is elected from
amongst the seven Board members, appointed by the Council of Ministers (COM) for
a period normally of five years. The tenure of the first Board, however, is
limited to three years. The Supervisory Board, required to meet once every three
months by the Articles of Association, approves all decisions that could
materially affect the ownership and structure of the company, including: (a) the
acquisition, transfer or closing down of operations or substantial parts thereof;
(b) all long-term contractual arrangements; and (c) the appointments and
dismissals of members of the company's Managing Board and senior officials. In
addition, it also adopts resolutions on legal issues within its competence,
verifies the company's annual reports, including financial statements, and
subject to the approval of CON, approves the distribution of profits.
3.03        The responsibility for the day-to-day management of NEK, including
the 43 branches, is vested in the Managing Board, comprising five members,
appointed by the Supervisory Board for a period of five years. The President of
the Nanaging Board, who is also the Chief Operating Officer of the Company, is
elected by the members of the Managing Board. The Board of Branch Managers,
headed by a Chairman who is elected, comprises 43 members.  It is simply a
consultative group that makes recommendations to the Managing Board regarding
decisions that effect day to day operations of the utility. The members of the
Board are managers of a branch, which is the basic structural unit of NEK. The
managers are selected on a competitive basis and appointed by the Managing Board.
3.04        In addition to the President, NEK has four Vice-Presidents: one for
generation; one for distribution, sales and commercial operations; one for
development and investments; and one for forecasts and finance. The President
is also assisted by three directors, one each for foreign relations and protocol,
legal, and administration. As shown in Annex F, the management structure of NEK
is more appropriate for a public agency than a utility mandated to operate along
commercial lines. As a first step towards addressing this constraint, NEK has
been working with consultants under financing from the USAID to review the
organizational structure of the utility with a view to streamlining its
operations.
3.05        As per its Articles of Association, NEK is mandated to operate along
commercial lines. Despite this, both the accounting and financial functions
continue to have a less prominent profile than is accorded the technical



- 15 -
functions: two of the company's four Vice Presidents basically have technical
function (generation and distribution), while both finance and accounting are the
responsibility of a third level executive reporting to a Vice President.
Moreover, neither the finance nor the accounting function is adequately staffed
and the systems and procedures have yet to be developed. In order to address
these shortcomings, technical assistance is being provided under the Project for
the implementation of a financial management improvement program, which is aimed
at strengthening NEK's accounting and financial functions to reorient its
operations along commercial lines (para 4.13). Also, at negotiations. agreement
was reached for NEK to submit. by July I. 1993. a plan for streamlingin decision-
making and strengthenLng its accounting and finMane _funtions with a timetable
for the implementation of this plan.
3.06        ggeratlpns.   As presently constituted, NEK, in addition to its
headquarters and the National Dispatch Center both of which are located in Sofia,
has 42 branches: one for each of its 11 thermal, nuclear and hydro power
stations; 28 electricity distribution branches, two for the supply of electricity
to the district of Sofia and one for each of the other districts; and three
service companies for investment and maintenance. All of these branches, except
for the five, which are under the direct control of NEK, have considerable
autonomy over decisions relating to their day-to-day operations, including
staffing, operational planning and maintenance. In fact, branches appear in some
situations to have excessive autonomy though whether this is in fact the case
should emerge in the course of the work mentioned in para 3.04 above.
3.07        NEK's operations are fairly efficient in the sense that it is a
relatively low-cost electricity producer on a sunk cost basis due to its high
proportion of nuclear power, with low fuel costs, the relatively low costs of
electricity production from Maritza East and from hydroplants. However, the
quality of service offered by the company is low, with the occurrences of major
outages at periods of peak demand and poor frequency control.   The latter
problems are due to insufficient available capacity (see para 3.09) and lack of
flexibility in the system, including limited reserves.
3.08        EXisting Facilities.  At the beginning of 1992, total installed
generating capacity owned and operated by NEK was 10,460 KW, comprising 4730 KW
of thermal capacity, 3,760 MW of nuclear capacity and 1,970 KW of hydro capacity.
NER also has access to about 1,614 KW of generating capacity owned and operated
by the district heat producers and industrial plants and, in theory, up to
another 600 KW from Ukraine.  Details relating to NEK's installed capacity are
presented in Table 3.1 below.



- 16 -
..~~~~~~   . ~~N   g w  -..  .
Q.    4  .'
-    ~~~gg
Whe NEK wasquf ftvm thmo eld CEatB te Xef of ,
thie sda heaig q
3.09        As was noted, the installed generating capacity to which NEK has
access is, in theory, more than adequate for meeting the country's demand for
electricity, which over the medium term in not expected to exceed the 1989 peak
of 8,332 M4W.   However, because of operational problems stemming from the
disruption in the supply of fuels - including the depletion of domestic reserves,
shortages of spare parts and equipment, poor msintenance and safety concerns. the
available capacity is likely to fall far short of the installed capacity. As a
result, in the short to medium term generating capacity constraints are likely
to persist.
3.10       NEK's main transmlssion system consists of 85 km of 750 kV lines,
1,844 km of 400 kV lines and 2,283 km of 220 kV lines.  In the distribution
system, the high voltage network conmists of 7,809 km of 110 kV linbs, the medium
voltage level consists of 48,928 km of 20 kV lines and the low voltage level of
66,397 km. The total installed capacity of transformers is about 29,872 NVA at
the High Voltage substations.   As d Aoted,  the  Bulgarian power system is
intercomected with Ukraine, Romedia, Yugoslavia, Turkey d nd Greece and at 750
kV with a nucleer plant in Ukraine.
3.11      of pae.  The total number of regular staff employed by NEK rs of
January 1992 cap about 30,360 of fhich 7 are professionals, 78t skilled workers
and the remsining 15t  are unskilled workars.   the total staff at NEl's
headquarters in Sofia is 130 of which 25 are administr.tive staff. Relative to
most western utilities, NEK, except for the headquarters operation, is seriously
overstaffed.  However, part of this may be explained by the hiv    h level of
servHies provlded sn-house and part by the bllllnn system isich requires a large
number of outlying offTces for cash payments. Even takfng mlto account these
factors, howemr, there would still appear to be ovrstaffhng. T t e project will,
therefore, provide funds for a redundancy study hl thst NEK cwi dhrveloP a plan



- 17 -
to reduce its labor force at the least social cost in liaison with the Ministry
of Labor and Social Welfare's employment sorvice.
3.12                          In the longer term,  the Government would be
interested in privatizing IUE. However, in the short and modium term, other
government owned companies are much more attractive for privatization. NEK is
currently unattractive for private investors siace it is has significant
financial problems (see paras 5.04 to 5.17) with a relatively high level of
current liabilities and very inadequate cash flow. Furthermore, its financial
condition is largely out of Its own control w$th electricity tariffs being set,
somewhat arbitrarily, by the Council of Ministers based on a mixture of political
and economic considerations. Once an independent regulatory mechanism is created
for establishing these tariffs and it seen to work, the company would becoms much
more attractive. A second major problem for any outside investors interested in
NEK would be its environmental liabilities.  The foremost of these is the
Kozloduy nuclear plant which is currently far below western safety standards and
presents a major potential liability. Also, MU generates a large amount of SOZ
from the power plants at the Maritza East Complex which use inexpensive but high
sulfur local lignite as fuel. An outside investor, especially one from the EC,
might be under considerable pressure to bring these plants into compliance with
SC standards, which would be very expensive. These environmental liabilities
might, however, be of less importance to private Bulgarian investors and the
company could possibly be floated on the domestic Bulgarian market after its
financial health is secured.



- 18 -
IV.  I    MW=
A. Project Setting
4.01        The development of the Bulgarian economy was heavily influenced by
the country's ties with the former Council of Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA)
block, especially the former Soviet Union (PSU). In the power subsector, in
particular, the expanslon of the system was dictated more by the availability of
fuels, technology and unit sizes from the CMEA block, than by the requirements
for its optimal operation as an isolated system. As a result, about 20X of the
country's thermal generating capacity has been dependent on supplies of coal from
CGEA (Ukraine); about 30X of the country generation capacity consists of nuclear
units supplied by the FSU and dependent on it for fuel; and the Bulgarian system
has depended on CMEA (Ukraine and Russia) for reserve power to meet peak demand,
frequency control and for spinning reserve requirements for the 1000 MW0 nuclear
units at Kozloduy in the event of an unplanned outage. The 750 kV high capacity
transmission line, linking the Bulgarian system with that of the CMEA, was
installed to provlde, inter alia, for such contingencies.
4.02        Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, supplies of coal from
Ukraine have become less reliable and, based on the experience of last winter,
there is considerable uncertainty about previous arrangements for meetlng
emergency electricity imports and peak demand. In addition, the bulk of the
existing installed generating capacity in Bulgaria operates at substantially
below nameplate capacity as it is in need of retrofitting and rehabilitation and
often short of fuels.  Also, nuclear safety issues related to the Kozloduy
nuclear power plant have a serious impact on power system operations
(see para 2.21).
4.03        The Government has increased the prices of electricity four times
since late 1990 (see para 2.07) and has reorganized the Committee of Energy,
which resulted in the creation of: the Natsionalna Elektricheska Kompania for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity (NEK); 16 coal mining
companies; and 22 district heating companies.   A quick Probabilistic Risk
Assessment study has been completed for Kozloduy units 1 to 4, and a decision on
whether and how to proceed with improving safety at these units is pending. The
Government has agreed with the Bank on a medium-term strategy, which is aimed at
addressing, in an integrated fashion, the key issues impeding the efficient
operation and development of the energy sector.
4.04        As per the agreed strategy, the Government has launched a number of
initiatives in the power subsector under financing from, inter alia, CEC, USAID
and USTDP. These include the preparation of: (i) a load forecast for the medium
and long-term; (ii) a least cost generation and transmission expansion program;
(iii) a tariff study; (iv) a study for the reorganization of the sector
(see below); and (v) a feasibility study for the rehabilitation and retrofitting
of the thermal power plants. Pending the recommendations of these studies, the
Government has given high priority to promoting the efficient operation of the
power system and reducing the cost of supply through the completion of ongoing
projects and commercializing the operations of NEK.



- 19 -
B. Projeet Ob1ectives
4.05        The objectives of the Project are to assist the Government in:
(a) improving the operating efficiency and reliability of the power system;
(b) realigning the level of electricity tariffs to rationalize consumption of
electricity, reduce pollution associated with electricity production and mobilize
resources for NEK; (c) improving and depoliticising the electricity tariff
setting mechanism; (d) improving voltage control and frequency regulation;
(e) reducing the need for electricity imports; (f) reorienting the operations of
NEK along more commercial lines; and (g) strengthening dam safety at the Bel.mken
and Chaira dams and the associated saddle dam.
C. vArtiomale for Ban# Involvement
4.06        The Project, which is fully consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy for Bulgaria since the latter emphasizes the importance of
the electric and telecoms iafrastructure of the Country, follows from the Bank's
recent EgrgMy Str&tgy SUt&y for Bulgaria (Report No. 10143-BUL).  That study
recommended a strategy of: (i) increasing efficiency of energy use through more
realistic prices and energy saving investments thereby, reducing energy imports,
pollution and costs; (ii) expanding domestic production and reducing costs of
this production thereby reducing imports and costs; and (iii) substantially
improving safety and reducing the environmental impact of the electricity
industry. This strategy has been accepted by the Bulgarian Government and by
most of the other donors, many of whom participated in its development. The
present project is designed to support this overall strategy by assisting the
electricity subsector. It would also continue the Bank's active dialogue with
the Government on energy issues. The particular components were chosen because:
(a) they could be implemented rapidly; (b) would have a major beneficial impact
on the Bulgarian electricity grid by increasing efficiency and stability; and
(c) would maximize the impact of Bank financial resources toward the needed
strengthening of the Bulgarian power system. Also, by improving the efficiency
of the electricity subsector, the Project fits well with the environmental
strategy contained in The Bulgarian Enviroment Jtrar&g)  Suay (Report No. 10142-
BUL), a joint product of the Bulgarian Government, the US Government and the
Bank.   Finally, tho Project will increase the safety of two major hydro-
electricity dams in Bulgaria, Chaira and Belmaken, and a secondary dam.
D. PEoject Description
4.07        The Project would provide for the implementation of the following
three components:
(a)   Improvement of the supervisory control and transmission systems of
the electricity grid in order to increase its stability and
efficiency. This would involve the installation of: (i) improved
communication links including power transducers, PLC channels,
radiorelay lines, and tolegyr extension at the first and second
hierarchy levels of the supervisory control system; (ii) hardware
and software for improving supervisory control at the National
Dispatch Center; (iii) unit control systems as part of the automatic
generation control system; (iv) shunt reactors and fault recorders
on the 400 kV transmission network; and (v) technical assistance of
varying degrees in the design, installation and implementation of
the above items;



- 20 -
(b)   Completion of units 3 and 4 at the Chaira pumped storage project,
thus providing additional peaking power and improved system control
and spinning reserves. This would involve: (1) the supply of steel
for the lining of penstock No. 2; (ii) the manufacture of the
lining tubes;  (iii)  preparatory  work;  (iv)  supervision  of
installation of turbo-generator sets Nos. 3 and 4; (v) miscellaneous
equipment; (vi) civil works and installation of turbo-generators;
(vii) technical assistance for procurement and construction
management; (viii) instrumentation for seismic monitoring; and
(ix) dam strengthening as recommended by a panel of experts
(see para 4.27);
(c)   Technical Assistance.  This would cover primarily the services of
consultants for reorienting the operations of NEK along commercial
lines through the implementation of a financial management
improvement program covering: (i) establishment of a cost accounting
system and development and implementation of a cost analysis model;
(ii) the design, development and implementation of a modern accruals
based accounting system that conforms to international accounting
standards; (iii) the design and implementation of an improved
billing, collection and cash management system; (iv) the development
and implementation of an improved control budgeting system; and
(v) the design and implementation of a computerized management
information system for NEK. It would also cover: (1) a water usage
optimization study for the Belmeken/Chaira catchment area;
(2) overseas training in dam safety monitoring; and (3) technical
assistance for the installation of instrumentation for seismic
monitoring of dams; and (4) a redundancy study for NEK.
E. Project Origin
4.08        ImDrovement of the Sunervisory Control and Network Systems.  The
'Supervisory Control System' consists of NEK's Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition System (SCADA) and the Energy Management System (EMS).  NEK's
Supervisory Control System includes the National Dispatch Center (NDC), four
Regional Dispatch Systems (RDC) and 28 sub-Regional Dispatch Centers (SRDC). The
NDC operates the power system by controlling the basic generating capacity
participating in load/frequency control, the transmission network and exchanges
with the neighboring countries. The RDCs operate the smaller power stations and
transmission network in their regions.  The SRDCs operate the distribution
networks in their regions with voltage rated less than 110 kV. The Supervisory
Control System is designed to provide operators with an accurate picture of the
bulk electricity system, the status of interconnections with neighboring power
systems and better control over this system. All major generating, transformer
and switching stations throughout Bulgaria would be monitored and an updated
picture of network system conditions would be provided to the dispatchers. With
state of the art EMS software and hardware, operators would be able to maintain
system security, minimize the cost and environmental impact of generation and
control power flow.
4.09        Project preparation for the Supervisory Control System was originally
undertaken in the period 1980-1982. Project implementation started in 1983 under
contract with Landis and Gyr.   This Company was selected from among five
candidates: Landis and Gyr, (Switzerland), Brown Boveri (Switzerland), Hitachi



- 21 -
(Japan), Toshiba (Japan) and Ofred (France). Because of embargo restrictions
upon the supply of hardware from the USA, the execution of the project was
interrupted and had to be resumed in 1987, after it has been redesigned. At the
same time the nwmber of RDCs was increased (from three to four). After the
political changes in Bulgaria in 1989-90, power system interconnections to UCPTE
(the Western grid) became important to the Bulgarians and for this an advanced
supervisory control system is required. The proposed System would include these
additional requirements. About US$35 million equivalent has been spent on the
Supervisory Control System, so far. Under the Project, the Supervisory Control
System would be improved and completed.
4.10        Since 1989, problems have been experienced with high voltages on the
400 kV system. The rises in voltages are largely attributable to the drop in
system load, as a result of the sharp drop in GDP, leading to a dominance of
capacitive effects on the 400 kV and 200 kV lines. The voltage levels associated
with system loads below 4,000 NU are a matter of serious concern, both within the
Bulgarian network, but also when interconnected operation with adjacent countries
takes place.   NEK has tried to reduce over-voltages through a number of
operational procedures, but these measures have been insufficient to overcome the
problem and voltages up to 440 kV on the 400 kV system have been reported. Given
that the system load factors are not expected to reattain their 1989 level until
well after the year 2000 and that voltages must be better controlled, NEK studied
a number of options for improving voltage control. Their conclusion, which has
been supported by outside consultants, was that two shunt reactors should be
installed on the 400 kV transmission network, probably at the Varna and Sofia
substations. In addition, the company has requested fault recorders to improve
the security of the transmission network. The Project would include the funding
of these shunt reactors and fault recorders.
4.11        Chaira Pumned Storage Plant.  Bulgaria has a complex electricity
system, with a large nuclear plant, base load lignito plants, plants running on
imported coal, CHP plants, hydro power plants, and industrial power plants. Such
a system needs substantial amounts of peaking capacity and reserves. In the
past, a substantial part of this peaking cap&city and spinning reserves were
provided by the Interconnected Power System (IPS) of the OKA group of countries.
With the shift of the Eastern European countries towards market based systema and
the dissolution of the Soviet Unlon, peaking capacity and reserves are much less
available to Bulgaria from the IPS System and they have to be provided to a
greater extent by the Bulgarian System. One of the most commonly used methods
of obtaining this capacity is a pumped storage plant.
4.12        The Chaira pumped storage project has been under construction for a
number of years and needs to be completed expeditiously to provide this peaking
capacity and reserves. The Chaira pumped-storage project is the second stage of
the Belmeken-Sestrimo hydro power development (Rila Complex) in operation since
1974. Stage 1, constructed between 1964 and 1974, includes the Belmeken rockfill
dam and a cascade of three hydropower plants, namely Belmeken (installed capacity
375 Nil), Sestrimo (installed capacity 240 NW) and Nomina Klisura (120 NW).
Stage 2, the Chaira pumped storage plant presently under construction, consists
of penstocks, an underground powerhouse (capacity of 864 MW), and the Chaira
concrete gravity dam. (Expenditures taus far for stage 2, which is around 90%
complets, are estimated at upwards of US$600 llion.) The two Belmeken-Chaira
penstocks connecting the Belmeken reservoir with the Chaira power plant are
4 km long and consist of a headrace tunnel (diameter 4.2 m), a surge tank and
a pressure tunnel.  The head between the Belmeken reservoir and the Chaira



- 22 -
powerhouse is quite high at 752 m. The powerhouse is constructed to be equipped
vith 4 vertical staff Francis type reversible pump-turbine units of 216 RV each.
The first two units are being installed. However, the installation of units 3
and 4 has been financially constrained. The Project would complete the required
civil works and the installation of units 3 and 4. Once completed, these units
would add substantially to the country's peaking capacity and reserves and thus
help stabilize the power system. The Project involves two major dams, which are
already constructed. The Chaira dam is a 85 m high concrete gravity dam with
total fill volume of 380,000 ma. The Chaira reservoir impounded by the Chaira
dam is the lower reservoir of the Chaira pumped storage scheme.  The upper
reservoir is the Belmokon reservoir which serves both the Chaira pumped storage
scheme and the Belmeken-Sestrimo hydropower complex. The Belmeken dam, which
impounds the Belmeken reservoir, is a 88 m high rockfill dam and has a fill
volume of 3.33 million m3. Both the Chaira dam and the Belmeken dam are well
designed, solidly constructed, in good condition and well maintained. However,
some strengthening and/or improved monitoring is required sLice at the time they
were designed and built insufficient allowance was made for the seismicity of the
area. Also, there is a small saddle dam associated with the Belmeken reservoir
which requires strengthening (see para 4.26-4.28).
4.13       TZabiLcal Assistance.  Prior to being spun-off the old COE, at the
beginning of 1992, NER had no experience functioning as a commercial entity. As
a result of this origin, NEK currently has an organization and management
structure which is more appropriate for a public agency than a utility and it
lacks modern accounting, control and financial systems (see Chapter 3). In order
to operate along commercial lines, as is required by its mandate, NEK has
recruited consultants under financing from USAID who are working with it on
organizational improvements aimed at stream-lining decision making, delineating
lines of responsibility and identifying staffing imbalances and organizational
weaknesses. Building on the results of this work, the Project would assist with
the commercialization of the company by the introduction of a financial
management improvement program focussing on improving accounting, financial,
control budgeting and general management information systems and organization.
F.  Project Co
4.14        A summary of the cost estimates for the Project is given below in
Table 4.1.



- 23 -
Table 4.1
tweet Cost S8av
I Total
BL  illin              1188 WUllioam    X loreiwi  Sas,
~~~~~~a  huaZCs                                           u       "      ~ts
A. Caire P_md Storage
1. Stel for penstock .2          0.6   27.9   28.5      0.0   1.1      1.1      08.0     1.2
2. Wmzfcturta  of linings       38.1   36.1   72.2      1.4   1..      2.8      50.0     3.2
3. Site prteation               16.3   81.6   47.0      0.6   1.2      1.8      66.0     2.1
4. Consultany serices            3.7   69.8   93.S      0.1   3.5      3.6      96.0     4.1
5. Civl Works 6 intalation    161.9  407.6  569.5       6.3  15.7    22.0       73.5    24.0
6. Het pwp intallatieo           0.8   40.7   41.5      0.0   1.6      1.6      08.0     1.8
7. Miscelatwous equiuast        0.5   22.0   23.4       0.0   0.9      0.9      08.0     1.0
6. Den streagtbening            50.5  117.8  168.3      1.9   4.5      6.5      70.0     7.4
Sub-total                270.4  "74.4 1044.8      10.4  29.9    40.3       74.1    45.7
B. Improvement of ControlIetwok
1. Autamatic dispatch cotrol    15.3  274.7  290.1      0.6  10.6    11.2       94.7   12.7
2. Automatic generation ottl    09.9  171.0  240.9      2.7   6.6      9.3      71.0    10.5
3. letwork iinprovsent 1R20     64.7  U73.0  437.7      2.5  14.4    16.0       85.2    19.1
4. Cousultancy services          5.3  100.9  106.2      0.2   3.9      4.1      95.0     4.6
Sub-total               155.2  919.6 1074.6       6.0  35.5    41.5       85.5    47.0
C. Teoanical Assistance             6.4  159.9  168.3       0.3   8.2      6.5      95.0     7.4
ot-alB lellhn Costs                434.0 1854.0 2288.0    16.7  71.6    86.3        61.0   100.0
lbysical contingeneles         51.4  177.9  229.4      2.0   6.0      8.9      77.6    10.0
Price contingencies           800.1 1653.3 2453.4      10.8   8.7    17.5      38.1    19.8
Total Project Costs               1285.6 3665.3 4970.8     29.5  65.2   114.7       74.2   129.8
interest during ecamtnaction       147.7  343.1  400.8      3.5   7.8    11.8       69.9    12.8
Total financins required          149.3 4026.4 5461.6        .0  03.0   126.0          .     .
G. Project Financing Plan
4.15           The financing plan for the Project is summarized in Table 4.2.  The
total foreign cost of the Project including interest during construction is US$93
million and is to be financed by a Bank Loan to NEK. The Bank Loan would
finan¢e: (a) 100l of foreign cost and 1001 of local ex-factory cost of supply of
material, equipment and erection; (b) 1001 of consultancy services; and (c) 661
of civil works and installation. In view of the high degree of illiquidity of
NEK (current ratio .74) and its very limited cash flow relative to its needed
investments (see paras 5.14 -5.17), the loan amount will cover the interest
during construction (IDC) of the Bank Loan. The local costs (US$33 million
equivalent) will be financed from internal cash generation.
Table 4.2
Project Financing Pln
USS Million
Local      Forein         Total            X
Bank Loan                    -            93            93          73.9
NEK                          33            -            33          26.1
3             .......2................ 
Total                     33           93          -126         J62



- 24 -
R.  Retroacstiv . n.n5.g
4.16        In order to accommodate the time schedule of the Project, retroactive
financing of up to US$5.0 million would be allowed to -over eligible
expenditures. This would primarily cover some preliminary work for the financial
management improvement program [para 4.07 (c)], the cost of beginning work on dam
strengthening including hiring a new panel of experts, and technical/design work
related to the dispatch center and network improvements.
I. PkogHeOU
4.17        The project elements, their estimated costs, and the procurement
arrangements for the components to be financed by the Bank are summarized in
Table 4.3.
4.18        All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank loan
proceeds would be procured in accordance with the Bank's GuLdelines for
Procurement under IERD Loans nd IDA Credits (May 1992). Bulgarian manufacturers
competing under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would receive a
preference in bid evaluation of 15X of the CIF price or the prevailing custom
duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they can
prove that the value added to the product in Bulgaria exceeds 202 of ex-factory
bid price. One of the requirements for the equipment contract would be that
before signing the contract, the successful bidder shall arrange to be
represented by an agent in Bulgaria, equipped and able to carry out the
contractor's delivery, installation, maintenance, repair and spare parts-stocking
obligations.
Table 4.3
SUIay of Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Packages                        Procurement Method
ICB          LCB           Other          Total
1. Equipment & Goods           45.6 (36.5)    4.1 (0.0)   2.2 ( 2.1).LV  51.9 (38.6)
2. Civil Works & Installation  32.1 (23.3)    2.4 (0.0)                  34.5 (23.3)
3. Technical Assistance                                  18.6 (17.4)1V   18.6 (17.4)
4. Dam Strengthening            9.3 ( 5.5)                0.4 ( 0.4)1'    9.7 ( 5.9)
5. IDC                                                   11.3 ( 7.8)     11.3 ( 7.8)
- _  __ -_   ,    _   ,   _ -_    _   _ -,_  ____  _-___  ,,,___   __-_-,_  ____  _--
Total                87.0           6.5        32.5           126.0
The Bank            (65.3)         (0.0)      (27.7)          (93.0)
I,/ ?Ut.reAtIu m8 nt* as)
Dicwt cCStZ.OUUSt
,  cmsuLtiug SezVIoe



- 25 -
4.19        Equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank will consist of
computer systems and peripherals, software systems, telecommunications,
transducers, shunt reactors, fault reactors, frequency control units and steel
for penstock lining. These will be grouped in about nine procurement packages
costing between US$900,000 and US$15,000,000.   Contracts for equipment and
materials estiwated to cost more than US$200,000 equivalent each will be procured
through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), using the Bank's sample bidding
documents modified to suit the requirements of individual project packages.
International Shopping (IS) with at least three quotations from three eligible
countries will be used for procurement of transducers in contracts estimated to
cost less than US$200,000 with an aggregate limit of US$1.2 million. Direct
Contracting (DC) up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million equivalent will be
allowed for items of a proprietary nature or i t_s required to ensure
compatibility with the already installed equipment. This includes the telegyr
extensions which are needed to connect to equipment already installed by Landis
and Gyr (Switzerland) (see para 4.09). Local suppliers are not expected to bid
on most of this equipment. The ICB procedure will be used for the civil works
and installation without prequalifications of the potential contractors.
Postqualification would be applied. There would be no domestic preference for
civil works.    Local  Competitive  Bidding  (LCB)  would be  followed for:
(i) Preparatory Works; and (ii) Manufacturing of the Penstock Lining Tubes. The
Bank would not finance these contracts, which, in any case are small, highly
labor intensive and appear to be of little interest to international bidders.
It is the mission's judgement that the LCB procedure is the most appropriate for
these two contracts and that local competitive bidding procedures are acceptable
from the stand point of procurement efficiency and economy.
4.20        Consultancy assignments will involve both individual consultants and
consulting companies. Consultant services would be required for the following
tasks with their estimated costs (including contingencies) in parentheses:
(a) project management for Chaira (US$4.6 million); (b) supervision of the
installation of units 3 and 4 (US$2.0 million); (c) implementation of the
dispatch center improvement project (US$2.5 million); (d) implementation of the
network improvement project (US$1.9 million); (e) financial management
improvement program for NEK, including software and some hardware
(US$6.7 million); (f) water optimization study for the Blmaeken/Chaira catchment
area (US$0.6 million); and (g) redundancy study for NEK (US$0.3 million).  In
addition, there will be funding for training, continuing work by a panel of
experts and certain expert advice for the safety of the major dams altogether
adding to about US$0.4 million. Selection of consultants and/or experts would
be in accordance with the Guidelines for the use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).  However, a
sole source consultancy contract with Toshiba would be allowed for the
supervision of the installation of the turbo-generators 3 and 4. Due to the
existing licensing agreement for the manufacturing of this equipment by a
Bulgarian manufacturer, the operational warranty could be granted only if the
installation is supervised by Toshiba. Local consultants with the requisite
experience and background are rare and, therefore, their participation in the
project is expected to be limited, though some joint venture consulting
arrangements are anticipated.
4.21        Due to the former centralization of procurement in Bulgaria, the
knowledge by the project implementation agencies of international commercial
practices and the Bank's procurement procedures is limited. The procurement
activities under the project will be managed by a procurement unit in NEW, which



- 26 -
is already established and with staff that has some training provided by the Bank
and some experience with EBRD procedures.  To ensure compliance with Bank
guidelines, all contracts awarded through ICB and all consulting contracts will
be subject to prior review by the Bank. All other contracts, would be subject
to ex-post review. It is estimated that around 90X of the total funds will be
spent for contracts requiring prior review.
J. Disbursemt
4.22        The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over three years
(1993-1995) on the following basis:
(a)   100l   of the foreign costs and 100l   of local ex-factory eoost of
supply of material and equipment;
(b)   100l   of consultancy services; and
(c)   66X of the civil works and installation.
4.23        Shown below is the estimated Bank disbursement profile for the
Project, based on a standard Bank profile for energy projects.
IBRD Fiscal YeEtre
(US$ millions)
94     95    96   229   2
Annual            13   31    29    15      5
Cumulative        13   44    73    88    93
K. Sgecial uccount
4.24        A special account for NEK with an initial deposit of US$5.0 million
would be established at a conmercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank. The Bank would also permit the use of statements of expenditure
(SO) on contracts valued at US$100,000 or less to assist NEK in making timely
payments on the contracts. NEK would retain the supporting documents and make
them available for inspection by Bank supervision missions and by external
auditors. Full documentation would be required for expenditures on contracts
over US$100,000. No applications for reimbursements or direct payments for less
than US$100,000 would be accepted. An audit of the special account would be
carried out by independent auditors and the audit report would be submitted to
the Bank within nine months after the end of the fiscal years. The private
auditors who would be contracted to audit NEK's annual accounts would prepare a
special report to include a statement verifying the amounts disbursed against the
SODs.
L. Proiect Implementation AsDects
4.25        Technical Audits.  Technical audits of the control and network
systems were needed because these systems have been under implementation for
about 10 years and an audit was required to, inter alia, assess both the
functional capability of the equipment installed as well as its compatibility
with the equipment to be financed under the Project. NEK, with the assistance
of the PIU, (a CEC financed consulting unit within NER) had such an audit carried



- 27 -
out by consultants with their report submitted to the Bank in October 1992.
Also, a technical audit was needed of Chaira units 3 and 4. The Chaira pumped
storage scheme, was started more than ten years ago and so far two of the units
have been installed (units 1 and 2). These are expected to be commissioned
around March 1993. A technical audit was required to verify the status of the
work for- units 3 and 4 and secondarily the cost estimates of the equipment,
materials and works to be financed under the Project for completion of the
installation of units 3 and 4. NEK has carried out such an audit with the
assistance of the staff at the PIU and also submitted its report to the Bank in
October 1992. Both audits confirmed the conclusions of the appraisal mission,
though as a result of the audits, the cost estimates for the project, especially
the supervisory control and transmission network component, were increased.
4.26        Imolementation Schedules and Project Completion Date.  The Project
is in a state of preparation which would permit timely implementation because:
(i) work is underway at Chaira (primarily covering units 1 and 2, but also to
some extent units 3 and 4); (ii) Terms of Reference for detailed studies of the
dispatch center's requirements are being drawn up; (iii) certain required studies
of the transmission system (primarily funded by the CEC) are underway; and
(iv) initial Terms of Reference for the financial management improvement program
have been prepared. Based on the stage of preparation, the construction schedule
for the project foresees bidding documents for major packages ready by May 1993,
major contracts awarded by October/November 1993 and project completion by the
end of 1995 or early 1996. The activities related to completion and connection
of Chaira to the power grid will occur in 1993-95 and the two last units should
be commissioned in the last quarter of 1995 or early 1996.  Completion of the
improvement of the dispatch and transmission network systems is planned during
the same time period.  The technical assistance component should be largely
completed by the end of 1994 - early 1995.  However, on the basis of the
experience reflected in the Bank's disbursement profile of energy projects and
NEK's lack of experience in procurement matters, the disbursements might be
completed later due to unexpected delays. The loan closing date, therefore, in
order to be conservative, would be December 30, 1997 which is fully consistent
with the Bank disbursement profile shown above and allows for significant delays.
4.27        Progress Rports. To monitor the progress of the Project and permit
its evaluation on completion, NEK would maintain records on the matters shown in
the Project Monitoring Guidelines in Annex J and submit a quarterly progress
report to the Bank. On completion of the Project, NEK would prepare their part
of an implementation completion report.
M. Dam Safety Asnectg
4.28        Dam Safety Review. Based on the appraisal mission's detailed review
of the designs of Chaira and Belmeken dams (concrete gravity and rockfill
respectively), the quality control data available from construction and a
detailed site inspection including dam safety instrumentation; these dams appear
to have been well designed and constructed. The designs and the a-ailable data
on construction of the Belmeken and Chaira dams were also reviewed to ascertain
the safety of the existing structures by Electrowatt, a well known engineering
firm with extensive experience both in concrete and rockfill dams and their
detailed ssessment is outlined in Annex G. However, at the time of their design
and construction, seismic risk analysis was undertaken with very low seismicity.
A revised analysis was needed, given the high seismicity of the area in which the
dams are located, based on the maximum credible earthquake according to the



- 28 -
latest design standards. A dynamic analysis for the critical seismicity of the
area was recently completed by Electrowatt and Energoproekt for the Belmeken main
dam and the Chaira Concrete dam and the findings are also summarized in Annex C.
4.29        International  Panel  of  Exuerts.    An  independent  Panel  of
International Experts was established to carry out a comprehensive review of the
designs, construction details, and the findings and recommendations of
Electrowatt on safety aspects of the dams and the appurtenant structures with
specific consideration of the structural, geologic, hydraulic, soil mechanics and
the seismic aspects. The Panel consisted of two well-known experts with relevant
expertise in earth/rockfill and concrete dams, respectively. This Panel has now
issued its final report (see Annex I). Taking into consideration the panel's
recommendations, the Project provides financing for: (i) strengthening measures
for the Belmeken main dam, Chaira concrete dam, and the Belmeken saddle dam; and
(ii) additional monitoring  instrumentation.    Furthermore at negotiations,
agreement was reached for NEK to: (a) establish a new indegendent Ranel of
e m rts. by June 30. 1993. for the purpose of providing assistance with dam
safety issues: and ( b) carry out a number of actions. by December 31. 1995. to
LmUrove dam safety including stabilitv analysis of the Belmeken saddle dam.
imulmentation of the recoymendations of th   l  ae of experts, -raining of
dam safety professionals and procurement of seismoegxahs/instrumentation.
4.30        Dam Safety OrganizationlResulations.  The National Organization of
Dams and Reservoirs and Cascades (under the Ministry of Defense) is responsible
for larger dams in Bulgaria, and it has established special regulations on
monitoring and observation for every single project. A yearly dam safety report
is presented to an internal or external committee of experts for review and
recommendations.   The Department of Civil Defense is responsible for the
establishment of emergency preparedness plans, which exist for the Belmeken and
Chaira dams.  The details on Regulations and Rules on Dam monitoring are
summarized in Annex H.
N. Environmntal Aspets
4.31        The main environmental benefit of this Project is enhanced dam safety
as discussed above and in Annexes G, H and I. Other environmental benefits are
less important though positive and the project was, therefore, given a B rating.
The supervisory control system and network strengthening component will have a
beneficial Impact on the environment by increasing efficiency and, therefore,
reducing electricity losses.   Since the marginal sources of electricity
generation for Bulgaria are domestic generation from fossil fuel fired generating
plants or imports from the Ukraine, where the marginal source also appears to be
fossil fuel fired plants, this component will certainly lead to a reduction in
CO2 emissions. To a lesser extent, SO? emissions will also be reduced since the
Bulgarian marginal fuels for electricity generation are higher sulfur coal or
lignite, while the Ukrainian marginal fuels appear to be natural gas and high
sulfur residual fuel oil.
4.32        The impact of the completion of units 3 and 4 at Chaira on the
environment is minor. Most of the civil works are completed, including the
penstocks, dams and reservoirs.   The remaining civil works are  largely
underground where one penstock needs to be lined with special steel and the power
house completed. There will, however, be some reforestation of a very limited
area around the Chaira dam. In terms of its operations, the environmental impact
of Chaira will depend largely on the relative polluting characteristics of the



- 29 -
generating plants which Chaira replaces at periods of peak electricity demand
compared with the generating plants which are used to pump water to the upper
reservoir (Belmeken) durlng off-peak periods. For example, when electricity from
the Kozloduy nuclear plant is used to pump water into the Belmeken reservoir off-
peak and this water is then used to generate electricity which replaces fossil
fuel fired peak generating units in Bulgaria or the Ukraine, then the
environmental impact is positive. On the other hand, when fossil fuel fired
generating units are used to pump water to the upper reservoir and these same
type of units are replaced by Chaira at periods of peak demand, then the net
effect on total emissions of the thermal plants involved is likely to be slightly
negative, since the pumped storage plant uses more electricity to pump water than
it produces.
4.33        Issues normally associated with dms such as fish passage, dredging,
and water quality are not significant in this particular case. No dredging will
be required, water quality is extremely high and fish migration is not an issue
given the location of the main Belmeken reservoir at about 6000 feet in the
mountains and fed by run-off and melting snow from adjacent mountains. Also
variations in the water level at the Belmeken reservoir caused by the pumped
storage project will be minimal given that the Chaira reservoir when filled is
3X of the size of the Belmeken reservoir.
4.34        Finally, as electricity tariffs are increased under this Project and
this leads to lower electricity consumption and production, the environment will
benefit from reduced emissions of CO2 and SO2.
0. Benefits
4.35        The major measurable benefits attributable to the Project are
discussed briefly below and in more detail in Chapter 6. These benefits are in
summary lower costs and increased reliability for the Bulgarian power system.
More specifically they consist of: (a) increased capacity for active load
management; (b) automatic generation control including primary and secondary
regulation; (c) voltage and reactive power control including reducing
transmission losses. Active load management consists largely of the use of the
Chaira pumped storage project, to replace expensive peak power with cheaper off
peak power by pumping water into the upper reservoir during off peak periods and
generating power by letting water run down from the upper reservoir to the lower
reservoir during peak periods.  The operation of Chaira will, moreover, be
significantly strengthened by the improved supervisory control system, which will
also be installed as part of the Project. Automatic generation control including
grimarn and secondary regulation consists primarily of increasing the efficiency
and stability of the system. Automatic generation control would improve merit
order dispatching.  The automatic generation control capacity of the system
combined with the Chaira project should also result in substantially improved
primary and secondary system regulation, including a lower loss of load
probability and better frequency control. Voltage and reactive power control
will primarily be improved by the investments in strengthening the transmission
network especially the shunt reactors. However, improved system controls and the
Chaira project will also assist in this area.



- 30 -
V. ZINANQU ASH=
A. Background
5.01        The borrower, NEK, is a new organization which came into existence
in its present form with the break-up of the old COE on January 1, 1992. There
Is, therefore, no historical financial information. NEK, working with the new
COE, has prepared a balance sheet for May 1992 and a rough income statement is
available for the first 11 months of 1992.
5.02        There is no tradition of independently audited financial statements
in the ex-communist countries of Eastern Europe. The controlling financial
documents were budgets and five year plans rather than balance sheets and income
statements. As part of the Project, the Bank has reached an agreement with NEK.
that NEK will groduce financial statements for 1992 and thereafter (income
statement. balance sheet. statement of cash flows) according to international
accounting principles. and will have these statements audited by independent
accountants in accordance with international auditing standards.
5.03        NEK does not have a corporate plan currently. This is understandable
given the newness of the company. Also, because of the rapid changes which have
been occurring in the Bulgarian economy, the degree of uncertainty attached to
any plan is unusually high. Nevertheless, NEK needs a long range, strategic
corporate plan. This plan should indicate the company's goals and its strategy
for attaining those goals and provide long range projections of its outputs,
sales and financial statements.  This corporate plan could then be used to
monitor the performance of the company and provide early warning of impending
problems. Therefore at negotiations, the Bank reached an agreement with NEK
that: (a1) the- comnany will orenpare ye2arlX, a rolling fiv_e-ye2ar cgrRgrate olan
including pro_ected financial statements and: (b) that this plan will be
furnished to the Bank and the Government. by October 31 of each year. for
dis nu.2U,
B. Balance-Sheet
5.04        Table 5.1, shows the Balance Sheet of NEK as of May 31, 1992. The
balance sheet shows that the total value of NEK's fixed assets, which are
in service (land, buildings, machinery, other) including all generation,
transmission and distribution facilities, is 4,473 million leva after
depreciation or about US$90 million dollars at the 1992 average leva/dollar
exchange rate. On an undepreciated basis, these fixed assets are valued at
8,253 leva or about US$350 million at the average exchange rate.   These
valuations are less than 10X of the replacement cost of NEK's current electricity
system including the 10,460 MW of generating capacity.   For example, new
generating capacity typically costs anywhere from US$.7 million to US$2.5 million
per MW, depending on the type of plant constructed. At an average price of say
US$1.2 million per MW, this would put the replacement value of NEK's generating
capacity alone at over US$12 billion, not including transmission and distribution
investments which often are around 75X or so of the cost of generation
facilities. Even taking into account depreciation and the need for some of NEK's
facilities to be rehabilitated, the valuation of these fixed assets on NEK's
balance sheet is extraordinarily low.



- 31 *
*ths uj or _=ndervaluation E
cmaftyr disctsionce ithe
fiprncialtiontrtatlon
undersalued the se ofie    8I
anrsset  in thepseciadioalfo  NE.   ic..wol   euete  opnf   s
ofym1992.  ln192  dexprects io fo8E,frtx9upss1a be   l db
that as a. reult oeprthisto  o  91  hc  a  lraywytolwsnei
reaslbatidon, thestrbalancss    tngtain.te akrahda  temn
siheetb for  ercembe  31   E   ht   a  o   93  NKsdaeito   o   a
1992se wiull sho   fhred  ie   h   ee   fis19   ercain   o   a
assoets  oS:3Mff 1aron  .L.adNKwudtk  tersesw hwudhv  h
prSeliminaryo NER   erstimaes  .£fud fom.tena..uce}  ad..              S
(Thi3swilhl feer tox buoes wi  k.l5x3t. s                 ,vinxel  e    s ta



- 32 -
within a five eax period, it is a& a level consistent with its revalued fied
assets (or NEK and the Government will take other stews whlch will have the s-ge
effect on NEK*s generation of funds from internal sources l. The forecast of
NEK's income statements for 199241995, shown in Table 5.2, reflect these
assumptions, with the 1992 depreciation being set at 1.5 times 1991 depreciation
in leva, as required by MOF, while in the latter years depreciation rises rapidly
in real terms.   NEK is proposing to issue its 1992 income statement using
depreciation based on the revalued fixed assets, though this depreciation will
not be tax deductible, and whether this would be acceptable to HOF is unclear.
5.06        A second important type of fixed asset for NEK is the value of
construction work in progress. The total value of these assets, as shown on the
balance sheet, is 4,313 million lova at historical costs. This consists largely
of three projects: unit 6 at the Kozloduy nuclear plant, the Chaira pumped
storage project and the partially completed Belene nuclear plant. Two of these
projects should be completed. Unit 6 is operating, albeit at less than design
capacity, but has not yet been officially licensed and will probably not be
removed from the construction work in progress category until it is given an
official license to operate, which should occur in 1993. Units 1 and 2 of the
Chaira pumped storage plant should be finished by NEK in aarly 1993, while the
completion of units 3 and 4 is part of the current Bank Project. Currently,
there are no plans to complete Belene, in which about 1.0 billion old leva were
invested. NEK has also revalued the construction work in progress and it is
expected to be valued at about 37.1 billion leva on the December 31, 1992 balance
sheet.
5.07        With the major decline in the Bulgarian economy and the sharp
itncrease in prices, Bulgarian firms' profitability and cash flow have
deteriorated markedly at the same time as their requirements for working capital
have increased rapidly. This has resulted in a severe liquidity shortage for
most firms which has been met by the rapid growth of inter-company debts. NEK
at least in May was a beneficiary of these inter-company debts. Its accounts
receivable were 4.11 billion leva while its accounts payable were 7.67 billion
leva. On balance, therefore, it was the net recipient of 3.56 billion in credit
from its suppliers. The main suppliers who were extending credit were the coal
mines at Maritza East, vho were not paid for much of the coal they produced, and
certain electri  y exporters to Bulgaria. On the other hand, NEK was extending
credit to certaiu4 of its customers especially the briquette factory at Maritza
Last.
5.08        The Government has been working on a solution to this problem of the
rapid expansion of inter-company debt and has developed a plan to deal with it.
This will, however, take some time to implement. However, the current situation
at NEK is clearly unsatisfactory, though it is somewhat advantageous to the
company. Based on the May 31, 1992 balance sheet, NEK has a current ratio of
less than 1.0. With the current liquidity shortage in Bulgaria, NEK will need
sometime to achieve an acceptable current ratio, though it is moving steadily in
this direction having significantly improved its liquidity between May and
November. At n gotiations - the Bank reached an agreement with the Government and
NEK that no later than the end of 1993. NEK should have a current ratio of 1.2.
5.09        Long term loans to NERK at 6,244 million leva exceed shareholders
equity of 4,687 million leva. This creates a very poor debt to equity ratio,
which will, however, be greatly improved by the revaluation of fixed assets
discussed in para 5.05 above. The long term debt is about half owed to the



- 33 -
Government and half to various Bulgarian banks. NEK was not paying interest on
these loans through most of 1992 and could not afford to at current interest
rates and tariff levels for electricity. The governmont loans should probably
be conmerted to equity in order to improve the company's financial condition.
Over time the company should begin to service the bank loans or alternatively
convert them also to equity.   (These loans were accumulated by the former
Committee of Energy when it was a Government department and represented, at the
time, intra-government loans).
C. 1ncome  tAteM
5.10        Table 5.2, shows a forecast of the income statement of NEK for 1992-
95 based on information and forecasts provided by COE, NEK and MOF and analyses
based on the Rnersg Strategy Study. They show tax deductible depreciation, which
rises rapidly over time, as a result of agreements reached with the Bank; not
NEM's proposed depreciation, which is mostly not tax deductible (see para 5.05).
The range of possible financial results for NMK over the next several years is
quite large, ranging from significant losses to moderate profits. The most
important factor determining the company's profitability is the level of
electricity tariffs.  However, other important factors are: (a) demand for
electricity; (b) inflation and the extent to which it raises costs; (c) the value
of the leva (which impacts mainly on fuel costs); (d) the availability of power
from various plants especially Kozloduy, the lowest cost major source; and
(e) imports and exports of power (imports are relatively expensive and exports
relatively profitable).   The forecast shown in Table 5.2, makes reasonable
estimates of all of these variables and produces modestly optimistic financial
results for NEK.
5.11        Given that electricity tariff levels are so vital to the financial
health of NEU (and important also for reducing the energy intensiveness of the
economy), the Bank. at negotiations. reached an agreement with the Goverraent and
MEg on two basic amroaches with resnect to these tariffs. F-rst. She Government
will: (a) as a condition of effectiveness. increase the average electricitv Rrice
to the equivalent of 2.9 US cents/fkWh: (b) on or before SepteMber 1. 1993.
incrgase the averape price to the equivalent of 3.5 US cents/kVh: and
(c) thereafter, maintain an averaZe electricity price equivalent to 3.5 US
centsZkWh. until the new average level of tariffs specified immediately below is
implemented. Secondly, the Government will: (a) by June 30, 1994. estiblish a
Dew indUendent regulatory mechanism for setting electricity tariffs: and (b) bv
Seutember 30. 1994. enable that mechanism. drawing on the gtudies of th8s issue
which are underway (see Dara 2,30). to set the average price ecual to the greater
of the long-run mars inl cost of supplying electricity or that average price
required for NEU to generate sufficient net revenues to provide a debt service
coverage ratio of 1.5: and generate sufficient funds from internal sources to
meet on averase 30X of the investments required for its inyestment nrogram (the
latter to be assessed annuallY based on a two-_ye1ar mgnbg average).



- 34 -
|~~~~~~~*                      iE     i      1         L,.               9 '1'5 i
|~~~~~~~~~. i.ig3 iS141
#0 1          1.3  1.                                      3
. ~ UKtiI14~bM. _4                 SI    34                *13                111      115
,r*#." QGO 15# gP~ 410 2455 S,W     ~p~
5.12        While higher electricity tariffs would increase NEKR's pretax profits,
profits after taxes and other levies would remain very constrained. Currently,
NEK is paying about an 80X average government tax and levy rate on its pretax
profits. This rate results from a 52X income tax rate, the non-deductibility of
balf of interest expenses, and a 50X levy on after tax profits in favor of the
Fund for Energy. (The actual average rate resulting from this system can vary
between about 75X to over 10OX depending on the relative size of interest
payments.)
5.13        The current tax and levy system means that increases in electricity
tariffs beyond the level required to cover costs, primarily result in higher
taxes and levies for the government with only about 24X of the incremental
increase in pre-tax profits flowing through to NEK. It is, therefore, very
iwportant that, as discussed above in para S.05, tax deductible depreciation
charges by NEK be increased sharply. Thiese would increase the company's cash
flow directly. Alternatively, the tax and levy system for NEK, which is similar



- 35 -
to other companies in Bulgaria, would have to be changed to increase its cash
flow and allow it to carry out its required itnvestment program.
D. Sumaary of Sources and Uses of FundE
5.14          Table 5.3 shows forecasts of NEK's sources and uses of funds over the
period 1992-1995.   These forecasts have been prepared on the basis of the
projected income statements shown in Table 5.2 and of planned investments, which
are consistent with a least-cost investment program constrained by environmental
criteria.   (The major items in this program are discussed in Annex K.)   The
financing sources are the company's own cash generation from operations, the Bank
Loan and other borrowings - primarily loans already approved by the RIB and EBRD.
Therefore, these forecasts are a reasonable estimate of NEK's cash flow
situation, given the same assumptions as used in the forecast of NEK's income
statement.
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ _  ... .- 
.                           l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
E ~~~~.S                                 E                                    - 5 5  .
5.15          NERs investment program as shown in table 5.3 is low for a utility
with over 10,000 MW of capacity and with domestic sales of 26-27 TWh. This
largely reflects the company's severe financial constraints, but also the
expected low level of demand (see Annex C) which calls for no new generating
plants for the next several years (unless replacements are needed for parts of
Kozloduy).
5.16          Over the next four years, the company intends to concentrate on four
major Investments which all involve completion of existing projects. These are:
(a) completion of Chaira 1 and 2; (b) the Bank Project covering completion of
Chaira 3 and 4 and completion and strengthening of the supervisory control and
transmission network systems; (c) the RIB/MMRD project consisting of the
completion of unit 8 at the Naritza East II Power Plant including a flue gas
desulfurization unit; and (d) completion of certain investments at Kozloduy and
commissioning of unit 6, which is already operating on a limited basis. In
addition, NEK has indicated that if it is able to obtain financing it would also:
(a) rehabilitate certain of its existing thermal plants; and (b) carry out major



- 36 -
investments at Kozloduy to substantially improve the safety of its older
reactors, the VVSR 440 model 230's.  Table 5.3 reflects the four major projects
shown abo,e and assumes that in 1994, N0K either begins major safety improvements
at certain of its older Kozloduy nuclear reactors or begins the rehabilitation
of one of its thermal power plants, possibly Varna. If it were to undertake
both, a significant increase in external borrowing would be required, above the
amount shown in the table.
5.17        In 1992, due to the low level of electricity tariffs and the high
rate of taxation and levies to which NEK is subject, the company's cash flow
from operations is insufficient to cover even the extremely limited investment
program shown. Assuming that the tariff level is increased steadily in real
terms in 1993 and depreciation allowances are sharply augmented, NEK should
generate sufficient cash flow in 1993 and 1994 so that some of the short term
debt and excess accounts payable built up in 1992 could be eliminated.



- 37 -
VI. B=PS AND RISKS
A. Progect BansfIts
6.01        The major project benefits were described briefly in Chapter 4.
This Chapter expands on that description, quantifies the major benefits and
explains certain additional benefits which, while they are important are not easy
to quantify. The major benefits of the project in general to the Bulgarian Power
System are lower costs and increased stability. More specifically they consist
of increased capacity for: (a) active load management; (b) automatic generation
control including primary and secondary regulation; and (c) voltage and reactive
power control.  These major system benefits are analyzed below.   (Secondary
system benefits include reduced system minimum loading and improved frequency
regulation.) Both the Chairs pumped storage component and the improvement in
supervisory control and network transmission systems component contribute to
these systems benefits though in different proportions. Non-system benefits
include improved economic and managerial efficiency due to the technical
assistance component, increased flexibility in the use of water from the
reservoirs connected to hydropower plants and environmental benefits, especially
enhanced dam safety. Because of computational difficulties, no effort was made
to measure secondary system benefits and non-system benefits though in total
these are quite significant.
6.02        Active Load HAnaomen.   The Chaira pumped storage project on
completion will greatly increase the country's capacity for active load
management by substantially expanding peaking capacity. With the Chaira project,
in off-peak periods water can be pumped from the lower, Chaira reservoir to the
upper Belmeken reservoir. During periods of peak electricity demand, water can
flow down the penstocks from the upper to the lower reservoirs generating
electricity. The major benefit of the Chairs project is that it should reduce
the cost of peak power by allowing lower cost base load plants, such as nuclear
plants or more efficient coal plants, to pump water off-peak with most of this
electricity then being recovered at peak periods when the stored water is used
to generate electricity. The savings are the difference between the cost of
using Chaira in conjunction with base load power plants to meet peak electricity
demand, compared to the cost of other means of meeting peak demand including
imports and higher cost Bulgarian power plants. Chaira will also delay by one
to three years depending on the unit, the need for additional capacity after
2000. In order to estimate the benefits from Chaira, a Was model which
simulates the Bulgarian power system, was optimized with and without Chaira for
the poriod 1996-2010. These runs indicated monthly how much electricity was
required from Chaira at periods of peak demand to economically replace imported
power and higher cost Bulgarian plants (see Annex L). The value of Chaira's
power at peak was estimated at 3.5 cents/kNh in constant 1992 dollars. This
value is the current cost of imported power to Bulgaria in its barter
relationship with the Ukraine, is a measure of willingness to pay and is in the
lower part of the current range of rough estimations of Bulgaria's long run
marginal cost of electricity (3.5 -4.5 cents/kWh). The cost of Chaira power is
primarily the cost of electricity to run its pumps (generated by base load
lignite and nuclear units), as well as operating and maintenance costs. Benefits
are the difference between the value of the electricity generated and its costs.
These benefits build after 1996, when the units are assumed to come on stream,
due to increasing utilization of Chaira and average around US$9 million net per
annum (1992 dollars) after 2000.   The return from Chaira could be further
improved if it were to be used in the early years to provide peaking capacity for



- 38 -
other countries. This opportunity will be investigated by the Bulgarians when
the project is completed and there may be some potential to supply peak power to
Greece or perhaps other neighboring countries depending on their supply and
demand situation.  In calculating benefits from this component and for the
project as a whole no account was taken of this latter possibility.
6.03       Automatic Generation Control. There are two different benefits from
improved automatic generation control which are: (a) better primary and secondary
regulation; and (b) better unit control primarily leading to more efficient
dispatching. Primary and secondary regulation require a system capacity reserve
related to peak load and to the largest unit size. The peak load in Bulgaria
varies in the range of 4000-7000 NW, while the largest capacity units are the
1000 MW nuclear units at Kozloduy. For system regulation, reserve capacity of
about 700 MK is requlred. This reserve can be provided in Bulgaria or contracted
from other power systems or a combination of the two. The estimated price of
obtaining this capacity from other systems, which is far less than building the
capacity in Bulgaria, is around US$100,000 per year per MW of regulating range.
Currently, Bulgaria is short of reserve capacity and it is estimated that on
average units 3 and 4 at Chaira will contribute around 40 MW to the country's
reserve capacity. (The units have 432 MW of capacity, but are only available
when not already in use for peaking purposes and the water has been pumped to the
upper reservoir, both of which conditions will be met for only a limited time
period.)  On this basis, the value that Chaira contributes to primary and
secondary regulation is around US$4 million per year. Without automatic dispatch
and generation control systems linking Chaira and other units to the dispatch
center the value of this reserve would be significantly reduced.
6.04        Improved generating unit control as a result of the improved
supervisory control system including automatic dispatch of generation units is
estimated, based on experience in other countries, to reduce system operational
costs by about 11. This implies savings of about US$5.0 million per year.
6.05       Voltage and Reactive Power Control. The shunt reactors will play the
dominant role in improving voltage and reactive power control though improvements
in the supervisory control system will help as will the fault recorders, which
provide information on transmission system status. It is estimated that as a
result of the project, transmission losses would be reduced by about 90 GWh which
is equlvalent to US$1.7 million per year at NEK's reported average electricity
cost of 1.9 U.S. cents/kWh for 1991. NEK's actual costs, including a better
estimate of depreciation and a return on capital, are probably closer to 3.0-3.5
cents/kNh (see Energy Strategy Report 10143-Bul).   These higher values of
electricity would imply snnual savings of US$2.7 million to US$3.2 million.
6.06        Economic and Managerial Efficiency.   The technical assistance
component should lead to major improvements in M4EVs financial controls and
improved financial performance.   Specifically, it should result in better
estimates of costs (thus, allowing the merit order dispatching for power plants
to work with better data), better control over costs through improved accounting
and budgetLig, better control over accounts receivable through improved billing
systems, and enhanced cash management thus, reducing interest costs.   In
addition, it should lead to enhanced managerial efficiency since the improved
information should allow better decision making. No effort has been made to
estimate these benefits, but they are likely to greatly exceed the cost of this
component.



- 39 -
6.07        Hydro Plant Generation Scheduling.  The existence of Chaira will
allow greater flexibility in the use of the existing hydro plants. These are now
used for peaking, as well as off peak generation when needed. They are generally
the lowest cost units in the system. Furthermore, the water from the reservoirs
at the hydro plants is used for irrigation and for supplying cortain cities with
drinking water. With Chaira in operation, the need for these hydro plants to
provide some peaking capacity will be reduced and thus, the flexibility in using
the water in their reservoirs will be increased. This increased flexibility
should allow better use of the water and increase its value. 'Whlle estimates can
be made of the benefits in terms of reduced costs of electricity generation
obtainable from this increased flexibility, assuming it is all used to optimize
the timing of hydro production (around US$2 million per year), this estimate is
incomplete since it does not take into account the impact on irrigation or other
uses. A complete optimization study of water usage, which should be carried out
under this project, would need to be done to accurately estimate this benefit.
However, it is significant.
6.08        Environmental Benefits.  This project will result in an increase in
dam safety since the dams involved in the Chaira project will be strengthened
and/or monitored better. It will also lead on balance to reductions in CO2 and
S02 emissions (see para 4.32).  However, these benefits, especially the dam
safety benefits, are difficult to value.
B. Least-Cost Investment Program
6.09        For most of the components of this project there were no clear
alternatives. This includes the hardware and software for the dispatch center,
the shunt reactors and fault recorders and technical assistance. However, for
Chaira there were potential alternatives including installing new units, as well
as delaying the completion of the project for as long as possible - that is
continuing to use imports and higher cost domestic plants to meet peak demand.
In order to analyze whether the Chaira pumped storage project was better than the
next best alternative, the Wasp model was used to develop this alternative based
on data and assumptions provided by NEK. This next best alternative turned out
to consist of the status quo to 2004 with additional capacity required between
2004 and 2010 including peaking capacity. The Chaira pumped storage project is
preferable to this next best alternative since: (a) it provides peaking power at
lower operating costs by reducing the need to use higher cost thermal plants and
imported electricity; and (b) it delays the need for some of the additional
capacity required in the next best alternative case. The rate of return on
Chaira relative to the next best alternative was 17X in real terms (see Annex L).
C. Economic Rate of Return
6.10       An Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was calculated for the project.
This was done by valuing all electricity saved and the peaking electricity
produced by Chaira at 3.5 cents/kWh for the reasons given in para 6.02 above.
(This value, while reasonable for Bulgaria, is very low compared to most other
countries and, therefore, tends to produce a conservative estimate of the ERR.)
The benefits from automatic generation control and voltage control were those
indicated in paras 6.03 and 6.04. Costs are as given in Table 4.1, excluding
contingencies. The technical assistance component was excluded from costs since
no benefits were attributed to it; however, the costs for dam strengthening were
included in total project cost since they are an integral part of the Chaira
pumped storage component, even though their benefits could not be quantified.



- 40 -
No adjustments were made to the exchange rate, which is freely floating and
therefore is a market rate, or to wages. On this basis, the ERR for the project
is 19X. (Including all contingencies shown In Table 4.1, the ERR v.iuld be 131.)
The ERRs for the individual elements were also calculated on the same basis. For
Chaira the ERR was 22X, for the supervisory control component 19X, and for the
transmission component 112. These individual ERR. are slightly misleading in
that all of the components of this project work together to strengthen the
Bulgarian power system and the elimination of one, for example the supervisory
control system would have a negative impact on all the others.  Also, as
mentioned above, all estimates are quite conservative.
C. Risks
6.11        There are three major sources of risk for the project.  First, in
order for NEK to be financially viable over time, electricity tariffs must be
increased in real terms and an independent regulatory mechanism established to
set and periodically adjust such tariffs. The present system of having the
Council of Ministers set electricity tariffs makes the establishment of these
tariffs into a highly political issue and results in extremely low electricity
prices, which generate insufficient cash flow to fund a reasonable part of NEK's
capital budget. However, the necessary increase in real electricity prices and
the establishment of a new tariff system will be politically difficult to
accomplish. To reduce this risk, an increase in the average electricity price
to 2.9 US cents/kWh from the current level of about 2.5 US cents/kWh will be a
condition of effectiveness.    Second, NEKI's cash flow must be  increased
significantly and raising electricity tariffs will not alone accomplish this
because of the very high tax and levy rate the company pays on profits. This
risk is in turn reduced by a several agreements with NEK and the Government
(see paras 5.05 and 5.11), which require a major increase in NEK's cash flow.
Finally, the beneficiary, NEK, is a very new company having been spun-off from
the Government at the beginning of 1992. It has little experience with the Bank
or with Western methods of munaging projects. Such experience is also rare in
Bulgaria in general. This lack of experience will require a fairly high degree
of Bank involvement in the project during the first couple of years. This should
decline fairly rapidly, however, since the Bulgarians and NUK have strong
technical capabilities and are expected to rapidly adapt to management approaches
used in market economy countries and to Bank procedures.



41 -
VII.  SsKARY OP AGURENENTS REACHED
7.01        During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on
the following covenants:
(a) the Government will, on or before September 1, 1993, increase the
average price of electricity to the equivalent of 3.5 US cents/kWh,
and thereafter, maintain an average electricity price equivalent to
3.5 US cents/kWh, until the new average level of tariffs specified
iumediately below is implemented (para 5.11);
(b)  by June 30, 1994, the Government will establish a new independent
regulatory mechanAsm for setting electricity tariffs, and enable
that mechanism, by September 30, 1994, drawing on the studies of
this issue which are underway, (see para 2.30) to set an average
price equal to the greater of the long-run marginal cost of
supplying electr city or that level of tariffs required for NEK to
generate suffle ent net revenues to provide a debt service coverage
ratio of 1.5, and generate sufficient funds from internal sources to
meet on average 30S of the investments required for its investment
program (the latter to be assessed annually based on a two-year
moving average). (para 5.11).
7.02        During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government and
NU1K on the following covenants:
(a)   for 1993, NMK's depreciation for tax purposes would be three times
the level of its 1992 depreciation, for tax purposes, (or the
Government and MRM would take other steps which would have the same
effect on NEK's generation of funds from internal sources)
(para 5.05);
(b)   that NEK's depreciation for tax purposes will be increased steadily
in real terms so that within a five year period, it is at a level
conslstent with its revalued fixed assets (or NIK and the Government
will take other steps which will have the same effect on NEK's
generation of funds from internal sources) (para 5.05).
7.03        During negotiations, agreements were reached with NEK on the
following covenants:
(a)   that NEK will produce financial statements for 1992 and thereafter
(income statement, balance shest, statement of cash flows) according
to international accounting principles, and will have these
statements audited by independent accountants in accordance with
international auditLng standards (para 5.02);
(b) the company will prepare yearly, a rolling five-year corporate plan
including projected financial statements, and that this plan will be
furnished to the Bank and the Government, by October 31 of each
year, for discussion (para 5.03);



- 42 -
(c)   starting in 1993, the company will generate sufficient funds from
internal sources to finance 30X of its average capital investments
(para 5.11);
(d)   starting in 1993, it will also generate net revenues equal to at
least 1.5 times its debt service (para 5.11);
(e)   by the end of 1993,  NEK will have a current ratio of 1.2
(para 5.08).
(f) by June 30, 1993, it will establish a new independent panel of
experts for the purpose of providing assistance with dam safety
issues (para 4.29);
(g) it will carry out a number of actions, by December 31, 1995, to
improve dam safety including stability analysis of the Belmeken
saddle dam, implementation of the recommendations of the old panel
of experts, training of dam safety professionals and procurement of
seismographs/instrumentation (para 4.29);
(h)   for NEK to submit, by July 1, 1993, a plan for streamlining
decision-making and strengthening its accounting and finance
functions with a timetable for the implementation of this plan
(para 3.05).
7.04        A special condition of effectiveness is that the Government will
increase the average electricity price to 2.9 US cents/kWh (para 5.11).
.AJaX.nl.ra1ar



- 43 -
BULGARIA
CURRENT ORGANIZATION OF THE ENERGY SECTOR
|COUNIL OF NIN   t  l
COSUTTEE          CUUITTEE             RINRUR  OF          CUISJ
OF ENERGY         Of GE0tO6Y            INDUtmRY           ON PRItCES
NATIUAL          OIL AnI GS
EL£CTIUti OO-. 1   so COWlANlf 
NIVERAL        IEfTOCHINI
COL NINS           EXPUATION
CW*IES             com|  IES  |IW                  l
mbj.3UIZA



BULOARIA: ENERGY BALANCE 1991
sdntites in thosands of tows of coal equia
Coal      Crude    LPG  Gaso-  Die8d  Gas  Heavy  Keo- Otder  Ndur. Hydro, E17ci- Heat Totdal
Oil           hine    Fuel   Oil  Fuel   sem    Petol  Gas    NueL oiy
Do_ __________                                           PrOztil                        t ' _ ' to  Prod.    &    0h-
DOeiproduction                     6i i0                   -      -1                         1142      ir  67W           -J33   i
2611  6455 -  -                             1 - 6 1         2 S  6224   0   4-             - 171W
_ _ _,  _   ._-1i                     l           -     -                       O    -s    -1
-313     -T3    -      -21    567           -2      1      2     -154      1-            -            1
-0s -   -I ~232 319    350                                                                           IR -- -
LINPUT                             I         m 62    3            950 -18 1249                              MDZ75    ff -5  13D 
WGG Res                                        - -2  6 1 o                  324s                       - 10          -    -1 -874
Ow ma* Losse                               -   - - -  -6 ---                                                -7 "rT~ 17f ~1F
mm 03 a at-6   -   -   - -                                                   - -m  -  --   -M   -
lOwn Us08 A  &    -                    -383-1173 -:OW- 9                                                                _- -1
OTAL I-NDUSTRY                      998_            25    100    387   221   269         2    726   3481       0    1700  3757   14090
Iron A Steel                              2    _                 0      4      1       8     0     36    442       0      28S    95      873
*chricals                       _       483    -          1      9      15    22   1103      0    205   2242       0      SSS  1575    6210
Nom-FenrmsMewas                        3    -      -          3     27      4    104      0     35      10      0      1099   69      445
CouliFsbcai  Mateids                     78              0       8     22    19    194       0     24    426       0       85   165   16741
GHass                                     6              9   1          3    12    104       0      9    269       0       39    68      520
M ____o     ____     _i_ C             44             14      23      54    50    237      0    190      70      0      248 393        1324
Food,Drink& Tobacco                      99               1     27     94    68    574       0     90      22      0      130   713    1818
Paper,Pulp,&Pritin                        5              0       2      3      2    195      0      8              0       47 .165       426
Wooad& WoodProduts         -             17  -           O      i       iS     4    138      0     95    -         0       32   168      481
Textile,Cloliaig &Leatber                23              0       8      9    26      34      0    18               0       63   2981   479
Indusry n.e.s.                          238              0       8    142    13              0     16              0       28    47    2315
TOTAL TRANSPORT                           8              0      72    736    16    322   274    218                0      148    27    9639
TOTAL OTHER                            1137             40    786    959   440    435    87    426         31      0    2060  1414    7816
Cons uction                               6       _       0     90    186    19      30      0     75       0      0       74    S9      540
Agricultue                               IS -          -        1     522    75    245       0    199      25             106   211    1509
Serviex and Other                       109    -         0      75     87   126    160    87    107         6      0      206  236    1199
Households                             1008             40    510    164   220               1     44              0    1673   908    4568
NOT SPECIFIED                            21  _           2      53    384      0     33   -       100I             0        0   89      692
Sources: CentralStatistical Office, Cormmittee of Energy, mission emates



- 45                               AnLex-C
page 1 of 3
BULGARIA
ESTIMATES OF ELECTRICITY DEMAD
1.          Electricity demand in Bulgaria has declined very sharply since 1989.
In 1991, domestic consumption of electricity including losses but excluding
exports was 40.9 TWh down from 48.6 TWh in 1989. In 1992, domestic consumption
is estimated at about 38.0 TWh of which 27 TWh would be IEK's domestic sales,
8.9 TWh losses, and the rest industries' and district heating plants' own
consumption of power from cogeneration.   The total decline in domestic
consumption from 1989 to 1992 would thus be 22X, which is very high.  (For
example, the largest decline in U.S. consumption since the 1940's was 31 in
1982.) Nevertheless, the decline in electricity consumption for Bulgaria is
still significantly less than the decline in real GDP (around 372).
2.          Forecasts of electricity consumption for Bulgaria are extremely
lifficult to make given the uncertainties associated with the Bulgarian economy
and the restructuring process which is now ongoing. To make such forecasts
requires estimates of CDP and judgements about: (a) the impact of economic
restructuring on the industrial structure of Bulgaria and its intensity of
electricity use; (b) household consumption of electricity; (c) the impact of
alternate fuels on industries and households; and (d) relative electricity
prices. All of these issues are extremely uncertain.
3.          Two longer run forecasts of electricity consumption were available
at appraisal. These are the forecasts in the Ep2My Strategv Study and recent
forecasts prepared by NER. The methodology used for the forecasts in the Ener
,SategE Studv is described at some length in Chapter IX and Annex VII of that
report. In summary two methods were used. The first approach is based on short
run forecasting equations which predict aggregate electricity consumption using
data on macroeconomic variables and electricity prices to industrial users. The
equations were estimated for a large sample of East and Vest European countries
over the period 1960-88 and take account of the dynamics of adjustments in
electricity demand in response to changes in economic activity. The second
approach relies upon more detailed industrial data (including a large
input/output table) and takes account of inter-fuel substitution by industry,
relative growth rates of different industries, changes in intensity of energy use
as well as the macroeconomic development of the country, but it is not as
suitable as the time series equation for making short term forecasts. Taking
account of the strengths and weaknesses of these two approaches a single foreca"t
was reached. UKe's approach to forecasting energy and electricity consumption
is similar to the second approach used in the Energy Strategy Study though it
uses different macro economic assumptions and presupposes less restructuring of
the industrial sector.
4.          The two forecasts, that of NEK and the Energy Strategy Study, are
quite different for 1995.   The original NEK forecast called for domestic
consumption including losses of 43 TWh though this has now been modified to
41 TWh.  The Energy StrategX Study forecasts about 32.5 TWh.  After 1995,
however, the two forecasts begin to converge. In 2000, the Inug4CtrAegEW  SIA



- 46 -                             Anx C
page 2 of 3
forecasts consumption of 41 TWh while NEK is forecasting 46 TWh.  The EAMUz
Strategy-Study did not make forecasts beyond 2000. However, if the forecast
1995-2000 electricity consumption growth rate of the Study is extended to 2005,
it would imply 52 TWh of consumption in that year compared with the 50 TWh
forecast by NEK.
5.          Short term electricity consumption forecasts were required for making
projections of NEK' a financial statements. The forecasts in the Rnergy Strategv
AMdy were used for this purpose since NEK's short run forecasts of electricity
consumption tend to be quite optimistic and their earlier forecast for 1992 was
considerably above current estimates; while the Energy StateVgl Study's forecast
for 1992 appears to be very close to current estimates. The short term forecasts
used are shown in the table below.
g g~~~~~~~~K
M... ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   .~~ ~
... 4.-ffi.-4
i~~~~~  RI
V.  R  ..M~~~~~~~~~~~~~  '    .. . 
n/om ila adn eratiank



- 47_                              Ane 
page 3 of 3
6.          Longer term electrielty forecasts were required for estimating the
benefits to be obtained from completion of units 3 and 4 at the Chairs pumped
storage project. These units are unlikely to start operation before about 1996
and would then run for 30 or 40 years. The rate of return for these units was,
however, calculated over the period 1996-2010. NEK's forecasts for this time
period were used since no others were available. However, as pointed out above
IEK's forecasts and those of the Knsrgy Strategy Studs appear to be converging
after 1995 and are fairly close by 2000.
7.          While short and long term electricity forecasts were required for
financial projections and estimating rates of returns from this project, the
financial projections shown and the estimated rates of returns are not very
sensitive to the levels of electricity consumption. NEK's financial projections
are primarily sensitive to the level of tariffs government taxation and
secondarily to unit costs, while the return from Chaira is primarily sensitive
to the shape of the load curve and the level of consumption relative to power
availability by source - not so much to the absolute level of electricity
consumption. The benefits obtained from the supervisory control and network
transmission systems component are also fairly insensitive to changes in
electricity demand.
aAnez c



BULGARIA
Infron an te, Commtte of Enwgy for th Perlod 1965-1 91
Avrag Ret  Prie for 1 M   h la 0IWm                          0.0           0.05 2.06                 0.053         0.0052        Q304
CGt br 1 WA hI lWa                              0.036        0.037        0.038        0a039         0.040        00            0381
Avea  Re  Proi for 1 13al n I a 1Wm19                       16008        119           17.64        17.740       17.46         136
Cost for 1 Goal h WI a                         22M778        2.02         2M00         27.148        28           3100         217.4
Rneom    E Ic   hou s lva)                   1296073      1.784,097    1638          1,923,471    ta193192     1,034,90       9,9453
BEpendkw  for Eeccy thouad  v                1.2878       1,7.466      1,371,224     1,424,192    1,476,838    195,6         1046
Prit from  ecty tho nds lva)                   23,16       60632         605,014      499.M        464.554       29345       (1.
R_    es fom Thermal Eneg   hosads W)    214.681           224,688       24397        281,87      m2             247,878      1,oss,279 "
E*pndtu  for Them   Energy (ousands Isa    302333          32.868        44097        433,80       439,28        454.003      2,
Loss fom Thena Energ  housands lv             (87,462)       8170)      (194*0)       (152,002)    (165         (20125)    (1,091,144)
Prft/Lo  hi thousa    d Ilw                  (135,414)     37m3          180.764      16,8?         7W,7         0 2         (2,010
-*d mIw ftM)
Stat St les (to sa    d lma                   146,384                                               42,0         4076        2,010,000
Total La   Otaad from Stae and              3,023,565     2,9327       4,282S7       5.%199,622    5M0,182     6239           76ss109
Banks on December31 (thous lev
Soure Commi   d Ener
m:li*Wnrfton.btd



Tal of the Cost of Keatelty by roeo    nt, I   IO.-UlB
1967t                        2868                           2869                          16                           199
Pearn limit             1st                           Net                           Met                           Met Mlw
_atpw           GO"           0utc            Cost                          cot                           Cost         0oat
_lma)          (1UViM)       (tl.VAb)        (Wm)          ( .M            (     )        (l..l)         (1Jvi)        (maim          clvta)
1hSn1:
nitt  Blst 1                  1,56          0.039           1.359         0.040           1.149          0.042            645         0.045            M55         0.30
SI,t4S last it                3.987         0.042           4.056         0.042           4,317          O.041          4,497         0.045          4,09t         0.2B5
H tt  lest III            4,597         0.0a5            87,68         0.O3J           4,345         0.035           3.f30         0.037          3,632         0.294
sab_ D4                       a.s3          0.031           2,02          0.327           2,183          0.033          I'm13         0.038          1,420         0.321
lq.bqubk.                       335         0.053             $09         O.05              267          0.078            176         0.003            18          0.483
lm*xnb                            5         *.143               9         0.135               0         0.230               1         0.101              _
Mextts.                         512         0.049             262         0.064             220          O.m"             226         0.074            121         0.4U
£VlM  Steeie                    117         0.047              94         0.044              90          0.046            13.         0.054            101         0.410
Stas                            45S         0.044             446         0.0               34O          0.08U            420         0.03            sn          o.227     a
t. Ko.te                        280         0.040             356         O.034             535         O.039             445         0.04             454         4.37S
OhevIw                          196         0.035             21U         0.035             213         0.039             18          0.04 U3                      0.394
VWens                         ,663          0.031           5.355         0.03           5,374         e. a            5,850         0.032          3.432         o.29
_m,. Istook                    8a9          0.041             751         0.043             5sl9         O.OU             544         0.054            397         0.494
3ua.-q pd                         4         0.091               2         0.121               1          0.289              7         0.084              5         0.645
Issealak                         35         0.037              33         0.037              33         0.038              23         0.852             12         0.401
sh_m                             20         0.050              33         0.040              35         0.039              34         0.043             23         *.33O
sbsuwe                           S4         0.OSS              S5         0.041              S1         0.048              36         0.059              a         0.6
3Lsv.                            52         0.058              57         0.045              54         0.045              52         0.050             81         0.411
leot    m                     2.52=         0.013           2,586         0.013           2.6B1         0.012           1.643         0.021          2,432         0.0t
Teatl Mtseg                  11.510         0.012          14.?56         0.017          13.480         0.016          13,486         0.019         12,430         0.114
N   Mt cotput veln04s pimite'  ma us of  eleotlity.                                                                                                                    '|
Emeg  cinttos o   ets, SE|E
*mnt>\e               ftq. I
MAJokowt.bal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 50                             Annex D
page 3 of 3
BULGARIA
Cacity of Mor Hydro Pnit
-               m~~~Am
InatldW      Not                            annual
Plnt              cay           Head    Dichage    No. of    output
(NMW        (m})     $Iefc)      Sets      (GWh)
Bomernkn /pumped sta      375.0 /110.0    690.0       62.5    3 + 2       570.0
Sesmo                           240.0    534.0        56.6        2       265.0
AntonaN_  i (pumped              160.0    111.8       160.0    3 + 1       178.6
storae)
K   orgigev                      125.0    580.0       25.0        5       360.4
Momhia K4bura                    12.0    251.0        56.6        2        126.8
|vsailowrad                      108.0     45.3       279.0       3        181.0
Kurdzhl                          106.4     80.5       178.0       4        69.7
Krlihim                          80.0    162.0         61.0       2        166.8
Dealn                            80.0    138.0        72.8        2        132.5
Alie                              64.8    265.0        30.0       3        147.0
Stu.enKl_deret                   60.0      59.5       120.0       4        194.5
Source: Committ of Eny
nrjMhdm\pIaW



-51-                               Annex-
page I of 5
ArticLes of Association of the
*hsionlm- Elktrchaska Kompia
Art. 1.(1)  The name of the State stock-holding company is  "Natsionalna
Elektricheska Kompaniaw (NEK).
(2) The names of the branches of the company are to be formed by adding
the word "branch" to the existing names of branches and information
about the activity and the domicile of the branch.
Art 2.      The NEK head office is in Sofia.
Art 3.      NEK has  the  following areas  of activity:    (1)  generation,
transmission and sales of electricity; (2) supplementary production
of heat energy; (3) import and export of electricity and energy
resources; (4) buying electricity from other domestic producers; (5)
construction and repair activities in the field of electricity and
heat generation; and (6) investment activity.
Art 4.      The capital of NEKR is 2 billion leva.
Art 5.      The capital of the company comprises 2 million of registered shares,
each of 1000 leva nominal value.   Under the decision of the
Supervisory Board the shares are issued in series of 10, 100, 1000,
and 10000 shares.
Art 6.      At the time of its establishment, NEK shall receive the entire
nominal value of its assets.
Art 7.(1)   The governing bodies of the company are the General Shareholders
Meeting, the Supervisory Board and the Managing Board. An advisory
body to the Board of Directors shall be established, the Board of
Branch Managers.
(2)  Until appropriate legislation is passed, the rights of the General
Shareholders Meeting are executed by the State as the sole owner
through the Council of Ministers.
Art 8.      All issues delegated by law to the General Shareholders Meeting
shall be in the exclusive competence of the sole owner including the
participation of the company in other companies.
Art 9.(l)   The NEK Supervisory Board shall consist of seven (7) people.
(2)  The members of the Supervisory Board shall elect a President and a
Vice-President from among their members.
Art 10.     The Supervisory Board shall be appointed for a period of five (5)
years. The mandate of the first Supervisory Board shall be three
(3) years long.



- 52 -
page 2 of 5
Art 11.(1)  The NEK Supervisory Board must approve:  (a) acquisition, closing or
transfer of enterprises or substantial parts thereof, including
purchases or sales of real estate; (b) significant changes in the
activity of the Company; (c) significant changes in the
organizational structure of the company; (d) long term cooperation
with third parties, which shall be of great importance for the
Company, as well as terminating this cooperation; (e) establishing
and closing branches; (f) appointment and dismissal of officials
with respect to a list to be established by the Supervisory Board;
and (g) receiving loans and guarantees of these loans of an amount
more than 201 of the capital of the Company.
(2)  The Supervisory Board shall elect and dismiss the members of the
Managing Board .
Art 12.(1)  The Supervisory Board shall sit officially at least once in three
(3) months. The President of the Nanaging Board shall participate
in the sessions with a deliberative vote.
(2)  The President of the Supervisory Board shall notify the members of
the Supervisory Board about the next session, through a written
invitation, including fax, telex or cable.  Each member of the
Supervisory Board, as well as the members of the Managing Board may
request a meeting of the Supervisory Board.
(3) A meeting of the Supervisory Board is legitimate provided there is
evidence that all members and the President of the Managing Board
have been invited and at least 50X plus one are present.
(4)  Each member of the Supervisory Board may be represented by another
member of the Board. The President of the Managing Board may be
represented by another member of the Managing Board empowered by
him. A written power of attorney shall be required and filed with
the minutes. A member present cannot represent more than one absent
member.
(5)  The Supervisory Board shall take decisions by a simple majority of
the members attending the meeting, with the exception of cases under
Art. 11, Section 1. items (a) and (e) which need 2/3 majorities of
the members present.
(6)  The Supervisory Board may take decisions without convening if all of
its members have provided written confirmation of their support for
said decision.
Art 13.(l)  The NEK Managing Board shall consist of five (5) persons.
(2)  The Managing Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Board,
shall appoint a Preosident from among its members. The President
shall represent the Company.
(3)  The Managing Board shall be assisted In its activity by the Board of
branch managers which includes the mangers of all of the company's
branches.



- 53 -                             Amex1
page 3 of S
Art 14. (1) The Hanaging Board shall meet at least once a month. The President
of the Board of Branch Nanagers shall participate with a
deliberative vote.
(2)  The Managing Board shall make decisions by a simple majority vote of
all members present at the session, with the exception of cases
under Art. 11, Sect. 1, items. (a) to (e) inclusive, which need a
unanimous vote.
(3)  The Managing Board may also take decisions without convening if all
of its members have declared their written agreement with the
decision.
Art 15.    The members of the Managing Board are appointed for a period of five
(5) years.
Art 16.(1) The Managing Board shall report quarterly to the Supervisory Board
of the company.
(2) The Managing Board shall notify immediately the President of the
Supervisory Board about all circumstances of great importance to the
company.
(3) The Supervisory Board has the right at any time to require from the
Managing Board information or a report on any matter of relevance to
the company.
(4)  The Supervisory Board may conduct any studies and audits it finds
necessary and may employ experts for this purpose.
Art 17.    The President of the Managing Board of NEK shall:
(1) be responsible for the implementation of the decisions, made by the
General Shareholders Meeting, the Supervisory Board and the Managing
Board;
(2)  organize the activity of the company and be responsible for the
company's property;
(3)  enter into and cancel  contracts with the staff of the company,
except in cases under Art 11 para 1 item f and Art 22 para 5;
(4)  conclude, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, contracts with
the branch managers of the company;
(5)  carry out all actions included in his mandate under the condition
set by Art. 21 and Art. 22 of the Commercial Law.
Art 18.(1)  The members of the Managing Board shall be responsible for the
implementation of the decisions made by the Managing Board in the
following areas:
(1)   operating activities;
(2)   distribution and commercial activity;
(3)   research, development and imestment;
(4)   economic forecasting and financial activities.



- 54-                              Amex E
page 4 of 5
(2) the President of the Managing Board may appoint one of the members
to undertake his obligations under Art. 17 (1,2,3,4) in his absence.
Art 19.(1)  The members of the Supervlsory Board are entitled to be paid for
their participation in that body with the compensation determined by
the General Shareholders Meeting;
(2) The members of the Managing Board are entitled to be paid for their
partlcipation in that body with the compensation determined by the
Supervisory Board.
Art 20.(1)  The Board of Branch Managers is composed of all managers of the
branches of the company. The members of this Board shall appoint a
President from among them;
(2) The Board of Branch Managers or its individual members may make
proposals to the Board of Directors, concerning the activity of the
company within the competence of the Managing Board and the
Supervisory Board;
(3) The advisory decisions of the Board of Branch Managers are made by
a majority vote of all its members;
(4) The Board of Branch Managers may bring to the attention of the
Supervisory Board any cases where it considers the decisions of the
Managing Board to be unreasonable.
Art 21.(1) The organizational structure of the company shall be determined by
a regulation proposed by the Managing Board and accepted by the
Supervlsory Board;
(2) The branch is the basis structural unit of the company.
Art 22.(1)  The branches are administratively, economically and territorially
sutonomous production and non-production units of the company. They
are self-supporting and they make their own income statements.
(1) The branches shall have checking accounts. The credits used by
them are guaranteed by NEK.
(2) The positive financial result of any branch's activity are
estimasted taking into account all taxes and fees which the
joint stock company pays to the state and local budget.
(3) The branches shall remit to the head office depreciation and
profits at a rate determined by the Managing Board.
(4) The branch's manager is elected and dismissed by the Managing
Board following a selection procedure open to competition.
(5) The branch"s manager shall be entitled to carry out all
activities authorized under Art 21 and Art. 22 of the
Commercial Law.



- 55 -                             Anne a
page 5 of 5
(6) The branch's manager may conclude employment contracts with
branch staff and fixes their wages.
(7) The branch's manager is responsible to the Managing Board for
the financial results of the branch.
Art 23.     The financial relationships between the head office and its branches
shall be established in accordance with the law and these Articles
of Association and in detail they are determined and are regulated
by the rules established by NEK.
Art 24.     In all cases when NEU  obtains  government subsidies  for its
production activity, they are to be distributed by the Managing
Board between branches on the basis of the principle * addition to
the internal cost."
Art 25.(1) NEK shall form a reserve fund whose sources are: (i) 1/10 of profit
to be used for this purpose until the amount in the reserve fund
reaches 1/10 of NEK's capital; (ii)  dividends from associated
company; (iii) funds received above the nominal value of the shares
at the time of their issue.
(2)  Research and Development shall be financed by a special fund defined
by rules established by NEK.
(3)  the Managing Board may decide to establish other special funds.
Art 26.tl) Each year before the end of February the Managing Board shall
prepare an annual report and financial statements. These financial
statements shall be audited by certified public accountants, elected
by the General Shareholders Meeting.
(2) After receiving the report from the certified public accountants the
Managing Board shall submit to the Supervisory Board the annual
report, the financial statements, the report of the certified public
accountants and a suggestion for profit's distribution.
(3)  The Supervisory Board verifies the annual report, the financial
statements and the suggestion for distribution of profit and after
their approval calls for the General Shareholders Meeting.
(4) The Managing Board publishes these financial statements in the State
Gazette after they have been approved by the General Shareholders
Meeting.
Art 27.    The joint stock company may be dissolved according to procedures
established by the law.
Art 28.    Upon the dissolution of the joint stock company it should be
liquidated according to legal procedures and thereafter the company
shall be deleted from the trade register upon the request of the
liquidators.



- 56 -                                                   Annex
WLGARIA
NATSIONALNA ELEKTRICHESKA KOMPANIA (NEK)
COUNCIL OF NINISTERS
|Comnittee of Energy
Managing Board
_  |                       |  ~~~~~~~~President |
=                  - PY1~~~~Vce Presildent _Vice Presidentt  Vice-President _Vice-President _Nwe rr of the
....~~~~~~~~~~-- .... ---- ---------   --------    _ B_________________oard
Board of                6eneration      Distribution.     Developnt         Corporate.                 ---
the Branch  ...... ...                   Sales.Business        and            Finance       pbnger of the
Managers                                 Activities       Investment                        NP lKozlodw_
Foreign                 Generation           Central          Research          Econwmic
Relations                 in TPPs. HPP   -   Dispatch            and        -    Forecasts
and                   and districts        Control         Development       and Internal
Protocol                 heading PPs                                              Contracts
Legal                  Generation In      Electricity       Investment      Accounting and
Department               |     PPs             Supply                           Financial Contra]
Preparation                Operation and      Electricity                            Inetment
for Defence &                  fire      |    lort and                               Financng
Mobilization                Protection           Export
4 Personnel    |        aSpecial   ansad and Share
|of Transport |Holding Activities|
AAdministrative
and Public                                                                         Labor and
Services                                                                          Salaries
Office of
the President



- 57 -
page 1 of 17
AND CH&RAII MM
1.          The supplemental information on the Belmeken and Chaira dams
contained in this annex summarizes an analysis of these dams undertaken by
Electrowatt Engineering, on behalf of the Bank.
OCKFILLD
General Description and Purposos of the Dam
2.          The Belmeken Dam, built between 1964 and 1974, is a 88 m high
(measured from river bottom) and 725 m long (at the crest) rockfill dam with a
central, relatively narrow clay core and a fill volume of 3.33 mio m9. Its crest
elevation is at 1923.0 meters above sea level (m.a.s.l.). In plan, the dam is
a curve with a radius of 500 a. It is located in south-west Bulgaria, near the
city of Velingrad.
3.          The average slope, including the berms, is lV:1.8H on both, the
upside and downside. The core is founded on sound granite, whereas parts of the
shells are founded on weathered granite, described to have an internal angle of
friction of 34 degrees. On both, the upside and the downside, three layers of
different filters are placed between the central clay core and the rockfill
shells.
4.          Grouting works included a deep grout curtain up to 56 a in depth and
a blanket grouting (depth up to 25 i). A grouting gallery underneath the clay
core was constructed, from which readings of the stand pipe piezometers installed
in the downside part of the foundation can be taken.   Other monitoring
Instruments provided are:
-    pore pressure cells in the core (hydraulic and electric), installed
in three sections
-    earth pressure cells
-    settlement gauges
-    geodetic survey network
5.          The reservoir impounded by the Belmeken Dam has a total storage of
about 145 mio m3, 142 mio m$ of them are useful. The maximum operational level
is 1920.5 m.a.s.l,  the minimal one 1953.7 m.a.s.l.   Under full spilling
conditions, the maximum reservoir level is 1921.0 m.a.s.l. leading to a minimal
freeboard of 2 a. The water stored in this reservoir is collected by a 270 km
long system of canals and tunnels. The reservoir itself is located on the top
of a saddle in the Rila mountains. Therefore, the proper catchment area of the
Belmeken reservoir is very small; in fact, it covers only the reservoir surface
and some adjacent mountain slopes. Subsequently, the probable maximum flood for
which th6 spillway is designed for is very small (14 m3/sec). The capacity of
the bottom outlet (intake elevation 1854 m.a.s.l) at maximum reservoir level is
16 m3/sec. Emptying the reservoir by means of the bottom outlet and the pressure
tunnel to the Belmeken powerhouse takes about 32 days.



- 58 -
Annex G
page 2 of 17
6.         The main purposes of the Belmeken dam are:
(a)  To provide water for Belmeken - Sestrimo - Momina Klisura Power
generating cascade and furthermore for the irrigation of 250,000 ha
of land;
(b) To provide water to the Chaira pumped storage scheme; and
(c) To supply water for domestic and industrial use.
Geology of the Project Area, Dam Foundation Conditions
and Reservoir Slope Stability
7.         The Belmeken dam site is located in the Rila mountain granite
massive. The rock formations in this area consist mainly of sound, hard and
compact granite. In the area of the Belmeken dam, the weathering depth of the
granite varied between 5 and 15 m. As the dam is located on the very upstream
end of a small river, the thickness of alluvial deposits is very limited.
S.         The site investigations were carried out in three phases between 1952
and 1965.  They included extensive subsurface investigations, in-situ and
laboratory tests of the construction materials as well as hydrogeological
investigations. The investigations showed, that the bed rock is sound. The
results of the uconfined pressure tests (on cubical samples) varied between
1100 kg/cm2 and 1200 kg/cm2 (dry samples), corresponding well with the
expectations and experience for sound granite. The water pressure test results
indicated, that the permeability of the rock foundation is rather low, especially
in the deeper zones. As a result of these favorable geological conditions,
reservoir tightness or the stability of its slopes has not created any problems
during the nearly 20 years of operation.
Rydrological Iuvestigations
9.         During the design of the Belmeken - Seatrimo cascade in the 1960s,
hydrological data from two hydrometric stations starting in 1935/36 and from 20
additional stations installed in 1951 were available. The evaluation of the
figures obtained thereof in combination with an analogy analysis lead to a yearly
design inflow into the Belmeken reservoir of 240 mio i3, collected by its 270 km
long feeder canal system (the active storage volume of the Belmeken reservoir is
142 mio m3 per year) for design purposes a very small compensation release of
0.32 m3 per year was anticipated. These figures were in line with the Bulgarian
law valid at that time. Additionally, some 12 mio =3 per year were expected to
be distributed for other purposes, e.g. domestic and industrial water supply.
Therefore, the prediction on the available yearly quantity of water from the
Belmeken reservoir to be used for energy production was 228 mio n3.
Iffective Available Amto of Vater and
Produced tergW at the Belmeken Sestrimo Cascade
10.        Since the first year of operation, the effective available amounts
of water from Belmeken reservoir are considerably less than predicted - 134 mio
m3 instead of the predicted 240 mio m3 (55X).



- 59 -                                    a
page 3 of 17
11.         A first evaluation of the available data showed, that the main
reasons for the significant difference of 106 mio ma/year at the Belmeken
reservoir are:
(a)   Hydrological reasons:   It is estimated, that about 23X of the
difference between predicted and effective inflow quantities are due
to hydrological reasons (ca. 25 million m3/year).
(b)   Evaporation losses at the Belmeken reservoir,  which were not
considered in the design phase (ca. 10 mio ml/year).
(c) Unconstructed or only partly finished feeder canals, leading to an
average loss of 25 mio ml/year.
(d) Significant higher diversion of water for domestlc, industrial and
ecological use: In the average of the years 1978 to 1991, some 42
mLo en per year were diverted from the Belmeken reservoir for the
above reasons.   A significant increase in the amount of water
diverted occurred in 1983, when a direct link between the Beleken
feeder canal system and the Iskar reservoir (water supply of Sofia)
was taken into operation. The average amount of water diverted by
this means to the Iskar reservoir in the years 1983 to 1991 was 65
mio ml/year with peaks up to 100 million m'/year. In future, an
annual average of 100 million n3 will be diverted to Sofia in order
to satisfy the city's increasing water demand.
(e)   Operational reasons, like open gates etc. are responsible for the
remaining part of the losses (ca. 4 mio i3/year).
Static Dam Design and Dam Construction
12.         The Belmeken dam was designed and constructed according to the codes
and regulations valid in Bulgaria in the early 1960s. Considerable information
on the various results obtained from the regular performance tests during
construction Is available with Energoproekt, indicating very good quality control
during construction.
Freeboard Design
13.         The design of the freeboard (minlmum  2 m) is in line with the
corresponding Bulgarian codes. Comparisons with similar western regulations,
showed, that the parameters considered for the freeboard design and the
calculation methods (e.g. wave height) are comparable.
embaakm.nt Material Properties
14.         During the site  investigations, numerous laboratory tests to
determine the soil mechanic characteristics on the embankment materials were
carried out. A comparison of these results with the ones obtained from the
quality control tests during construction showed, that the predicted values were



- 60 -
Annex G
page 4 of 17
very close to the effective ones.  Table G.1 gives an overview on certain
important parameters:
Table 0.1
Soil mechanical parameters of the Belmken dom *n baniment materials
.0
15.         The core consists of clay material containing minimum 501 of fines
(particles < 0.06 -). The clay content itself (particles < 0.005 mm) is 181 on
average.
16.         The filters were strictly  designed according to the Terzaghi
criteria. Unless natural material was available In the vicinity of the dam, the
required granulometry was obtainAed by means of washing and sieving.
17.         The photos taken during construction shoo, that the rockfill is of
a high quality and well graded. Interlockinkg effects are to be considered for
the determination of the shear strength. The dam beight does not require a
reduction of the shear strength due to high confining pressures; therefore, an
overall # value of 400 to 410~ as shown In Table 0.1 Is certainly justified and
lies on the conservative side.
Static Stability Analyasi
18.         The static stability calculations were carried out from 1966 to 1967
by means of circular sliding surface methods (Fellenius, Bishop simplified,
Therzaghi * Soviet stand&ard methods). Thereby, the following minimal factors of
safety for the load cases considered were obtained:



- 61 -
AnnMexrg
page 5 of 17
Table G.2
Results of the static stability analysis of the Belmeken dar
carried out from 1966 to 1967
SX~~~~~~~~ 3
1) a full rapid draw down was assumed to take 32 days.
19.         For the stability analysis of the Belmsken dam, a prediction on the
pore water pressure condition in the core- after construction was established.
As, however, the construction time was about 10 years, no excess pore water
pressures could be observed at the beginning of impounding.  In 1977, a new
stability analysis using computer facilities was carried out. The factors of
safety obtained therefrom confirm the general impression obtained from the
comparison of the results shown in Table G.2 with the embankment material
properties - that the factors of safety obtained from the design calculations are
conservative.
Da Construction
20.         The dam was constructed from 1964 to 1974.   Due to the alpine
climatic conditions of the construction site, works were carried out only during
summer time. Special care was taken for the foundation treatment of the core
area. The photographs taken during construction proved, that the rock surface
was carefully cleaned and treated with slush grout where required. The core was
compacted at around the optimum water content in layers of 25 cm by means of an
8-tonne vibratory roller. Each layer has been scarified before a new one was
placed. Quality control tests were taken regularly from each layer. Directly
above the foundation (contact zone), high plastic clay was placed at high water
contents in 10 cm layers and compacted with pneumatic hand equipment. The same
procedure was applied for contact zones concrete - clay. In order to accelerate
the construction works (enabling embankment construction In late autumn), it was
decided to replace the core between elevation 1911 m.a.s.l. and 1921 m.a.s.l. by
weathered granite of the same type as used for the filters directly beside the
cores. Both, filter and rockfill were compacted.
Operation and MNintenance Manuals
21.         A detailed operation and maintenance manual was prepared by
Energoprojekt towards the end of construction. It included predictions for the
performance of the various instruments as a function of the reservoir levels.
These predictions have also been adjusted during the lifetime of the dam.



- 62 -
Annexa
page 6 of 17
Regional Seisicity and Dynamic Analysis of tho Dam
22.         During the lifetime of the Belmeken dam, the knowledge of the
seismicity of Bulgaria in general and of the local seismicity of the Belmeken
area in particular increased enormously.   Today one knows, that both, the
Belmeken and the Chaira dam are located in an area with one of the higher seismic
risks within Bulgaria. During the design of the Belmeken dam in 1964, knowledge
on the seismic risk within Bulgaria was less developed and only pseudostatic
calculations with a horizontal ground acceleration of °.058 were carried out to
analyze the behavior of the dam under earthquake loading. While this is quite
low, as indicated above, a number of very conservative assumptions were made in
dam design.
23.         Soundly design rockfill dams on solid foundations (as in the case of
Belmeken) are in principle safe inherently against dynamic loads. However, in
order to confirm that the deformations of the dam during an earthquake are within
an acceptable range, a detailed seismic an&lysis was considered essential,
accordingly recommended, and was undertaken.
Dam Instrumentation Concept
24.         The main components of dam instrumentation are:
(a)   17 standpipe piezometers, installed in the foundation on the
downside of the grouting gallery. A manometer equipped with a valve
also allows measurement of the outflow from the piezometer.
(b)   32 pore water pressure cells in the core, installed in three cross
sections on two to four levels.  At each location, an electric
Mayhak and a hydraulic Ruggenberger cell have been installed. So
far, the hydraulic cells operate well, whereas all electric cells
are out of order. Readings were taken regularly until 1988, when
the manometers were removed from the measuring chamber in the
grouting gallery in order to protect them from dust and dirt from
the reconstruction works on the grout curtain. Unfortunately, the
manometers have not been reinstalled until now.
(c)   8 earth pressure cells located in the maximum cross section of the
core.   These instruments do not work and are, therefore, not
monitored.
(d)   4 settlement gauges: Also these instruments failed before or soon
after the completion of the construction works.
(e)   Surface survey network to monitor the settlements and horizontal
movements of the dam.



- 63 -
page 7 of 17
NAMO NKRVCO2 =ECI  AMD  MaI yORKS
Slur   Trench Wall
25.   No clay core was constructed between elevation 1911 and 1922 m.a.s.l. in
order to accelerate construction works. As certain doubts arose on the long term
stability  of  the  weathered  granite  under  steady  seepage  conditions
(suffusion/erosion), it was decided to construct a slurry trench wall from the
dam crest down to the elevation 1907 m.a.s.l. The slurry trench wall penetrates
about 4 m into the core. A cement - bentonite mortar has been used for this
purpose. Its coefficient of permeability is about 10-6 cm/sec. The works were
carried out between 1988 and 1990. These works caused a partial destruction of
the bench marks used for the geodetic survey. Therefore, new ones have been
installed in 1990/1991.
Additional Grouting
26.         According to the information obtained from the National Organization
of Dms, Reservoirs and Cascades, a certain increase of the water pressure and
the water quantities (with open manometer valves) measured at the piezometers
installed in the grouting gallery led to the decision to regrout an approximately
400 m long section in the central part of the dam. These works were carried out
from 1989 to 1990. As a possible reason for the increasing water pressure on the
downside of the dam, chemical dissolutions of grout components (mainly cement)
by the very soft water impounded in the reservoir was assumed. Such dissolution
processes are in fact also known from other dam sites, e.g. Mattmark in
Switzerland.
BRIEF AALYSIS OF THE DAM IN5TRAJE9MT0 R        TS
AIDR TE ACTUAL CONDITION OF TSR DTH
General
27.         The evaluation of the dam monitoring results is made by the National
Organization of Dams, Reservoirs and Cascades (NODRC) normally on a yearly basis.
Plots showing the longtime behavior of the instruments are partially available,
for instance for the geodetic survey.
28.         The Belmeken dam was visited several times and the grouting gallery
has been inspected. The impressions obtained from these inspections is, that the
Belmeken dam is visually in a good condition and properly maintained.
Pore Water Pressure Cells Located In the Core
29.         Readings are partly available until 1988. Since then, the manometers
have been removed due to grouting works and unfortunately have not been
reinstalled yet. Unfortunately, the readings have not been plotted over a period
of several years. For a detailed judgment, a time consuming processing of the
available data would be required.



- 64 -
Armex G
page 8 of 17
30.         Based on the discussions with the people responsible for the
monitoring of the Belmeken dam, the behavior of the pore pressure cells
corresponded always with the expectations, i.e. the core is impervious. In view
of the -quality of the core material, its placing and the long construction
period, this conclusion corresponds with the experience for similar dams.
31.         Piezometers were also installed in the upper part of the core (above
el. 1911). The results obtained showed very clearly, that seepage occurred
through the weathered granite placed instead of clay. This led in 1986 to the
instruction to impound the dam higher than el. 1911. To repair this situation,
the decision to construct the slurry trench wall described above was taken. New
piezometers were then installed in the upper part of the dam on both, the upside
and downside of the slurry trench wall.   Regular readings are taken since
February 1991 in case the reservoir level is higher than 1911 m.a.s.l. The
available results so far prove the good performance of the slurry trench wall.
Stand Pipe Piezozeters Located In the Dam Foundation
32.         From the water pressures and water quantities with open valves
measured at the stand pipe piezometers located in the grouting gallery in the
central part of the dam, one can conclude:
(a)   The water levels measured in the piezometers followed generally the
fluctuations of the reservoir level.
(b)   The increase of the water level measured in the piezometers varies
between 20X and 401 of the increase of the reservoir level, proving
the good efficiency of the grout curtain.
(c)   The maximum and minimum water levels measured in the standpipe
piezometers in the foundation remain constant in the period
considered (1.1.1982 to 31.12.88).   Please note that regrouting
works started in 1989, leading to a lack of data.
(d)   The time lag between an increase/decrease of the reservoir level and
the corresponding reaction at the piezometers is small. No changes
can be observed during the period considered.   This type of
observation has also been made at similar dams and foundation
conditions and is to explained by the fissuring of the rock.
(e)   The same results aa for the water pressures apply generally for the
water quantities measured with open valves. The total "seepage
quantity measured by this method was always below 1.5 1/sec, which
is a very small amount.
33.         Suumarizing  these  facts,  it  is  considered  essential  and  is
accordingly recommended to install the piezometer immediately and to resume the
regular readings in order to enable a continuous monitoring of this important
dam.



- 65 -
page 9 of 17
Geodetic Survey
34.         The geodetic survey consisted of the measurements of the settlement
and horizontal displacements along the dam crest and the berms. During the
construction of the slurry trench wall the measuring points along the dam crest
were partly destroyed. In 1991, they were replaced by new ones and the regular
observations were resumed. The total measured cumulative settlements from 1977
to 1988 at the dam's maximum cross section are 98 cm, whereby a clear tendency
towards attenuation was observed. The yearly additional settlements were less
than 2 to 3 cm towards the end of the observation period. This total settlement
corresponds to about 1. SZ of the dam height. The horizontal deformations towards
downstream vary between 10 cm at low reservoir levels and 16 cm at the highest
reservoir levels. The basis for these figures is a zero measurement taken before
impounding started. All deformations measured by means of the geodetic survey
are well within the expected range for this kind of dam.
Impacts of the Chaira Pumped Storage Scheme on the Belmeken Dam
35.         At the higher reservoir levels, the maximum possible reservoir draw
down resulting from power generation at Chaira is I to 2 m in 8.5 hours. For
these conditions, the rockfill can be considered as free draining and does not
require any additional investigations. At very low reservoir levels, e.g. el.
1870 to 1880 m.a.s.l., the same operating conditions may lead to a draw down of
up to 5 m in 8.5 hours. Under these conditions, the rockfill is only partly free
draining. The stability of the dam, however, will certainly not be affected by
this fact.
Conclusions and Recommendations
36.         The Belmaken dam is a well designed rock fill dam on a sound rock
foundation. The construction materials used are of a high quality and were
properly placed.
37.         During the lifetime of the Belmeken dam, the knowledge on the seismic
risk in Bulgaria increased enormously. Today one knows, that both, the Belmeken
and the Chaira dam are located in an area with one of the higher seismic risks
within Bulgaria. However, a detailed seismic risk analysis was not carried out.
As during the detailed design of the Belmeken dam in 1964 knowledge on the
seismic risk in Bulgaria were missing, a horizontal ground acceleration of 0.05g
was assumed for the pseudostatic stability analysis, which is low.
38.         In principle, soundly designed rockfill dams on solid foundations
(as Belmeken)  are safe inherently  against dynamic  loads.   In order  to
demonstrate, however, that the deformations during an earthquake are within an
acceptable range, a detailed seismic study was considered essential, accordingly
recommended and was undertaken for the main Belmeken dam during
September/October, 1992.
39.         Generally, the readings of the major instruments have been taken more
or less regularly in an adequate frequency. Nevertheless, it is suggested, to
avoid in future lack of data due to not reinstalling manometors, etc. The
executed repair and maintenance works as well as the visual section showed, that



- 66 -
page 10 of 17
the dam is properly maintained and in a good technical condition. The pumped
storage operation at Chaira does not affect the stability of the Belmeken dam.
SummarLzing the findings on the Belmeken dam, one can conclude, that the dam is
safe, generally properly monitored and maintained.
CE&TRA CONCRET GRVI   DAN
Gentral Description of the Dam
40.         The Chaira concrete gravity dam is located on the northern slop of
the Rila mountains in the water catchment area of the Chairska river. The dam
is 85 a hlgh and 305 a long at the crest and is straight in plan. It is divided
into 12, normally 28 m wide, blocks separated by construction Joints running
normal to the dam axis. Its key figures are:
Height                             85 m
Fill volume                        380'000 m3
Slope upside                       lV:0.05H
Slope downside                     lV:0.72H
Crest elevation                    1263.0 m.a.s.l.
Maximum operating water level      1260.0 m.a.s.l.
Maximum spillway discharge (PMF)   75 m3/sec
Minimum free board at PMF          1.70 m
Minimum operating water level      1231 m.a.s.l.
Total storage of the reservoir     5.57 mio m3
Useable storage of the reservoir   4.38 mio m3
41.         The dam construction itself is nearly completed, however, impounding
has not been started yet, as construction works at the intakes are still ongoing.
The capacity of the bottom outlet (intake elevation 1188.6 a.a.s.l.) at maximum
reservoir level is 21 m3/sec.  Emptying the reservoir down to bottom outlet
elevation takes approximately four days.
42.         The design concrete strength requirements (180 day strength on
cubes), depending on the stress prevailing at the relevant sectlon, varied
between 15 MPa and 20 MPa (see Figure 4.3). At the spillvay chute, a minimal
strength of 40 MPa was required. These figures are generally ln line with other
projects of the same size. As an example, for the 175 m high Karakaya arch -
gravity dam, the corresponding figures varied between 15 and 28 MPa. Figure C.3
shows a typical cross-section of the ChaLra dam.



- 67 -
A~uL
page 11 of 17
Geological  Conditions  and  Da                          igure G_3
Poundation                                               CHAIRA DAM
43.         The  bedrock  at  the
Chaira  dam  site  consists  of
amphibole-Biotits and occasionally
granite-gneisses. In the old river
bed, alluvial deposits of up to 6m
thickness were encountered during           E
the site investigations started in
1970.   In view of the dam type
foreseen,    the    geological
investigations were carried out in
much  more  detail  than  at  the            I
Belmeken  dar  site.      For  the  Map
detailed  investigations  of  some          I
tectonic zones, addits were made to
investigate the exact location of
these  zones,   for  filling  of j          l
potential cracks and to determine         _
by means of in situ tests the               l I.
mechanic  properties  of  the bed
rock,   mainly   its   deformation
module.  The value considered for                                *
the latter in the design of the dam
is E - 30 GPa for fresh rock.
44.         The   shear   strength               h 
properties  of  the  rock  were
determined by means of triaxial         *
laboratory tests.  Typical results         g            *    . . . .
obtained are:
-     for fresh rock     T - 5.48 + 0.83 a ( 80X probability)
-     for weathered rock v - 5.22 + 0.75 a (100 probability)
The water pressure test results (WPT) evaluated according to the Russian
standards varied between 0.18 Vmin m'bar at relatively shallow depths (6 a) and
0.03 Vmin m'bar at 85 m depth.  The bearing capacity of the rock was found to be
absolutely sufficient for the load of the dam.
45.         Based on the above summarized results of the geological and rock
mechanic investigations, the general rock conditions have to be judged as
favorable for this kind of dam. This is also proven by the extremely good
conditions encountered during the excavation of the huge underground power house
cavern located in the same local geological area.
46.         Another result confirming the above statement, are the takes recorded
during the execution of the grout curtain, showing that on the average only 25kg
of cemont per linear meter were used. Details are given in Table G.4



- 68 -
Annex G
page 12 of 17
Table 0.4
Chaira Dan - Details on Grout Sakes
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F g
Regional Seisaicity
47.         The Chaira dam, which is close to the Belmsken dam, is located In an
area with one of the higher seismic risk in Bulgaria. Although these facts were
known at leasnt to a certain extent during the design and the construction of the
Chaira dam, no detailed seismic risk investigations and/or dynamic stress
calculations were carried out. A ground acceleration of 0. 12g, which Is also not
in line with the 1987 code, was taken as an input for the pusudostatical
calculations. It is also too low. As there is little distance between the
Chaira, and the Beilmeken dams, and the geological/tectonic conditions of the two
sites are very similar, a combined seismic risk analysis was recommended and the
sam-e has since been carried out.
Hydrology and Spillway Design
48.         The Chaira dam is located in the small valley of the Chairska river.
The hydrology of this river shows, that the 10,*000 years flood (considered as
peak maximum flood, PNF) is 75 m3/sec. The spillway incorporated in the dam
crest, as well as the channels through the villages are designed accordingly.
Hydraulic model tests were carried out for the design of the spillway. In order
to prevent spilling due to generating or generation in c-ases of high floods (the
rated discharge of all four turbines together is up to 144 mu3/sec), the turbines
will be automatically stopped once the reservoir level exceeds the maximum
operation water level (equal to spillway water level, 1260 a  
DAM DESIGAN D DAN OSBTIO
Static Stability Analysis
49.         The static  stability  analysis was prepared according  to  the
regulations and methods for class 1 dams set forth in the relevant Bulgarian, and
if necessary, Russian codes. The design of the drainage system is very common,



- 69 -
page 13 of 17
and consists of two drainage rows. The first one, drilled from the main drainage
gallery (drainage I row), is 13 degrees inclined towards the downside. Its
maximum depth is elevation 1151 m.a.s.l., about 26 m below the sound rock
foundation. The second one (drainage II row), starting from-the axis parallel
galleries (distance between the galleries is normally 14 a), is vertical with a
n=imum depth at elevation 1158.0 m.a.s.l. (about 19 m below sound rock
foundation). Based on this drainage system, the uplift forces in the static
stability analyses correspond well with common engineering practices for this
kind of dam.
50.         Special in situ shear tests were carried out to determine the
friction parameters between concrete and bedrock, showing a cohesion of 548 kN/e
and 39.70 for the angle of internal friction. The Bulgarian codes for the design
of large dAs give also computation rules for the tension zone in the foundation.
A rough check of these calculations showed, that the results for the various load
cases are reasonable.   Also,  the other design loads  (hydrostatic loads,
sediments, dead load, tailwater, etc.) were inserted in the static stability
calculations according to common engineering practice and standard. The results
obtained, thereof, are summarized in Table G.5.
Table G.5
Static Stability Analysis of Chaira Concrete Gravity Dam
Summary of Results
I |  11!I l  011   I I  ~~111,001
51.         Parallel to the static calculations, a pseudostatic  *dynamic'
stability analysis was prepared with a horizontal ground acceleration of 0.12g.
The factors of safety for the load cases shown in Figure 4.5 vary between 1.86
and 2.33.
Concrete Stress Analysis
52.         The main stresses in the concrete of the dam body and in the
foundation were analyzed by means of a Finite Element computer program,
considering also stresses as a result from temperature gradients. The results
showed, that:



- 70 -
page 14 of 17
(a) under static conditions, no tension zones occur;
(b)   the stresses in the concrete are within the design limits;
(c)   the maximum stresses occur in the upside lower edge and are in the
range of 8 to 10 MPa.
Dynamic Stress Analysis
53.         No dynamic stress analysis of the Chaira concrete gravity dam was
carried out. In view of the importance of the completed Chaira dam, it was
recomended to have the dynamic stress analysis carried out in context of the
analysis for the Belmeken dam, and the same was undertaken during
September/October, 1992.
Dam Construction
54.         The dam was constructed between 1985 and 1991, concrete was placed
from 1986 to 1989. For the first time, the so called 'long block construction
method" was applied in Bulgaria. Thereby, the experiences obtained from two
similarly constructed dams located in the former Soviet Union, Toktogul and
Korupai on the Narin river (Tian - Shan district), were used. The characteristic
of this method is to divide the dam into very long blocks, in the case of Chaira
about 28 m. This is about twice the common figure for the block length in
concrete gravity dams. The advantages of this method are mainly to be found in
the higher progress rate and, of course the smaller amount of construction
joints. Disadvantages are to be expected from higher thermal stresses.
55.         Detailed investigations and studies made for the Chaira dam prior to
construction showed, that an application of this method at this particular site
with an average annual temperature of 6.7°C is feasible. However, measures to
regulate the temperature regime were unavoidable. During summer time, ice flakes
were added instead of water and the placed concrete was sprinkled continuously
by cooled water.   A special sprinkling installation was required for this
purpose. In winter time, concrete placing was stopped when air temperature felt
below -5°C. Other measures against too excessive cooling during winter consisted
in covering the surfaces of all blocks with several layers of a geotextile or
heating the concrete aggregates with hot air.
56.         The temperature in the concrete blocks was monitored continuously.
The maximal measured concrete temperature during construction time is reported
to be 240C.  Concrete was placed itn layers of 0.5 to 1.0 m thickness and
compacted with Russian type vibrators. Two cable cranes have been installed.
The progress rate achieved in view of the climatic conditions was 360'000 m3 of
concrete within calendar 19 months. Due to the climatic conditions, the major
part of the concrete works was carried out in the summer months.
57.         In order to check the tightness of the concrete placed at the upside
face of the dam, monitoring boreholes were drilled and water pressure tests
executed. As a result, high concrete permeabilities were observed. As a repair
measure, a 15 cm thick gunite layer brought up in 5 layers of 3 cm has been
placed on the upside face from the dam toe up to elevation 1211.0 m.a.s.l.
Between the second and third gunite layer, a reinforcement net (bars with
diameter 6 mm) was placed. Apart from this gunite layer, additional grouting of



- 71 -
AM G
page 15 of 17
the concrete joints on the upside face up to elevation 1231.0 m.a.s.l. led to an
improvement of the concrete tightness itself. Above elevation 1231.0, additional
grouting was required only at block #7. The visual impression on the dam is-
good.
Instrumentation Concept
58.        A total of about 300 instruments are placed in the body and the
foundation of the Chaira dam. About 80X thereof are installed in three cross
sections, the maximum one and two at 56m on its left/right side. Table G.6 gives
an overview of the instruments installed at the Chaira concrete gravity dam.
Table G.6
Overview of the
Instrumentation of the Chaira Concrete Gravity Dar
S  ;E   g   SE   N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;~.~~~
................
59.        The main conclusion from the above table is that the instrumentation
concept of the Chaira dam includes all important elements for a dam of thLs size.
The evaluation, especially the interpretation and compilation of the results to
an overall assessment an the dam behavior will be a very interesting and
substantial work. This is also the main reason. that the readings of the maJor



- 72 -
Annex G
page 16 of 17
part of the above mentioned instruments will, when the dam is in use, be made
automatically by means of a sophisticated centralized computer system. A first
evaluation of the data obtained, including graphical presentations, will be done
also automatically by the computer installed in the control center of the power
house. In case of a break down of the automatic system, manual readings of the
instruments are possible.
60.         The computer system is not yet installed, however, experience with
similar systems shows that technical problems may arise during the first time of
operation. In many cases (and probably also at Chaira), this time corresponds
with the very important period of first impounding. In such a case, a break down
without parallel manual readings would lead to a loss of very important data.
It is, therefore, highly recommended, to take manual readings regularly during
the test phase of the computer system, in order to prevent lack of data and allow
a comparison of the computer readings and evaluations with the manual ones.
Conclus ion and Recommendations
61.         The Chaira concrete gravity dam is properly designed for the static
load  cases.    Based  on  extensive  geotechnical  in-situ  and  laboratory
investigations, all state of the art calculations for the static design of a dam
of this size were carried out. The results obtained thereof are reliable. For
the construction, the so called "long blocks" method was applied. The related
special technical problems, especially the temperature of the concrete, were
obviously handled successfully. Quality control tests showed, that a part of the
upside concrete face, especially the construction joints, did not fulfill the
tightness criteria. Appropriate measures have been taken to repair and improve
the particular areas. No computations to analyze the behavior of the dam under
major dynamic loads, e.g. earthquakes were prepared. Situated in the zone with
one of the higher seismic risk in Bulgaria, such analysis was considered
essential, accordingly recommended and was undertaken during September/October,
1992.
62.         Detailed Seismic Analysis.  The detailed seismic analysis for the
Belmeken main dam and the Chaira concrete dam for a maximum credible earthquake
(NCE) of 0.5g was recently completed by Electrowatt and Energoproekt and
indicates that:
(a)   elmeken Rockfill dam
Vt   The static stability analysis of the dam showed, that the
safety of the dam is warranted, also during the maximum
possible  reservoir  draw-down.    The  reservoir  operation
conditions resulting from the Chaira pumped storage scheme do
not have any negative impacts on the stability of the Belmeken
dam.
(ii) The maximum crest settlements obtained by the dynamic analysis
for the NCE are approximately 1.1 m.



- 73 -
AnnexG
page 17 of 17
(iii) The freeboard calculations showed that the crest elevation is
not sufficient when earthquake induced waves and settlements
are considered.
(iv) The alluviums below the two shells consist of materials (GP
and GW) are with a considerable factor of safety not
susceptible for liquefaction.
(b)   Chaira Concrete dam
(i)   The design of the Chaira concrete gravity dam for static loads
is adequate.
(ii) The maximum crest acceleration obtained by the dynamic
analysis is 3.8g. This value, although relatively high, is
reasonable.
(iii) The dynamic analysis leads to a maximm compression of
-10 MPa.   This is within the acceptable limit for mass
concrete.
(iv) Maximum tension reaches more than 5 MPa for larger areas along
the upstream and downstream faces of the dam.
(v)   The compressive concrete strength measured on cores taken from
the mass concrete of the center part of the dam (60 -
70 samples) is 24 EPa. Taking IOZ of this value as admissible
value for tensile strength leads to 2.4 MPa. This value is
confirmed by the tensile strength tests on 30-40 samples,
which shows a result of 2.28 MPa.
(vi) At the toe of the dam on both, the upstream and downstream
face, limited areas exist, where the tensile strength reach
about 10 MPa. Although these values are not very exact due to
the relatively coarse mesh at these locations and pronounced
stress variations in these zones, they clearly indicate the
probability of cracks.
(vii) In spite of these cracks which may form during a strong
earthquake, the safety of the dam will most likely not become
critical.
.:\G



74 -AnnexLH
page 1 of 2
SLANDOIAALO
Da Safety Organization
1.          The National Organization of Dams and Reservoirs and Cascades (NODRC)
is responsible for monitoring larger dams and employs 900 persons.  In its
45 years of existence, no major accident occurred on a dam monitored by NODRC.
To a certain extent, the NODRC is supervised by the Civil Defense Department
(Ministry of Defense), whLch additionally undertakes some monitoring works,
especially on the hydromechanic installations, e.g. bottom outlets.
2.         A total of 41 large dams, 671 kms of tunnel and 500 small hydraulic
structures are monitored by the NODRC. At each of the 41 dam sites monitored and
maintained by the NODRC, permanent monitoring staff is responsible for:
-    taking regular readings of the instrumentation,
*    carrying out the normal geodetic survey work,
-    the regular visual inspections of the dams, and
-    minor maintenance works.
3.          The NODRC acts also as a contractor for maintenance and repair works.
Minor works are directly executed by the maintenance and repair groups of the dam
districts. Major works, e.g. the regrouting of a part of the Belmeken dam
foundation, are made by the central construction and repair section. NODRC's
laboratory analyzes the samples taken at the different dam sites, chemically and
physically.
Regulations and Rules on Dam Nonitoring
4.          Special laws on dam safety and dam monitoring do not exist in
Bulgaria.   However, the Ministry of Social Welfare established rules and
regulations.  In addition, the NODRC has established special regulations on
monitoring and observation for every single project. These regulations also
lncluds regulations on the frequency of the readings to be taken and on the
visual inspections of the dams and its appurtenant structures. The common frame
of all these specific regulations are the four general principles on dam
monitoring, established by the NODRC:
(a)   There is an obligation for dam monitoring;
(b)  Monitoring has to be carried out periodically during the entire life
time of a dam;
(c)  Readings of instruments, geodetic survey and visual iLspections of
dams have to be carried out simultaneously;
(d)   A constant comparison between the data obtained and the predicted
behavior is mandatory.



- 75 -zmuLlH
page 2 of 2
5.          The data collected by the monitoring staff are transmitted to the
head office in Sofia, where an evaluation and interpretation takes place. The
main criteria for the assessment on the condition of a dam is the comparison
between the readings obtained and the corresponding predictions established by
the design engineer at the end of the construction phase.
6.          A yearly dam safety report has to be produced by the NODRC and
presented to an internal or external coumittee of experts. It is a rule, that
at least every two years, an external committee evaluates these reports and
recommends on possible or required changes in the reading frequency, on required
maintenance or repair works or on additional investigations to be carried out.
In addition, the Civil Defense Department (part of the Ministry of Defense) has
to monitor the dams separately, mainly in view of the functionality of bottom
outlets and other hydromechanical equipments.
Emergency Preparedness Plans
7.          The Department of Civil Defense is responsible for the establishment
of emergency preparedness plans, .e.g evacuation. In case of emergency, the
NODRC has to immediately inform the Department of Civil Defense on the type of
risk or occurrence. For this purpose, special telephone lines, telex lines and
radio telephones are installed at the dam sites. At each dam site, so called
"emergency reserves" of construction materials (e.g. cement, gravel, etc.),
equipment and personnel are available.
a:\.nE-



-76 -                               Annex I
page 1 of 5
DWAU
ENERG PROJECT
Reen -rdtions of the Panel of1 gOerts
Below are the recommendations of the panel of experts with respect
to the Belmeken dam including the saddle dam, and the Chaira dam:
Belmeken Nain Dam and Rezervoir
1.          Belmeken main dam has been in operation since 1975 and has performed
entirely satisfactorily. In the Panel's opinion, based on detailed review of the
available reports/documentation, and instrumentation monitoring data and the
detailed site visit, the dam appears to have been well designed to international
standards and well constructed with apparently good quality control.
2.          Under the proposed Maximum Credible Earthquake loading with a peak
acceleration of 0.45 - 0.5g. studies indicate that slumping/settlement of the
crest may amount to about 1.0 m.
3.          Although the dam would be able to operate satisfactorily at maximum
reservoir level after such slumping, it is prudent to raise the crest level by
1.0 m at this time.
4.          Since no filters are present between the foundation and downstream
rockfill shell, erosion of weathered material in joints in the foundation could
possibly occur progressively with time.   While there are no such visible
indications, it is recommended that all water seeping through the dam and its
foundation be intercepted at the downstream toe of the dam and monitored
throughout the life of the project.
5.          The core of the dam, which is widely graded and of very low
plasticity, is borderline regarding being self-filtering.
6.          Considering that the water for Belmeken Reservoir is brought to the
site primarily by a canal and tunnel collection system, which has limited
capacity and which can be shut off, the existing spillway, outlet works, and
power water ways provide adequate release capacity for the reservoir.
7.          The piezometers from the grouting gallery should be maintained and
should continue to be read for the life of the project. They should be opened
periodically and seepage from them measured. Changes in such seepage would
indicate a change in foundation conditions.
8.          Recording seismographs should be installed at the crest of the dam,
on the lower part of the dam, and on sound bedrock close to the dam.
Belmeken Sa&dle Dam
9.          The Earth Saddle Dam has been in operation since 1975 and has
performed satisfactorily. Wlth the reservoir at maximum level, significant
saturation of the downstream shell of disintegrated granite occurs.   It is
entirely possible that in the future, the reservoir could be maintained at high



-77-                               Annex I
page 2 of 5
level for longer periods of times than in the past. Because the undrained
residual strength of saturated disintegrated granite probably is very low, the
stability of the downstream slope of the saddle dam becomes questionable
particularly during an earthquake; but also if the saturation reaches the
downstream face without earthquake loading.
10.         It is important therefore to install a cut off in the disintegrated
granite from E1 1911 to crest of dam to prevent saturation of the downstream
shell. Preferably, this cuc <v-f should be at least 0.6 m thick and it should be
of self healing material in .ase it is sheared during an earthquake.
11.         The disintegrated granite forming the upstream shell of the saddle
dam unavoidably would become saturated during high reservoir. Although this
disintegrated granite is overlain by a 3 m thick layer of rockfill and filters,
a saturated upstream shell probably could fail during significant earthquake
loading, resulting in probable failure of the dam by overtopping.
12.         To stabilize the upstream shell under earthquake loading, an
additional shell of rockfill should be placed on the upstream face.
13.         Stability studies are required to determine the size of the
additional  rockfill  shell.    For  the  stability  studies,  the  strength
characteristics of the disintegrated granite as placed in the saddle dam are
required. The strength characteristics should be determined from triaxial tests
in which the specimens are first completely saturated by back pressure. In the
stability analysis for earthquake loading, advantage may be taken of the fact
that the upstream shell is anisotropically consolidated under static loading
conditions immediately prior to the earthquake loading. It is understood that
such proposed stability studies are being undertaken by Energoproekt soon.
14.         The existing piezoreters in the downstream shell of the dam as well
as the weir at the downstream toe should be maintained and monitored and
periodically analyzed for the life of the project.  If piezometers are not
presently available in the downstream shell of the dam on the right and left
abutments, they should be installed and monitored for the life of the project.
15.         If the piezometers indicate that material in the lower portion of the
downstream shell, and/or similar material in the foundations for the downstream
shell, becomes saturated, stability analyses of the downstream shell should be
made taking into account the lovwer strength of these materials under earthquake
loading.
Chaira DaR
A. Conclusions:
16.         The Chaira gravity dam (height 85, crest length 305 m) was built in
the 1985-1991 period, concrete was placed between 1986 - 1989. Works in the
vicinity of the dam are still not finished therefore, the reservoir (total
storage 5.6 Rio m9 / useful storage 4.4 Nio m3)was not filled up and the dam has
not been under operating load conditions.
17.         The design of the dam was performed in the early 1980, taking into
account only a low earthquake loading. However, as the area pertains to high
seismicity, the condition of 'Hazxum Credible Earthquake loading" had to be



-78 -                              Annex I
page 3 of 5
considered, which is also in line with the new Bulgarian Seismic Risk Code 1987
for "Critical Structure" with dam and its reservoir classified in Zone 1. Static
and recently dynamic analyses for the dam have been carried out by ENERGOPROEKT,
CENTRAL LABORATORY FOR SEISMIC NECHANICS AND EARTHQUAKE ENGINEERING (both in
Sofia) and by ELECTROWATT ENGINEERING AND CONSULTANTS (Zurich). The Maximum
Credible Earthquake for the dam site is characterized by a maximum ground
acceleration of 0.45g. The Panel is impressed by the high professional level of
the studies carried out and satisfied with the result for the dam safety
assessment.
18.         After study of the documents made available and detailed discussions
of the main results of the dynamic analysis, the Panels' opinion is, that the
existing dam is well designed for usual loading combinations during operation.
Nevertheless, and prior to the regular operation for the reservoir, it is
necessary to investigate thoroughly the dam behavior during the first filling and
first draw down, in order to find out if the design assumptions are in accordance
with the dam "as built". The uplift forces and leakage through the upstream face
of the dam merit particular attention.
19.         It must be mentioned that the aspect of the dam faces upstream and
downstream is unpleasant by the fact that the procedure for the placement of
precast panels was not carefully implemented. For the extreme condition of the
effects of the "Maximum Credlble Earthquake" cracking of the structure and its
foundation particularly on the upstream side, as well as in the crest area with
damages have to be expected. Nevertheless, the load resisting capacity of the
dam/foundation structure will be sufficient for the overall stability of the dam.
20.         The Chaira reservoir operation program, part of the Belmeken-Sestrimo
Hydroelectric system, provides generation 8.5 hrs and pumping 11.8 hours per day;
thus, the loading of dam and its foundation has a short cycling character i.e.
about 350 load cycles per annum, and 35,000 in 100 years. The maximum difference
between maximum and minimum operating water level is 29 m. For safety reasons,
the regular generation program as provided (daily loading cycle) should start
only after the interaction between dam and foundation can be considered as
stabilized.   For this purpose, during the initial stabilizing period, the
monitoring of the representative instruments in the dam (and reservoir) area is
absolutely necessary.
21.         The foundation of the gravity dam Was carried out on sound or
slightly weathered granite or granodiorite.  The state of the joint system
(frequency, predominant direction of joints, features of joint planes and
interstitial materials) does not show unusual aspects. Some faults or fracture
zones were recorded in the foundation area and normally treated (especially in
the contact area of block 3 and 4, left bank, and of block 9 and 10, right bank.
The Panel did not have the occasion to see the core samples of the rock drilling.
22.         To find out the properties of the ground, laboratory testing of rock
samples and some in-situ testing were carried out.   Based on the overall
information, the Panel got the impression that the foundation and the foundation
treatment of the dam was done as required.
23.         The water pressure test carried out along the perimeters of the
foundation has shown that after grouting in the bottom area of the valley, the
permeability WaS in the range of 1 Lugeon and on both banks not more than 3
Lugeon. These values are highly satisfactory.



_79 -                               MM  I
page 4 of 5
24.         The dam was built based on. a technology not applied so far in
Bulgaria named 'method of long blocks" together with a method of using reinforced
precast panels for left in place form work. The application of the precast panel
technology is satisfactory. At the occasion of the site visit, the Panel found
that many Joints between the panels were wide (some gaps of 5 to 10 cm) and
dislocated. Consequently, a certain segregation of the face concrete (Zone B,
see Figure 13) occurred. No more detailed information was available. The face
concrete should be repaired to avoid damage under the freeze thaw conditions
prevalent at the site.
25.         The mass concrete of the dam was placed in five zones, as shown in
Figure 3. The predominant amount of concrete occurs in the body of the dam and
has low cement content (150-230 kg/m9) and maximum content of large size
aggregates in order to reach acceptable thermal conditions for the concrete with
respect to the state of stress and strength. The Panel got overall information
on this issue, samples of cores of dam concrete were not available.
26.         The concrete was placed in layers of 0.5 to 1.0 m thickness and
systematically compacted with vibrators (Russian type). During construction,
water pressure tests in the monitoring boreholes indicated inadmissible seepage
between the existing drain pipes. Grouting and guniting measures were carried
out to insure the impermeability of the concrete on the upstream side. The
effectiveness of these mentioned additional measures will be one of the important
components to investigate during the first filling of the reservoir. It cannot
be excluded that further measures to make the upstream face technically
watertight may be necessary.
27.         For the Spillway Block 6, metal formwork were used on the downstream
side in order to get a normal channel-chute. The result was unsatisfactory, the
surface of the chute is irregular and showed many imperfection. The applied
resin layer should be removed and the imperfections eliminated.
28.         The dam observation system characterized by the measuring section for
the dam body, piezometers on the downstream side of the dam and a trigonometric
network. Type and number of instrument are satisfactory. Three seismographs are
provided but only one is installed.   The Panel recommends to complete this
important part of the observation system as soon as possible. With respect to
the leakage survey through the dam and its foundation, the discharge measurements
should be divided, one part for the left bank and another one for the right bank.
29.         The nature of the load cycles during the dam operation makes it
necessary to give particular attention to the slope stability in the reservoir.
30.         The concept of the provided observation and monitoring system does
not include an alarm system for the valley downstream of the dam. Taking into
account the general site conditions, the Panel agrees to this concept.
31.         The first impounding of the reservoir is a great importance for the
final assessment of the dam safety and for determining the potential need for
further additional measures.



- 80 -                             Anex I
page 5 of 5
B. Recoammendations:
32.         The first filling of the reservoir should start as early as possible;
the process has to be continuously controlled by monitoring the main instruments
of the observation system for an immediate assessment of the dam behavior
(inverted pendulum, extensometers, clinometers, uplift pressure measurement
piezomet6rs, leakage measurements). In case of au unusual increase of one of the
parameters, the filling has to be stopped immediately and the water level
reduced. The program should provLde three stages of impounding:
sun 1:      water level from the bottom of the valley up to El 1210; no
restriction for the increase of the water in time. When the
water level E1 1210 is reached, one week observation;
sum 2:      water level from El 1210 to El 1230.  Maximum daily increase
of the water level 2.0 m in accordance with measurements
(pendulums,   extensometers,   clinometers   and   leakage
measurements).
When the El 1230 is reached, one week observation and dam
safety inspection;
sum 3:      water level from El 1230 to E1 1260.  Maximum daily increase
of the water level 1.0 m in accordance with the required
measurements.
One week observation at water level El 1260 and safety
inspection.
33.         The first drawdown from the maximum to the minimum operation water
level, i.e. from E1 1260.00 m to El 1231.00 m need also to be continuously
controlled.
34.         Special dam safety inspections should be planned after start of the
filling of the reservoir, for detailed review of the monitoring data, and
additional safety measures (if necessary).
35.         To complete the existing monitoring system for the dam observation,
the additional seismographs should be installed without delay. Further, an
additional instrumentation for transmission of measurement data and computerized
processing should be installed.
36.         Further, in the large foundation gallery, the present panels upstream
in the bottom area (block 4, 5 and 6) should be eliminated to create three
strips, 3.0 m wide, in order to investigate the properties of the concrete as
placed.
a:\hm=-X



- 81 -                             AMU J
page 1 of 2
33kG  PROJECT
1.          The monitoring guidelines given below indicate the broad requirements
and supplement the Borrower's obligatlons according to the Laan Agreement. These
requlrements could be modified if circumstances so require.
2.         fGt=ral.  Records will be maintained given planned against actual
achievements, to be reviewed annually or at agreed intervals, for the following:
(a)   installed and derated generation capacity in KW for each of the
power stations and according to types (such as hydro, thermal);
(b)   energy capabillty ln GVh by station;
(c)   units generated in GWh by station;
(d)   statlon use in GWh by station;
(e)  purchases in GUh by sources;
(f)   sales in GWh to other utiliftes;
(g)   transmission and distribution losses;
(h)   planned and forced outages (by classification) in power stations,
and in transmission and distribution networks);
(i)   sales in GWh to consumers (by categories);
(j)   number of consumers (by categories);
(k) quality of supply to the consumers (number of interruptions,
durations classified according to causes and voltage conditions at
the consumer end);
(1)   annual system load duration curve;
(i)  plant and load factors and plant availability;
(n)   fuel consumption for each of the units in the power stations; and
(o) average sales tariff to customers by major category.



- 82 -                            Annx J
page 2 of 2
3.         Proiet Iplemntation. Records will be maintained, showing original
schedule against actual achievements and supplied to the Bank at agreed intervals
on the following aspects:
(a)  procurement action by bid  packages  (bid  specifications, bid
invitation, opening of bids, bid evraluation reports, award of
contracts and signing of contract documents);
(b)  physical progress according to project components and contracts
(highlighting critical activities);
(c)  actual project costs and expenditures (local and foreign) and
estimated remaining expenditure (local and foreign); projected on an
annual basis through project completion;
(d) disbursement schedule (for Bank loan and any other loans);
(e)  information on problems encountered during implementation (including
major mishaps);
aA,n:=t-J



-83 -                             Anne
page 1 of 3
BILUARIA
NEK's Capital Investment Progra
1.         NEK's capital investment program over the next four years is designed
to: (a) complete existing projects; and (b) maintain existing plant and
equipment.  It is a least-cost investment plan, in that all of the major
investments are justified on a least-cost basis, taking into account
environmental constraints. This capital investment program is, however, rather
small and is restricted by NEK's capacity to generate funds internally and
limited ability to borrow.
A. Maior Projects
2.         The main components of the investment program are: (a) completion of
Chaira units 1 to 4; (b) various investments at Kozloduy, primarily for the
completion and commissioning of unit 6; (c) completion of unit 8 at the Maritza
East II Power Plant, with a flue gas desulfurization unit; and (d) completion
and/or strengthening of the supervisory control and transmission network systems.
3.         C         Completion of units 1 and 2 at Chaira, estimated to cost
about US$15 million, will be funded by NEK. Completion of Chaira 3 and 4 would,
of course, be financed under the Bank loan at a cost of about US$40 million
excluding contingencies.  These units are important for reducing costs and
improving the stability of the system. Completion of these units is the least-
cost means of making these improvements. Most of the functions which will be
performed by the Chaira pumped storage could instead be performed by installing
combustion turbine generating units. These, however, would: (a) take longer to
install than the completion of Chaira; (b) require an investment of around
$335/kV versus an estimated investment of $92/kW to complete Chaira 3 and 4 (and
substantially less per kW for Chaira 1 and 2); and (c) cost far more to operate
than Chaira since they use expensive diesel fuel or natural gas and have
relatively high maintenance costs, while Chaira will use low-cost base load
plants, as a source of pumping power, possibly even nuclear power, and should
require little maintenance.
4.         RIzloduy. Major investments will continue at the Kozloduy nuclear
plant. These investments cover several areas. First, rehabilitation of the
older units 1 to 4 is ongoing with technical assistance provided by the CEC.
This rehabilitation is limited in scope and excludes major capital investments.
Second, additional work is still being done on unit 6, which is operating but not
yet officially commissioned. Third, NK in cooperation with Westinghouse is
installing a low level waste disposal facility at Kozloduy.  The company
estimates total investments in Kozloduy at about US$33 - US$34 million per year
for the next three to four years.
5.         The current investment program by INK does not include the major
investments in units 1 to 4 at Kozloduy which would be necessary to greatly
improve their safety. The EQE study of Kozloduy indicated that US$120 - US$150
million or about US$85/kW would be required to bring these units close to Western



-84 -                              Annex K
page 2 of 3
standards of safety. This cost figure may be low, but even if it were doubled,
the total investment would be low relative to the cost of replacement units.
Moreover, Kozloduy is a very low marginal cost electricity producer. However,
NEK in its current condition is unable to internally finance any such investments
and, would need to obtain outside financing for any major safety investments it
undertakes at Kozloduy.
6.          Maritza East.  Completion of unit 8 at the Maritza East II power
plant (210 NW) will cost around US$25 million. It is being financed by the EIB
and EBRD. However, these institutions will require that this generating unit
have flue gas desulfurization (FGD) which will cost around US$85 million in
addition. The Bank, the US Government, and the Bulgarian Government in the
Environmental Strategy Report argued that FGD units at Maritza East were not a
high environmental priority for Bulgaria since: (a) Maritza East was not an
environmental *hot spot" with highly unhealthy onvironmental conditions;
(b) while the ambient levels of SO2 at Naritza East were somewhat high, they were
significantly higher in several other parts of the country; and (c) the amount
of funds required for an FGD units was very large given Bulgaria's constrained
financial condition and need for environmental investment. However, in this
particular case unless the FGD unit were installed either: (a) there would be a
significant increase In S02 emissions (about 126,000 tonnes) as additional high
sulfur lignite was burned to fuel unit 8; or (b) lignite would be shifted from
one of the other units at Maritza East to unit 8, which would keep total SO2
emissions constant but severely damage the economics of unit 8, since the
incremental increase in electricity production as a result of unit 8 would be
small. A partial solution to this dilemma has been achieved with the CEC's Phare
aid program expected to provide a grant equivalent to about 401 of the cost of
the FGD unit. This FOD unit would in turn benefit the EC since a significant
fraction of the SO2 emissions from the Naritza East Power Complex end up in
Greece.
7.          In addition to the completion of unit 8 and the FGD unit, the
RBRD/EIB project would provide funds for the Maritza East II Power Plant to:
(a) improve coal handling facilities; (b) provide a new ash disposal pond; and
(c) provide technical assistance. Altogether, these other items amount to about
US$37 million spread over about four years.
8.          Supervisorv control and transmission network systems. This component
would be largely financed by the Bank under the Energy Loan.  It involves
completion of the supervisory control system, which has been under construction
for several years and strengthening of the transmission network. Total costs
would be about US$41.5 million, though NEK has already invested about US$35
million in the current unfinished supervisory control system.
B. Routine Renlacement and Maintenance Investments
9.          In addition to the major existing capital projects, NEK will need to
make routine capital investments for replacement and maintenance of existing
equipment. Under the old regime, most of these routine investments appear to
have been treated as costs. Following western accounting practice, a number of
the routine investments should be capitalized. It is estimated that the required



- 85 -                             Annex R
page 3 of 3
level of routine investments is at least US$40 million per year and possibly
significantly higher.
C. ProZosed New Prolects
10.         There are two areas in which NEK is likely to begin new projects in
the next three years. First, is additional work on the Kozloduy r&uclear plant.
The most important issue there is safety investments for the older reactors which
is discussed briefly in psra 5 above. In addition, improvements are needed on
the newer units (5 and 6), to augment their instrumentation and increase their
reliability. Also, there are a number of investments which may be needed for the
plant including high level waste storage and either simulators or access to
simulators for these units.
II.         The second major area of new investments is the rehabilitation  of
some of NIRK's existing fossil fuel fired generating capacity. The company has
4,730 KW of thermal capacity but a substantial part of this capacity is not
available at any given time either because the plants are in need of repair/
reLabilitation or because fuel for them is not available. NWI is azxious to
begin the rehabilitation of some of this capacity.  While NIK is somewhat
inclined to start rebabilitation with one of the power plants at the laritza East
Complex, it may be more economic to begin with the rehabilitation of the largest
fossil fuel fired power plant which is at the port of Varna. This latter plant
would also probably not require an FGD unit since it uses imported coal or
natural gas, depending on price, and low sulfur imported coal could be use rather
than higher sulfur imported coal from the Ukraine, which has been used in the
past.
12.         NIK is under considerable pressure to assist with the growing
unemployment problem in Bulgaria by launching two hydropower projects which will
require a lot of construction work and earth moving and generate a number of
jobs. These are the Sredna Vucha project and the Gorna Arda project. It is not
clear that these hydropower projects are part of a least-cost investment plan and
they should be evaluated as part of the social safety net.   If they are
undertaken, N1EK should be compensated for the difference between what they will
cost and the cost of the most economic alternative.
a:\uus-t



-86 -                              Annex L
page I of 6
BULGARIA
LOad Hn2M_nt with the Chaira Pumned Storage ProJOct
BULGARIA - WEEKLY LOAD CURVE
hEAR - 1991
,7------I111                          1111         T
8-                                 -           --~~y"   -m
4ft
0
a    20   40   10   90   100  120  140  ISO
TIME CHOUW
a FIRST WM IN JLY  +  WE IN OECSER
Yigure L.l
1.          Load Sanageont. The demand for electric power varies with the time
of day, the day of the week, the weather, and the season. An illustration of
this variation in Bulgarian system is shown in Figure L.1 for weeks in July and
December 1991. A number of methods existing for modifying these system load
patterns to more closely match electric energy use with supply, and these methods
fall under the general term load management. Load management is a means whereby
an electric utility can: (i) reduce the requiroment for additional generation,
transmission and distribution investments; (ii) shift full dependency from
lim ted to more abundant energy resources; and (iii) improve the efficiency of
the electric energy system. An illustration of how load management can decrease
the need for peaking capacity and increase utilization of more efficient base
load capacity is shown In Figure L.2. The solid curve starting at Cl in the



- 87 -                             AnnexL
page 2 of 6
upper diagram is a typical load duration curve (LDC) for a utility which i8
derived by taking the hourly loads and arranging them from the highest to the
lowest. Each point on the load duration curve is the number of hours that the
load equals or exceeds that load
value.    The  lower graph  is  a          QENERAllON PLANT SCREENINe CURVE
screening curve representation of
the levelized annual cost of
operating   various   types   of    L e  Geawaeion                   PM"
generating units.  Efficient base    A
load units generally have higher  D       a
capital costs, but the cost curves
have a flatter slope because of the
lower fuel costs per kWh generated,    c  r
intermediate and peaking units have    )                 O             N %
lower capital costs, but the total    T
cost curves rise wore rapidly as
hours of operation in^rease, since
fuel  costs  are higher.    At  a                       HOURS
certain  number   of  hours   of
operation,   the   cost   curves       FLgure L.2  LDC and generation plant
intersect, representing the trade-                  screentg cur"
off between capital and operating
costs.   This intersection points
can be projected onto the load duration curve to get an approximate idea of the
economic capacity of each type of generating unit. Figure L.2 a:so shows how
flattening the load duration curve (the crossed curve starting at C2) by moving
energy from hours of high demand to   urs of lower demand, changes the
intersection points of the screening curves. The net effect of this change is
to shift power demand away from peaking and intermediate units toward the more
efficient basic units.
2.         At this point, it is useful
to di.stb&guish between two different
concepts in load management: (a) demand                              Fw
management, and (b) supply management.
Demand management refers to techniques
which  impact directly  on  the  energy
consumption  patterns   of  individual  I    Cb    w.
consumers   (e.g.,   direct   control,                .1
voluntary   control,   customer   energy
storage); supply management refers to the           PM
use  of  utility-owned  facilities  to
improve the manner in which electric
energy is provided to the final consumer
(e.g.,  utility  storage  and  expanded   Figure L.3 Chaira pumped storage
interconnection).   The most attractive                 operation
supply-side energy storage concepts, such
as batteries, fuel cells and flywheels,
are technologically constrained.  The only major supply-side energy storage
device in commercial operation is pumped storage. The facility normally operates
by pumping water into the reservoir during periods of reduced system load (e.g.,
nights and weekend), when the incremental cost of energy is low. During peak-
load periods water is released from the reservoir to generate electricity, thus



- 88-                             AeL
page 3 of 6
replacing energy of higher incremental costs. However, pumped storage typically
uses about 25X more energy than it produces. The schematic presentation of the
Chaira pumped storage plant operation is given in Figure L.3.
3.         To determine whether any load management options actually result in
a net reduction in utility operating costs and capital investments, it is
necessary to calculate the cost savings, and compare them with the cost of the
load management system. The basic approach to calculating cost savings that
could result from reduced capital investments and lower operating expenses
related to changes in the load profile, is to compare the operating and capital
investment costs incurred by the utility over some planning horizon for: (a) base
case, in which the load is determined by present trends in electric energy use;
and (b) case in which energy production is modified by a load management system.
The logical steps performed in these studies include: (a) determining how the
load profile is modified by the given load management system; (b) determining
what utility capital investments will have to be made over the planning horizon
to assure reliable service for both the base and load management cases;
(c) calculating the utility operating expenses over the planning horizon to
service these loads; (d) comparing the operating costs and capital costs for the
base and load management case to estimate the cost advantages; and (e) comparing
the cost advantages with the cost of the load management system.
4.          Chaira as Dart of the Least-Cost Eoansion Plan. In order to carry
out the above analysis for Chaira, two different optimizations were obtained
using the WASP-III computer program. In the first optimization, the least-cost
solution was obtain without Chaira but allowing for new capacity. Operating
costs were higher and the first 52 KW addition to capacity is required in 2004.
Total capacity additions to 2010 are 1,670 NW. A second optimization was done
including Chaira. The load duration curves (LDC) for each month from 1994 to
2010 were modified in order to represent operation of the Chaira pumped storage
plant. All other assumptions and conatraints are the same as in the first run.
The new least-cost solution requires the addition of generation capacity of 1383
K1W by 2010 compared to 1670 KW required in the first case and also produces lower
total system cost than the previous solution.  The difference represents the
savings contributed by the Chaira pumped storage and shows that Chairs is part
of the least-cost solution. The difference is shown in Table L.2, which also
shows the rate of return on Chaira relative to the optimized case without Chaira.
5.         Energy used for pumping as well as energy generated by the Chaira
plant for each month in the period 1994-2010 is given in Table L.I. The energy
figures are a result of the peakVbase energy requirments as well as maintenance
requirements.  The benefit attributed to units Chaira 3 and 4 are only the
incremental benefits above units 1 and 2.
6.         The major assumptions used in developing the optimizations were
provided by NEK and are: (a) demand, and (b) generating unit availabilities and
costs. While NEK's demand estimates are higher than those contained in the
Energy Strategy Stuy in the early years, the two estimates of demand converge
after 2000 (see Annex C). Also, the results of the optimization studies are not
very sensitive to demand. Rather, they are sensitive to :he shape of the load
duration curve (i.e. peak demand compared to off -peak demand). Furthermore, this
difference between peak and off-peak demand in Bulgaria may become more
pronounced over time, as Bulgaria moves closer to western demand patterns, though



- 89 -                             Arnex
page 4 of 6
this was not taken into account in the optimization runs because no good
information on the speed or extent to which the LDC's would change, was
available. However, changes in the shape of the LDC would likely benefit Chaira.
7.          The other major assumptions provided by NEK are generating unit
availabilities and costs.   The key issue here is the assumption about the
availability of base load nuclear power. NEK's assumption of a slow phase out
of units 1-4 at Kozloduy was used. This assumption implies that the safety of
these units is improved. Even, however, if a more rapid phasing-out of these
units had been assumed, the economics of the Chaira, pumped storage project would
not be severely harmed because: (i) over half the nuclear capacity at Kozloduy
would still be operating-units S and 6; and (Ui) the other major source of base
load electricity, the three lignite fired Haritza East power plants, are also low
cost generators.
aA'Mn.t-L



CiAIRPINUed Scrap Projet
(Energi                                        UnII GWh
JANUAIW ~ESRUAWrMARCH   APRL    MAY        JUNE    JULY   AUGUST 0SENOEMBER D6TB   ANNUAEL EFITOTA
1064       70.4      ~~~~~70.1  70.6    71.5     70*      66.7     34.3    60.3        60.5     71A.40               70.2          wo____
- Pumped      106*2    104.6    106.5    106.4    106*2   105.6,   52.2    105*           105.9    106.5      106.2     106.1        1216.6
1005  eor          70A4      70.1     70.61   71.5      70*2    66.71   66.7    66.2          09.5     71A4       70.4      70*2          638*
-   Pumped  ~~105.2    1046     106.51   106.4    106*2   106.6    105.7    106*2       105.9    106ss      106.1     106.1         1270.1
196WO$  e         150,0     150.0    160.01   106.2    104.3     66.7     66.7    102.9      103.3    106.1      104.5     146.6         1359.4
Pumpead     20.0      202.8    206.4    157.7    157.4    106.6    106.7    155.9      156.0    157.0      157.3     205.6         1073.1
1997 Gai          150.0     150.0    150.0    106.0-   104.3     66.7     66.7    102.0      1032    106.1       104.5     146.          1389.1
- PuM         204.      202*    206A       167.7    167.4 .~105.0    106.7    165.9       156.0    157.0      157.3     205.6        1073
1996 Senor   150.0     150.0    160.0    106.2    104.3     66.71   68.7    102.0        103.     106.1      14960    1I.           1404A4
- Pumpe       204.0     202.8    200.4    167.71   157.4    105.61   105.7    155.0       156.     157.0      205.7     205.6        M02t.
106og  no         150.01    150.0    150.0    106.2    104.3     68.7    66.7    102.0       103.3    106.1      140.0     146.6         1404.5
-   Pumped   2~~04.0   202.6    206.4    157.7  .., 157.4    105.6    105.7    1565.9   166.9    157.9      205.7     2056A         2021.5 
*ooo Senor  ~160.0     150.0    150.0    151.5    104.3      66.7    66.7    102.9       103____  149.3      149.6     146.6        1402.9            %
Pumped    ~204.0   202.6    206.4    206.3    157A4    105.6    106.7    165.       166.0    206.5      205.7     205.6    2116.7
2001 Ger          150.0     150.0    150.0    151.5    104.3     66.7    66.7    102.9        103.3    146.,3    149.6      146.         1402.0
- Pumped       204.0 . 202.5    206.4    206.3    157.4    105.6    105.7    156.9        156.9    206.5      205.7     205.6         2116*
2002              150.0     150.0    150.0    151.5    104.3    1G2.1    66.7    102.9       10.       149.3     149.       140.6        1526.3
- Pumped      204.0     202.8    20.4    206.3    157.4    156.5    105.7    1656*        156.     206.5      205.7     205.6        2150.7
2003              150.0  1*.ii0    160.0    151.5    104.3    102.1       66.7    102.0      103.3    149.3      149.6      146.6        162.3
-   Pumped   2~~04.0   902.6    206.4    206.3    157.4    156.5    106.7    155.0     156.0    206.5       205.7     20.6.         2199.7
2004  enr         150.0     150.0    150.0    151.5    104.3    102.11   86.      102.91     103.3    :49.3      149.6     14.8.         15w20.
-   Pumped    ~~204.0  Z0ZO     206.4    206.3    157.4    15.6.    105.7    155.9       156.0    206.5     205.7      205.6        2169.7
2005 Goerwf       15.0 1.0 0S   15.           151.5    104.3    102.11   06.7    102.9       103.3    140.3      140.6     146.6         1520.
- Pumped      204.0     202.8    206.4    206.3    157.4    156.5 I 105.7    155.9        156.9    20.5       M0.7    *056           2160.7
2006 Gonerw       150.0    iI0.0    160.0    151.5    104.3    102.11   66.7    102.9        103.3    140*3      140*8    14.6           1620*
-     W       204.0     202.8    206.4    206.3    157.4    155.6 I 106.7    156.9        166.9    206.5      205.7     205.6        2160,7
2007 GeNer.       150.0     160.0    150.0    151.6    104.3    102.11   66.7    102.9,      103*3   149,3       149.6     140.8         152..3           lb. 
Pumpe       204.0     202.6    206.4    206.3    157.4    1565    105.7    155.0       168.0    206.6      205.7     206.6         2160.7     0D    F
200  Gne          150.0     160.0    160.0    151.5    104.3   102.1    60.1    102.9        103*      149.3     149.6      146.6        16567       10 
Pumped  204.0    ~202.6    206.4    205*3   157.4    15.6.    150.7    156.9      156.9    206.5     20.7       205.6        222.7 
2009  oe          150.0     150.0    150.0    151.6    104.3    102.1    99.1    102.0       103.3    140.3      149.6     146.6         1556.7      m
- Pumped      204.0     202.6    206.4    206.3    157.4    156.5    156.6    155.9       156.9 --206.5       205.7     20.6222.6                 aP
201  Sno          150.0     160.0    150.0    151.5    104.3    102.1     09.1    102.9       133      140.3     149*6    146*           1566.7
=   Pumped    ~~204.0  202.6    206.4    206.3    157.4    1566    156.6    155.0        5.       206.5     206.7     20661         2220.6



- 91 -
Table L. 2
Annex L
page 6 of 6
BULGARIA
Compaudsion of the System Expansion and operation
with and without
CHAIRA - pmped storage plant.
Dlfference
Of       Total      Net
Investment   Benefit  Investmant   Benefit   Benefit
Year     3 & 4                 Cost                        0.168080
US$ Miil.   US$ Mill.  US$ Mill.  US$ Mill.  US$ Mill.
1993        9.10         0 _                  0     -9.10
1994       29.90        0      -0 0    -29.90
1995        9.30         0     _              0     -9.30
1996     -            1.95        _        1.95      1.95
1997     -            2.54                 2.54      2.54
1998     -            3.25     -           3.25      3.25
1999     -            3.77     -           3.77      3.77
2000     -            5.64     -           5.64      5.64
2001     -            6.75     -           6.75      6.75
2002     -            9.13     -           9.13      9.13
2003     -            9.13     -           9.13      9.13
2004     -            9.13      30.79     39.92     39.92
2005     -            9.13     -30.78    -21.65    -21.65
2006     -            9.13      94.49    103.62    103.69
2007     -            9.13          0      9.13      9.13
2008     -            9.13     114.58    123.71    123.71
2009     -            9.13     -94.49    -85.36    -85.36
2010     -            9.13      51.57   6 60.70
__-*                               =



X  24           25.                 24.                   ,                 v       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 243
23             ~~~~24r2-                                 6                    27-
Danube River
J-\ ~~~~R O M A N I A 5 
To 1OIshckt6O   TO T-sunftareni
44~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T t         ff                    \       r sakcha,d
Wv~~~~~~~~~~~~~nv
BULGARIA
, U G   LENERGY PROJECT
,,,,,,,,,,  MAJOR ELECTRIC FACILITIES
4°'dlslw"'ELEVATIONS IN METERS:   bil HYDRO POWER STATIONS        - 750 kV TRANSMISSION LINES          -'---RVERS
dY = ~~~220                        []THERMAL POWER STATIONS       - 400kV TRANSMISSION LINES                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
oi 2~~~00                     *        110 kV - 750 kV SUBSTATIONS  - 220 kV TRANSMISSION LINES     -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
DECEBER 1992



