Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13907-EE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
MARCH 15, 1995
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
as of January 6, 1995
Currency Unit   =   Estonian Kroon (EEK)
DM  I   =   EEK 8 (fixed rate since 1992)
US $1   -   EEK 12.66
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton           =           1,000 kilograms = 2,205 pounds (Ibs)
I kilometer (km)                   1,000 meters (m) = 3,281 feet (ft)
I meter (m)                        3.281 feet (ft)
I centimeter (cm)                  10 millimeters (mm)
I millimeter (mm)                  0.1 centimeter (cm)
I cubic meter (m3)                 35.3 cubic feet (c ft)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAAP         Baltic Agricultural Run-off Action Program
BITS        Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support
BOD         Biological Oxygen Demand
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CED   =   County Environmental Departments
CEM   =   Country Economic Memorandum, published in an expanded form as:
"Estonia: The Transition to a Market Economy"
CPAR   =   Country Procurement Assessment Report
DM        Deutsch Mark
EAP   =   Environmental Action Program for Central and Eastern Europe
EBRD   =   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA   =   Environmental Impact Assessment
EMC         Environmental Management Component
EU (LIFE)  =   A financial instrument of the European Union to support Env. Policy
EU (PHARE)         European Union Assistance Program for Central and Eastern Europe
I-SU       Former Soviet Union
GDP   =   Gross Domestic Product
GOE   =   Government of Estonia
HELCOM    =   Baltic Marine Environment Protection Commission (Helsinki
Commission)
HWW          Haapsalu Water Works
ICR   =   Implementation Completion Report
IBRD   =   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank)
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        International Development Association
IMF   =   International Monetary Fund
IS   =   International Shopping
JCP   -   Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive Environmental Action Programme
LS        Local Shopping
MIS        Management Information System
MLW/ATT          Working Group on Coastal Lagoons and Wetlands Area Task Team
MOE         Ministry of Environment
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOH   =   Municipality of Haapsalu
PIP   =   Project Implementation Plan
PITF   =   Programme Implementation Task Force
PIU   =   Project Implementation Unit
PSC        Project Steering Committee
SOE        Statement of Expenditure
UN/ECE   =   United Nations Economic Council for Europe
WWF   =   World Wide Fund for Nature
WWIC   =   Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
ESTONIAN FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.    BACKGROUND
A.    Country Context ........................................... 1
B.    Sectoral Context ........................................... 2
C.    The Project Area .......................................... 6
D.    Bank Environment Strategy in Estonia, Past Experience and Rationale ... ...... 9
II.    THE PROJECT
A.  Project Origin and Formulation .12
B. Project Objectives .13
C.    Participation by Other Organizations in Project Activities .14
D.  Project Components and Description .15
E. Cost Estimates .16
F.  Project Financing Arrangements .17
G.    Procurement .............................  19
H.    Disbursements   ...........................................   21
1.    Environmental Aspects  ...........            .................. 22
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Organization and Management .............................. 24
B.    Project Implementation Agencies .............................  25
C.    Project Supervision ............................. 26
D.    Accounts and Audits ............................. 26
IV.   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF HWW
A.  Past Performance and Present Position .28
B.  Tariff Levels and Revenues .29
C. Billing and Collection .29
D. Accounting System .29
E. Financial Issues .30
F.  Future Financial Performance .30
G. Tariff Affordability .32
H. Financial Viability .32



V.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.     Project Benefits .......................................    33
B.  Project Risks ........................................ 35
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.     Agreements Reached During Negotiations .......          ................... 37
B.     Conditions of Effectiveness . .................................. 38
C.     Recommendation  .......................................   38
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.       Project Cost Sumrtmary by Project Component
Table 2.       Disbursement by Year
Table 2.1      Project Cost Summnary by Project Component
Table 2.2      Summarized Financing Plan
Table 2.3      Procurement Arrangements
Table 2.4      Disbursement by Year
Table 4.1      Expected Tariff Increases
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I        Project Implementation Plan
Annex 2        Action Plan
Annex 3        Terms of Reference
3A Twinning Arrangement
3B   Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
3C   Project Steering Committee
3D   Project Implementation Unit
Annex 4        Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -
Environmental Aspects
Annex 5        Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 6        Review of Affordability
MAP
IBRD Map of Estonia no. 26164
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal Mission in September-October 1994 and an Appraisal Mission
in January 1995. Members of the project preparation team included: Mr. Stephen F. Lintner (Task Manager),
Ms. Sari Soderstrom (Deputy Task Manager), Mr. Hans Bergman (Economist, Swedish Ministry of Environment),
Ms. Camilla Brown (Operations Analyst), Mr. Lars Eklund (Environmental Engineer, Swedish Environmental
Protection Agency), Ms. Emelie Enckell-Sarkola (Chemical Engineer, Finnish Ministry of Environment),
Mr. Anders Halldin (Senior Environmental Specialist), Mr. Frederick Hasselback (Financial Specialist), Mr. Martin
Hildebrants (Environmental Consultant), Mr. Kari Homanen (Regional Environmental Specialist), and Mr. Peteris
Zilgalvis (Regional Environmental Specialist). Ms. Katherin Golitzen (ENVLW) served as the editor for the
document. Technical assistance for preparation was provided by the World Bank, Governments of Finland and
Sweden, and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). Peer reviewers were Bernardo Gomez (ECIIN) and Carl
Gustaf Lundin (ENVLW). The Division Chief is Geoffrey Fox (EC4NR) and the Department Director is Basil
Kavalsky (EC4DR).



REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Estonia
Beneficiaries:      Haapsalu Water Works (HWW)
IBRD Loan Amount: US $2.0 million equivalent
Project Financing Plan:                                     Local  Foreign   Total
------- US $ million -------
IBRD, (loan)                           0.73    1.27    2.00
BITS, Sweden, (grant)                  0.02    1.58     1.60
Min. of Environment, Finland, (grant)  0.00    1.02     1.02
Min. of Environment, Denmark, (grant)   0.42    0.18    0.60
Swedish Env. Protection Agency, (grant)   0.23    0.10    0.33
EU (PHARE), (grant)                    0.20    0.10    0.30
Government of Estonia                  2.02    0.24    2.26
Municipality of Haapsalu               0.26    0.00    0.26
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    3.89    4.48    8.37
Terms:              Fifteen years including five years grace, at standard IBRD variable interest rate.
Onlending Terms:   Fourteen years, with four years grace, from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to
the Haapsalu Water Works (HWW) and Municipality of Haapsalu at IBRD
variable interest rate plus 1 percent. The onlending currency would be a single
foreign denomination chosen by the MOF.
Project
Objectives:         The proposed Project would: (a) strengthen the MOE's capacity to coordinate and
implement environmental project; (b) reduce discharge of partially treated or
untreated wastewater to the Baltic Sea; (c) restore and enhance the water quality
in Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays; (d) improve water supply and sanitation services
in Haapsalu; (e) improve the operational efficiency and management systems of
the Haapsalu Water Works (HWW); (f) promote management of point and non-
point source pollution from the catchment area of Matsalu Bay; and (g) promote
environmentally sustainable management and development of the Matsalu Bay
and its catchment area.



- jj -
Project
Description:         The proposed Project would be implemented over four years as an environmental
management project for the coastal area of western Estonia. It would consist of
a Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC) and an
Environmental Management Component (EMC). The WWIC would consist of:
(a) rehabilitation and expansion of the Haapsalu water and wastewater system,
including equipment and works along with engineering services; and
(b) institutional strengthening and training to assist in establishing an autonomous
and financially independent water and wastewater utility in Haapsalu. This would
include assistance for tariff restructuring/tariff planning and financial operations.
The EMC would consist of: (a) technical and financial support through the MOE
for the implementation of selected elements of the Management Plan for Matsalu
State Nature Reserve by coordinating and providing funding for identified
investments such as access roads, observation towers, information boards etc.;
(b) design and implementation of a program of cost-effective activities to reduce
point and non-point source pollution of Matsalu Bay from small settlements and
agriculture; and (c) support for planning and management of eco-tourism.
Project Benefits:    The benefits of the WWIC would include: (a) improvements in water quality
through reduction of leakages of wastewater into the groundwater and reduction
in discharges of untreated and partially treated wastewater, thereby improving
water quality in Haapsalu Bay, providing protection for the curative mud deposits
and allowing for recreational use of the waters; (b) reductions in operating costs
and maintenance requirements in the water and wastewater systems; and
(c) improvement in the quality and reliability of the services through
establishment of an autonomous water and wastewater utility. The benefits of the
EMC would include: (a) strengthened overall project coordination capacity in the
MOE; (b) support for MOE's efforts to decentralize project management and
implementation to local authorities; (c) expanded recreational use of beaches and
waters around Matsalu Bay through reducing pollution; (d) upgrading of
environmental management of the Matsalu State Nature Reserve; (e) provision
of a basis for a long-term program to control non-point sources of pollution
affecting Matsalu Bay; and (f) expanding the opportunities for environmentally
sound tourism in western Estonia.
Environmental
Aspects:            Implementation of the proposed Project would have positive environmental
benefits through: (a) reduction of untreated wastewater discharges to the Baltic
Sea; (b) amelioration of water quality in the town of Haapsalu; (c) pollution
reduction in the Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays; and (d) protection of Matsalu State
Nature Reserve through effective environmental management. The proposed
Project has been placed in environmental screening category "B". An
environmental review consistent with the provisions of the requirements of the
Estonian "Order on Carrying Out Environmental Impact Assessment" and the
provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01 "Environmental
Assessment" has been prepared for the WWIC. Supplemental environmental
reviews would be prepared as part of the detailed planning process for activities
supported under the EMC.



- iii -
Project Risks:       The main risks are: (a) the commitment and ability of the Haapsalu City Council
to support an independently managed water and wastewater utility which may
interfere, inter alia, with the commitment of the Haapsalu City Council to adjust
tariffs; and (b) possible resistance from local governments and private landowners
to recommended actions aimed at managing point and non-point source pollution
in the Matsalu Bay catchment. These risks would reduced by: (a) carefully
monitoring the requirements for tariff increases and providing significant
institutional development support to the utility to improve its financial
management  practices;  (b)  ensuring  appropriate  project management
arrangements are in place in a timely manner; and (c) incorporation of an active
local participation process in development and implementation of the proposed
management activities for Matsalu State Nature Reserve and the Matsalu Bay
catchment.



- iv -
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT*
exchange rate: US $1.00 = EEK   12.66
-------- US $ Million --------
Local    Foreign    Total
A. Water and Wastewater Inprovement Component (WWCI)
Project Implementation Unit                              0.18      0.43      0.61
Water Supply                                             0.18      0.23      0.42
Sewerage                                                 0.44      0.41      0.85
Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant                     0.56      1.75      2.31
Training & Technical Assistance (Twinning)               0.06      0.36      0.42
Base Cost for WWCI   1.43      3.17      4.60
B. Environmental Management Component
Matsalu State Nature Reserve                             0.25      0.14      0.39
Matsalu Catchment (exl. Lihula)                          0.30      0.18      0.48
Lihula                                                   0.20      0.38      0.58
Eco Tourism                                              0.08      0.02      0.09
Base Cost for EMC    0.83    0.72       1.55
Physical Contingencies   0.21    0.37      0.58
Price Contingencies   1.08    0.22      1.30
Value Added Tax   0.34               0.34
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                                  3.89      4.48      8.37
- Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up.
Table 2: DISBURSEMENT BY YEAR
(Fiscal Years)
1996     1992       1998      1999
Bank Fiscal Ye
Annual                                                      0.42     0.66      0.61       0.31
Cumulative                                                  0.42      1.08      1.69      2.00
Cumulative % Total                                         21%       54%       84%       100%



I. BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1           Estonia is a country with a population of about 1.6 million covering 45,200 km2 on the
eastern shore of the Baltic Sea. Ethnic Estonians make up approximately 62 percent of the population,
while ethnic Russians at 30 percent of the population, constitute the country's largest minority. During
the period of Soviet rule, Estonia had a strong economy based on relatively sophisticated industries and
agriculture, and enjoyed the highest standard of living among the republics of the former Soviet Union.
Since regaining independence in 1991, Estonia has initiated major political and economic reforms which
have brought it from a centrally planned to a transitional market economy. In this process, it is
experiencing adjustment shocks common to many economies in transition, characterized by a significant
decline in economic productivity and high inflation rates, with the gross domestic product
(GDP) declining sharply as a result of the collapse of trading relations with Russia and other former
Soviet Republics.
1.2           The Government of Estonia (GOE) has been pursuing economic reform and stabilization,
including price and trade liberalization. The liberalization of prices, begun in December 1989, marked
the first step in the country's formal macroeconomic stabilization program. Since then, Estonia has been
successful in containing monetary and fiscal deficits. Initially, prices increased sharply as the distorted
relative prices inherited from the Soviet system adjusted to world levels. Tight fiscal discipline helped
assure the success of the currency board scheme under which the new currency, the kroon, was
introduced in June 1992. The kroon is fully backed by foreign exchange and has remained pegged at
EEK 8 per DM since its introduction. The net international reserves increased 20 percent from 1993 to
1994. The annual inflation rate fell from 89 percent in 1993 to 41 percent in 1994'. The estimated per
capita income level in 1993 was US $3,040. Output started to recover in the second quarter of 1993, and
the Bank has projected 5 percent annual real GDP growth through the end of the decade.
1.3           The Bank's overall strategy in Estonia is to support the country's efforts to accelerate
structural reforms leading to a full transition to a market-based economy and, at the same time, to support
efficient investments in high priority sectors to facilitate the return to economic growth. To date the Bank
has provided the GOE with a Rehabilitation Loan of US $30 million in October 1992 (Report No. 3525-
EE), US $12 million in support of a Highway Maintenance Project in May 1994 (Report No. 3731-EE),
US $38.4 million for a District Heating Rehabilitation Project in May 1994 (Report No. 3740-EE), US
$10 million for a Financial Institutions Development Project in October 1994 (Report No. 3803-EE) and
US $18 million for a Health Project in January 1995 (Report No. 3835-EE). Implementation of these
projects is proceeding satisfactorily.
1.4          Infrastructure rehabilitation and development is considered one Estonia's priorities for
support. The recently completed Public Expenditure Review, jointly prepared by the GOE and the Bank,
highlighted the need to support investments in energy, transport and environmental services, including
improved water supply and wastewater treatment. The priority given to investments for environmental
services is justified by the need to improve the quality and reliability of drinking water and to address
the water quality problems and health risks created by the discharge of partially treated and untreated
wastewater to water courses and the marine environment. The proposed Project would support the
I      The Bank projects an annual inflation of: 20% - 1995, 12% - 1996, 8% - 1997, 6% - 1998.



improvement of water quality and wastewater services in the city of Haapsalu, and demonstrate the
application of a variety of environmental management methods to support environmenitally sound
development in the catchment area of Matsalu Bay.
B. Sectoral Context
1.5          Institutional Settings. The central environmental protection authority in Estonia is the
Ministry of Environment (MOE). It serves as the principal institution for the country's environmental
policy system, together with the Forest Board and the Fisheries Board. These three institutions form the
policy level of the system responsible for legislation, information systems, regulation, and control. The
implementation level for environmental monitoring and control work includes 19 County Environment
Departments (CEDs), the Institute of Hydrology and Meteorology, 4 regional laboratories, the Nature
Protection Inspectorate and the Sea Protection Inspectorate. The MOE is responsible for: (a) developing
environmental policy and strategy, legislation, and standards; (b) coordinating management of natural
resources and scientific research; (c) organizing environmental monitoring; and (d) carrying out
environmental impact assessments, of nationally significant projects. The Chief Inspector of the Nature
Protection Inspectorate is responsible for the enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, and
standards.
1.6           The CEDs, which represent Estonia's 14 counties and five of the larger municipalities,
are relatively independent of the MOE and are considered divisions of local government. T hey issue
permits, impose and collect pollution charges from factories, administer the local environmental budgets
accumulating from their share of such charges, receive emissions reports from industries under their
jurisdiction, and generally try to oversee progress toward environmental goals. The level of expertise
varies across CEDs, with those in the larger municipalities usually having a larger and better qualified
staff.
1.7           Legislative Framework. Environmental legislation in Estonia is still under developmlelnt.
The current transitional status is characterized by a combination of the administrative procedures,
legislation, and standards used when Estonia was part of the Soviet Union and some new provisions
stipulated by the GOE. The new Constitution of the Republic of Estonia contains a paragraph which
obligates each individual "to preserve human and natural environment and to compensate for damages
caused by him or her to the environment." Estonia's Basic Law on Nature and Environment Protection
was passed in 1990 and important laws and government regulations regarding hazardous waste, solid
waste, Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), and natural resource and pollution taxes have been
passed since then. EIA in Estonia is a licensed activity; to date approximately 100 individual experts and
firms have been licensed to perform various tasks associated with EIA. The MOE is responsible for
review of EIAs when proposed projects are of national significance, while CEDs are responsible for the
EIA of projects of local significance. Due to the relative inexperience and understaffing of CEDs, local
EIA is not being performed to the standards set forth in the government regulation on EIA. The MOE,
with the cooperation of the Stockholm Environmental Institute-Tallinn, is continuing work to improve the
quality of local EIA through improved access to information regarding EIA procedures and requirements.
1.8           Most of the environmental standards in use are based on the "Maximum Permissible
Concentrations" system developed in the former Soviet Union. The main problem with this system is that
there are too many standards (1300 for water quality alone), and many are considered excessively strict
and even unattainable; effective monitoring and control of all substances is thus impossible. The



government regulation "On the System of Charges and Taxes in Nature Management" (February
1990) established charges for the use of natural resources and set forth a schedule of fines levied for
violations of environmental legislation. The revenues collected from resource charges are channelled to
state and local budgets (the ratio paid to the state budget ranges from 30-80 percent of the total charge).
Taxes paid for excess pollution remain in the local budget. Regular pollution taxes are paid to the
Estonian Environmental Fund, created in 1983. Its mandate was revised in January 1994 to reflect the
recent legislative changes relating to pollution charges as a supplement to the state budget for financing
of national, regional and local environmental programs and measures. Half of the fees paid into the Fund
are channelled for national use, while the other half is retained in the fund of the district from which the
payment originated. The 1994 draft budget projects revenues to the Fund (including carryover from the
prior year) to equal EEK 19.2 million (about US $1.51 million), and expenditures to equal EEK 19.0
million (about US $1.50 million) for a surplus of EEK 200,000 (about US $15,000).
1.9          Estonia is a party to a number of international environmental conventions and treaties.
It has signed and ratified the "Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea
Area" (Helsinki Convention), which obligates it to undertake concrete actions to reduce marine pollution
from land based sources and to implement a wide range of recommendations on various environmental
matters which are developed by the Helsinki Commission (HELCOM) through a process of active input,
review and approval by the signatory parties to the Convention. In this context, Estonia has been an
active participant in many programs of HELCOM, including the Programme Implementation Task Force
(PITF) which is responsible for coordinating implementation of the Baltic Sea Joint Comprehensive
Environmental Action Programme (JCP) adopted in 1992. In addition, Estonia has signed and/or ratified
a number of international treaties, including the Ramsar, Gdansk, Bern, Bonn and Basel Conventions.
Estonia is also active in the Environmental Action Program for Central and Eastern Europe (EAP) and
the environmental working groups of the United Nations Economic Council for Europe (UN/ECE).
1.10         Country Environment Policy and Strategy. A new national environmental action plan based
on policy reform, institutional strengthening and investment is currently being prepared within the context
of the Environmental Action Program for Central and Eastern Europe with support from EU (PHARE).
The GOE has identified the following as being some of the most important measures to be taken
regarding policy reform: (a) incorporation of environmental considerations into the development of key
sectors such as industry, agriculture, transport, etc.; (b) continued development of the environmental
taxation system and the Estonian Environmental Fund for financing environmental measures;
(c) introduction of a framework for legislative and regulatory mechanisms; (d) promotion of public
awareness and participation in the environmental decision making process; and (e) decentralization of
environmnental and resource management responsibilities to municipal and local governments. As noted
at the "Public Expenditure Conference," the GOE has emphasized the importance of institution building
and strengthening as prerequisites for policy development and implementation, especially at the municipal
level. It has also requested Bank support for preparation of a "Public Environmental Awareness and
Education Program."
1.11         Sector Priorities. Environmental issues are a central concern for the GOE which takes
its international environmental commitments seriously. The GOE is committed to improving water
resource management in the country and has stated its clear intent to develop new and more effective
mechanisms for water pollution control. As was noted at the May 1994 "Public Expenditure Conference,"
an important element of Estonia's national environmental management strategy is the decentralization of
responsibilities for environmental management, with a greater emphasis being placed on the role of
municipal and local governments in this area. The GOE intends to give investment priority to



-4 -
environmental projects aimed at improving water supply and wastewater treatment. The ability of the
GOE to embark on major public infrastructure investments in the water sector is hampered, however, by
the current overall economic situation of the country, making it unlikely that the GOE can undertake such
investments without external funding support.
1 .12         Coastal Zone and Protected Areas. Estonia has protected areas covering approximately
7 percent of the total land area. These include 6 state-level reserves, 57 reserves of national significance,
78 reserves of local importance, and 232 landscape elements. The maintenance of these protected areas
is becoming increasingly complex due to the problems associated with restoring land to pre-1940 owners,
and the government's limited financial capacity to either compensate private owners for loss of land or
manage the areas itself.
1.13          Drainage of wetlands for agriculture and exploitation of timber from wet forests is also
a cause for concern due to the potential loss of habitat. Unless adequate control measures are adopted,
it is possible that wet forests may be drained further to accommodate additional timber harvesting. In
addition, the return of land to pre-1940 owners or their heirs may create pressure from small holders for
drainage programs to improve agricultural productivity and allow for small scale timber harvesting which
would result in a reduction of wetland areas.
1.14          Water and Wastewater Services. Water supply needs of domestic and industrial consumers
are primarily met by groundwater supplies in order to avoid using surface waters polluted by dewatering
of oil-shale mines, agricultural runoff, and the direct discharge of wastewaters from Estonia's major
urban areas into the Gulf of Finland, the eastern Baltic Sea, and the Gulf of Riga. Increased levels of
nitrogen and phosphorous in the raw water supply have made the provision of clean drinking water more
difficult and costly. In 1993, approximately 13.5 percent of the available drinking water in Estonia failed
to meet health standards. The Estonian authorities have increased the use of deep groundwater to
minimize the public health risk associated with contaminated surface and shallow groundwater. High
levels of bacteriological pollution resulting from discharge of raw sewage and industrial wastewaters into
coastal areas have forced the closure of many beaches, including recreationally important beaches near
Tallinn, Haapsalu, and Parnu.
1.15          Water consumption in Estonia has been decreasing over the past four years as a result of
the accompanying overall economic restructuring process. Total water extraction in Estonia in 1993 was
2.1 billion cubic meters, of which 1.8 billion were consumed. Approximately 80 percent of Estonia's
population is connected to the water supply system.
1.16          Estonia's sewerage system covers approximately 80-85 percent of the country's inhabitants
and industrial enterprises. However, many of the treatment plants in the system are in very poor condition
and offer little or no real treatment of wastewater. Almost all of the existing treatment plants require
modernization and rehabilitation. The total amount of wastewater discharged by domestic and industrial
consumers in 1993 was estimated at 2.1 billion cubic meters. Of the 393 million cubic meters of
wastewater requiring some type of treatment, 370 million cubic meters were treated, though just over half
of that amount received only mechanical treatment. As a result, much of Estonia's wastewater is
inadequately treated and in some cases, wastewaters are discharged without treatment.
1.17          User charges for water and sewage are set by individual water and wastewater enterprises,
but must be approved by their respective city councils. Although water and sewage tariffs have generally
risen, they are still inadequate to permit proper maintenance of infrastructure or investment in new assets.



- 5 -
In general, most water and wastewater enterprises have been covering their operating expenses, although
non-payment of tariffs, especially by industrial users, has, and continues to be, a serious problem for
most cities. Investment costs have been financed by transfers from the state budget.
1.18          In order to implement sound management practices, tariffs would need to be increased
by the majority of the country's water and wastewater utilities and collection performance would need
to be improved to cover not only operational and maintenance costs but capital costs as well. Strategies
for financing the replacement and rehabilitation of old equipment would have to be explored, along with
strategies for leakage reduction and improved tariff collection.
1.19          Privatization/Municipalization. Privatization of state-owned property in Estonia is
proceeding well with the government moving on several different tracks, but there remain difficult issues
to address. A number of enterprises have been privatized. The government has not recommended
privatization of the country's water and wastewater enterprises. However, the national government has
transferred the plants of the national state-owned water and wastewater administration "Eesti Vesi"
(Estonian Water) to the ownership of the respective municipalities as part of the process of
decentralization, enabling the municipalities to establish independent municipally-owned companies. Under
the Law on Local Government Arrangement (1993), the cities or town councils have the authority to
establish taxes and fees (including tariffs for water and wastewater) once responsibility for the enterprise
has been transferred. As water and wastewater enterprises are transferred to municipalities, outright
privatization of the enterprises, or the establishment of joint ventures or concessional agreements with
foreign investors regarding enterprise operation, is possible if the municipality so decides.
1.20          Tourism Development. Estonia's tourism sector has strong potential to attract visitors from
abroad. The Hanseatic city of Tallinn with its "Old Town" is currently the most popular tourist attraction,
but the university town of Tartu and the coastal spa towns of Parnu and Haapsalu have a long history of
attracting foreign tourists. Potential spots for eco-tourism include the Lahemaa National Park, the Matsalu
State Nature Reserve (a Ramsar Convention site), and the Estonian Islands Biosphere Reserve. The
coastline of Estonia has numerous bays, straits, and over 1,500 islets. There are more than 1,000 inland
lakes, large areas of forests, and wild game which has already attracted a number of hunting enthusiasts
from other countries. The large Baltic islands of Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, whose populations have
preserved their vernacular architecture and cultural traditions, could serve as an additional attraction.
1.21          Statistical data show that tourism has been declining since 1989 when approximately
650,000 tourists visited Estonia. In 1993, that number had decreased to 478,000. However, the
proportion of tourists from Western Europe has increased substantially. In 1993, approximately 80
percent of all foreign tourists came from Finland, 10 percent from Sweden, and 4 percent from Germany.
Approximately 80 percent of all foreign tourists stay in Estonia for less than one day; however, growing
numbers of visitors are going beyond Tallinn and making visits of up to one .veek. In 1993, the Estonian
Tourism Board began setting up a registry of accommodation service companies. The registry currently
contains 220 different hotels, holiday homes and other similar facilities. From an economic viewpoint,
the revitalization and diversification of tourism in the region is important for creation of employment and
income generation opportunities in rural settlements which have suffered serious economic dislocations
during the restructuring process. There is currently a shortage of tourist accommodations in Tallinn while
many hotels, spas, and other facilities in rural areas have trouble attracting visitors. It should be kept in
mind, however, that the tourism potential is connected to future environmental conditions, such as the
quality of the water of the Baltic Sea and the general aesthetic conditions of the region.



- 6 -
C. The Project Area
1.22          Overview. The Project area includes two scenic bays on the Baltic coast of western
Estonia: (a) Haapsalu Bay to the north which is dominated by the historic town of Haapsalu; and (b)
Matsalu Bay to the south, featuring Matsalu State Nature Reserve, a site of international significance for
migratory birds. These bays are fringed by the islands of Vormsi, Hiiumaa, and Saaremaa, which
together create a semi-enclosed area dominated by a variety of terrestrial and marine ecosystems suitable
for a range of conservation and recreational uses. In recognition of their regional importance, the JCP
identified actions to address the management of wastewater discharges from the Municipality of Haapsalu
and management of the ecologically critical Matsalu Bay among the top priority actions to be taken in
the context of the Baltic Sea Environment Program.
1.23          Haapsalu. The city of Haapsalu is located on the western coast of Estonia, lying on a long
and narrow peninsula that reaches into the sea and divides the Haapsalu Bay into the open Eeslaht and
the shallow Tagalaht. It occupies an area of approximately 11 km2 and has a population of about 14,000;
non-Estonians make up about 23 percent of the city's population. It is a scenic city dominated by a castle
and features extensive districts of historic wooden homes. The city has a major former Soviet air base,
but most of the Russian military personnel and their families have left and the air field is currently not
used. Haapsalu has no major industries, but has strong potential to reclaim and develop its historical
position as a major tourist resort, which was a summer spa of the Russian imperial family. In addition,
the marine environment of Haapsalu contains deposits of curative mud which has economic value, both
in the domestic market as well as for export. The mud is used for medical purposes in the treatment of
rheumatism and nerve diseases in arms and legs. The biologically active substances present in the mud
have also been used in veterinary medicine, cosmetics, and fertilizers. At present, mud is taken only from
one of two deposits closest to town. It is this deposit which stands to benefit most from improved
wastewater treatment. Eco-tourism could be developed in both Haapsalu Bay and the adjacent Matsalu
Bay, both of which have rich and diverse wildlife.
1.24          Haapsalu Water Works. The Haapsalu Water Works (HWW) serves about 2/3 of the
area's 14,000 residents and associated small industries. The ownership of the utility has just recently been
transferred from the national water and wastewater administration Eesti Vesi, to the Municipality of
Haapsalu (MOH). The MOH has formed HWW to a municipal enterprise in accordance with the Law
on Municipal Enterprises. The legal process was finalized February 10, 1995. HWW has characteristics
comrnon to many water and wastewater utilities in Central and Eastern Europe, including management
and administration. It has a small core staff of committed management who are seeking to change their
utility to make it function better and to gain greater access to resources for investment. The enterprise's
financial source are the tariffs collected for water and sewage services.
1.25          Water Supply and Levels of Service. Water supply services in Haapsalu are currently
acceptable both in delivery and in health standards. The reliability of the equipment in the pumping
stations, however, is questionable and the supply of spare parts erratic. It is necessary to replace almost
half the pumps each year, resulting in excessive maintenance costs. The large number of historic wooden
houses creates special water supply requirements for fire fighting services.
1.26          The water supply for Haapsalu is taken from groundwater sources via twelve wells
offering a total water supply of 9,600 m3/day. The length of Haapsalu's water network, together with that
of Uuemoisa, is 33 km. All larger buildings are connected to the network, but many private households
take water from one of the city's 52 street hydrants, or from shallow hand pump wells. Water



- 7 -
consumption in Haapsalu is currently about 3,500 m3/d (1.5 million m3/yr), down from about 6,000 m3/d
(2.2 million m3/yr) in 1990. The average household water consumption is estimated at 140 liter per
capita. While current water consumption is well within the total capacity of the water supply, the capacity
of the existing water reservoirs is too small to meet the requirements on flow equalization and water
supply during emergency situations.
1.27          Sanitation Facilities and Levels of Service. The length of the sewage system in Haapsalu
is 20 km, and in the adjacent settlements of Uuemoisa and Paalepa, 6 km. There are 13 pumping stations
in Haapsalu's sewage system and a treatment plant equipped to perform mechanical treatment. In
Uuemoisa there are 4 pumping stations. The existing network does not reach all of Haapsalu's residents
and industries. There are two outlets discharging untreated sewage directly into Haapsalu Bay and then
into the Baltic Sea. Total average wastewater flow to the treatment plant (calculated from measured water
consumption) is 5550 m3/d. In rainy periods, the flow to the treatment plant can reachl000 m3/hour. The
infiltration of groundwater into the concrete, ceramic, and asbestos-cement pipelines is substantial.
1.28          The existing wastewater treatment plant is in very poor condition and is in dire need of
reconstruction and rehabilitation. Some of the existing structures could be utilized in the new treatment
plant. Analyses of treated wastewater are performed once a month in the Eesti Vesi laboratory in Tallinn,
as the local laboratory is not in operation. Microbiological loading to the receiving waters is high, and
advisory notices warning against swimming have been posted at the beaches near the town. Treatment
results from existing facilities are well below "HELCOM Recommendations" for wastewater discharges.
1.29          Major areas of concern are: (a) due to discharge of wastewater, the marine environment
in the vicinity of Haapsalu Town is heavily eutrophied and swimming is forbidden; (b) results of
wastewater treatment do not meet "HELCOM Recommendations"; (c) the treatment plant and pumping
stations are in poor condition, and (d) drainage of the sludge composting area is erratic, allowing for
water accumulation during rainy periods and creating a risk of spillage into the Baltic Sea.
1.30          Matsalu Bay. Matsalu Bay lies approximately 20 km to the south of the city of Haapsalu
and drains a catchment of some 3,200 km2 which is mostly agricultural in nature. Only the two small
towns of Rapla and Lihula lie in the catchment, along with approximately 10 smaller settlements and
former state farms. However, due to the extensive area of the drainage basin, the total population
isaround 40,000. Matsalu Bay is included in the HELCOM list of "priority hot-spots" for Estonia,
because of its international and regional importance as a wetland and nature reserve.
1.31          The shoreline of Matsalu Bay is extremely intricate and there are over ten islets in the
bay itself. The diverse nature of the flora has resulted in the development of a unique variety of habitats,
especially for migrating and breeding birds. The area is important for international scientific research,
and is the center for the Estonian bird ringing program. The bay is one of the stopping areas on the Baltic
portion of the East African-European-Arctic flyway for migratory birds and is a critical part of a complex
system of coastal wildlife habitats which includes Lake Pape in Latvia and the Nemunas Delta in
Lithuania.
1.32          The Matsalu wetland is being negatively affected by drainage from the wet meadows of
the Kasari River, pollution from surrounding cattle farms, accelerating eutrophication from catchment
run-off, and by inadequately controlled sport fishing from motor boats. The main problem is organic
enrichment and eutrophication which results in the expansion of the area of reed beds in the bay
(approximately 60 hectares annually). This alters sedimentation and habitat distribution, thereby affecting



- 8 -
the use of the area by migrating birds and other species. The nutrient enrichment trend has abated
somewhat in recent years, as the rising costs of fertilizers has led to a decrease in their use. However,
the communal and agro-industrial point-source pollution from nearby Lihula and other area communities
continues to be a significant contributor to the nutrient load in the bay.
1.33          Protected Areas. The Matsalu State Nature Reserve was created in 1957 and covers an
area of approximately 48,000 hectares including part of Matsalu Bay and the Kasari River delta. The
nearest town, Lihula (population 1,900), is located three kilometers to the south. Due to its strategic
location along the East African-European-Arctic flyway, the Reserve was designated as a site of
international significance to migratory birds under the Ramsar Convention in 1976. Bird life, semi-natural
plant communities, flood plains, reed beds, coastal and wooded meadows are considered the Reserve's
chief environmental assets. Birds depend on both the vegetation and the waters for nesting, feeding,
resting and molting. Some 259 species of birds have been recorded at the Reserve, and millions of birds
are believed to migrate through the Reserve annually. In addition, 48 mammal species and 40 fish species
have been recorded in the Reserve. The wetland also has the potential to be a locally important economic
resource, as the reeds can be sold domestically for thatching or to the Nordic countries and Germany for
use as traditional roofing material. The present annual harvest is worth approximately EEK 500,000
(US$40,000 equivalent) and provides off-season employment to local farmers.
1.34          Effective management of the Matsalu Reserve faces several challenges. Maintenance of
the coastal meadows requires constant human intervention to prevent junipers and other opportunistic
species from invading and making the meadows less attractive to migrating birds. Pollution of the Kasari
River from agricultural runoff and insufficiently treated wastewaters degrades the quality of the bay's
waters and alters the natural habitats for a number of species. The resources available to the GOE for
maintenance of this important wetland, however, are limited. The Matsalu Nature Reserve Administration
is a state institution directly subordinate to the Ministry of Environment. In past years it employed up to
70 people, but budget cuts in the past few years have reduced the staff to 30 employees, including four
researchers and five rangers. The Administration's budget for 1994 is EEK 777,000 (about
US $61,000) including salaries, benefits, and capital investments.
1.35          A Management Plan for the Matsalu State Nature Reserve was completed in early 1994
by the staff of the Matsalu Reserve with support from the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). It was
subsequently reviewed and adopted by the MOE which administers the Reserve. The Plan presents an
initial Three Year Action Plan as part of a long term strategy for the conservation and management of
the area. It includes a description of the wetlands, their features and the threats posed to the Reserve.
Zones are defined for various management purposes, with related actions presented, prioritized, and
priced for the short- and long-term management of the area. The Plan notes the critical need to restore
and maintain traditional agricultural systems, which play an important role in habitat creation and
maintenance.
1.36          Tourism and the Demand for Tourism Facilities in the Project Area. The GOE in 1992
identified tourism as a priority branch of the nation's economy. An integral part of that strategy is the
development of tourism in the areas surrounding Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays. Haapsalu, with its unique
curative mud spas, has been an established health resort town since the early 19th century. Currently a
major part of the tourism can be attributed to the mud spas. The old part of Haapsalu is preserved as a
monument of historical urban architecture and is dominated by the grounds of a partly restored 13th
century castle. Over thirty local businesses have united in a new organization called "Haapsalu Tourism"



- 9 -
to facilitate the development of tourism, business and industry in Haapsalu town and Laane County. In
1994, an estimated 20,000 tourists visited Haapsalu.
1.37          Matsalu's international importance as a stopping point for migratory birds makes it an
attractive location for nature-related tourism. The Matsalu State Nature Reserve, with proper investments
and management, could become a major tourist attraction as well as an important source of revenue for
the GOE. Estimates for the annual number of visitors to the Reserve range from 1,000 to 5,000. While
the number of tourists from Estonia and other FSU countries has declined in recent years, the number
of Finnish and Swedish tourists has increased significantly and is expected to continue expanding
substantially in the future. The Reserve has the potential to attract bird watchers as well as sport
fishermen but its current infrastructure is insufficient to support a significant increase in visitors. Priority
actions to upgrade the accessibility and attractiveness of the Reserve include renovation of access roads,
upgrading of overnight accommodations, construction of bird-watching towers, installation of multi-
lingual informational signs, and improvement of information about the Reserve.
D. Bank Environment Strategy in Estonia, Past Experience and Rationale
1.38          Environment is one of the focal areas of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Estonia; hence, priority investments in the sector together with the project's intended support to the
decentralization process in the country makes it rank highly in the Bank's program in Estonia. These
activities should be consistent with the objectives and recommendations of the Environmental Action Plan
for Central and Eastern Europe, the JCP and national priorities as established by MOE in the "Public
Expenditure Review". The Bank strategy recognizes the need to support: (a) preventive measures to avoid
adverse environmental impacts, through the use of policy and regulatory measures, environmental
assessments, environmental planning methods and economic instruments; and (b) curative measures to
address existing problems of air, water and soil pollution in a cost effective manner. At the operational
level, the strategy is to support projects that have a high demonstration and replication value at the
national and regional level. The investment components should focus on the rehabilitation of critical
infrastructure and/or support well justified and phased expansion of facilities at priority locations,
complemented by support for institutional strengthening activities. The Bank also seeks to develop
projects which can provide the basis for the effective mobilization of resources from other international
financial institutions, bilateral donors and non-governmental sources and to build local institutional
capacity in promoting self-sufficiency in the future.
1.39          The support of the Bank for the proposed Project would provide an opportunity to assist
the Estonian Government in its efforts to improve the governments capacity to coordinate and manage
environmental projects, to improve national environmental quality, protect the Baltic Sea and demonstrate
environmental management techniques. In the absence of Bank involvement, it is unlikely that the country
would be able to mobilize the technical assistance and financial resources required to implement an
environmental project for this environmentally and economically important area of the country. The
Project would provide a mechanism for the Bank to test the feasibility of rapid preparation and
implementation of small projects for priority environmental investment activities in the FSU and Baltic
countries. It would also expand the range of Bank experience in supporting the planning and
implementation of eco-tourism related management activities and investments in protected areas, which
is a rapidly growing type of activity, given the increased emphasis on "environmentally sustainable
development. "



- 10 -
1.40          In the water and wastewater area the strategy for Central and Eastern Europe has been
integrated into the Bank's environmental program and presented by the Bank in a number of forums,
including the Workshop on Water and Wastewater Utilities held in Riga (1993) and the Resource
Mobilization Conference for the Baltic Sea Environment Program held in Gdansk (1993). The key
elements of the strategy are:
(a)    establishing strong water supply and wastewater utilities to support sustainable
investments in municipal water and wastewater treatment through the development of
autonomous self-financing municipal/regional public or private water and wastewater
utilities;
(b)    supporting least cost planning and investment selections for municipal/industrial water
supply and wastewater systems, which are properly sized and designed;
(c)    promoting water demand management to maximize investment resources and reduce
operating costs;
(d)    supporting actions for rehabilitation of existing systems, improvements in operational
efficiency, phasing and utilization of cost-effective technologies to reduce investment and
operating costs significantly; and
(e)    promoting the careful analysis of the impact of industries and taking into consideration
actions to reduce industrial water consumption and wastewater discharges.
1.41          Bank experience in the implementation of environmental management projects in Central
and Eastern Europe to date centers on the lessons learned from the US $27.3 million Environment
Management Project in Poland which is in its final year. This Project demonstrated the importance of:
(a)    establishing locally staffed project implementation units which have personnel well trained
in project supervision, financial management and competitive procurement procedures,
further supported with proper independent auditing; and
(b)    careful monitoring of the availability of local counterpart funds.
It also demonstrated the high potential of a well designed and managed project to attract donor support
for priority activities. These lessons have been considered in the design of the proposed Project.
1.42          Previous regional experience in environment projects is limited but accumulating. The
Liepaja Environment Project in Latvia and Klaipeda Environment Project in Lithuania were approved by
the Board in December 1994 and are now under implementation. Bank experience worldwide in the water
and wastewater sector is extensive, however. Important lessons learned include:
(a)   justifying investments in municipal wastewater treatment plants within the context of a
basin-wide, least-cost strategy for improving ambient water quality, in accordance with
a phased plan for water quality improvements;
(b)    making investment decisions that are guided by a medium-term, prioritized least-cost
investment plan covering all of a utility's needs. The definition of this investment



- 11 -
program requires the preparation of comprehensive master plans and feasibility studies;
and
(c)    validating investment decisions by careful financial plans (including financial projections),
complemented by institutional strengthening action plans, to ensure that the proposed
investment program is financially viable and that the utility is prepared to assume the
responsibility for effective management of systems and facilities.



II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Fornulation
2.1           In 1974, the countries of the Baltic Sea region signed the "Convention on the Protection
of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area" in Helsinki. This convention, commonly referred to
as the Helsinki Convention, was the first international regional seas agreement and created a framework
for regional environmental cooperation. To accelerate the rate of progress in improving national and
regional environmental conditions, the Prime Ministers of Sweden and Poland jointly hosted the "Baltic
Sea Environment Conference" held in September 1990, in Ronneby, Sweden with participation at the
Prime Ministerial level. The conference included senior level participation by the Bank and resulted in
the establishment of the Baltic Sea Environment Task Force, comprised of representatives of the riparian
states of the Baltic Sea drainage basin, European Commission and international financial institutions, with
selected technical organizations and nongovernmental organizations participating as observers. The Task
Force, working under HELCOM, based in Helsinki, and with significant participation from the Bank,
prepared the JCP. This program, which was adopted by the Ministers of Environment of the Baltic Sea
region in April 1992, identified a series of priority actions concerning policies and legislation, actions
for the control of point and non-point source pollution, measures for the management of coastal lagoons
and wetlands as well as institutional strengthening and human resources development to be undertaken
as elements of a long-term regional environmental program.
2.2           Haapsalu and Matsalu State Nature Reserve were ranked by the Task Force as a priority
"hot spot" and subsequently by Estonian authorities as a high priority for national and foreign investment
in environmental protection. This position has been taken repeatedly by the GOE in a variety of
international fora, most recently by the MOE at the May 1994 Bank-sponsored "Public Investment
Conference" held in Paris. The Task Force also identified the need to undertake actions for coastal zone
management and the conservation of coastal lagoons and wetlands as key elements of the long-term
program which provides for a synergetic impact to investments in wastewater management. Conducting
such activities in the Haapsalu and Matsalu regions has been strongly supported by the MOE, given its
interest in promoting the high ecological, tourism, and recreational values of the areas.
2.3           The proposed Project is intended by the MOE to serve as a "model project" to
demonstrate complementary actions for management of point source pollution from secondary cities, small
settlements and small enterprises, and non-point source pollution from agriculture and rural areas. A
principal reason for the selection of the immediately adjacent Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays as a project area
was to have a range of interventions concentrated in a small geographic region which would also have
significant short-term impact on areas of high ecological and touristic value. The strategy of the MOE
is to have the proposed Project provide a technical and management framework for an effective
application of funds from diverse sources to maximize environmental benefits. These benefits would be
reduced if funds were used at a variety of separate locations.
2.4           The proposed Project would be the first Bank-supported investment project for
improvement of environmental quality undertaken by the GOE. It was developed by the MOE with the
assistance of the Bank as a fully integrated regional environmental project for the most ecologically
sensitive area of western Estonia. This Project is considered a high priority in terms of domestic
environmental investments actions by the GOE and in the context of Estonian legal obligations to protect
the Baltic Sea. It supports the GOE's objectives to: promote the decentralization of responsibility for
environmental services to municipal governments; reduce the State's role in the economy by strengthening
local authorities; and to restructure and modernize the water and wastewater sector.



- 13 -
2.5          On the basis of a scries of visits made to various priority sites in Estonia by Bank staff
during preparation of the JCP and Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), the environmental
significance of the Haapsalu and Matsalu regions in a national and regional context was confirmed, the
general project feasibility reviewed and the commitment of the national and local governments to
undertake the proposed Project assessed. In the context of GOE and Bank discussions concerning follow-
up to the CEM and later to the CAS, the GOE assigned the MOE to serve as the lead agency for
coordination of the proposed Project. With Bank support, terms of reference for the required feasibility,
engineering, and environmental studies were prepared. The GOE subsequently obtained funding for
preparation of the feasibility study for water and wastewater improvements in Haapsalu from the
Government of Sweden. Following a competitive procurement process, the firms of SWECO (Sweden),
Bohlin & Stromberg AB (Sweden), and Eesti Projekt (Estonia) were retained to conduct the study.
Concurrently, personnel from MOE, local governments, Tallinn Technical University, the Swedish
Environmental Protection Agency, and the WWF, with support of Bank environment staff, reviewed
potential environmental management activities for the Matsalu Bay catchmnent and Matsalu State Nature
Reserve.
2.6          Preparation of the proposed Project included an identification mission in June 1994, a pre-
appraisal mission in September-October 1994, and an appraisal mission in January 1995. In addition a
number of field visits were made by Bank staff to review specific issues and to participate in the steering
committee meetings for oversight of the feasibility study. These visits have also included the participation
of representatives of the Swedish Ministry of Environment and BITS, the Finnish Ministry of
Environment, HELCOM and the WWF. Preparation of technical specification and draft bidding
documents for goods and works contracts was initiated after negotiations, so that bidding would be able
to commence on a timely basis. It is anticipated that some contracts would be ready for award by the time
of Loan Effectiveness.
B. Project Objectives
2.7          Project Objectives. The Project objectives would be monitored according to the project
monitoring indicators listed in the PIP. The Project would have the following main objectives:
*     strengthen the MOE's capacity to coordinate and implement environmental projects;
*     reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea;
*     restore and enhance the surface and groundwater quality in Haapsalu;
*     improve quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and sanitation services in
Haapsalu;
*     improve the operational efficiency and management system in the HWW;
*     promote management of point and non-point source pollution from the catchment area of
Matsalu Bay; and
*     promote environmentally sustainable management and development of ecologically unique
and sensitive areas around Matsalu Bay and adjacent coastal areas.



- 14 -
C. Participation by Other Organizations in Project Activities
2.8          The GOE would provide US $2.26 million equivalent and the MOH would provide
US $0.26 million equivalent for the financing of Project activities. The grant funds provided by donors
for both components are being made available to the MOE specifically to support a regional
environmental project which has been designed and would be supervised with the active support of the
Bank. It should be noted that Project preparation was coordinated by the MOE, with the support of the
Bank, with the direct participation of representatives of EU (PHARE), Finland, Sweden and WWF. The
Bank has actively supported the preparation of terms of reference which have been used by EU (PHARE)
and would be used by Denmark, Finland and Sweden. The following organizations are supporting the
implementation of the proposed Project:
(a)    The Swedish Board for Investment and Technical Support (BITS). The Government of
Sweden, through BITS has confirmed that it would provide a grant of SEK 12 million
(about US $1.6 million equivalent) to support investments for wastewater collection
improvements in Haapsalu. This funding is being provided in the context of Swedish
support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program;
(b)    Ministry of Environment of Finland. The Government of Finland, through its Ministry
of Environment, has confirmed that it would provide a grant of FIM 3.8 million (about
US $800,000 equivalent) to support improvements wastewater collection and treatment
in Haapsalu under the Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC).
Additional funding of US $220,000 equivalent would be provided to support investments
under the Environmental Management Component (EMC) in the rehabilitation and
upgrading of the wastewater treatment facilities at the small town of Lihula located
adjacent to Matsalu Bay. The funding for these activities is being provided in the context
of Finnish support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program;
(c)    Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The Government of Sweden, through the
Environmental Protection Agency, has indicated that it would provide a grant for
supporting implementation of the proposed Project through continued support for the joint
Estonian-Swedish Study of the Matsalu Catchment Area and for demonstration activities
for agricultural run-off management on the Matsalu catchment area. The estimated cost
of these activities is SEK 2.4 million (about US $330,000). This funding would be
provided in the context of Swedish support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program;
(d)    Ministry of Environment of Denmark. The Government of Denmark, through the Danish
Environmental Protection Agency, has indicated that it anticipates providing a grant of
up to DKK 3.6 million (about US $600,000 equivalent) to support demonstration of
ecological engineering techniques for the reduction of pollution from small settlements
and agro-industries and for implementation of selected management activities in the
Matsalu State Nature Reserve. This funding would be provided in the context of Danish
support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program;
(e)    European Union (EU PHARE) Baltic Sea Regional Program. The EU (PHARE) Program
has allocated ECU 250,000 (about US $300,000) to support implementation of the
approved management plan for the Matsalu State Nature Reserve. These funds are being
provided through a contract with WWF-Denmark; and



- 15 -
(f)    World Wide Fundfor Nature (WWF). The WWF has prepared, with support from Sweden
and its own resources, the management plan for the Matsalu State Nature Reserve in
cooperation with the MOE and staff of the reserve. The WWF would be responsible for
implementation of selected actions funded by the EU (LIFE), in cooperation with local
counterparts.
2.9          The EMC of the proposed Project would be implemented in coordination with the
implementation of the Rapla Element of the planned Small and Medium Municipalities Water and
Wastewater Project of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). Rapla is the
major point source of pollution on the upper Matsalu Bay catchment and wastewater treatment
improvements would be supported under the EBRD project. Coordination of the various donor activities
are outlined in Sections III and IV of the PIP.
D. Project Components and Description
2.10         Project Description. A Project Implementation Plan (PIP), providing details of the
proposed Project has been prepared (Annex 1). This section, therefore, provides only a summary
description of the Project objectives, components, costs, financing, implementation arrangements,
procurement, disbursement, environmental aspects and supervision. The proposed Project would be
implemented over four years as an environmental management project. The Project has two
complementary components:
(a)    Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC - US $6.25 million). This would
include:
*     rehabilitation and expansion of the Haapsalu water and wastewater system,
including equipment and works, engineering services, and measures to control
industrial discharges; and
a     training to support institutional strengthening to assist in establishing an
autonomous and financially independent water and wastewater utility in Haapsalu.
This would include a twinning arrangement that incorporates consultancy and
advisory services, training, equipment and software. During negotiations, it was
agreed that the twinning arrangement would be carried out with a reputable
foreign water supply and sewerage utility in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and agreed during negotiations. The twinning contract
should be effective by October 31, 1995 (para 6.3 (a)). Annex 3A presents the
draft terms of reference for the twinning arrangement.
(b)    Environmental Management Component (EMC - US $2.12 million). This would include:
*     support for the development, implementation, and monitoring of a series of
actions to reduce point and non-point sources of discharge to the Matsalu Bay
catchment area. This would include parallel measures to upgrade the wastewater
services at Lihula and other small settlements, and measures to reduce surface
and groundwater pollution from agricultural run-off;



- 16 -
*      technical and financial support for the implementation of a management plan for
the Matsalu State Nature Reserve prepared by a joint Estonian-WWF team,
focussing on improvements to make selected sites more readily accessible for
domestic and foreign visitors; and
*      support for planning and management of eco-tourism.
2.11            An Action Plan for the WWIC (Annex 2) prepared by the HWW  was discussed during
negotiations. The Action Plan states the HWW's operational, organizational, and financial goals in the
short- and medium-term and includes proposed additional steps for achieving Project objectives and
enabling efficient implementation of the WWIC. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the
Project would be carried out in accordance with the PIP and the Action Plan, with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank for each subcomponent (para 6.2 (a)).
E. Cost Estimates
2.12            The total cost of the Project is estimated to be US $8.37 million or EEK  106 million
equivalent, including contingencies and value added tax on the local expenses. The estimated cost
distributed among Project components is shown in Table 2.1 and in greater detail in Annex 1, Tables la
and lb.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary By Project Component*
exchange rate: US $1.00 = EEK 12.66
-------- EEK million ---- -------- US $ Million -   %  %
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Foreign Base Cost
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWCI)
Project Implementauion Unit                            2.29    5.45   7.74  0.18   0.43   0.61   70%      13%
Water Supply                                           2.33    2.94   5.27  0.18   0.23   0.42   56%      9%
Sewerage                                               5.58    5.19   10.78  0.44   0.41   0.85   48%     18%
Water and Wastewater Plant                             7.14   22.09  29.23  0.56   1.75   2.31   76%     50%
Training & Technical Assistance (Twinning)             0.76    4.49   5.25   0.06   0.36   0.42   86%     9%
Base Cost for WWCI 18.10  40.17  58.27  1.43   3.17   4.60   69%      100%
B. Environmental Management Component
Matsalu State Nature Reserve                           3.20    1.71   4.91   0.25   0.14   0.39   35%    25%
Matsalu Catchment (exl. Lihula)                        3.85    2.28   6.13   0.30   0.18   0.48   37%     31%
Lihula                                                 2.51    4.85   7.36   0.20   0.38   0.58   66%    38%
Eco Tourism                                            0.98    0.22   1.20  0.08   0.02   0.09   18%      6%
Base Cost for EMC  10.55   9.05   19.60  0.83   0.72   1.55  46%     100%
Physical Contingencies  2.64    4.65   7.29  0.21   0.37   0.58
Price Contingencies  13.69   2.78   16.47  1.08   0.22   1.30
Value Added Tax  4.33          4.33  0.34          0.34
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                               49.31   56.65  105.96 3.89   4.48   8.37   53%
*Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up.



- 17 -
2.13         The WWIC cost is estimated at about US $6.25 million or EEK 79 million equivalent,
including contingencies and local taxes. The total base cost is estimated at US $4.60 million. Physical
contingencies are estimated at US $0.4 million. Price contingencies2 would amount to approximately
US $0.9 million or 18 percent of base cost, plus physical contingencies. Total contingencies represent
28 percent of the base cost. Conservative contingency factors have been used given the limited experience
with construction cost estimates and prices in Estonia. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
about US $3.6 million including contingencies, or about 58 percent of the total cost of the WWIC. A
value added tax of 18 percent is applied to local costs.
2.14         The EMC cost is estimated at about US $2.1 million or EEK 27 million equivalent,
including contingencies. The total base cost is estimated at US $1.60 million. Physical contingencies are
estimated at US $0.16 million. Price contingencies would amount to approximately US $0.42 million or
24 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies.
F. Project Financing Arrangements
2.15         The proposed Bank Loan of US $2.0 million would finance about 24 percent of total
Project costs including contingencies. The Bank Loan would be repaid by the GOE over 15 years
including 5 years grace at the Bank's standard variable rate of interest. As it is desireable that the PIU
for the WWIC becomes operational as soon as possible, up to US $100,000 (or 5 percent) of elibible
expenses incurred for PIU activities starting from March 1, 1995 could be submitted for retroactive
financing.
2.16         WWIC. The proposed Bank Loan would finance about 32 percent of the WWIC including
contingencies.  Parallel grant cofinancing by the Governments of Sweden (US $1.60 million
equivalent) and Finland (US $0.80 equivalent) comprises about 38 percent of total component costs. Local
counterpart contribution of EEK 20 million or US $1.6 million equivalent would be provided by the GOE
and EEK 3.3 million or US $0.26 million equivalent would be provided by the MOH.
2.17         EMC. During project preparation it was anticipated that the GOE would seek funding
from the Bank for this component; however, financing has been obtained through grants from donor
organizations. Parallel grant cofinancing by the Government of Denmark (about US $600,000 equivalent);
the Government of Sweden, through the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (US $330,000); the
Government of Finland, through the Ministry of Environment (US $220,000); and EU (PHARE)
(US $300,000) would be provided. This would be complemented by GOE contributions of US $670,000.
Although the EMC will not be funded by the Bank's loan, this subcomponent remains an integral part
of the project because it builds up the capacity of the MOE to design and implement such project in the
future and cause it complements the WWIC by addressing other important point and non-point source
pollution in the catchment area. The GOE, cooperating donors and the Bank have agreed on the
desirability of viewing these two major subcomponents as a single package, and to manage and supervise
them accordingly.
2.18         The Project has been collaboratively designed with the direct participation of
representatives of the Governments of Finland and Sweden. Extensive discussions have been held
2     The Bank projects an annual inflation of: 20% - 1995, 12% - 1996, 8% - 1997, 6% - 1998.



- 18 -
concerning the respective responsibilities of the cofinancers in implementation of the Project. During
negotiations, the Borrower advised that the grants from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency,
the Ministries of Environment of Denmark and Finland, and the and EU (PHARE) would have become
effective by December 31, 1995, or that other adequate fuinds would be available from other sources.
(para 6.1 (a)). It also was agreed that a condition for Loan effectiveness would be that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the BITS and Government of Finland would have been fulfilled (para 6.5
(a)).
2.19          The summarized financing plan presented in Table 2.2 includes the proceeds of the Bank
Loan, local contribution and cofinancing. More detailed financing plans can be found in Tables 2 and 3
in Annex 1.
Table 2.2: Summarized Financing Plan
A. WWIC                       B. EMC
US $ Million                 US $ Million
Financrs                              LQcal    Foreign   ITt        Loa      Foreign    Total
IBRD Loan                              0.73      1.27      2.00
BITS, Sweden, (grant)                  0.02      1.58      1.60
Env. Protection Agency, Sweden, (grant)                             0.23      0.10      0.33
Ministry of Environment, Finland, (grant)        0.80      0.80     0.00      0.22      0.22
Ministry of Environment, Denmnark, (grant)                          0.42      0.18      0.60
EU (PHARE), (grant)                                                 0.20      0.10      0.30
Government of Estonia                  1.59                1.59     0.43      0.24      0.67
Municipality of Haapsalu               0.26               0.26
Total                                  2.60      3.65      6.25      1.28     0.84      2.12
Project Total                                                                           8.37
2.20          Onlending Arrangements. The GOE's MOF would provide the funds directly to HWW.
The Borrower advised the Bank that the subsidiary agreement would be established jointly with HWW
and MOH, as the MOH approves any tariff adjustments recommended by HWW. The funds would be
passed on with a management fee of 1 percent to be retained by the MOF. The onlending would be
denominated in a foreign currency, thus HWW would bear the foreign exchange risk.3
2.21         The GOE views this proposed Project as a priority environmental investment, therefore
it is willing to guarantee the Bank Loan and providing direct assistance to the municipal government for
implementation of the Project. It is anticipated that in the longer term, once the utility becomes fully
operational and financially autonomous, it would be able to raise its own funds for additional system
expansions and treatment plan upgrades. Current commercial market rates for long term lending are
greatly distorted in Estonia. HWW would, as a new entity, which is not fully autonomous in tariff setting,
need more time to become fully independent in order to be able to raise money for its investments on the
commercial market. Thus no displacement of market borrowing is occurring.
3     GOE would however bear the residual cross currency foreign exchange risk because of the multi-currency basket of
the Bank's loan.



- 19 -
2.22         The favorable onlending rate should be viewed as a means of supporting major deferred
investments in rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and critical major capital investments in modem
wastewater treatment facilities which would allow these companies to become capable of developing into
effective self-financing organizations. As a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan, a subsidiary loan
agreement would be executed between the GOE and HWW (para 6.5 (b)).
G. Procurement
2.23         During negotiations it was agreed that procurement wouldfollow the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits" (1992)4 and "Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency" (August 1981) (para 6.4 (a)). Procurement
for WWIC under parallel cofinancing arrangements (approximately US $2.40 million) would be carried
out through tied procurement in accordance with procurement regulations of the Governments of Finland
and Sweden. Procurement for the non-Bank financed components would be carried out in accordance with
procurement regulations of respective donors. Procurement for Bank financed activities would be
undertaken in the following manner:
(a)    All Bank-funded contracts which are estimated to cost more than US $200,000 equivalent
per contract would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The
Borrower would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and Erect
Contracts. Five contracts totalling approximately US $1.61 million for civil works and
larger equipment for water supply and waste water systems would be awarded under ICB;
(b)    Procedures for International Shopping (IS) and Local Shopping (LS) would be used for
procurement of smaller contracts up to US $200,000 and US $50,000 respectively
because the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible price advantages. It is expected
that some small components such as sewerage system reconstruction and laboratory
equipment would be procured through IS. LS procedures would be used for procurement
of office equipment. Contracts awarded under IS procedures (totalling approximately US
$200,000) would be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from three eligible countries in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts
awarded under LS procedures (totalling approximately US $30,000) would be based on
comparing price quotations from at least three local suppliers; and
(c)    Consultant Services would be requested for consultant support for the PIU (US $0.44
million). Potential candidates would be short listed and selected on a competitive basis
according to Bank Guidelines, and hiring would be on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.
4     New guidelines of January, 1995 are effective for loans for which Invitations to Negotiate have been signed after
March, 1995.



- 20 -
Table 2.3 gives a summary presentation of procurement arrangements. A detailed presentation of all
procurement arrangements can be found in Tables 4 and 5 in Annex 1.
Table 2.3: Procurement Arrangements
Total
Project Element                                 ICB        Other           N.B.F        Cost
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement
Component
Project Implementation Unit               0.74                        0.74
0  8 *                 0 48
Water Supply: Works and Goods   0.55                                       0.55
0~27                                    027
Sewerage: Works and Goods    1.05         0.15      **                 1.20
Wastewater Treatment Plant: Works                                 1.59        1.59
Wastewater Treatment Plant: Goods                0.05     ***    1.27         1.32
(1,5                       0Q5
Training & Technical Assistance (Twinning)                                0.50        0.50
B. Environmental Management Component                                       2.12        2.12
Sub total   1.61       0.94             5.48        8.03
Value Added Tax****    0.17         0.01             0.16        0.34
TOTAL                                           1.78       0.95             5.64        8.37
LU         0.68 32
underlined iiurnbers in italics  IBRD loan financed
N.B.F = Not Bank Financed
* Bank "Guidelines for Use of Consultants" (August 1981)
= US $ million     0.44
* Local Shopping = US $ million  0.03
** Internatioial Shopping = lJS $ million  0.15
Initerniaiionial Shopping = US $ million  0.05
total     0.68
**** VAT to he financed by local contribution



- 21 -
2.24         Relevant personnel from the MOE and the PIU would participate in procurement training
courses organized by the Bank. A regional procurement training course, provided by the Regional
Procurement Advisor has been tentatively scheduled for May 1995 in Lithuania in which it is anticipated
Estonian personnel would participate. The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out the
Bank's procurement procedures would be strengthened through ongoing training, the use of Standard
Bidding Documents, and provision of international procurement exptertise for the PIU, financed under
the proposed Loan.
2.25         Procurement Review. All ICB procurement packages would be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. All prior review items would cover 80 percent of the total amount of the Loan. Other loan-
funded activities would be subject to the Bank's post review during the supervision of the Project, in
accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.
2.26         Procurement Monitoring. Procurement data would be collected and recorded by the PIU
for: (a) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (b) comprehensive quarterly
reports to the Bank by the Borrower; and (c) revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.
H. Disbursements
2.27          Training in disbursement was provided in Riga, Latvia, by the Bank's disbursement
officer in January 1995. Disbursement advice is also available as needed from the Bank's Regional
Office in Riga.
2.28         The proposed Loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of four fiscal years (1996-
1999) with an estimated closing date in June 1999. Annual estimated disbursements are shown in Table
2.4. Descriptions of the Bank Loan proceeds and forecasts of expenditure and disbursements for the
proposed Project are shown in Annex 1, Table 6. The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 1,
Table 7.
Table 2.4: Disbursement By Calendar Year
US $ million
1996   1997   1998   1999
Bank Fiscal Year
Annual                              0.42   0.66   0.61   0.31
Cumulative                          0.42    1.08   1.69    2.0
Cumulative % Total                  21%    54%    84%   100%



- 22 -
2.29         The proceeds of the Bank Loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a)    For goods: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)    For works: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures; and
(c)    For consultancy services and training: 100 percent of expenditures
All cofinancers would manage their own disbursements.
2.30         Disbursement requests would be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the PIU.
2.31         Disbursement would be made against standard Bank documentation. The documentation
to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision missions and
verification by external audits. Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for expenditures
under contracts for goods and equipment valued at less than US $200,000 equivalent and contracts for
services valued at less than US $50,000 equivalent, where statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be
used. Applications for direct payment and special commitment may be submitted provided they are for
amounts equivalent to at least US $50,000. The Bank would not honor direct payment requests below
US $50,000.
2.32         To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
a major commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US $200,000 representing about four months
of average expenditures. At the request of the Borrower, and based on Project needs, the Bank would
make an initial deposit or deposits into the special account up to the amount of the authorized allocation.
Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of
.he amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment
would follow the standard Bank procedure. In addition, monthly bank statements of the special account
which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests. The terms and
conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special Account were agreed during negotiations
(para 6.1 (b)).
I. Environmental Aspects
2.33         Preparation of the proposed Project has included environrmental studies consistent with
the requirements of the Estonian "Order on Carrying Out Environmental Impact Assessment (Governrment
Regulation 13.11.92)" and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment." In accordance with these procedures, an environmental review has been prepared,
complying with the requirements for a category "B" project, for the WWIC. Implementation of the
WWIC would result in improvements in the water quality and ecological conditions in Haapsalu and
Matsalu Bays and the adjoining area of the Baltic Sea. The condition of the curative muds, which are
important to Haapsalu in terms of attracting visitors, would also be improved by the reduction in
pollution. The findings of the review, which have been used to support the design of the component, are
summarized in Annex 4. Attached as Annex 5 is the Bank's Environmental Data Sheet.



- 23 -
2.34         The EMC has also been placed in category "B." The benefits of the EMC would consist
of: (a) enhanced management and improved public access for the Matsalu State Nature Reserve;
(b) demonstration of planning and implementation for the catchment area of environmentally sustainable
management methods; and (c) greater opportunities for environmentally sound tourism in the Haapsalu
and Matsalu area. Environmental reviews will be prepared as elements of the studies and plans to ensure
that their objectives and small-scale works are environmentally acceptable. These environmental reviews
would be subject to evaluation by the MOE, its concerned County Environmental Department and Bank
environmental specialists.
2.35         The proposed Project would not involve involuntary resettlement and is not anticipated
to have an impact on known archaeological or historical sites in Haapsalu or the Matsalu Reserve.



III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1          Project Coordination. The GOE's MOE would provide overall coordination and
supervision of the Project, coordinate actions of funding organizations and local implementing agencies,
and manage interactions with the Bank. The MOE has appointed a Project Coordinator in the International
Relations Department to perform this task. This department has national responsibility for coordination
and supervision of all internationally supported environmental projects, either loan or grant financed,
including those supported by international financial institutions, the EU and a series of bilateral
cooperation agreements with foreign governments. In order to facilitate day-to-day implementation of the
Project, consistent with Estonian decentralization policies, the MOE would delegate most implementation
responsibilities for the WWIC to the HWW. For the coordination and management of the EMC, MOE
would be assisted by the HELCOM PITF Working Group on Coastal Lagoons and Wetlands Area Task
Team (MLW/ATT) established in 1994 for the Matsalu Bay area to initiate and coordinate at the local
level the implementation of the coastal lagoons and wetlands component of the JCP.
3.2          Project Steering Committee. To facilitate implementation of the proposed Project, the
MOE would formally extend the charter of the current Project Steering Committee (PSC) for the project
preparation to cover project implementation as well. It is anticipated that current members would be
retained for the benefit of continuity. PSC membership would include representatives of MOE, MOH,
HWW, Lihula Water Works, Matsalu State Nature Reserve, and Laane, and Rapla Counties. Draft terms
of reference for the PSC were agreed upon during negotiations (Annex 3C).
3.3          WWIC. HWW would be responsible for implementation of the water and wastewater
improvement component. The director of HWW would be responsible for supervision of all Project
supported activities concerning water and wastewater. To facilitate implementation of this component a
small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be established within HWW. The PIU would be assisted,
as required, by international consultants to support the preparation of technical specifications, bidding
documents, tendering, bid evaluation, contract awards, supervision of civil works and equipment
installation and follow-up activities. Draft terms of reference for the PIU were discussed during Appraisal
(see Annex 3D). That the PIU has been established with a manager, accountant, and bilingual secretary
would be a condition for Loan effectiveness (para 6.5 (c)).
3.4          EMC. This component would be implemented by the MOE, local authorities and WWF.
The coordination and supervision of the various sub-components would be carried out by the MOE, with
the assistance of the MLW/ATT. The ATT consists of representatives from the MOE, Matsalu State
Nature Reserve, the Laane County, the Rapla County, Tallinn Technical University, Estonian Fund for
Nature, and WWF. A Secretary was appointed to the ATT by the MOE in November 1994. The
implementation of this component would be carried out in accordance with a work plan and terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank.
3.5          Project implementation is anticipated to begin in June 1995 and would be carried out over
a four-year period. The estimated disbursement period is two years shorter than the Bank's average for
similar projects because of the Project's small size and limited scope. Bank experience with
implementation of environmental management and small-scale civil works projects are limited in Central
and Eastern Europe; however, given the small size of the proposed Project and assessment of Estonian



- 25 -
implementation capacity, a four-year implementation appears reasonable. A summary of implementation
responsibilities for the proposed Project is provided in Annex 1, Chart 2.
B. Project Implementation Agencies
3.6          Ministry of Environment. The MOE has a diverse range of responsibilities including
environmental protection and planning, natural resources management, parks and protected areas
management, scientific research, and environmental assessment. The MOE has adopted a decentralized
approach to environmental management and has an established network of County Environment
Departments which provide local level support for the implementation of its policies and programs.
3.7          The International Relations Department within the MOE is responsible for the preparation
of all internationally funded projects. This unit, along with the Nature Protection Department and Water
Department, has been directly involved in the preparation of the proposed Project, including the review
and approval of terms of reference, selection and supervision of consultants and review of their studies.
Based on previous Bank experience in working with the MOE in the context of the Baltic Sea
Environment Program and on Project preparation to date, it is anticipated that the staff of both
departments would be capable of successfully supervise the proposed Project.
3.8          Haapsalu Water Works. The MOE has appointed the HWW to undertake implementation
of the WWIC. This approach is fully consistent with the policy of the MOE to support the
decentralization of environmental management responsibilities to local municipalities and to have those
parties which would be responsible for operation and maintenance of facilities take an active role in their
design and construction.
3.9          The HWW is now owned by the Haapsalu local government in accordance with the Law
on Local Government Arrangement (1993). The legal process of forming a municipal enterprise was
completed in February 1995. The HWW is managed by a director who has been appointed by the MOH.
In addition, an advisory board, consisting of members from the City Council, representatives from the
private sector and the community, is expected to be formed shortly. The utility will be financially
independent, having its own bank accounts. The authority to approve the budgets for operation and
maintenance and investments as well as tariffs charged by HWW has been delegated to the MOH by the
City Council. The MOH would therefore sign the GOE's subsidiary loan agreement jointly with HWW.
3.10         The HWW employs 44 staff, corresponding to about 3.5 employees for 1,000 customers.
This is about 3 times more than in western Europe on average. Most of the staff work with the pumping
stations and perform maintenance service. There is also a financial manager, a bookkeeper, a secretary,
and personnel for consumer related tasks.
3.11         Area Task Team. The role of the ATT is to provide an effective framework for the
coordination of the activities of various local and foreign parties which are participating in implementation
of EMC activities in Matsalu Bay area. The ATT has been holding meetings on a regular basis which
have been well attended. These meetings have been used to define priority issues and design management
actions. Key participants in the ATT include: (a) MOW; (b) Matsalu State Nature Reserve which is
responsible for implementation of all management activities within the Reserve; (c) Tallinn Technical
University, working in cooperation with the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which is
providing specialized technical support for a wide range of activities in the catchment area;



- 26 -
(d) cooperating local governments in the Project area; and (e) WWF, which is working with the Reserve
on implementation of the approved management plan.
C. Project Supervision
3.12         The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank staff in accordance with a proposed
supervision plan summarized in Annex 1, Chart 3. Representatives from MOE and the donors (BITS and
the Finnish Ministry of Environment) have informed the Bank that they would participate in supervision
missions. Staff from WWF are also expected to participate in selected missions.
3.13          Supervision of the proposed Project would be particularly intense during the first two
years when considerable input would be required for: (a) engineering and procurement aspects of the
water and wastewater improvement component; and (b) preparation and initial implementation of activities
under the environmental management component.
3.14          A mid-term review would be conducted around April 1997 to evaluate overall Project
progress including progress towards the goal of achieving HWW's financial autonomy, and to assess the
development and implementation of an amended tariff structure (see terms of reference, Annex 3B).
During the mid-term review, adjustments would be made in the implementation schedule, if deemed
necessary, to improve HWW's management capacity, and review the long-term tariff rates based on the
findings of the tariff study.
3.15          The MOE seeks to obtain hands-on training of its staff through the supervision process
and to strengthen its ability to plan and coordinate multi-donor funded environment projects. At the
request of the MOE, it is planned that Project supported training activities would be open to personnel
from other locations in Estonia to support the dissemination of knowledge and to prepare them for
participation in other priority environment projects. In this regard special emphasis would be given to
training of Estonian personnel in competitive procurement procedures for consultant services, construction
contracts and equipment. Benefits would also accrue through training in construction supervision to
improve the quality of civil works and equipment installation, thus avoiding many types of operational
problems.
D. Accounts and Audits
3.16         It was agreed during negotiations that the Project Accounts and the Special Account for
the WWIC would be audited in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank' (March 1982). It was also agreed that HWW would
have its records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited by independent autditors
acceptable to the Bank and that such audits and copies of itsfinancial statements would be furnished to
the Bank, no later than six months after the end of each fiscal years (para 6.4 (b)). The audit reports
would contain separate opinions on: (a) compliance by implementing agencies with all financial covenants
under the Bank Loan; (b) the statements of expenditure; and (c) the special account. It is expected that
a local branch of a private, international, commercial auditor, in association with a local auditing firm
if available, would carry out the audits, and this arrangement is considered acceptable. For the EMC,
each respective donor would be responsible for the audit of its accounts.



- 27 -
3.17          The Project Coordinator, with the support of the manager of the PIU and the ATT
Secretary for EMC activities, would coordinate the preparation of semi-annual descriptive and financial
reports on each Project component, objective, and activity (beginning from the date of Loan
Effectiveness). The Borrower and HWW advised the Bank that they would submit semi-annual reports
(by March 15 and September 15) to the Bank, concerning the progress of project implementation during
the preceding semester ending December 31 and June 30, respectively.  It was also agreed that
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the whole Project would be carried out
according to Bank Guidelines.
3.18         Project monitoring indicators were agreed upon during negotiations. These would be
continuously monitored and would form the basis of the evolving sector dialogue (Section IV of the PIP
(Annex 1).



IV. MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF HWW
A. Past Performance and Present Position
4.1           Overview. HWW was established as a municipally owned water and wastewater enterprise
in February, 1995 as a part of GOE's broad strategy to decentralize muncipal services. In order to
become a financially autonomous municipal enterprise, HWW  needs to improve its technology and
financial management through undertaking complementary investment and institutional strengthening
activities.
4.2           Central to its approach of institutional strengthening is development of a formal "twinning
arrangement" on a contractual basis with an experienced water and wastewater utility under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. This twinning arrangement, funded under the Project, would provide
support for: utility management; monitoring and use of laboratory data; system investment planning;
rehabilitation program design; construction supervision; operation and maintenance; tariff setting; billing
and collection; accounting and auditing; human resources development and public information programs
(see Annex 3A for the draft terms of reference). The Bank supports alternatives approaches as long as
the institutional objectives of the Project are achievable. During negotiations, it was agreed that HWWW
shall not contract management functions to third parties, unless appropriate competitive procedures
agreed with the Bank have been followed (para 6.3 (b)).
4.3           Past Performance. Analysis of HWW's financial statements for the years 1991-1993
shows that the tariff levels were so low in 1991 that the state intervened with subvention of operating
expenses; in 1992, tariff levels were increased to a level sufficient enough to cover its cash operating
costs and to a small extent a provision for planned maintenance. In 1993, tariffs were increased but not
to a level sufficient enough to cover inflation; the utility consequently experienced a deficit. Had the
accounts properly accounted for charges for other non-cash items, including a provision for bad and
doubtful debts, and proper asset depreciation reflecting replacement costs revaluation, deficits would have
been reported for the whole 1991-1993 period. Preliminary 1994 numbers show HWW made minimal
profits, though again with an undervalued depreciation. HWW's financial performance for the 1991-1993
period is summarized in Table 9, Annex 1.
4.4           Historically, GOE has provided financing for all of HWW's capital investment program.
Consequently, the enterprise has no long term external debt. Most of the short term debt, reflected largely
in accounts payable, is money owed for electricity supply, natural resource taxes, and pollution taxes.
Toward the end of 1993 and in early 1994, the financial viability of HWW was hampered by the the
transfer of state residential, commercial and industrial properties to the private sector, which has
neglected outstanding liabilities of previous owners who failed to pay their bills. Additionally, industries
in Haapsalu have experienced financial downturns and consequently regard payment of water bills to be
low priority.
4.5           HWW's inability during the past three years to adjust tariffs in a timely manner to
compensate for inflation, to make proper provisions for future investment and maintenance needs, and
to compensate for increasing non-payment by consumers has deprived the utility of cash to run its day-to-
day operations, let alone provide for future investments.



- 29 -
B. Tariff Levels and Revenues
4.6           Water tariffs are currently inadequate to cover full operating and depreciation costs.
Despite several tariff increases in the last few years, increases have not, since 1992, kept pace with the
high and erratic periods of inflation and thus have failed to adjust properly to real cost increases. In
September 1994, the City Council agreed to a combined tariff increase for water to 2.10 kr/rn3 and
wastewater to 4.40 kr/rn3, which still does not cover full operating and depreciation costs. The tariff
structure does not include standing charges (only a symbolic connection fee is said to be charged) nor
incremental charges for higher levels of consumption. All tariffs are either of a simple volumetric form
or, as is the case for industrial discharges, of a weighted volumetric form. Industrial customers are
metered, as are approximately 95 percent of domestic customers. Wastewater tariffs are generally applied
on the basis of consumed (metered or estimated) water, rather than accurate sewerage metering. The only
exceptions are those for large industrial customers which use considerable volumes of water in the
production process, for which a revised "return rate" is agreed, or for those who possess their own water
supply, in which case the private supply is metered and a "reduced" charge calculated. In the institutional
strengthening component, consisting of the twinning arrangement, assistance for tariff planning and
financial operations would be provided based on the results of the tariff study (see TOR, Annex 3B).
4.7          During negotiations, it was agreed that: (a) a tariff study would be carried out by March
31, 1996 under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (b) HWW would achieve the tariff level
recommended by the study by June 30, 1996; and (c) tariffs would be increased by 19% in real terms by
the end of calendar year 1995 (para 6.3 (c)).
C. Billing and Collection
4.8           HWW's billing and collection procedures are only partly computerized; consumers are
divided into: (a) residential customers; and (b) industrial consumers (including schools, hospitals, offices
and shops). At present, residential and industrial customers pay the same tariff. HWW formerly
differentiated between households and industry for wastewater fees. Since 1994, however, the base fee
is the same for both kinds of users.
4.9           The collection process is administratively burdensome but has so far been adequate given
that the debt ratio does not exceed 10 percent of average total revenues. This only corresponds to about
a month's payment. The amount of average yearly debts have increased at the same rate as Estonia's
internal inflation. Good collection history has been encouraged by HWW's policy of turning off the water
from non-paying consumers. At the end of 1993, however, industrial consumer debt had increased,
attributed largely to bankruptcy amongst companies, while the households fulfilled their payment
obligations relatively better.
D. Accounting System
4.10          HWW  has overhauled its former command accounting system to an internationally
recognized accrual accounting system. However, there remain a number of accounting procedural
deficiencies, including fixed asset revaluation procedures, proper general ledger preparations, and other
account transactions. Additionally, the computerized system requires upgrading. The required support to
improve the financial management of HWW would be provided under the twinning arrangement. To



- 30 -
facilitate improved control of HWW's finances, the Project proposes to support the implementation of
an automated accounting system linked to various Management Information System (MIS).
E. Financial Issues
4.11         Accounts Receivable. HWW's accounts receivable as a percentage of gross revenue
improved significantly from 1993 to 1994, decreasing from 13.8 percent to 7.4 percent respectively,
However, HWW does not maintain comprehensive information on accounts receivable. Under the Action
Plan, it was agreed at negotiations that HWW by January 1, 1996, would: (a) produce a comprehensive
statement of accounts receivable by consumer category and age; (b) implement a program for the effective
recovery of outstanding accounts; and (c) include a provision in the income statement for non-performing
receivables (para 6.3 (d)).
4.12          Debt. The proposed financing plan for HWW  would yield a debt-equity ratio which
averages approximately 30 percent during the Project lifetime and never exceeds 50 percent.
Consequently, HWW would not be in an over-leveraged position during the life of the Project. To insure
financial stability, agreement was reached during negotiations that the utility, during the Project
implementation period, not incur any debt, unless its net cash generated5 for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such incurrence (orfor a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever is the greater amount) shall be at least 1.5 times the total estimated debt service requirements
for any succeedingfiscal year including the debt to be incurred (para 6.3 (e)). The preceding assurances,
together with the financial covenant proposed in para. 4.16, should ensure that HWW would have
sufficient funds to meet annual investment requirements. As an added insurance to H!WW's liquid position,
it was agreed during negotiations that no dividends would be distributed until June 30, 1999 (para 6.3
.t9)
4.13         Asset Revaluations. HWW's historical statements are not readily comparable with present
financial performance, and despite a major asset revaluation in December 1992 and tariff increases,
proper charges for depreciation are not made against revenue. This emphasizes the need, particularly in
periods of high or erratic inflation, for regular adjustments to tariff and asset values to ensure proper
funding for asset replacement. Additionally, it is desirable that a more comprehensive asset revaluation
be carried out to provide an acceptable estimate of HWW's assets, based on current replacement costs
and their physical condition. Given that a proper asset revaluation is an expensive exercise and likely to
take time HWW could revalue its assets based on a limited physical inventory used to assess replacement
value. The entire inventory would consequently be adjusted accordingly. This revaluation exercise is
included in the termns of reference for the tariff study.
F. Future Financial Performance
4.14          The projections show that the water and sewerage operations will be financially
sustaining, provided: (a) the revenue projections are fulfilled; (b) water and sewerage tariffs are
periodically adjusted to maintain the objective of full debt service cost recovery; (c) accounts receivable
are sustained (payments outstanding are at an acceptable level of under 1 month); (d) adequate levels of
5      Net cash generated equals net cash flow minus Bank debt service.



- 31 -
sustained maintenance are provided; and (e) the reorganization, training, and technical assistance
proposals are implemented to promote operating efficiency and cost reductions. The projections show that
with the prescribed tariff adjustments presented above, the utility would generate sufficient funds to cover
the debt service obligations (it exceeds 1.5 from year 1994 through 2005). Financial projections for the
water supply and sewerage system are presented in Appendix 1 of Annex 1.
4.15          Projections of HWW's financial performance assume that its future, outstanding long term
debt obligation is only that owed to the Bank in an amount totalling US$ 2.0 million. This requires tariff
adjustments over the 1995-1999 period, as presented in Table 4.1 below, that are structured to allow the
utility to achieve a cash flow level adequate enough to:
-      service debt obligations at a cash flow generation level which does not allow the
debt service coverage ratio to fall below 1.5 each year;
-      achieve a working ratio6 of 50 percent or below;
-      achieve an operating ratio7 below 85 percent; and
-      achieve a return on assets' of at least 10 percent.
4.16          Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (a) HWW would maintain for each
of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995, a ratio of total operating expenses
to total operating revenues below 85 percent; and (b) before November 30 in each of the fiscal years,
n'WW would furnish to the Bank a review of whether is would meeti the requirements in respect of such
year and the next year (para 6.3 (g)). Tariffs are set by MOH who would jointly with the HWW sign
the subsidiary loan agreement with the Borrower.
Table 4. 1: Expected Water and WastewaterTariff Increases (real)
Year                         Annual Increases
1995                                    19%
1996                                    19%
1997                                    19%
1998                                    10%
1999                                     5%
2000-                                    0%
6      Working ratio = operating expenses divided by revenue.
7      Operating ratio = operating costs, depreciation, and interest expense divided by revenue
8      Return on assets = (net income plus interest) x (1-tax rate)/Replacement Value of Assets.



- 32 -
G. Tariff Affordability
4.17          Current combined tariffs correspond to EEK 6.50/m3 for both domestic and industrial
customers, which represents approximately 2.6 percent of the monthly average household income. Given
the estimated real tariff increase of approximately 95 percent over a period of five years and a real
income growth, the water service tariffs are estimated to correspond to an average of approximately 3.7
percent of the average household income. In general, water and wastewater tariffs consisting of 34
percent of average household income are considered acceptable. It should be noted that households in
Estonia often have undeclared income that is not reflected in the income level used in this affordability
calculation. Affordability and the possibility of extending the social safety net to the lowest income
categories were reviewed and discussed in detail with MOH during appraisal. Assumptions underlying
the affordability estimates are presented in Annex 6.
H. Financial Viability
4.18          HWW's financial sustainability would be achieved by implementation of a tariff level that
would allow it to generate a cash flow sufficient enough to meet the financial objectives outlined in para.
4.15. These would collectively ensure HWW's ability to service debt obligations, provide proper
provisions for depreciation of revalued assets, and bad and doubtful debts, and generate sufficient net
profits to yield a 10 percent or higher return on assets.
4.19          Additional Project benefits are externalities which cannot easily be quantified nor
incorporated into HWW's finance rate of return analysis. These include direct environmental benefits and
indirect financial benefits to the regional economy from improved environment quality, management of
important ecosystems and increased tourism.



V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1          In addition to the improved quality and quantity of water supply and sewerage services
accruing to the customers, the proposed Project generates economic benefits to the environment and
surrounding region that are not possible to quantify. Both quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits are
discussed below.
5.2          Supply Improvement and Environmental Enhancement. The WWIC would provide benefits
to the residents of Haapsalu and its surrounding region by improving water and wastewater services and
environmental conditions. Benefits include improvements to maintain a high quality and more reliable
drinking water supply, reduced wastewater discharges to the Baltic Sea around Haapsalu, surface waters
of Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays and adjacent Baltic beaches, thus lowering health risks and frequency of
beach closures, improving aesthetic conditions, and increasing recreational and tourism opportunities in
the area. An additional benefit would be the improved quality of the curative mud reserves.
5.3          The proposed Project would also support the commitments of the GOE, as a party to the
Helsinki Convention, to fulfill the recommendations of the JCP by reducing land-based pollution of the
Baltic Sea from a priority "hot spot." The measures included in the Project would reduce the current
BOD7 emissions from 346 tons/year to 62 tons/year, suspended solids from 216 tons/year to 48 tons/year
and phosphorus from 16 tons/year to 1.5 tons/year. These results would fulfill the application of
"HELCOM Recommendations".
5.4          Employment Impact, Human Skills Improvement and Institutional Development. The
proposed Project would strengthen the MOE's capacity to coordinate and implement environmental
projects and support its efforts to decentralize implementation and management of environment projects
to local authorities. It would provide for direct short-term employment benefits for Estonian technical
experts, skilled construction workers and laborers. At the technical level, the WWIC would provide
opportunities for Estonian experts to gain direct practical experience in the design, construction,
operation, and maintenance of the modem water and wastewater system.  In a longer term, an
autonomous utility could attract private capital including equity.
5.5          It is expected that organizational restructuring, technical assistance, and investment would
strengthen HWW's managerial efficiency, financial viability, service quality, and capacity to plan and
implement investments. This should eventually result in cost containment and well-structured tariffs.
Moreover, the concept of managerial accountability would be introduced to a wider audience than HWW,
including the MOH and the local industry. Consumers would potentially benefit from the efficiency gains
generated by the restructuring process in terms of better water and wastewater services.
5.6          Social and Other Benefits. From  a socio-economic perspective, environmental
improvements in Haapsalu are justified by direct benefits to the residents, seasonal domestic and foreign
tourists, and local and foreign visitors to health facilities which feature the curative mud of Haapsalu Bay.
Several options exist for having these beneficiaries provide funding for the environmental improvements
through the application of user fees for tourists and health facilities that benefit from the Project.
5.7          Institution Building Benefits. The proposed Project would support HWW's operation as
an autonomous water and wastewater utility to efficiently meet the long-term water and wastewater



- 34 -
service needs of Haapsalu. A major benefit would come from institutional strengthening and human
resources development activities, undertaken through "twinning arrangements" and "hands-on" experience
in developing new skills required for administrative, financial, technical and environmental aspects of
water and wastewater utility operation. Implementation of the proposed Project would also provide for
real cost data for investments in the water and wastewater facilities which would be of significant
importance in development of reliable cost-estimates for future projects.
5.8          Demonstration Activities. The EMC would support a series of demonstration activities to
prevent future adverse environmental impacts through improved management practices and the use of
cost-efficient point and non-point source pollution control methods for small settlements and agriculture.
The EMC would also support the demonstration of ecological engineering techniques, including the use
of constructed wetlands, for control of pollution from various types of sources on the Matsalu Bay
catchment. These activities will be carefully monitored and will be the subject of an evaluation study to
assess the effectiveness of various types of interventions, their investment, operation and maintenance
costs, and suitability for replication elsewhere in the country.
5.9           The MOE expects that the catchment area management and tourism development planning
activities would provide a critical base of local experience and allow for training of Estonian experts in
order for this type of work to be conducted in other areas of the country. In the case of the planning and
implementation actions for protected areas, it is anticipated by the MOE and local authorities that these
would provide demonstrations which could be replicated in other areas of Estonia.
5.10          A Matsalu case study of the economic impact of protected areas is being cooperatively
prepared by the MOE and the Bank. This is expected to be finalized by the end of calendar year 1995,
and would provide valuable information on the economic benefits of proper management and access to
these areas. This study would review both direct and indirect revenues from local and international
tourism and assess their benefit to the local economy; it would also assess possible measures to access
a portion of the receipts financing environmental management activities.
5.11          Community Participation. The EMC involves community participation in implementation
of ecosystem management activities at the Matsalu State Nature Reserve. These activities would include
the direct participation of local farmers in decisions and activities concerning the management of local
man-made landscapes, planned grazing of coastal meadows, controlled burning, and reed harvesting and
marketing operations. The management activities at the Reserve have been designed to provide local
residents an opportunity to directly benefit economically from these interventions. The development of
the Catchment Management Plan and implementation of the activities to manage point and non-point
source pollution would also be developed and conducted with the direct participation of representatives
of local settlements and agricultural complexes. The activities to support the development of eco-tourism
in the region would place an emphasis on home and farm-based tourism to maximize benefits to local
residents. In addition, Estonian academic institutions and applied research institutes such as Tallinn
Technical University, local non-governmental organizations and the WWF are to be involved in the
implementation of the EMC.
5.12         Replication of EMC Activities. These activities would provide both governmental and
nongovernmental organizations with an important learning experience which could be replicated elsewhere
in Estonia and the Baltic region. In addition to the strictly local environmental benefits, the Project would
have regional benefits for the Baltic Sea and would benefit global biodiversity through the conservation
of some of the most important natural areas and traditional landscapes of the eastern Baltic Sea coastline
and support the protection of critical habitat for native and migratory bird species.



- 35 -
B. Project Risks
5.13          Slippage. With regard to the WWIC, there is a limited risk that Project implementation
would encounter delays due to limited experience in the use of international procurement procedures. In
addition, given the limited technical experience with actual costs for implementation of water and
wastewater improvements in post-Soviet Estonia, the volatility of local price changes, and previous lack
of construction activities to international standards in this sector, construction costs may be
underestimated. In order to minimize these risks, the Project would provide for the establishment of a
strong PIU, adoption of conservative approaches to cost estimation combined with appropriate physical
and price contingencies, and provision of significant technical and procurement support from Bank staff
during supervision both from headquarters and the regional office.
5.14          On the basis of previous Bank experience in Eastern Europe there is also a risk that the
GOE and cooperating local governments may have problems with the timely provision of local currency
support and availability of adequately qualified personnel for Project management, the latter due to
government limits on salaries paid to civil servants. These risks would be reduced through close
supervision and quick actions to address these types of implementation problems should they occur.
5.15          Institutional and Financial. On the institutional and financial side, the main risks would
be the commitment of the Haapsalu City Council to allow the HWW to function as an independent utility
which, interalia, may interfere with HWW's ability to adjust tariffs sufficiently to cover its costs,
including the repayment of the Bank Loan. These risks can only be partially mitigated through Project
supervision, as MOH is an independent body subject to political and social pressures. MOH can be made
aware of the consequence of its decisions on tariffs through the dialogue afforded by supervision, the
tariff study, and the requested presentation of annual HWW budgets. That MOH jointly with HWW signs
the GOE's subsidiary loan agreement will serve to lower the risk of significant deviations from a rational
tariff policy.
5.16          Technology and Management. The WWIC technology is standard and involves no unusual
risks. The main risk is the utility's financial and institutional capability, requiring substantial
strengthening of its financial and managerial capability. Experience with other municipal water and
wastewater authorities in transitional economies demonstrates that close Project supervision and adequate
technical assistance mitigate these risks. The proposed technologies to be demonstrated under the EMC
for the control of point and non-point source pollution from small settlements and agriculture are simple,
and have been tested under similar conditions in the Nordic countries and North America. The use of
ecological engineering methods would allow for the adaptation of a variety of low-cost methods, including
constructed wetlands, under Estonian conditions. A number of Estonian environmental specialists,
associated with both applied research and consulting firms, have knowledge of these technologies and
some demonstration work has already been undertaken by specialists from Tartu University.
5.17          The principal risks for the EMC concern: (a) difficulties in coordination of activities
between various national, local, non-governmental, and consultant organizations; (b) resistance from local
authorities and residents to proposed land use control measures to be included in the catchment area and
Matsalu State Nature Reserve management plans; (c) a reluctance of local authorities and agriculturalists
to adopt new low-cost technologies for the control of pollution; and (d) unanticipated problems associated
with the complex issues of restitution of lands confiscated by the State during the Soviet period to their
pre-1940 owners.



- 36 -
5.18          Coordination issues are expected to be addressed effectively by the establishment of
smaller implementation teams each acting with the support of the Project Coordinator and the ATT
Secretary, complemented by close Bank supervision. Resistance to implementation due to land use
constraints and conflicts with pre-1940 land owners can only be addressed by having the direct
participation of these parties, as proposed in the planning and implementation of these activities. It should
be noted that the demonstration activities by their very nature are intended to test the application of these
approaches in the Estonian context and to provide lessons which can be transferred elsewhere within the
country and the Baltic Sea region.



VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1          During Loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the Borrower:
(a)   that the grants from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Ministries of
Environment of Finland and Denmark and EU (PHARE) would have become effective
by December 31, 1995, or that other adequate funds would be available from other
sources (para. 2.18);
(b)   the terms and conditions of the establishment and operation of the Special Account (para.
2.32);
6.2          During Loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached with the Borrower and
HWW:
(a)   that the Project would be carried out in accordance with the PIP and the Action Plan
(both dated February 28, 1995, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para.
2.11);
6.3          During Loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached with HWW:
(a)   that: (a) a twinning arrangement would be entered into with a reputable foreign water
supply and sewerage utility in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
and (b) the twinning contract should be effective by October 31, 1995 (para. 2.10);
(b)   that it shall not contract management funtions to third parties, unless appropriate
competitive procedures agreed with the Bank have been followed (para. 4.2);
(c)   that: (a) a tariff study would be carried out by March 31, 1996, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank; (b) it would achieve the tariff level recommended by the study
by June 30, 1996; and (c) the tariffs would be increased by 19% in real terms by the end
of the calendar year 1995 (para. 4.8);
(d)   that by January 1, 1996, it would produce a comprehensive receivable accounts statement
and implement a program acceptable to the Bank for the effective recovery of outstanding
accounts and include a provision in the income statement for non-performing receivables
(para. 4.11);
(e)   that during the project implementation period, it would not contract any debt, unless its
net cash generated for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrance
(or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to such incurrance, whichever is the
greater amount) shall be at least 1.5 times the total, estimated debt service requirements
for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be incurred (para. 4.12);
(f)   that it would not distribute dividends until June 30, 1999 (para. 4.12); and



- 38 -
(g)   that it shall: (a) maintain for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending December
31, 1995, a ratio of total operating expenses to total operating revenues below 85
percent; and (b) before November 30 in each of the fiscal years, furnish to the Bank a
review of whether it would meet the requirements in such year and the next coming year
(para. 4.16).
6.4          In addition, agreements on the following standard Bank requirements were obtained from
the Borrower and the HWW:
(a)    The use of the World Bank's Guidelines on procurement and use of consultants (para.
2.23); and
(b)   that HWW would have its records and financial statements for each fiscal year audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank and that such audits and copies of its
financial statements would be furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year (para. 3.16).
B. Conditions of Effectiveness
6.5           Conditions of effectiveness would include:
(a)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the BITS and Government of Finland
grants have been fulfilled (para 2.18);
(b)   that a subsidiary loan agreement had been executed between the GOE and HWW (para.
2.22); and
(c)   that the PIU has been established with a manager, accountant and bilingual secretary
(para. 3.3).
D. Recommendation
6.6           With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for
a Bank Loan of US $2.0 million equivalent at the standard variable interest rate with a maturity of fifteen
years, including five years grace period. The Borrower would be the Republic of Estonia.



ANNEXES 1-6
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
March 15, 1995






Annex 1.    Project Implementation Plan
Annex 2.    Action Plan
Annex 3.    Terms of Reference
3A: Twinning Arrangement
3B: Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
3C: Project Steering Committee
3D: Project Implementation Unit
Annex 4.    Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -
Environmental Aspects
Annex 5.    Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 6.    Review of Affordability






Annex 1
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN






Table of Contents
Annex 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I.    THE PROJECT
A.    Introduction ..........................1
B.    Project Scope and Objectives ......................... 1
C.    Project Description ......................... 1
D.    Project Costs .........................  12
E.    Financing Plan .........................  19
II.   IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Organizations Responsible for the Project
and Interagency Coordination  ..........    ...................... 21
B.    Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies ....    ........... 21
C.    Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies ......    ................... 22
D.    Role of the World Bank during Supervision  ......    .................. 24
III.   IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A.  Implementation Preparation .27
B.    Procurement Arrangements and Schedule .27
C. Disbursements .31
D. Finance .34
E. Project Risks .39
F.  Loan Covenants for Implementation .40
IV.   MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A.    Actions to Monitor Development Objectives .41
B. Project Indicators .41
LIST OF CHARTS
Chart 1:     Project Overview
Chart 2:     Project Implementation Responsibilities
Chart 3:     Supervision Plan



LIST OF TABLES
Table la:           Project Cost Summary by Project Component
Table lb:           Water and Wastewater Improvement Component: Detailed Presentation of
Project Costs, Procurement and Financing
Table 2:            Financing Plan by Year
Table 3:            Financing Plan by Financer
Table 4:            Procurement Arrangements
Table 5:            Implementation of Project Activities - Summary of Procurement Packages
Table 6:            Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Table 7:            Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 8:            HWW's Financial Performance 1991-1993
Table 9:            Tariff Increases (real)
Appendix 1          Financial Projections



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
I. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
1.           This draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) was finalized during appraisal and
confirmed by the Borrower in accordance with procedures set out in the OP/BP/GB 10.00'. A complete
Project design is presented as an overview in Chart 1.
B. Project Scope and Objectives
2.            The Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project (the Project), which would be the
first Bank funded environmental investment project in Estonia, would have the following main objectives:
*      strengthen the MOE's capacity to coordinate and implement environmental projects;
*      reduce discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater into the Baltic Sea;
*      restore and enhance the surface and groundwater quality in Haapsalu;
*      improve quality, reliability and cost efficiency of water supply and sanitation services in
Haapsalu;
*      improve the operational efficiency and management system in the HWW;
*     promote management of point and non-point source pollution from the catchment area of
Matsalu Bay; and
*     promote environmentally sustainable management and development of ecologically unique
and sensitive areas around Matsalu Bay and adjacent coastal areas.
C. Project Description
3.            The proposed Project would be implemented over four years as an environmental
management project for the coastal area of Estonia. The main components of the Project would be:
*      rehabilitation, upgrading and expansion of the Haapsalu water and wastewater system,
including equipment and works, engineering services, and measures to reduce water
demand;
I     OPR issued new procedures on September 17, 1993 requiring that an Implementation Plan be prepared and included
in the Staff Appraisal Report.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
*      training to support institutional strengthening to assist in establishing an autonomous and
financially independent water and wastewater utility in Haapsalu. This would include
twinning arrangements that incorporate consultancy and advisory services, training,
equipment and software. Twinning would also cover the water and wastewater enterprise
of the nearby town of Lihula;
*      technical and financial support for the implementation, of a management plan for the
Matsalu State Nature Reserve proposed by a joint Estonian-WWF team, focussing on
improvements to make selected sites more readily accessible for domestic and foreign
visitors;
*      support for the development of a management plan for the Matsalu Bay catchment area,
including measures to upgrade wastewater treatment services at Lihula and other small
settlements and reduce surface and groundwater pollution from agricultural run-off; and
*      support for planning and management of eco-tourism, including an evaluation of adaptive
reuse of the Matsalu Manor and its outbuildings as a multi-purpose facility for use by the
Matsalu State Nature Reserve.
4.            Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC)2. The component would
address the following water and wastewater system improvements in Haapsalu:
e      Water Supply and Distribution
(a)    connection of new borewells in the southern part of the town with the main
pipeline system by installing new pipe mains in Toostuse, Tamme, Raudtee and
Kalda Streets;
(b)    renewal of pumps now requiring high maintenance; and
(c)    introduction of automatic control system at the major water wells.
*      Sewerage and Wastewater Treatment
(a)    extension of sewerage network to cover areas now served by septic tanks, or
having a direct discharge of untreated wastewater to the Baltic Sea;
(b)    rehabilitation of pumping stations;
(c)    connection of Pikk-holm sewerage area;
(d)    reconstruction of sewerage system; and
2      Detailed information concerning the WWIC is available in "Haapsalu Water and Wastewater Project - Feasibility
Study" prepared by SWECO in association with Eesti Projekt, Tallinn and Bohlin & Stromberg, Stockholm for HWW.



ANNEX I
Page 3
(e)   reconstruction of the wastewater treatment plant to meet "HELCOM
Recommendations'.
Consulting Services
(a)   technical assistance for Project implementation for coordination and construction
supervision of above works;
(b)   technical assistance for institutional development for strengthening the
organizational arrangements through a twinning arrangement with a reputable
foreign water and wastewater utility under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank. The main objective of this sub-component is to improve the HWW's
overall performance through changes in operational and financial management in
accordance with the Action Plan. The twinning partner would support and assist
HWW in implementing the Plan with regard to institutional strengthening and
human resources development for the first two years of the Project
implementation period. Areas of assistance include support for:
(i)   implementing a system rehabilitation and optimization program;
(ii)   developing and initiating implementation of a consumer interaction
program; and
(iii)  implementing the proposed recording and information system.
5.           The amount of wastewater currently pumped to the treatment plant is on average 5,500
m3/day, including infiltration of ground water. Of this is 2,300 m3/day drainage and 2,700 m3/day
municipal wastewater. It is estimated that an additional 675 m3/day of municipal wastewater is discharged
directly to the Baltic Sea.
6.           The proposed Project would reduce the total BOD emission from Haapsalu by about 87 %
or 234 tons/year. When the wastewater treatment plant has been reconstructed, additional wastewater
discharges, currently not included in the Project, will be able to be conveyed and treated without
increasing the size of the plant. The plants final capacity will be designed for 23,000 population
equivalents (pe) compared to the current situation, which is 13,600 pe.
7.           Environmental Management Component (EMC). The Ministry of Environment (MOE),
representatives of the Matsalu State Nature Reserve and local authorities reviewed and endorsed a
program of environmental management activities to be undertaken in Matsalu Bay and its catchment area
to complement improvements being taken to improve environmental quality in Haapsalu Bay. The EMC
would include the following complementary activities: (a) implementation of priority actions included
under the management plan for the Matsalu State Nature Reserve; (b) a special program for management
of point and non-point source pollution from the Matsalu Bay catchment; and (c) support for selected eco-
tourism activities. These activities would support protection of the fragile ecosystem of Matsalu Bay;
provide an opportunity for the demonstration of a variety of cost-effective pollution control methods on
the large catchment area of Matsalu Bay; and assist local authorities in the planning and promotion of
ecotourism activities. Implementation of the EMC would include the participation of the staff of the
MOE, the Matsalu State Nature Reserve, representatives from county and local governments, Tallinn



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Technical University, experts from various Danish and Swedish environment related organizations, the
WWF-Baltic Regional Program and WWF-Dernark. Activities to be supported under the EMC include:
Activity No. 1. Management Plan for Matsalu State Nature Reserve - Support for
Implementation of Priority Actions. The proposed Project would support the
implementation of selected priority elements of the approved management plan for the
Matsalu State Nature Reserve. This plan has identified a large number of actions which
should be taken to maintain key habitats of significance to permanent and migratory
wildlife; protect and enhance the diversity of plant ecosystems; improve the infrastructure
of the Reserve for management and visitor access, support the acquisition of specialized
equipment needed for management activities; and provide transport and other equipment
for effective ranger patrol and technical monitoring programs. The activity would have
two complementary elements:
(a)    Ecosystem Management Program. Under this element, activities would be
supported which would address improve the maintenance of key ecosystems
through active management programs including the removal of trees and bushes
which have invaded coastal meadows, re-establishment of maintenance oriented
grazing programs in cooperation with local farmers, and reed harvesting
programs to reduce eutrophication and slow the filling of the bay. This would
also include provision of critical equipment required for management and ranger
patrol activities. The EU (PHARE) has approved a grant of 250,000 ECU (US
$300,000 equivalent) to support implementation of these actions. The funds are
being administered by WWF-Denmark under a contract.
(b)    Provision of Specialized Equipment and Selected Investments. This element would
include support for the procurement of special large machines for reed cutting,
small equipment for vegetation maintenance and selected investments to improve
visitor access. The Government of Denmark is currently considering a proposal
from WWF-Denmark, with the support of the MOE, to provide a grant of
US $250,000 for the procurement of this specialized equipment from Danish
manufacturers and to provide funding for local improvements.
*     Activity No. 2. Management of Point and Non-Point Source Pollution from the Matsalu
Bay Catchment. The proposed activity would support the development, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of a program of activities to reduce point and non-point source
pollution on the Matsalu Bay catchment. This activity would provide an opportunity for
a properly monitored and evaluated demonstration program to evaluate the use of a
variety of cost-effective approaches and technologies for the control of point and non-
point source pollution from small settlements and agricultural activities in the catchment
area. The findings from this program of demonstration activities would be applicable to
other locations in Estonia and the eastern Baltic Sea basin. An important aspect of the
demonstration program would be that it would provide field based data concerning the
effectiveness of various types of approaches and allow for the development of investment
and operation and maintenance cost figures for these types of interventions.



ANNEX I
Page 5
The proposed activity would include four complementary elements:
(a)   Inventory Study and Catchment Management Plan. The proposed Project would
include support for:
(i)   Inventory Study. A detailed point and non-point source inventory study
on the Matsalu Bay catchment would be prepared under the ongoing
Swedish Ministry of Environment supported joint Estonian-Swedish
Study on the Management of the Matsalu Bay Catchment. It would
provide a framework for the identification of additional actions which
should be taken to control pollution from the catchment area, support
evaluation of impacts from specific locations and facilitate assessment of
benefits from various types of remedial and preventative pollution control
measures. The study would be prepared by Tallinn Technical University
with support from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The
estimated cost for the study is SEK 100,000 (US $12,500 equivalent) and
would take from 12-18 months to prepare.
(ii)   Catchment Management Plan. The study would be prepared by Tallinn
Technical University with support from the Swedish Environmental
Protection Agency. The estimated cost for the study is SEK 100,000 (US
$12,500) and would take from 12-18 months to prepare following
completion of the Inventory Study and would benefit from data collected
from the first stage of activities for the control of point and non-point
source pollution discussed below.
(b)    Point Source Pollution Control. This element of the activity would support a
series of demonstration activities for the control of pollution from point sources,
principally small settlements and large agricultural and agro-industrial complexes,
on the Matsalu Bay catchment. An emphasis would be given to the demonstration
of a variety of different low-cost treatment methods, including the ecological
engineering techniques, with the intention of having those which are most
effective replicated at other locations in Estonia. This element would include
actions at the following locations which have been identified as priority sites by
MOE in consultation with the Joint Estonian-Swedish study team, staff from the
Matsalu Reserve and representatives of local government:
(i)    Matsalu Bay Catchment - North Section.
*     Martna Settlement. Would serve as a demonstration site for
ecological engineering approaches. Preliminary estimated cost is
EEK 850,000 (US $70,000 equivalent).



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(ii)    Matsalu Bay Catchment - East Section - Kasari River Basin.3
*      Kirbla Settlement and Farn. This site due to  geological
conditions is not suitable for ecological engineering techniques.
The proposed Project would identify and implement low cost
techniques for either the rehabilitation or replacement of the
existing facility. Preliminary estimated cost is EEK 950,000
(US $75,000 equivalent).
*      Kuusiki Village. Would serve as a demonstration site for
ecological engineering approaches. Preliminary estimated cost is
EEK 300,000 (US $25,000 equivalent)
*      Roude Settlement. Would serve as a demonstration site for
ecological engineering approaches. Preliminary estimated cost is
EEK 500,000 (US $40,000 equivalent).
*      Saidla Ecological Farm. This site would be evaluated for its
potential for ecological engineering approaches. If these are not
viable then the proposed Project would identify and implement
low cost techniques for either the rehabilitation or replacement
of the existing facility. Preliminary estimated cost is
EEK 450,000 (US $35,000 equivalent).
*      Kullamaa Settlement and Farm. This site, due to geological
conditions, is not suitable for ecological engineering techniques.
The proposed Project would identify and implement low cost
techniques for either the rehabilitation or replacement of the
existing facility. Preliminary estimated cost is EEK 1,250,000
(US $80,000) equivalent.
(iii)    Matsalu Bay Catchment - South Section.
*      Lihula Town. Support for improvements in the water and
wastewater services of Lihula, the major settlement on the
southern catchment of Matsalu Bay, would be partially provided
by Finland as a contribution to the proposed Project. Preliminary
estimated cost is EEK 9,500,000 (US $750,000 equivalent) for
these activities. The Finnish contribution is estimated at
US $220,000. The remainder would be provided by the GOE.
3      Support for improvements in the water and wastewater services of Rapla, the major settlement on the upper catchment
of Matsalu Bay, would be included under the EBRD funded Estonia - Small Municipalities Environment Project. The proposed
Project is in its final phase of preparation and currently includes a projected budget of 10 million EEK (US $800,000 equivalent)
for these activities.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
*     Tuudi-Liva Settlement and Farm. This site would be evaluated
for its potential for ecological engineering approaches. If these
are not viable then the proposed Project would identify and
implement low cost techniques for either the rehabilitation or
replacement of the existing facility. Preliminary estimated cost
is EEK 950,000 (US $75,000 equivalent).
(c)    Non-Point Source Pollution Control. This element would provide support for a
series of demonstration activities for the control of pollution from non-point
sources on the Matsalu Bay catchment. The proposed Project would include two
activities which are elements of the Swedish Ministry of Environment funded
Baltic Agricultural Run-off Action Program (BAAP), which is a Swedish
contribution to the implementation of the Baltic Sea Environment Program. The
program focuses on implementation of environmentally sound management
practices in agriculture with an emphasis on the demonstration of appropriate
technology and methods complemented by capacity building and training. The
proposed Project would include two activities supported under the BAAP;
however, the scope of these activities may be expanded subject to additional
funds being made available to BAAP or other donors providing support for
control of non-point source pollution. The following actions would be included
under the proposed Project:
(i)    Baltic Agricultural Run-off Action Program  - Extension of the
Demonstration and Monitoring Activity to the Matsalu Bay Catchment.
This would include the extension of the ongoing demonstration program,
jointly managed by the Swedish Institute of Agricultural Engineering and
Tallinn Technical University, to include one or more demonstration areas
in the Matsalu Bay Catchment. It is currently planned that the first
demonstration activity would be in the eastern part of the basin near
Rapla. The estimated cost for this activity is SEK  1.5 million
(US $205,000 equivalent).
(ii)   Baltic Agricultural Run-off Action Program - Ecological Agriculture
Demonstration Activity. This would include the effective integration of
the recently approved ecological agriculture demonstration program into
the management process for the Matsalu Bay catchment. This activity is
being jointly prepared by the Rural Development Group of Sweden in
cooperation with locally based Estonian counterparts. The program aims
to create ecological model farms in the Rapla region including one
former state farm and one family farm. Mineral fertilizers and
conventional pesticides and herbicides will not be used at all in
agricultural production at these farms. The cost of this activity is
SEK 750,000 (US $100,000 equivalent).
(d)    Monitoring and Evaluation. In order to assess the impacts from interventions and
determine their potential replicability, a supplemental monitoring program and
an evaluation of impacts from Project supported activities. Basic monitoring from



ANNEX 1
Page 8
the Matsalu Bay catchment would be conducted by the MOE following the
revision of their national monitoring program on the basis of recommendations
from the United States Environmental Protection Agency and EU (PHARE)
study. This would be complemented by selected monitoring activities being
conducted under the joint Estonian-Swedish study. If necessary, a supplemental
monitoring program would be supported by the Project to provide additional data
which may be necessary to determine the impact of management and investment
interventions to reduce pollution in the catchment area. An Evaluation Study
would also be prepared during the last year of the proposed Project to provide
a preliminary assessment of the impacts from various types of Project supported
activities. The Evaluation Study would examine the costs and benefit of activities,
review operation and maintenance costs, and make recommendations concerning
their replication or extension within and outside the catchment area.
Activity No. 3. Supportfor Planning and Management of Eco-Tourism. The proposed
activity would support, in coordination with MOE, the Matsalu State Nature Reserve, and
concerned county governments a series of small-scale actions to support the planning and
management of eco-tourism in Laane County. Consistent with current GOE policies,
under this activity emphasis would be given to the development of tourism in Haapsalu
which would be complemented with by the development of farm and rural settlement
based tourism. Several donors have been contacted regrading support for this activity,
the University of Helsinki is currently awaiting a decision by the Government of Finland
concerning the funding of the study for adaptive reuse of the Matsalu Manor. Under the
proposed Project, support would be provided for the following actions:
(a)    Eco-Tourism Planning and Information. Under the proposed Project support
would be provided to concerned parties in Laane County, including the
Municipality of Haapsalu, concerning the effective planning of eco-tourism in the
region. It would support evaluation of measures to be adopted by local authorities
to assure that the development of both land and marine based tourism would be
conducted in an environmentally sustainable manner. This action would include
the preparation of a marketing study and development of tourism information
materials concerning Laane County with an emphasis on Haapsalu and Matsalu
Bays. Additional action should be taken under the proposed Project to evaluate
how to increase culture and health related tourism to Haapsalu and adjacent
areas. Emphasis would be placed on linking the major attractions of Laane
County to those of the Estonian Baltic islands which are only reached by land by
access routes from ferry terminals adjacent to either Haapsalu or Matsalu Bays.
This would be complemented by a marketing assessment for points of interest in
the region of Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays. On the basis of this assessment, is
proposed that visitor information be prepared for the Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays
region in Estonian, English, Finnish, German and Swedish to assist in the
development of the domestic and international tourist industry. This would
include information concerning the ecological, cultural, recreational and special
health related attractions of the Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays region. The estimated
cost for these activities is US $100,000.



ANNEX I
Page 9
(b)    Evaluation of Adaptive Reuse of Matsalu Manor. A study would be prepared to
evaluate the options and costs for the adaptive reuse of the historic Matsalu
Manor and associated outbuildings to support activities at the Reserve. The study
would examine a variety of multi-purpose reuse options including development
of a visitors center, training center, various types of accommodations, and
storage. The study would include an evaluation of investment costs, operation
and maintenance costs and assess potential means for raising the required
investment budget. The study would include an assessment of potential types and
numbers of visitors, their interests and potential expenditure patterns. Although
the adaptive reuse of the Matsalu Manor and other historic buildings within the
Matsalu State Nature Reserve should receive priority for the accommodation of
nature oriented tourists, it is assumed that outside the Reserve, facilities for
tourists would be undertaken by the private sector. The estimated cost for this
study is US $50,000.



Chart 1                                  ESTONIA - HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Part A - Water and Wastewater Services Component (WWIC)
in US $ millions
Local      Loan        Grant        Total                         Element                                            Benefits
ConbuxI
Ministry of   World   Sweden - BITS            Water Supply Improvements           0.42      0.42   Would result in significant improvements in water
Environment   Bank      1.6 million                                                                  conservation and improve reliability and quality of
1.60 million    2.0     Ministry of                                                                  water provided to residents.
Municipality             Finland -
of Haapsalu             Ministry of            Wastewater:                                           Would support upgrading and expansion of existing
0.26 million           Environment             Sewerage                             0.85             treatment plant. Extension and rehabilitation of the
0.8 million                                                                  network would result in reduction of BOD discharge
Upgrading of WWTP                   2.30      3.15   to the Baltic Sea. In addition, Project would
provide a facility for training of personnel from
Water and Wastewater Subtotal                 3.57   western Estonia.
Project Implementation Unit         0.61             Project would provide opportunity for Estonian
experts to develop new skills in Project planning,
implementation and construction supervision. A
Training and Technical Assistance   0.42      1.03  twinning arrangement would be used to strengthen
institutional capacity.
Base Cost                              4.60
Physical contingencies              0.42             The Project would provide accurate cost data for
both physical and price contingencies for projects
Price contingencies                 0.90             implemented in Estonia and thus support financial,
economic and technical planning of similar projects
Value added tax                     0.34      1.66  in the future.
Co-St for WWIC                                6.25 



Chart 1                                          ESTONIA: HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Part B. Environmental Management Component IEMC)
in US $ millions
Local       Loan              Grant              Total                       Element                                                Benefits
Contribution
Ministry of            (i) Planning activities for the      Activity No. 1:                   0.55       0.55  The objective of the activity would be to implement
Environment            Matsalu State Reserve have           Management Plan for                                 selected priority activities which have been identified
0.67 million          been supported by Sweden             Matsalu State Nature                                under the Matsalu State Nature Reserve Management Plan
and World Wide Fund for              Reserve - Support for                              prepared by a joint Estonian-World Wide Fund for Nature
Nature (WWF)                         Implementation of                                  team. These activities are anticipated to focus on
(ii) European Union (PHARE)          Priority Actions                                   improvements to make selected sites more readily
(iii) Danish Ministry of                                                                accessible for domestic and foreign visitors.
Environment
Activity No. 2:                                    A detailed point and non-point source inventory study
Management of the                                  would be prepared to support evaluation of impacts from
Matsalu Bay                                        specific locations and facilitate assessment of benefits
Catchment Area                                     from various types of remedial and preventive pollution
Swedish Ministry of                  (a) Inventory Study             0.025              control measures. The Catchment Management Plan
Environment                             and Catchment                                   would provide a framework for medium and long-term
Management Plan                                management of the area.
(i) Finnish Ministry of              (b) Point Source                 0.75              Would support a series of demonstration activities for the
Environment                             Pollution Control                               control of pollution from point sources, principally small
(ii) Danish Ministry of                                                                 settlements and large agricultural and agro-industrial
Environment                                                                             complexes, on the Matsalu Bay catchment. This would
include actions to demonstrate the use of low-cost and
ecological engineering approaches.
Swedish Ministry of                  (c) Non-Point Source            0.630              Would provide support for a series of demonstration
Environment                             Pollution Control                               activities for the control of pollution from non-point
sources on the Matsalu Bay catchment. Activities would
promote implementation of environmentally sound
management practices in agriculture with a emphasis
given to demonstration of appropriate technology and
methods complemented by capacity building and training.
o) Swedish Ministry of               (dl Monitoring and              0.025        1.43  Changes irn pollution load levels would be m onitored and
Environment                             Evaluation                                      an evaluation prepared of benefits from control activities
Activity No. 3.                                    Under the proposed Project support would De p-ovided to
Support for Planning                               concerned parties in Laane County, inludiFig the
and Management of                                  Municipality of Haapsalu, concering the effect[ve
Eco TourisFT                                       plarning anid nrarketirrg of eco-tourinm in the reg,on.
(a) Eco-Tourisrn                 0.09
I    Plarnning and
Informat on
l , Evaluatin, of     1          0.05       C. 14  A:: evaluaticn vvouild be prepared concerrn3 the adaptive
Adaptive Reuse of                               reuse of the Matsa[u Marior and its nutbuilOd!'gs as a multi-
lMatsalu Manr     |                             purpose faciht\ for use by the Matsalu State Nature
I;   I   ff  |   i     I                           f________________  Reserve.
Cost for EMC          j                     2.12
|____j C0OTSTAL PROJECT       |                     8.37
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __CO S T_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



ANNEX 1
Page 12
D. Project Costs
8.           The total cost of the Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project is estimated at
about US $8.37 million or EEK 106 million equivalent, including contingencies and value added tax
on the local expenses.
9.            The cost for the WWIC is estimated at about US $6.25 million or EEK 79 million
equivalent, including contingencies and value added tax on the local expenses. The total base cost is
estimated at US $4.40 million. Physical contingencies are estimated at US $0.40 million. Price
contingencies between the appraisal in January 1995 and estimated project completion in June 1999
would amount to approximately US $0.9 million or 18 percent of base cost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies represent 28 percent of the base cost. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at approximately US $3.6 million including contingencies, or about 58 percent
of the total cost of the WWIC.
10.          The cost for the EMC is estimated at about US $2.1 million or EEK 27 million
equivalent, including contingencies. The total base cost is estimated at US $1.60 million. Physical
contingencies are estimated at US $0.16 million. Price contingencies between appraisal conducted in
January 1995 and estimated project completion in June 1999 would amount to approximately
US $0.42 million or 24 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies.
11.          The estimated cost distribution among Project components is shown in Tables la and
lb below.
12.          Bases of Cost Estimates. Project costs were estimated as follows:
(a)    Base Costs. Cost estimates are based on: preliminary estimates prepared by the
consultants for the WWIC following review by the Bank. Cost estimates for the EMC
have been jointly developed by the MOE, Matsalu State Nature Reserve, WWF and
the Bank on the basis of previous experience with similar activities;
(b)    Contingency Allowances. Project costs include a contingency for unforeseen physical
variations (US $0.58 million) equivalent to 10 percent of the base. Price contingencies
on base costs and physical contingencies are estimated at about US $1.3 million,
equivalent to 19 percent of base costs and physical contingencies, and reflect Bank
estimates of local and international price increases'. In estimating the price
contingencies, it is assumed that any differentials between domestic and international
inflation rates would be offset by appropriate adjustments in exchange rates; and
(c)    Foreign Exchange Component. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about
US $4.48 million including contingencies, or 54 percent of total Project cost.
1     Foreign inflation rates: 3.3 % in 1995 and 2.5% thereafter; percent per year for the life of the Project. Local inflation
rates: 20% in FY95; 12 % in FY96; 8% in FY97; 6% percent in FY98; and 6% in FY99.



ANNEX I
Page 13
Table la:   PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
-------- EEK Million*" -----  -------- US $ Million --------
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
Proiect Implementation Unit
Office equipment                                       0.06     0.32     0.39    0.01     0.03     0.03
International Consultants                              0.00     5.13     5.13    0.00     0.41     0.41
Local Staff Salaries & Admin. costs                    2.22     0.00     2.22    0.18     0.00     0.18
Sub Total    2.29    5.45     7.74     0.18    0.43     0.61
Water Supply
Pipeline of Toouse, Tamme, and Raudtee and Kalda Streets  1.31  0.54     1.85    0.10     0.04     0.15
Renewal of pumps                                       0.46     1.45     1.91    0.04     0.11     0.15
Automatic control system                               0.56     0.96     1.52    0.04     0.08     0.12
Sub Total    2.33    2.94     5.27     0.18    0.23     0.42
Sewerage
Haava St. collector rehabilitation                     1.73     0.69     2.42    0.14     0.05     0.19
Randsalu Pumping Station PS-8                          0.08     0.20     0.28    0.01     0.02     0.02
Main pumping station                                   0.21     1.36     1.57    0.02     0.11     0.12
Kalda St. collector and pumping station                1.00     0.31     1.30    0.08     0.02     0.10
Supluse St. pumping station, pressure pipe             0.80     0.48     1.28    0.06     0.04     0.10
Car service sewerage                                   0.16     0.21     0.37    0.01     0.02     0.03
Reconstruction of MEK pumping station (PS-12)          0.17     0.27     0.44    0.01     0.02     0.03
Pikk-holm area sewerage                                1.03     0.72     1.75    0.08     0.06     0.14
System reconstructions                                 0.40     0.97     1.37    0.03     0.08     0.11
SubTotal    5.58     5.19    10.78     0.44    0.41     0.85
0.00    0.00
Water and Wastewater Plant                             0.00     0.00
New Wastewater Treatment Plant                         6.77    21.14    27.91    0.53     1.67     2.20
Reconstruction of Primary Sedimentation Basins         0.37     0.40     0.77    0.03     0.03     0.06
Laboratory Equipment                                   0.00     0.56     0.56    0.00     0.04     0.04
Sub Total    7.14    22.09    29.23    0.56     1.75    2.31
Training & Technical Assistance (Twinning)             0.76     4.49     5.25    0.06     0.36     0.42
Total Base Cost for Water & Wastewater Component (incl.
detailed design)   18.10    40.17    58.27  1.43    3.17     4.60
B. Environmental Management Component
Matsalu State Nature Reserve                           3.20     1.71     4.91    0.25     0.14     0.39
Matsalu Catchment (exl. Lihula)                        3.85     2.28     6.13    0.30     0.18     0.48
Lihula                                                 2.51     4.85     7.36    0.20     0.38     0.58
Eco Tourism                                            0.98     0.22     1.20    0.08     0.02     0.09
Base Cost for Environmental Management Component      10.55     9.05    19.60    0.83     0.72     1.55
Total Physical Contingencies    2.64  4.65    7.29    0.21     0.37     0.58
Total Price Contingencies    13.69  2.78    16.47   1.08     0.22     1.30
Value Added Tax    4.33             4.33     0.34              0.34
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:   49.31    56.65   105.96         3.89     4.48     8.37
* Additions may not be fully consistent due to rounding up.
** Exchange rate US$1 - EEK                            12.66



A                      H~      ~~       ~~       ~~       ~~      ~~~ C   I   D        F   I 82   I H  I I   K I   L    NIM I   N   I0   1   P ~ I                             S      I T          U'               W       X        V I
T"(. Jllb.                                                                 WATER AND WASTOEWATE2R IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT: DETAILE2IO PRESENTATION OF PRtOJECT COSTS PRoCVIEMFENT 0.5D FIN ANCING
3 Cm                                                                r,        797167997                                                                     I799                   TAL                                                   FN7CNW1
7. F  T        7.       F        8T      L.       F       IT        L        F       T        L        F        T            n          44      GoE   'M.H    86         FIN     TOT
9                                                         209    299~~~~~~~~~~~~  72999    2709~~~~~~~~~20  8099     2780699                   25
6    F~~~~~~~Coo~~~~~~soo   9                       299   2999 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 43679 %4 579       :33319 %   7 379%           64 63I  70 069
7V.A A d T.o_IVAT)                                         19..                                                                                                                   ~      ~       --
13 QM-QPW--  ~ ~         ~        ~       ~        13       0.08.26          007040                                                                                           0026    0037
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9   0703                                                                                                                                           09%0  0027 0 072
is- Sb T. W                                              ~~~~~~~0 002    0~0211    60324                                                 _____                     099      012'    0 014          99     03409                                        o
'76                                            -- -O-(Ol-    ~~~0.7        a 070,           070      14o044                    004               .03o04o0 '  0407
8670747 Coo,ngc~~~~~~o.7~~~9'        0999&.    0196            09CA97)99                          09%092                    0921112302
7-7 Tw -                                                                                                                                                         -0 00" ~~~~~~~~79  19  77  77  00  08  07  07042F'    092740 01
it                                                                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~________ 04,0O20004                           0404    0444          79504
Q0 00   0,6               0102     062Q&20    o ________6_                                                                                 _____ 0o
s4_________..      ______06179 044                                                          0044    0.04              004 05            6 040446   0.044                   0044         0     477    0 7425      _____
0044    4    004      004.4      07 004         04174 0044~ O                  0444    0770                           0776                         ________
Pn.oC7n77o87.~~~~7e.7000           0442002                    07              0019-      0024           0 044    002               00F0041)8
_L   O ,.__                                     _                      .2                .200.092__.994  0.4                                00. __ _             __                                                __    ___    ___
________           _______                                                                       __________       0072             00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AW  M  17'    02670  0~27       0 230    00700'6
31 BA-SE COOSTPIU                                           -                0-.049~ 07196  -0244  -004407148    070              00446       04   0 088    0 N44'-00         0047    0797'   0 407    087
32                                                                           09%      007m,0   0070 )(09%    00                            09926   09209                      099      09       -0 022    0 022                        _ __
33                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~0 049~   0207    0274 00 0 0777    079     0044    00(46    0(9      004      01067    099     077781   0452.   063 bll__                                                 _____
_______  P00C,777410707,, 1000 074    0.004    0078    0 079    09%0    0 028    0 024    097                       02         028    0997l   0077     086      079      00
P~~~~ C-  US009 S022                                      0.92     010     Q                   O099  Q8 0  0218   Q09  082      072       0267   04771    0  53           4      4807                                         0
39 F~~~o~ho~~o(Too.~~ Tam. .60Eo.dlo.o.l 847d~~~~~~~S09%  7707  0.065    0.026    0097    0.077    0.070    0027    0.016    0.008    0027  0 048    0047    0709   _______7____i    0 47'          a 0-,                    0'0
35        _____ TMAL                         .0.  ______               000       00       06       07      07      02       077      097     022077                                      003          6                         ______         ________
____________      ICOS      0.0)8    0.049    0024    0.014~~~~~~~~~~~Ml 0 0.~0~' 7 0 0017    0.040    0,084                         01075  0  703   0 744
7066y 49%                             995     0.08    027        0077    08404    0 059       0076    0,050    040                             00286    0774    0)7                                              _____
-S,                                                               o ~~~6~o. Cag.o~  0.097    099 0 093 09970   0994l   099  092  99     09                                 09914    0077    0 1077______               ___
PoCo7n..oo~~~~~~ 7.00        0.992    07099o ol     0992    097    092      D99    000-09           001                                007 -F409%0      0 0425    ____________________
45 TOTAL      ~_____09%                                                     002      ,83      002      0-011    0.2     000       .% -.8                                     0 104t   0733    07972          249    07038    00149~                             M079
___________________________________                      ___________       0993    0994.   0997    0.992    0990    09954                                 0.994    09%6o   035   001209    0 1
__________                                                       0.990    0.096    0.28~ICB50   016022     0 092     2064802                              98      07659                  98      87276
63 BASE COOT. Ww,0.~~~p0y                                         0870    804SP1i75          0 055    00902   074      000; 087          037075                                      02608
48               5_______                                                .9       92' 0%          093      094      0%      0992      00992   09 06                              0 009   0.077    0 0207
_____ _____ ____ _____ ____ _____  ____  _____   ____  __C_ _                                                                                         _ _ _ _ _            000      0269     0554496               0 69     0 36         __  __0_  _____      060



A                              B                0         E   1 F   I C              H    I I         J       K-    L            M            N   I 0   1 P I   Q   I R                ST                 U        V                     I
IT.&k I16.                                                                 WATER ANID WASTEWATER INIPROVEMENT COWMOFENT: DETAIlE  PRESENTATION OF PROJECT COSTS PROCUR.EMENT AND FINANCING
2                                111~~~~~~~~~~~~~IUS0-EEK  1266
SC                                                Fm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p  1995       1996                      1997                       1996                   OA                                                   FINANCING WWVIC
W0l d- 
4                                                    L       ~~       ~~       ~~~ ~ ~~~                 ~~      ~ ~~~             ~ ~~ ~~                    ~~~~~F  T  L.     T  L F T  L  F  T I  r  W       GE      M8SW             FI[N_   TOTr
ICB2      OHS    0.02      0 091    $-HS    I.au     0 091                                                         0130    0~052    0~182
74                      4                           c         5                .093 _0.061    0.06      0003    0ODI   000                                                             0.D0     0.003    0.069
70                                         T       b                         0 060    00On7    0096    0.06     0027    0060137    0.035    0. 191
76 0   i  C-       -10%                                                      02       0.6      01       06 0   06        00D                                                           0 014~  O0.063    0019
77 Sb .Ta                                                                  093     0.3       .15     0075    0.030    0 103 5S                                                               .6       .1
72                        F~~~~~~~~~~~-c.C   11us$                  0 021    061      022      0.033    0.061    0.034                                                        004     06        .5
79TOTrAL                                                                                                               QJ$$ L                                                        0 0     06       026            0%    0 206                                       0.266
81IR                                                                          0        .1      0.021                                                                                   0.066    0.15     0021
U                                      ~~        ~~~             ~~~~~ ~~~~~~-p  3%  0.ND 0.06  o.061                                                                      0 SW     .06      00.01
U                              ~~~~~~~~~~             ~           ~~~~TOW b.oou  0.06    0.016    0.022                                                                     006     001      00722
H                          F'.                     109 ~~~~~~~pyW  -a -0 061    0.062    0.022                                                                               0.061    006       0062
M.   S.6 TI                                                                  067      0.017    0.024                                                                                   006      0.017    0.024
Hj                                 F7.. coa         11s$                     0.062    0.000    0.002                                                                                   0.002    0.006    0.062
717 TOTrAL                                                                                     Q.- 1                                                                                   0069    0.0u8    0 027         1OD%    0.027                                      0.027
U  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~i                       0~~~~~~~~~~%                              0W        0.063    0.063    0.SWO   0.003    0.063                             0.06,1     0065    0.0066
91               TI6..oooR                                                   ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~O.u  0 034    0 062    0.068    0034    0.062  0.017    0 107    0 120
92                                   Py         C ..,-       10%                                        0.061    0.063    00 0    0.061    10051   0066                              0_.062    0.011    O0.02
S31.' ToI                                                                                            0.0691  0.039    0.00      .6      0 039    0 068                              0.010    0.AI0   0.136
96                        F~~~~~~~~~~~-..CoR  110                                             0.064    0.063    0.6     0.065    0.064    006D9                              00609   006D7    0 016
95 TOTrAL                                                                                                       Q*         0$     .540020    0.120    0.152                                                            OD%    0 132                                      0. 152
97        .                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ICHS          a"04   0.41    0.057   0.631    0.010    00641                                09073    0 023    0.0981
95                                      ooR~~~~~~~~~~~~~Di     5%                           0.062    0.061    0.063    0.02    0.6 00 6 mO2                                 0064    0.061    0.063
99                             ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~T.W -I                                         0.046    0.014    0060    0.033    0.011I   0.043                              099      0.2     0.103
F'.  WCoR,              10-j%                                      0.063    0.061    0.066    0.003    0061    006                                0068    0.062    0.010
S0 .6 ToI                                                                                            0 031    0.015    0.066    0.036    0.012    0.067                             e0.07    0.027    0 113
I                          944~~~~~~~~~~~,. C  110 U$                                          0.022    0.061    0.023    0.020,  0.0611  0.021                             _0.042   0.062    0.044
O   TOTAL                                                 5.Qfl   5.516             5.536    5.522    Q.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S   I    0 129    0.020    0.107         106%    0.137                                      0.137 29    .08    015  1-0%    17  015
ICBI                    ___                                    0343    0.013    0.0464   .2       .2      0.031    0 061    0 036    O0.00I
3 %                                                                 0.062    0 061    0.062    0.061    0061IA   0 063    0.0603    0.062    0.065
1          ToRI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~0.033    0 014    0~040    0 029    0 024    A0033    0 064    0 030    0 101
PFl,    Con             os                                                                    0063    0.061    0.060    0.003,  0.062    0.063       0066    006D4    0010e 
S .6 ToI                                                                                                                       0.038    001i5   0.053   0.0321  0.027    0.000    0.970    0 062    0111I
II                        ~~~~~~~~~~~P,i.oCo,o,  11s$                                                                    0.21    0 061    0 022    0.0211   0063    0.023    0,042    0.064    0.043
IITOTAL                                                                                                                                  5.1      553               55       .3       .1      0 045    0.157        106%1  0 157                                        0 157
1                                       ICEO                                4.01.2   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.016    0 028                     0 012    0 016    0020
11                ISo.  corn      5%                                        0.061   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~0.062    0.061                         eo 0,061  0.1    0.001
ToRI~~~~~~~~~~oorn                           0~~~~~~~~o.0    0.016    0. 029                                                0 013    006      0029
II                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~FI.3yc. Coo.p  10%                                      0 061    0062    0 063                                                         e0.01    0 002    0 003
II S.6,To,.                                                                                          0 014    0.010    0 032                                                        0.04     0.1      0 032
II     Poko C        o. 110$                                                0.066   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~0.061    0.027                        -O0.066    0.0611  0.067
I   TOTL  ,                 ,55                                                                                   .12     QQ                                                           000      0.O019    0.039       106%    0.039                                       0.039
12        Io-C-BI1                                                                                    0.013    .020    0.033                                                        0.013    0 020    0 033
D..i co-        5 %                                       0.C0D61   0061    0062                                                         0 006!    0.061    0.062
ToRI 6.r-                                                   0.014   0.021    0.035                                                         0 014    0 021    0.035
F'.  9C         ,oc-i   00 0061    0062    O0063                                                                                                   0061    0062    0 063
S.6 ToR                                                                                           001      0.023    0 030                                                        0.010    0.023    0 038
PFi c          110 us$                  __                         0 067    0.061    0.068                                                      - 0067    0 061    OME0
TOTAL                                                                      Q.512    5.524    5.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~57                              0 022    0 024    0 046        106%    0.046,                                     0 046
I4CB4                                                          4.0391  0.027    0~066    0.038    0.0271  0.63    0.077    000 O4    0.131 
044  corn  3%                                             0.062    0061   ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~~0 063    0 062    0 061    0 063    0 004    003 06
151   TORI bRocool                                                                           0041    0.020    0970    01)40    0020    0060    0061    0057    0130~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 00  0081 0 07    013
13  Fl, .colCo.rn       10%                                                                  0064    0063    0067    0064    0.063    0067    0060    0066    0014~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00 00  0 06      01
0.6 TOWI                                                                                                                     0.04     003      007    0.044    0 031    0.7        .6       02     0 152
F,icoCorni      10                                                                             000     0.       002      0020       0063    0032    0034    0 065    0 059
13  TOTAL                                                                      I           5.55.1   2.533    QJS6    5.022    5.534    2.102    0143    0060    0211            106%    0211                                       0211~~~~~~~~~~~~~O QS."  100



IT.bb lb.                                                                  WATER AND WASTEWAmY IM?KOVKM!M  CObIOC4DfT: DETAEIID PRESE1TATION F OFRoWeur cosTS. ftocu1DEm34T AND riNANCIN
2                                222~~~~~~~~ S0-EEK   1266
-3                                                 P-~~~~~~~~~~N ~ 299                    9 1997    __ 996                                   19TL                              -FINANCING WWIC
4                                       L        F        T        L       F        3        L        F       7        L        F        I       I.       F        3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  WE     G.E   64.14    SW       FIN      101T L  T L    d    0  or
is601                                                                 0644    0.051   .6105    0.637    0.002    0 039o    0 073   0.3
3-"     5%                                                                  0.052    0052    0.053    0.052    O0052    0 003    0.052    O0054    0.005
T.W b--                                                                               0024,  0030    0.054    0.016,  0,039    015.05        0032,  0.077    0.105
I                                                                                                                        0052    0054    0.050    0.0Py52 C.dr  lo  1102  - 0.05  0.055    0.003    005, .1
I  9g,To~~~~.J                               0.022    0.052    0.024    0.022    0.052    0023    0.056    0052    0.057                     ___      0.030 0O.,.0254    0.034~ .3    -     _ .033 O.W4 0 11
1431                       P'i.~Fn  C   .r , US$                      .5      .79     005       .5        .       .5   ___0105   _.003   0.03                                 0022OM   0.00    0.022
I43 TOrrAL                                                                             Q.n 0.U            QU        2                                                       __2 QU     0.2>42    0.05     . 0.0.442 _____                                        0.05 _0 047
171R.LSKCOST  W3&--p          ,C.4   0A.0.6                                             0.22    0.372    0.123    02126  0ZM 364 126 40        0.20  0.630    .~_ 006             6    04620 _06391   2093l
I                                      209              0.026    0~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~.D22  . 0. 0.02O7    002  006 0136   0027    0.027   0036  ,    0.04ro 0    0,053    O0209
I 4Th., 0. -~                                                                 0.076      0.230   0.409    0.2609   0.232    0.429    0.263    014 2297'O51 393                         05076OA4    0.695    2.202
17 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           2~~~~~~~09,      0.027   00234   0.012   0.027    0.023    0.040    0.0213   0023    0.039        MS     OO9          t    0.042   0.069    0.2051
17W   -,096CZ                                                                 0.293    0.3     0.437 0  0.263    0.2361  0.442    0,146    0.2152      30.432                          0350IW 19   0.74    0.9322
27"   Pli C-f           US$                                                    . 0.    0.05 0   .06~0   0.02    0.0022    0053    0.099    0.0129   0.922    0..                        0.236    0.0332   27
--2ja          022                  77                        7                                        0.3      0.0      239                         0     3    10.5                      276
tSITOTAL.                      _TL J005. 006                                         09       02       02, 000          002    0022       ,37 .02264   0,021   0.402    0.0_300_Or30--33
191 s dwy2C,.,                                       i,      290~                       .5. 05          000      0020.    .052    0 22    002    0.02                                   .20     .0510053-
Im                                                  VAT 1.20.052 9                       5      0.050    002, 002          .02     0052.   0.00 2    0 .023 1 ___r0.05 0.030    0,0330
I                            Ffl~~~~C0Ri   .1U03              NBF      0.N      0.150al    00520   005)    0.--1    00352     14   005        0.52                               0.0427   0.0528   L0.053   ___.-
I   TOTAL                                          '~~~~~~~~~~~~~-p" 10  .1 5    02 .02  .T Q 0 0.14    U21    0.035    0.014   0.021    0.034                              0050   0.0632     .07.53                                           .3203
I  B4OECOST, WW77M,~~A..k.2.~dEJed4 T.W  -        _0.165   050)6    0057   _Q 0026    04239      003    0.023    0430    0473                                              _ 0.40320.925   067I
I                                                   2~~~~~~~~~~~~~Py-     -V  09  0.01    0.0523   0052G    0.053    0.04  0.030   0.03. 03    0.4                             .5       .92   0.017                                            ________
t    ________________________0.152,  00256    0.056    002                                                       0057053           0.2      0.93    052                                 .0HE.5           2.93 
1I  u_____________$____                                       0               0.0. 0052    0     052S 0.05  3: 03 0.073    0.053 0.0          50    0.032 0.9 0.21 13                           O025   0~2361
gi Pi-=   Sdmm=                     NBF      ~~~~~0.052    0.057    0058    0.032    03351   0.36  0.03     055     07                                 0.063    2 207    2.2O0
21   P,e  ,2,,,,20                                                            0.507t   0.0TE    0.052    0.024    0023    0.39     0 0.0    0.040    0.05                               0.032    0.060l  0.094
IrSoT.LWRI                                                                  0.02      .02 d04E-02 ..r                  O02         7D                                    '             0300    272      260.0                                           222220
VAT C                             0002      .O O 000    0.055             0. 059    0.C045         0053                                     0012702                                                                          __



A                              B        C I   D   I E   I F   I                  I HI        I I        I     K   I L   I M   I N   I 0   1 P I   Q                        Br-R        S      I   T    ---u -- 1---T w   I                   v
I T.hk I b.                                                                  WATER AND WASTWATER IAMPOVEMENT COMPONENT: DETAILED PRESENTATION OF PROJECT COA'TS, PROCURtEMENT ANDFNACN
1 u s$                             006      0020E3E0K4                 .0      001 152004                03                                  036009              7                                   _
C41  o4                                                                     Q12Qp2Q-I                 Q.             ~          Q2                 .J2014 .991.1997.3INA0C330                                                                                           0.000
TPTAIT-        ttW  b-~ ~ ~ SI                  49
P,w.~~~Co.B.  0.022    0(033    0023    0.032    0006    0039    0038 ~~~~~~~~~~ 000  0047                            0.9       0.041  0111
284 TOrrAL                                                                                                              U52~~~~~~~0331 Q.  .~  .~  .~Q~2 0~  .              0.2102   05210  0..050 1400                                                0 105
2IjT.6Wft&T.h."A.M-   WhW  NEF  $.In    0.1151  0 135   tOn    0.120    0 140    0.020    0.120    Om         ~~~                                   ~9.60    0300                  .40     0.34    0220              .12
2t  My-dC-g .g0                                                              0033    O0126   03674   02702   001236     01   0    .214 6    0.22 0  0 47110                   1       00364   0 0365   I949
T~~~P*y~~~.o.IC.m4q,.oo,o, ~~~~~~~~~~~0,030                     026      07      00 00024    0015    002  0022    0            047                  .            0,053 0  .072O9  01357
T.IdP*.Clq..d,.                                        ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00936    0036  01 0  0133    00126    0144 0 012~   0017    013                       03820.03         0.4
rO7TaL COpONEN  COO                                                         0.370   02961    0.724    0 433    071    070659    0 437i   091234     54      &2 0 69 0       0.255    U138   20982    4A37
21O   TALPOJELCTM BASE CO BAT  _E_C__S__T__                                                         _0__67                                                                           27631   3609    6151-29  0134    026
22O TdLPOE P     PH'dCm- - VSICAL CONTINGENCIES40                                                                                        0 15    0154 _0__  _II__     0                       06       0370
2211 TIALROE P     PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                                                                     02.5 F   2___   _0_36 0.89                   .110 0          10619   0219    301                         P                                                    3
ATOTAL COPONENTCT MT EXCLOI73DI40N2(412 7VAT                                                                                               37.__11___   _____  ___6                    633    4474902
24VT     L-P9   C- bd,I.GOE T                                     -           63993                                                                                                           473    9370                                    VAT
I                                I~~~~~~~~~I



ANNEXI
VPage 18
i:0
-        - - - - - __
6 6   6 00   0
d 6
4  -     -                   ---
4    j~~~ jjI   Ijj
1        1  1 1^ _;  6 E   6 d
H(1  1!~  1111 



ANNEX 1
Page 19
E. Financing Plan
13.         The proposed Bank Loan of US $2.0 million will finance about 24 percent of Project
costs. The Bank Loan will be repaid by the GOE over 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable rate of interest.
*     Water and Wastewater Improvement Component. Grant cofinancing corresponds to
approximately 38 percent of total component costs. Parallel cofinancing would be
provided by: (a) the Government of Finland, through the Ministry of Environment, in
the amount of FIM 3.8 million (US $0.8 million equivalent) to support investments in
the wastewater collection and treatment elements of the proposed Project; and (b) the
Government of Sweden, through the Board of Investment and Technical Support
(BITS), would provide up to SEK 12 million (US $1.6 million equivalent) to support
investments in the wastewater collection and treatment elements of the proposed
Project. The funding is being provided by Finland and Sweden in the context of their
support for the Baltic Sea Environment Program.
Local counterpart contribution of EEK 20 million or US $1.6 million equivalent would
be provided by the GOE; EEK 3.3 million or US $0.26 million equivalent would be
provided by the MOH.
*     Environmental Management Component. Parallel grant cofinancing by the Government
of Denmark (about US $600,000 equivalent), the Government of Sweden, through the
Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (US $330,000), the Government of
Finland, through the Ministry of Environment (US $220,000) and the European Union
(PHARE) (US $300,000) would be provided. This would be complemented by local
contributions of US $670,000. It is anticipated that the Danish funds would be
provided to Estonia through a grant to WWF-Denmark which would administer the
funds in cooperation with local counterparts consistent with an approved work plan.
Local counterpart contribution of US $670,000 equivalent would be provided by GOE.
14.         Tables 2 and 3 show the required financing by year and financer.



ANNEX I
Page 20
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN BY YEAR
US $ million
Bank Fiscal Year                         1996   1997   1998   199    Iial
WWILC
IBRD Loan                                0.42    0.66   0.61   0.31    2.00
BITS, Sweden, (grant)                    0.14    0.73   0.73           1.60
Ministry of Environment, Finland, (grant)  0.26    0.27   0.27         0.80
Government of Estonia                    0.48    0.49   0.49   0.12    1.59
Municipality of Haapsalu                 0.04    0.09   0.09   0.04    0.26
Subtotal    1.34   2.23   2.20   0.47    6.25
EMC
Env. Protection Agency, Sweden, (grant)  0.12    0.11   0.10           0.33
Ministry of Environment, Finland, (grant)  0.08   0.07   0.07          0.22
Ministry of Environment, Denmark, (grant)  0.21    0.20   0.19         0.60
EU (PHARE), (grant)                      0.10    0.10   0.10           0.30
Government of Estonia                    0.23    0.22   0.22           0.67
Subtotal    0.72    0.71   0.69           2.12
TOTAL                                    2.07   2.94   2.89   0.47    8.37
Table 3: FINANCING PLAN BY FINANCER
US $ million
Local              Foreig              IQ
LS-S  YE      US-$~S
IBRD Loan                             0.73      19%       1.27     28%       2.00      24%
BITS, Sweden, (grant)                 0.02      0%        1.58      35%       1.60      19%
Ministry of Environment, Finland, (grant)    0.00  0%     0.80      18%      0.80       10%
Government of Estonia                 1.59      41%       0.00      0%        1.59      19%
Municipality of Haapsalu              0.26      7%        0.00      0%       0.26       3%
Subtotal   2.60     67%       3.65      82%       6.25      75%
EMC
Env. Protection Agency, Sweden, (grant)    0.23  6%      0.10       2%       0.33       4%
Ministry of Environment, Finland, (grant)    0.00  0%     0.22      5%       0.22       3%
Ministry of Environment, Denmnark, (grant)  0.42  11%     0.18      4%       0.60       7%
EU (PHARE), (grant)                   0.20      5%        0.10      2%       0.30       4%
Government of Estonia                 0.43      11%       0.24      5%       0.67       8%
Subtotal   1.28     33%       0.84      19%       2.12      25%
TOTAL                                 3.89                4.48               8.37



II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Organizations Responsible for the Project and Interagency Coordination
15.          Ministry of Environment. An International Relations Department has been established
within the MOE which is responsible for the preparation and supervision of all internationally funded
projects. This unit, along with the Nature Protection Department and Water Protection Department, has
been directly involved in the preparation of the proposed Project, including the review and approval of
terms of reference, selection and supervision of consultants and review of their studies. Based on previous
Bank experience in working with the MOE in the context of the Baltic Sea Environment Program and on
Project preparation to date, it is anticipated that the staff of these departments would be capable of
successfully supporting supervision of the proposed Project.
16.          Haapsalu Water Works. The MOE has appointed HWW to undertake implementation of
the WWIC. This approach is fully consistent with the policy of the MOE to support the decentralization
of environmental management responsibilities to local municipalities and to have those parties which
would be responsible for operation and maintenance of facilities take an active role in their design and
construction.
17.          The HWW is now owned by the Haapsalu local government in accordance with the Law
on Local Government Arrangement (1993). The legal process of forming a municipal enterprise was
completed in February 1995. The HWW is managed by a director who has been appointed by the MOH.
In addition, a board, formed by members of the City Council, representatives from the private sector and
the community, will be formed as an advisory board for the utility. The utility will be financially
independent, having its own bank accounts. The authority of approving the budgets for operation and
maintenance and investments as well as tariffs charged by HWW have been delegated to MOH by the
City Council.
18.          Other Implementing Agencies. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), working
through its Baltic Regional Program and Danish Program, would participate in the implementation of the
protected areas management activities for the Matsalu State Nature Reserve and Matsalu Bay catchment
area management. Concerned local level environmental, infrastructure, planning and tourism organizations
have a limited number of skilled personnel; however, with proper design and supervision of the proposed
activities, they should be able to have a significant role in implementation and benefit from component
supported training activities.
B. Agreements between Borrower and Implementing Agencies
19.          The following agreements were reached between the Borrower and the Implementing
Agencies during negotiations:
(a)    The Borrower ensured that it would identify how its counterpart contributions would be
provided and specify the procedures to be used for on-lending to HWW;
(b)    The MOE would provide names of the members of the Project Steering Committee
(PSC);



ANNEX I
Page 22
(c)    The Municipality of Haapsalu and HWW would nominate personnel for carrying out the
WWIC, including the proposed appointment of key personnel for the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU);
(d)    The PIU for the WWIC should become operational in May 1995;
(e)    Detailed Implementation Plans would be provided for the WWIC and the EMC;
(f)    The Municipality of Haapsalu would agree to continue approving regular tariff increases
sufficient to allow the HWW to cover water production and treatment costs, wastewater
treatment and disposal costs, operation and maintenance, depreciation, interest and make
a contribution to reserves;
(g)    The HWW would commit itself to carry out the planned twinning arrangement with a
utility acceptable to the Bank; and
(h)    The MOE would provide the names of the Chairperson, Secretary and members of the
ATT.
C. Responsibilities of Implementing Agencies
20.          Project Coordination. The GOE's MOE would provide overall coordination and
supervision of the Project, coordinate actions of funding organizations and local implementing agencies,
and manage interactions with the Bank. The MOE has appointed a Project Coordinator in the International
Relations Department to perform this task. This department has national responsibility for coordination
and supervision of all internationally supported environmental projects, either loan or grant financed,
including those supported by international financial institutions, the EU and a series of bilateral
cooperation agreements with foreign governments. In order to facilitate day-to-day implementation of the
Project, consistent with Estonian decentralization policies, the MOE would delegate most implementation
responsibilities for the WWIC to the HWW. For the coordination and management of the EMC, MOE
would be assisted, as appropriate by the HELCOM PITF Working Group on Coastal Lagoons and
Wetlands Area Task Team (MLW/ATT) established in 1994 for the Matsalu Bay area to initiate and
coordinate at the local level the implementation of the coastal lagoons and wetlands component of the
JCP.
21.          Project Steering Committee. To facilitate implementation of the proposed Project, the
MOE would formally extend the charter of the current Project Steering Committee (PSC) for the project
preparation to cover project implementation as well. It is anticipated that current members would be
retained for the benefit of continuity. PSC membership would include representatives of MOE, MOH,
HWW, Lihula Water Works, Matsalu State Nature Reserve, and Laane, and Rapla Counties. Draft terms
of reference for the PSC were agreed upon during negotiations (Annex 3C).
22.          The PSC would provide overall guidance for the proposed Project and facilitate national
and local government coordination issues. It would ensure that financial resources required under the
Project are made available to the implementing agencies in a timely manner and monitor Project
expenditure and costs. The PSC would monitor the movement of official documents and contracts through



ANNEX I
Page 23
the usual approval processes and undertake measures to expedite their release. It would also monitor
compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines in the acquisition of equipment and technical assistance
contracts.
23.          Water and Wastewater Improvement Component. HWW  would be responsible for
implementation of the water and wastewater improvement component. The director of HWW would be
responsible for supervision of all Project supported activities concerning water and wastewater. To
facilitate implementation of this component a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be
established within HWW. The PIU would be assisted, as required, by international consultants to support
the preparation of technical specifications, bidding documents, tendering, bid evaluation, contract awards,
supervision of civil works and equipment installation and follow-up activities. Annex 3D includes agreed
Terms of Reference for the PIU.
24.          Environmental Management Component. This component would be implemented by the
MOE, local authorities and WWF under the supervision of a MOE technical specialist. The coordination
and supervision of the various sub-components would be carried out by the MOE, with the assistance of
the MLW/ATT. The ATT consists of representatives from the MOE, Matsalu State Nature Reserve, the
Laane County, the Rapla County, Tallinn Technical University, Estonian Fund for Nature, and WWF.
A Secretary was appointed to the ATT by the MOE in November 1994. The implementation of this
component would be carried out in accordance with a work plan and terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
25.          Implementation Completion Report. The PSC Chairperson, with the support of the HWW
and the MOE, would prepare a draft Implementation Completion Report (ICR) within six months after
completion of the Project.
26.          Chart 2 below shows the department responsible and implementing agency for each sub-
component of the Project.



ANNEX I
Page 24
Chart 2: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Subcomponent and Activity               Responsible        Implementing Agency
Department
Component A.
Water and Wastewater Improvement
Water and Wastewater Improvement        MOE                Haapsalu Water Works on behalf of the
Municipality of Haapsalu
Twinning Arrangement                    MOE                Haapsalu Water Works in cooperation with
foreign twinning partner
Component B.
Environmental Management
Implementation of Management Plan for   MOE                MOE, Matsalu State Nature Reserve, WWF-
Matsalu State Nature Reserve                               Denmark, in coordination with the Area Task
Team
Point and Non-Point Source Pollution Control  MOE          MOE with support, as appropriate of the Area
on Matsalu Bay Catchment                                   Task Team
Eco-Tourism Planning and Management     MOE and Laane      Laane County, Municipality of Haapsalu and
County             Matsalu State Nature Reserve
D. Role of the World Bank during Supervision
27.            The proposed Project would be supervised by Bank staff in accordance with a proposed
supervision plan summarized in Chart 3. Representatives from MOE and the donors (BITS and the
Finnish Ministry of Environment) have informed the Bank that they would participate in supervision
missions. Staff from WWF are also expected to participate in selected missions.
28.            Supervision of the proposed Project would be particularly intense during the first two
years when considerable input would be required for: (a) engineering and procurement aspects of the
water and wastewater improvement component; and (b) preparation and initial implementation of activities
under the environmental management component.
29.            A mid-term  review would be conducted around April 1997 to evaluate overall Project
progress including progress towards the goal of achieving HWW's financial autonomy, and to assess the
development and implementation of an amended tariff structure (see terms of reference, Annex 3B).
During the mid-term review, adjustments would be made in the implementation schedule, if deemed
necessary, to improve HWW's management capacity, and review the long-term tariff rates based on the
findings of the tariff study.
30.            It is planned that about 18 staff-weeks of effort for the first two years and about 15 staff-
weeks thereafter would be required for supervision. Following the start-up mission, supervision



ANNEX I
Page 25
requirements would include two supervision missions and an annual review; in later years one supervision
mission and an annual review would be conducted. The final supervision mission would be to prepare
the Implementation Completion Report. It is planned that these missions, in order to minimize costs,
would be coordinated with those required for the complementary Liepaja Environment Project in Latvia
and Klaipeda Environment Project in Lithuania.



ANNEX I
Page 26
Chart 3: SUPERVISION PLAN
Env.                   Total |
Approx          Activity         Staff Weeks      TM        Fin. An.  Proc. Off. Disb. Off.   Engin.  Env. Spec. Staff weeks
Date
F    Jun-95    Supervision I       Headquarters    _               1           1          1      _       _                   4
Y              (Project Startup)    Regional Office                                                   I          1           2
9                                  BITS, Sweden                                                      2                       2
5                                  Finnish ME                                                         I    _I_
WWFI 
........._ _ WWF ..   ............ .. .. ..... __ .__ ............   . .._  _.  ..........   ...... . ........  .. ..  _.._..    .... ...... ........ .  ............
Sep-95    Supervision 2       Headquarters         I          I           I          1                                  3
Regional Office            __              _                                  1           2
BITS, Sweden       ___                                            1                       I
Finnish ME                             __. I                                              I
F
Y   Dec-95    lst Annual Review  Headquarters                                  I [                                           2
9                     Regional Offic  ______  ___                        _____           2
9                                  Regional Office _                                                 2           1           3
6                                  BITS, Sweden                                                      2                        I
Finnish ME                                                                                1
WWF                                                                           I            I_
Apr-96    Supervision 3       Headquarters         I                      I_ _   1            _                         2
Regional Office     _2                                                        1           3
BITS, Sweden                                                                              2
Finnish ME                                                              I1                0_     |
Sep-96    Supervision 4       Headquarters         1          1           1             1            _ _                4
Regional Office _                      _____                      2           1           3
BITS, Sweden                                                                              I 1  1
Finnish ME    |
Y   Dec-96    2rid Annual Review  Headquarters          I    I_I__I_II                 I           I                   1     4      1
9                                  Regional Office              _         1         |      _   1     2             _1        3
7                                  BITS, Sweden                                                       I _   I  1i1.i_____I
Finnish ME                                       LI                                       I 
W.WF                                                                          I           I 
Apr-97    Supervision 5       Headquarters                                                                               I 1  1  _   3
Mid-term Review    Regional Office ____|_|_2                                                      1           3
BITS, Sweden |I 
Finnish ME            _-_ _                            -     -    I-                   _    _-------
Dec-97    3rd Annual Review  Headquarters          1I                        I                                   |     3
Regional Office|                                                  2     |    1            3
BITS, Sweden                          __|____                     I                       I
Finnish ME    L____                                       1                               1
WWF
F
Y    Apr-98    Supervision 6       Headquarters        2                                                                     3
9                                  Regional Office                                                   2        1              3
8                                  BITS, Sweden                                                                   I          I
Finnish ME                                                        I                       1
Dec-98    4th Annual Review Headquarters           I          I                                                   |     2
F                                  Regional Officel                                           
y                                  BITS, Sweden|                                                      I
9                                  Finnish ME
9                                  WWF                                                        
Mar-99    Project Completion Headquarters  |       2                                                                    2      |
Report Preparation  Regional Office|                                          



III. IMPLEMENTATION ACTIVITIES
A. Implementation Preparation
31.          Terms of reference have been prepared and would be discussed and finalized during
negotiations for a number of implementation preparation activities. Terms of reference for the twinning
arrangement, tariff study, PSC and PIU can be found in Annex 3.
B. Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
32.          Like many other Eastern European and FSU countries, Estonia does not have a tradition
of competitive bidding for the procurement of public goods and services. All procurement during the
Soviet period was done centrally. The GOE is now in the process of preparing legislation instituting
public procurement rules and regulations as part of its comprehensive program to transform its economy
from a centrally planned to a market-oriented system based on the development of a competitive private
sector. The GOE has requested the Bank to provide assistance in this area. A Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) is not required at this stage. Since the introduction of procurement legislation
is expected to take some time, assurance for this proposed Project would be obtained during negotiations
that the GOE would apply procurement procedures which are consistent with the Bank's "Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD and IDA Credits" (May 1992).
33.           Procurement for the WWIC, under parallel cofinancing arrangements (approximately
US $2.4 million) would be carried out through tied procurement in accordance with procurement
regulations of the governments of Finland and Sweden. Procurement would be undertaken in the
following manner:
(a)    All Bank funded contracts which are estimated to cost more than US $200,000 equivalent
per contract would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The
Borrower would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Supply and Erect
Contracts. Five contracts totalling approximately US $1.60 million for civil works and
larger equipment for water supply and sewerage systems would be awarded under ICB;
(b)    Procedures for International Shopping (IS) and Local Shopping (LS) would be used for
procurement of smaller contracts up to US $200,000 and US $50,000 respectively
because the cost of ICB would clearly outweigh possible price advantages. It is expected
that some small components such as sewerage system reconstruction and laboratory
equipment would be procured through IS. LS procedures would be used for procurement
of office equipment. Contracts awarded under IS procedures (totalling approximately US
$200,000) would be based on comparing price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from three eligible countries in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts
awarded under LS procedures (totalling approximately US $30,000) would be based on
comparing price quotations from at least three local suppliers; and
(c)    Consultant Services would be requested for consultant support for the PIU (US $0.45
million). Potential candidates would be short listed and selected on a competitive basis
according to Bank Guidelines, and hiring would be on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.



ANNEX 1
Page 28
34.          Relevant personnel from the MOE and the PIU would participate in procurement training
courses organized by the Bank before Loan effectiveness. A regional procurement training course,
provided by the Regional Procurement Advisor is been tentatively scheduled for May 1995 in Lithuania.
The efficiency and capability of the Borrower to carry out the Bank's procurement procedures would be
strengthened through ongoing training and the use of standard bidding documents. Provision of
international technical assistance for the PIU, financed under the proposed Loan should ensure adequate
administration of procurement.
35.          Procurement Review. All ICB procurement packages would be subject to the Bank's prior
review and approval, in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines. All prior review items would cover 80 percent of the total amount of the Loan. Other loan-
funded activities would be subject to the Bank's post review during the supervision of the Project, in
accordance with paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines.
36.          A draft summary of procurement packages for works, equipment, and technical assistance,
indicating the schedule for tendering and the estimated cost is shown in Tables 4, 5 and 8. Completion
time of contracts would be determined during appraisal.
37.          Procurement Monitoring. Procurement data would be collected and recorded by the PIU
for: (i) prompt reporting of contract award information by the Borrower; (ii) comprehensive quarterly
reports to the Bank by the Borrower; and (iii) revised timing of procurement actions, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.



A-NNEX I
Page 29
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements
(US $ million)
Total
Project Element                                                     ICB        Other           N.B.F.            Cost
A. Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component
Civil Works and Larger Equipment
Sewerage Pumping Stations                                          0.38                                          0.38
01                                          Q02
Sewerage Collector Rehabilitation                                  0.27                                          0.27
Q2z                                          QL2
New Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant
and Reconstruction of Primary Sedimentation
Basins                                                                                          2.86             2.86
Water Pipelines, Sewerage Collectors and Car
Service Sewerage                                                   0.40                                          0.40
024                                           021
Renewal of Water Pumps and Automatic
Water Supply Control                                               0.35                                          0.35
022                                           022
Pikk-holm area sewerage                                            0.21                                          0.21
U21                                          021
Smaller Equipment
System reconstructions                                                         0.15                              0.15
QJ,      **                       0
Laboratory Equipment                                                           0.05                              0.05
Q.0       **
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
Prodif  ... ......  ... .. ta.. ..o. .l...u.....i..........l.....?.......................................
Office equipment                                                               0.03                              0.03
Q    *
Consultant Services
Support for the PIU                                                            0.70                              0.70
Li4i                              0 -4
Training & Technical Assistance (Twinning)                                                      0.50             0.50
B. Environmental Management                                                                     2.12             2.12
Sub Total                      1.61       0.94             5.48              8.03
Value Added Tax                        0.17       0.01             0.16              0.34
TOTAL                                                              1.78        0.95             5.64             8.37
The World Bank                       132         am                                _Q
wueriined numbers in italici - IBRD lown fnaned
N.B.F - Not Bank Finaned
Bank 'Guidelines for Use of Cmsants- (August 1981) - US
$ million          0.44
Loal Shopping - US $ million        0.03
Inteaonal Shopping - US $ million       0.15
*- Inernational Shopping - US $ million    0.05
totl            0.68
I'll VAT to be fnanced by local conurbution



Table 5: IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT ACTIVITIES - SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENr PACKAAGES
Est. Cost    Proc         Preparation     Tender Doc         Bid         Contract         Contract
Con2ponerit                                                      (USS M)    Metiod        of Bidding Docs     Issued        Submitted       Signed        Completion
A. Water and Wastewater
Improvement Component
Civil Works and Larger Equipment
Randsalu Pumping Station PS-8                        Sewerage                 ICBI        Apr-95 - Dec-95     Mar-96         Apr-96         Jun-96          Jun-98
Main pumping station                                 Sewerage                 ICBI
Reconstruction of MEK pumping station (PS-12)        Sewerage                 ICBI
Supluse St. pumping station, pressure pipe           Sewerage        0 8       ICBI
Haava St. collector rehabilitation                   Sewerage        0 27      ICB2        Apr-95 - Jul-95    Jul-95         Oct-95        Jan-96           Dec-96
Pipeline of Toouse, Tamme, and Raudtee and Kalda Streets Water                 ICB3       Apr-95 - Nov-95     Dec-95         Mar-96        May-96           Dec-97
Kalda St. collector and pumping station              Sewerage                 ICB3
Car service sewerage                                 Sewerage        0,40      ICB3
Pikk-holm area sewerage                              Sewerage         La       ICB4       Sep-96 - Nov-96     Dec-96         Feb-97        May-97           Dec-98
Renewal of pumps                                     Water                     ICB5       Apr-95 - Nov-95     Dec-95         Feb-96        May-96           Dec-97
Automatic control system                             Water           o,x      ICB5
New Wastewater Treatment Plant and Reconstruction of
Primary Sedimentation Basins                                         2.86    N.B.F.       Jun-95 - Aug-95     Nov-95         Jan-96        Mar-96           Dec-97
Smaller Fquipment
System reconstructions                               Sewerage        0.15       IS        Sep-96 - Nov-96     Dec-96         Feb-97        Apr-97            Jun-98
Laboratory equipment                                 Sewerage        0.05       IS        Sep-96 - Nov-96     Dec-96         Feb-97        Apr-97            Jul-97
Project Implementation Unit (PIUM
Office equipment                                                     0.03       LS         Mar-95-Apr-95      Apr-95         May-95        May-95            Jun-95
Staffing of PIU                                                      0.26    N.B.F.             n.a.            n.a.          n.a.           n.a.           Dec-98
Consultc
Support for the PIU                                                  0.44    shortlist     Mar-95-Apr-95      Apr-95         May-95        May-95            Dec-96
Training & Technical Assistance (Twinning)                           0.50     N.B.F.       Mar-95-Apr-95        n.a.          n.a.          Jul-95          Aug-98
Sub Total                                                            5.91
B. Environmental Management Component
Matsalu State Nature Reserve                                         0.55     N.B.F.    EU PHARE procurement already completed                               Dec-97
Matsalu Catchment (exl. Lihula)                                      0.68    N.B.F.                                                                          Dec-97
Lihula                                                               0.75     N.B.F.                                                                         Dec-97
Eco Tourism                                                          0.14     N.B.F.                                                                         Aug-98
Sub Total                 2.12
Value Added Tax                 0.34                                                                                                              X  Z
TOTAL                    8.37                                                                                                                 X



ANNEX I
Page 31
C. Disbursements
38.          The proposed Loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of four fiscal years (1996-
1999) on the following basis:
39.          The proceeds of the Bank Loan would be disbursed against:
(a)    For goods: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local ex-factory
expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(b)    For works: 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures; and
(c)    For consultancy services and training: 100 percent of expenditures
All cofinancers would manage their own disbursements.
40.          The allocation of the Bank Loan proceeds and the corresponding local contribution grant
proceeds are shown in Table 6; Table 7 indicates forecasts of expenditures and disbursements for the
proposed Project.
41.          Disbursement requests would be prepared and submitted to the Bank by PIU.
42.          Disbursement would be made against standard Bank documentation. The documentation
to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for review by Bank supervision missions and
verification by external audits. Disbursement requests would be fully documented except for expenditures
under contracts for goods and equipment valued at less than US $200,000 equivalent, where statements
of expenditure (SOE) would be used. Applications for direct payment and special commitment may be
submitted provided they are for amounts equivalent to at least US $50,000. The Bank would not honor
direct payment requests below US $50,000.
43.          To facilitate Project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation would be US $200,000, representing
about four months of average expenditures. At the request of the Borrower, and based on Project needs,
the Bank would make an initial deposit or deposits into the special account up to the amount of the
authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the special account would be submitted monthly
or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation
requirements for replenishment would follow the standard procedure. In addition, monthly bank
statements of the special account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all
replenishment requests.
44.          Training in disbursement was provided to key Estonian personnel responsible for Project
implementation, in Riga, Latvia, in January 1995.



ANNEX 1
Page 32
Table 6: FINANCING PLAN BY DISBURSEMENT CATEGORY
US $ Million
IBRD         %         Local
Amount of exfact. cost  Contr.    %       Grants      %
A. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
CivU Works and Larger Equipment
Sewerage
Randsalu Pumping Station PS-8                          0.03       100%
Main pumping station                                   0.15       100%
Reconstruction of MEK pumping station (PS-12)          0.05       100%
New Wastewater Treatment Plant and Reconstruction of
Primary Sedimentation Basins                                                  0.88     31%       1.98      69%
Haava St. collector rehabilitation                     0.27       100%
Kalda St. collector and pumping station                0.16       100%
Supluse St. pumping station, pressure pipe             0.16       100%
Car service sewerage                                   0.04       100%
Pikk-holm area sewerage                                0.21       100%
Water Supply
Pipeline of Toouse, Tamme, and Raudtee and Kalda Streets    0.05   24%        0.15     76%
Renewal of pumps                                       0.13        69%        0.06     31%
Automatic control system                               0.09        55%        0.07     45%
Smaller Equipment
Sewerage
System reconstructions                                 0.15       100%
Laboratory equipment                                   0.05       100%
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
Office equipment                                       0.03       100%
Consultant Services
Staffing for the PIU                                   0.44        63%        0.26     37%
Training & Technical Assistance (Twinning)                                    0.08     17%       0.42      83%
B. Environmental Management Component                                         0.67     32%       1.45      68%
VAT                                                                           0.34
Total Disbursement                                     2.00                   2.52              3.85                 8.37



ANNEX 1
Page 33
Table 7: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
FY            Quarter   Loan Disbursement    Cumulative   Disbursement Profile
Since Approval   This Qtr. Cumulative    Total       Sector*   Regional **
FY 1996         Sep-95        0.00        0.00     0%
Dec-95        0.08        0.08     4%           0           0
Mar-96        0.13        0.21     11%
Jun-96        0.21        0.42    21%           6           3
FY 1997        Sep-96         0.10        0.52    26%           10          6
Dec-96        0.13        0.65    33%
Mar-97        0.16        0.82    41%           18           6
Jun-97        0.26        1.08    54%
FY 1998         Sep-97        0.09        1.17    59%          26           14
Dec-97        0.12        1.29    65%
Mar-98        0.15         1.44    72%          34          18
Jun-98        0.24        1.69    84%
FY 1999         Sep-98        0.08        1.77    88%          42          26
Dec-98        0.09        1.86    93%
Mar-99        0.11         1.97    98%          54          30
Jun-99       0.03         2.00    100%
Loan Closing Date:         30-Jun-99
* All regions - subsector set.
** Region - sector set. (ECA)



ANNEX 1
Page 34
D. Finance
45.           Overview. HWW was established as a municipally owned water and wastewater enterprise
in February, 1995 as a part of GOE's broad strategy to decentralize muncipal services. In order to
become a financially autonomous municipal enterprise, HWW needs to improve its technology and
financial management through undertaking complementary investment and institutional strengthening
activities.
46.           Central to its approach of institutional strengthening is development of a formal "twinning
arrangement" on a contractual basis with an experienced water and wastewater utility under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank. This twinning arrangement, funded under the Project, would provide
support for: utility management; monitoring and use of laboratory data; system investment planning;
rehabilitation program design; construction supervision; operation and maintenance; tariff setting; billing
and collection; accounting and auditing; human resources development and public information programs
(see Annex 3A for the draft terms of reference). The Bank supports alternatives approaches as long as
the institutional objectives of the Project are achievable.
47.           Past Performance. Analysis of HWW's financial statements for the years 1991-1993
shows that the tariff levels were so low in 1991 that the state intervened with subvention of operating
expenses; in 1992, tariff levels were increased to a level sufficient enough to cover its cash operating
costs and to a small extent a provision for planned maintenance. In 1993, tariffs were increased but not
to a level sufficient enough to cover inflation; the utility consequently experienced a deficit. Had the
accounts properly accounted for charges for other non-cash items, including a provision for bad and
doubtful debts, and proper asset depreciation reflecting replacement costs revaluation, deficits would have
been reported for the whole 1991-1993 period. Preliminary 1994 numbers show HWW made minimal
profits, though again with an undervalued depreciation. HWW's financial performance for the 1991-1993
period is summarized in Table 9.
48.           Historically, GOE has provided financing for all of HWW's capital investment program.
Consequently, the enterprise has no long term external debt. Most of the short term debt, reflected largely
in accounts payable, is money owed for electricity supply, natural resource taxes, and pollution taxes.
Toward the end of 1993 and in early 1994, the financial viability of HWW was hampered by the the
transfer of state residential, commercial and industrial properties to the private sector, which has
neglected outstanding liabilities of previous owners who failed to pay their bills. Additionally, industries
in Haapsalu have experienced financial downturns and consequently regard payment of water bills to be
low priority.
49.           HWW's inability during the past three years to adjust tariffs in a timely manner to
compensate for inflation, to make proper provisions for future investment and maintenance needs, and
to compensate for increasing non-payment by consumers has deprived the utility of cash to run its day-to-
day operations, let alone provide for future investments.
50.    The budget is prepared on the assumption of 100% revenue collection on a current basis. On the
basis of budgets thus constructed, the City Council determines the tariff rates and tax liability.



ANNEX I
Page 35
Table 8. Haapsalu's Financial Performance 1991-1993
(Constant 1994 EEK - 000's)
1991              1992               1993
Sales (thousand n3)
water                                        1449.0             1042.0             980.0
sewerage                                     1473.0             1086.0             858.0
Average tariff (kr/m3)
water                                          0.69               1.11               1.12
sewerage                                       0.82               2.11              2.84
Revenues (excluding turnover tax!
water                                         999.6             1152.6            1098.4
sewerage                                     1211.1             22882             2437.4
Total Revenue                                   2210.7             3440.8            3535.8
Expns
water                                         611.7             1012.3             975.6
sewerage                                      832A              1811.6            2025.1
Total Expenses                                  1443.8             2823.9            3000.7
Operating IncQm
water                                         387.9              140.3              122.8
sewerage                                      379.0              476.4             412.3
Total Operating Income                           766.9              616.7             535.1
Less: Depreciation
water                                          74.0               78.0             209.5
sewerage                                      1798               1810              5
Total Depreciation                               253.8              259.0             710.3
NetLncom
water                                         313.9               62.3             -86.7
sewerage                                      199.2              29256 i885
Total Net Income                                 513.1              357.9            -175.2
Working Ratio (%)                                   65                 82                85
Operating Ratio (%)                                 77                 90                105
Receivables (no. month's billing)                   1.3               1.2                1.5
The decrease in consumption of both water and sewerage volume over 1991-1993 can be
attributed largely to the slump in industrial activity during the period.



ANNEX I
Page 36
51.           Tariff Levels and Revenues. Water tariffs are currently inadequate to cover full operating
and depreciation costs. Despite several tariff increases in the last few years, increases have not, since
1992, kept pace with the high and erratic periods of inflation and thus have failed to adjust properly to
real cost increases. In September 1994, the City Council agreed to a combined tariff increase for water
to 2.10 kr/m3 and wastewater to 4.40 kr/m3, which still does not cover full operating and depreciation
costs. The tariff structure does not include standing charges (only a symbolic connection fee is said to
be charged) nor incremental charges for higher levels of consumption. All tariffs are either of a simple
volumetric form or, as is the case for industrial discharges, of a weighted volumetric form. Industrial
customers are metered, as are approximately 95 percent of domestic customers. Wastewater tariffs are
generally applied on the basis of consumed (metered or estimated) water, rather than accurate sewerage
metering. The only exceptions are those for large industrial customers which use considerable volumes
of water in the production process, for which a revised "return rate" is agreed, or for those who possess
their own water supply, in which case the private supply is metered and a "reduced" charge calculated.
In the institutional strengthening component, consisting of the twinning arrangement, assistance for tariff
planning and financial operations would be provided based on the results of the tariff study (see TOR,
Annex 3B).
52.          Billing and Collection. HWW's billing and collection procedures are only partly
computerized; consumers are divided into: (a) residential customers; and (b) industrial consumers
(including schools, hospitals, offices and shops). At present, residential and industrial customers pay the
same tariff. HWW formerly differentiated between households and industry for wastewater fees. Since
1994, however, the base fee is the same for both kinds of users.
53.           The collection process is administratively burdensome but has so far been adequate given
that the debt ratio does not exceed 10 percent of average total revenues. This only corresponds to about
a month's payment. The amount of average yearly debts have increased at the same rate as Estonia's
internal inflation. Good collection history has been encouraged by HWW's policy of turning off the water
from non-paying consumers. At the end of 1993, however, industrial consumer debt had increased,
attributed largely to bankruptcy amongst companies, while the households fulfilled their payment
obligations relatively better.
54.          Accounting System. HWW has overhauled its former command accounting system to an
internationally recognized accrual accounting system. However, there remain a number of accounting
procedural deficiencies, including fixed asset revaluation procedures, proper general ledger preparations,
and other account transactions. Additionally, the computerized system requires upgrading. The required
support to improve the financial management of HWW would be provided under the twinning
arrangement. To facilitate improved control of HWW's finances, the Project proposes to support the
implementation of an automated accounting system linked to various Management Information System
(MIS).
55.          Accounts Receivable. HWW's accounts receivable as a percentage of gross revenue
improved significantly from 1993 to 1994, decreasing from 13.8 percent to 7.4 percent respectively,
However, HWW does not maintain comprehensive information on accounts receivable. Under the Action
Plan, HWW would: (a) produce a comprehensive statement of accounts receivable by consumer category
and age; (b) implement a program for the effective recovery of outstanding accounts; and (c) include a
provision in the income statement for non-performing receivables.



ANNEX I
Page 37
56.           Debt. The proposed financing plan for HWW  would yield a debt-equity ratio which
averages approximately 30 percent during the Project lifetime and never exceeds 50 percent.
Consequently, HWW would not be in an over-leveraged position during the life of the Project. To insure
financial stability the utility should not incure any debt during the Project implementation period, unless
its net cash generated2 is at least 1.5 times the total estimated debt service requirements.
57.           Asset Revaluations. HWW's historical statements are not readily comparable with present
financial performance, and despite a major asset revaluation in December 1992 and tariff increases,
proper charges for depreciation are not made against revenue. This emphasizes the need, particularly in
periods of high or erratic inflation, for regular adjustments to tariff and asset values to ensure proper
funding for asset replacement. Additionally, it is desirable that a more comprehensive asset revaluation
be carried out to provide an acceptable estimate of HWW's assets, based on current replacement costs
and their physical condition. Given that a proper asset revaluation is an expensive exercise and likely to
take time HWW could revalue its assets based on a limited physical inventory used to assess replacement
value. The entire inventory would consequently be adjusted accordingly. This revaluation exercise is
included in the terms of reference for the tariff study.
58.            Future Financial Performnance. The projections show  that the water and sewerage
operations will be financially sustaining, provided: (a) the revenue projections are fulfilled; (b) water and
sewerage tariffs are periodically adjusted to maintain the objective of full debt service cost recovery; (c)
accounts receivable are sustained (payments outstanding are at an acceptable level of under 1 month); (d)
adequate levels of sustained maintenance are provided; and (e) the reorganization, training, and technical
assistance proposals are implemented to promote operating efficiency and cost reductions. The projections
show that with the prescribed tariff adjustments presented above, the utility would generate sufficient
funds to cover the debt service obligations (it exceeds 1.5 from year 1994 through 2005). Financial
projections for the water supply and sewerage system are presented in Appendix 1.
59.            Projections of HWW's financial performance assume that its future, outstanding long term
debt obligation is only that owed to the Bank in an amount totalling US$ 2.0 million. This requires tariff
adjustments over the 1995-1999 period, as presented in Table 9 below, that are structured to allow the
utility to achieve a cash flow level adequate enough to:
-      service debt obligations at a cash flow generation level which does not allow the
debt service coverage ratio to fall below 1.5 each year;
-      achieve a working ratio3 of 50 percent or below;
-      achieve an operating ratio4 below 85 percent; and
-      achieve a return on assets5 of at least 10 percent.
2      Net cash generated equals net cash flow minus Bank debt service.
3      Working ratio = operating expenses divided by revenue.
4      Operating ratio = operating costs, depreciation, and interest expense divided by revenue
5      Return on assets = (net income plus interest) x (1-tax rate)/Replacement Value of Assets.



ANNEX 1
Page 38
Table 9: Expected Water and WastewaterTariff Increases (real)
Year                        Annual Increases
1995                                   19%
1996                                   19%
1997                                   19%
1998                                   10%
1999                                    5%
2000-                                   0%
60.           The tariff increases proposed below would allow HWW to meet the financial objectives
listed above as early as 1995, achieving the financial objectives as presented in Appendix 1 of this Annex.
61.           Tariff Affordability. Current combined tariffs correspond to EEK 6.50/m3 for both
domestic and industrial customers, which represents approximately 2.6 percent of the monthly average
household income. Given the estimated real tariff increase of approximately 95 percent over a period of
five years and a real income growth, the water service tariffs are estimated to correspond to an average
of approximately 3.7 percent of the average household income. In general, water and wastewater tariffs
consisting of 3-4 percent of average household income are considered acceptable. It should be noted that
households in Estonia often have undeclared income that is not reflected in the income level used in this
affordability calculation. Affordability and the possibility of extending the social safety net to the lowest
income categories were reviewed and discussed in detail with MOH during appraisal. Assumptions
underlying the affordability estimates are presented in Annex 6.
62.           Financial viability. HWW's financial sustainability would be achieved by implementation
of a tariff level that would allow it to generate a cash flow sufficient enough to meet the financial
objectives outlined in para. 60. These would collectively ensure HWW's ability to service debt
obligations, provide proper provisions for depreciation of revalued assets, and bad and doubtful debts,
and generate sufficient net profits to yield a 10 percent or higher return on assets.
63.           Additional Project benefits are externalities which cannot easily be quantified nor
incorporated into HWW's finance rate of return analysis. These include direct environmental benefits and
indirect financial benefits to the regional economy from improved environment quality, management of
important ecosystems and increased tourism.



ANNEX 1
Page 39
E. Project Risks
64.           Slippage. With regard to the WWUC, there is a limited risk that Project implementation
would encounter delays due to limited experience in the use of international procurement procedures. In
addition, given the limited technical experience with actual costs for implementation of water and
wastewater improvements in post-Soviet Estonia, the volatility of local price changes, and previous lack
of construction activities to international standards in this sector, construction costs may be
underestimated. In order to minimize these risks, the Project would provide for the establishment of a
strong PIU, adoption of conservative approaches to cost estimation combined with appropriate physical
and price contingencies, and provision of significant technical and procurement support from Bank staff
during supervision both from headquarters and the regional office.
65.           On the basis of previous Bank experience in Eastern Europe there is also a risk that the
GOE and cooperating local governments may have problems with the timely provision of local currency
support and availability of adequately qualified personnel for Project management, the latter due to
government limits on salaries paid to civil servants. These risks would be reduced through close
supervision and quick actions to address these types of implementation problems should they occur.
66.          Institutional and Financial. On the institutional and financial side, the main risks would
be the commitment of the Haapsalu City Council to allow the HWW to function as an independent utility
which, interalia, may interfere with HWW's ability to adjust tariffs sufficiently to cover its costs,
including the repayment of the Bank Loan. These risks can only be partially mitigated through Project
supervision, as MOH is an independent body subject to political and social pressures. MOH can be made
aware of the consequence of its decisions on tariffs through the dialogue afforded by supervision, the
tariff study, and the requested presentation of annual HWW budgets. That MOH jointly with HWW signs
the GOE's subsidiary loan agreement will serve to lower the risk of significant deviations from a rational
tariff policy.
67.           Technology and Management. The WWIC technology is standard and involves no unusual
risks. The main risk is the utility's financial and institutional capability, requiring substantial
strengthening of its financial and managerial capability. Experience with other municipal water and
wastewater authorities in transitional economies demonstrates that close Project supervision and adequate
technical assistance mitigate these risks. The proposed technologies to be demonstrated under the EMC
for the control of point and non-point source pollution from small settlements and agriculture are simple,
and have been tested under similar conditions in the Nordic countries and North America. The use of
ecological engineering methods would allow for the adaptation of a variety of low-cost methods, including
constructed wetlands, under Estonian conditions. A number of Estonian environmental specialists,
associated with both applied research and consulting firms, have knowledge of these technologies and
some demonstration work has already been undertaken by specialists from Tartu University.
68.           The principal risks for the EMC concern: (a) difficulties in coordination of activities
between various national, local, non-governmental, and consultant organizations; (b) resistance from local
authorities and residents to proposed land use control measures to be included in the catchment area and
Matsalu State Nature Reserve management plans; (c) a reluctance of local authorities and agriculturalists
to adopt new low-cost technologies for the control of pollution; and (d) unanticipated problems associated
with the complex issues of restitution of lands confiscated by the State during the Soviet period to their
pre-1940 owners.



ANNEX 1
Page 40
69.          Coordination issues are expected to be addressed effectively by the establishment of
smaller implementation teams each acting with the support of the Project Coordinator and the ATT
Secretary, complemented by close Bank supervision. Resistance to implementation due to land use
constraints and conflicts with pre-1940 land owners can only be addressed by having the direct
participation of these parties, as proposed in the planning and implementation of these activities. It should
be noted that the demonstration activities by their very nature are intended to test the application of these
approaches in the Estonian context and to provide lessons which can be transferred elsewhere within the
country and the Baltic Sea region.
F. Loan Covenants for Implementation
70.          Section VI. of the Staff Appraisal Report shows a complete list of Loan covenants to be
monitored during the Project.



IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Actions to Monitor Development Objectives
71.          Given the essential role program monitoring and evaluation play in determining the impact
of a given intervention on development objectives, a number of indicators will be used to monitor and
evaluate progress during the implementation of the Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project.
B. Project Indicators
72.          Project monitoring indicators were developed during appraisal in order to enable tracking
of Project inputs on key development objectives throughout the Project cycle. These indicators would be
developed further during negotiations. At the mid-term review, the need to fine-tune or restructure the
Project design will be based on the data received from these indicators. However, the progress of these
indicators would be evaluated in relative, not absolute, terms. During supervision, a selected number of
commercial, operational, financial and environmental indicators would be monitored in accordance with
Project objectives. An illustrative list of indicators follows for each component:
Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
(a)    Commercial indicators
Service area is expected to increase with new connections to both water supply
and sewerage. The change in number of water subscribers and connections would
be estimated; and
The collection ratio (total collections divided by total billings) is expected to
improve.
(b)    Operational indicators
--    The non-revenue water percentage (volume of water produced minus volume of
water sold, divided by volume of water produced) is expected to be reduced.
(c)    Financial indicators
The average unit price adjustments for water and sewerage supplied for each
consumer category (the tariff schedule) would be monitored in accordance with
the Loan and Project Agreements; and
The following standard financial indicators, in addition to the internal rate of
return, would be monitored:
Service debt obligations at a cash flow generation level which does not
allow the debt service coverage ratio to fall below 1.5 each year;
A working ratio at 50 percent or below;



ANNEX 1
Page 42
An operating ratio below 85 percent; and
A return on assets of at least 10 percent.
(d)    Environmental Indicators
The following environmental indicators would be monitored:
-      Reliability of water supply and distribution system;
-      Reliability of wastewater collection and conveyance system;
-      Operational performance and level of load reduction achieved by
upgraded wastewater treatment plant; and
-      Levels of reduction of pollution loads at a selected number of locations.
Environmental Management Component
Activity No. 1. Management Plan for Matsalu State Nature Reserve - Support for
Implementation of Priority Actions. The progress of this component would be measured
against:
-      consistency of Project supported activities with the goals and objectives of the
management plan;
-      effective participation of local residents in the planning and implementation of
land management measures conducted under the activity;
-      regular conduct of reed harvesting activities consistent with the recommendations
of the management plan;
-      effective rehabilitation of access roads and other infrastructure; and
-      construction of visitor trails and erection of bird watching towers as provided for
in the management plan.
*     Activity No. 2. Management of the Matsalu Bay Catchment Area.  The following
indicators would be monitored:
effective use of the inventory study and catchment management plan in
implementation of the activity;
reliability of wastewater treatment measures for point-source pollution;
level of adoption of actions for control of non-point source pollution by rural
residents and farmers; and



ANNEX I
Page 43
establishment of a basic monitoring system  and use of data generated for
component related decisions.
Activity No. 3. Support for Planning and Management of Eco-Tourism. The following
indicators would be used for assessing progress of this component:
-      consistency of tourism plans, investments and visitor patterns with the objectives
of the Management Plan for the Matsalu State Nature Reserve;
-      change in number of tourists visiting the area;
-      change in number of tourism-related facilities to accommodate new visitors; and
-      change in tourism-related employment.






Annex 2
ACTION PLAN






ANNEX 2
Page I
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ACTION PLAN
Haapsalu Water Works
A.     Introduction
1.     The management of Haapsalu Water Works (HWW) has decided to initiate the preparation and
implementation of an Action Plan to improve HWW's operational, commercial, and financial
performance, to the enterprise to:
(a)    improve the quality of its services;
(b)    internally generate funds to finance its operations, maintenance and infrastructure
improvements; and
(c)    service the repayment of the loan from the World Bank.
2.     A number of actions are needed to enable HWW to achieve its objectives are specified in this
Action Plan. Issues and needs of specific importance that require special attention have been
identified, and these include: (a) a long-term enterprise strategy; (b) tariff level and structure; (c)
need of operational management assistance; (d) service quality; (e) revenue collection; (f) recording
and budgetary processes; (g) accounting systems and principles; (h) HWW's functional structure;
and (i) revision of position descriptions, including that of the director.
B.     Actions to be Taken
3.     The HWW would undertake the following activities under the Action Plan:
(a)    Enterprise Strategy. A long term enterprise strategy would be prepared, including
projected future capital investment programs and policies for elimination of defects,
quality improvement, tariffs, revenue collection and organizational improvements. This
would include the preparation of a management program that would identify tasks,
allocate resources and staff responsibilities and set quantified performance targets. A draft
strategy would be completed by June 30, 1996.
(b)    Contracting of Management Assistance. This Action Plan would be implemented with
the help of a twinning arrangement with ...........................   Terms of reference for
the twinning arrangement have been developed in coordination with the World Bank. The
contract would be formalized by October 31, 1996.
(c)    Performance Standards. Developing a set of quality standards for each service. It is
understood that it is neither financially nor technically feasible to immediately adopt
corresponding European Union environmental standards but it is expected that a program
of target dates for phased implementation of these standards should form part of HWW's
strategy. This set of phased quality standards goals would be developed by June 30, 1996.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
For this particular project, the Project Monitoring Indicators in the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP) would be utilized in accordance with the World Bank Project Agreement.
(d)    Bill Collection. Improving revenue collection by taking control of collection systems,
pressuring defaulters, obtaining additional authority for debt recovery through the court
system and providing incentives to customers who pay promptly. A plan would be
developed by January 1, 1996.
(e)    Budgetary and Account Systems. Improve all recording and budgetary processes and
systems of accounting. This would include staff and work plans and budget centers and
monthly reviews. New computerized systems would be introduced in conjunction with
extensive training to relevant staff. The new systems should be in place on or before June
30, 1997.
(f)    New Tariff Schedule. Preparation of a new tariff schedule, based on a detailed tariff
study by an international consultant, and implementation of the recommendations of the
study. The tariff schedule would be expected to be constructed to: (i) recover HWW's
capital and operational and maintenance costs; (ii) encourage customers to conserve water;
and (iii) be affordable.  The tariff structure should be optimized in terms of user
categories, tariff incrementality and standing charges. The study would determine the
minimum tariff adjustments required to repay the World Bank. The tariff study would be
completed on or before March 31, 1996. In the meantime, tariff would be adjusted
according to the Project Agreement.
(g)    HWW's Organization and Staff Structure. The functional structure of HWW would
be revised to take account of new and/or modified functions and to improve the pattern
of managerial control. A manpower plan would be prepared to clarify responsibilities,
define skill requirements and initiate staff development and recruitment systems. This
would be completed by October 1, 1995.
(h)    Position Descriptions.  The position descriptions for HWW, including that of the
Director, should be revised to more accurately reflect current and planned functions and
duties of the posts. The revision would be completed by October 1, 1995.
C.     Environmental Monitorine
4.     Environmental Monitoring.  HWW  would establish, in coordination with the Ministry of
Environment, an environmental monitoring program for BOD, N,P,, e-coli, and heavy metal in sludge to
evaluate the performance of the collection system, treatment processes and status of receiving waters, and
with the Ministry of Health for bathing waters. A draft proposal would be completed by June 15, 1995.



Annex 3
TERMS OF REFERENCE
- A: TWINNING ARRANGEMENTS
- B: WATER AND SEWERAGE TARIFF STUDY
- C: PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
- D: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT






ANNEX 3A
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Water and Wastewater Component
Terms of Reference for "Twinninsg Arrangement"
Background
1.    The Baltic coast of Estonia is characterized by an intricate coastline dominated by Haapsalu and
Matsalu Bays, which are fringed by the islands of Vormsi, Hiiumaa and Saaremaa; together these form
a tourist and recreational destination of national, regional and historical importance. The attractions of
the area also include special sanitoria that feature treatments with unique curative muds found in Haapsalu
Bay and ecotourism in the Matsalu State Nature Reserve.
2.    At present, the sustainable use of the existing water resources is threatened by adverse effects
resulting from the discharge of under-treated municipal and industrial wastewater. The City of Haapsalu
is now discussing with the World Bank and the Governments of Finland and Sweden potential funding
of investments for technical, financial and institutional improvements of its water and wastewater services.
These discussions are based on detailed technical, financial and institutional studies assessing the situation
of Haapsalu Water Works (HWW) and providing the company with recommendations of potential
improvements. These studies have been prepared by SWECO consultants (Sweden), in association with
Eesti Projekt (Estonia) and Bohlin & Stromberg (Sweden), financed by tne Government of Sweden; they
were completed in August 1994.
3.    When planning the implementation of possible improvements in water and wastewater services
in Haapsalu, it is important to bear in mind, that water and sewerage services in the country have only
recently been decentralized from state responsibility to the responsibility of the appropriate municipalities.
Therefore, water and sewerage facilities are not yet autonomous in accordance with market-oriented
management practices but are still centrally managed and function as direct extensions of municipal
governments. One of the principal obstacles in promoting the creation of autonomous enterprises which
could provide cost-effective, affordable municipal services, is the municipalities' lack of experience in
market-oriented operational and financial management practices. Consequently, in order to facilitate the
development of the utility into an autonomous, service-oriented and efficiently run enterprise with modern
management practices, external support is required. As a part of the proposed Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays
Environment Project, it is recommended that an organized Twinning Arrangement between HWW and
a reputable foreign water supply and sewerage company be formed in order to achieve the overall project
objectives. This document sets out the terms of reference for such an arrangement.
Objectives
4.    The main objective of this Twinning Arrangement would be to improve HWW's overall
performance through changes in it's operational and financial management practices. These changes would
be in accordance with an Action Plan, which would be developed by HWW and agreed by the Bank. The
overall objective of the Action Plan would be to define and formulate a strategic vision of the short- and



ANNEX 3A
Page 2
long-term future of the company in terms of its operations, legal identity, organizational setup and
financial condition. A particularly important objective for this task would be to provide HWW with a
commercial attitude and a sense of service directed at providing the best water supply possible to its
customers at an affordable cost without further municipal or government subsidies in the future.
Scope of Work
5.    The twinning partner, in close coordination with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), would
support and assist HWW to implement the Action Plan, specifically with regard to institutional
strengthening and human resources development. This coordination would take place during the first three
years of the proposed project implementation period. Following this term, the "new" HWW would be
expected to operate in accordance with modern utility management practices and be fully equipped with
computerized management information systems. The twinning partner would bring to HWW, state-of-the-
art know-how in utility management, administration and operation.
Working Arrangements
6.    All activities and tasks under this arrangement are intended to be carried out in close coordination
of both parties. Counterpart systems would be applied whenever appropriate and the participation of a
maximum number of HWW staff would be emphasized. The twinning partner would: provide advisors
recruited from its own staff and/or outside the utility; provide minor equipment; and subcontract
consultants as and when necessary. The selection of consultants would be done jointly with HWW.
Cooperation under this Twinning Arrangement would be regarded as a binding agreement between the
two parties. A contract specifying duties, responsibilities, and fees and expenses, would be established
and agreed between the HWW and the twinning partner. Both parties would nominate a twinning
coordinator to be jointly responsible for the execution of the agreement. This contract and its execution
would be supervised by the PIU and World Bank supervision missions. Cooperation would be initiated
by drafting and agreeing upon a specified work plan which would include a detailed time schedule and
budget. The work plan, time schedule and budget would be cleared by the PIU and submitted to the
Project Steering Committee and the Bank.
Reporting
7.    The Twinning Arrangement would follow the same reporting requirements as the PIU. The
twinning coordinators would be jointly responsible for preparing annual financial reports and annual
progress reports for each activity included under the twinning agreement. These reports would be cleared
by the PIU and submitted to the Project Steering Committee and the Bank.
Main Tasks
8.    The main task of the twinning partner is to further refine and improve HWW's Action
Plan/Business Plan in order to create a long-termn strategic vision of the future of the company. The
operational experience and knowledge of the twinning partner, including administrative, organizational
and financial competencies would be transferred to HWW through support in the following three main
areas: (a) formulation and implementation of all management and administration procedures and systems;
(b) formulation and implementation of a program for system rehabilitation and operational improvements;
and (c) formulation and implementation of a training program:



ANNEX 3A
Page 3
(a)    Management and Administrative Procedures and Systems
(i)    Objective: The main objective of this component would be to improve existing,
and implement new management and information/administrative procedures and
systems within HWW to assist with the transformation of the company into an
efficiently run entity. An important objective would be to provide HWW with a
commercial attitude and a sense of service aimed toward providing the best water
supply possible to its customers. The tasks within this component would provide
the means to achieve those objectives.
(ii)   Scope: Support would be provided for the:
-      preparation of an organization and human resources development plan,
including definition of tasks and job descriptions, assessment of work
performance and conformity with the tasks;
-      identification of an appropriate computerization strategy, considering
budgetary constraints, computer systems expertise available in Estonia
and training needs. The strategy would include hardware and software
specifications, modular growth and compatibility, software development
standards, programming and interface languages, network requirements,
remote access, database integrity, etc.;
-      development  and  improvement  all  of  HWW's  managerial,
administrative, information and operating functions. This would include
reporting formats for internal and external parties and design or
adaptation of existing modern and appropriate computerized applications
for the following functions:
-      financial management (accounting, budgeting, financial planning, etc.);
-      custom-oriented commercial management (meter reading, customer
master file, billing, collection, customer services, consumer census,
consumer education programs, etc.);
-      supply management (requirements planning, purchasing, inventory
control etc.);
-      administration (budget controls, payroll, performance, etc.)
-      personnel management (recruiting, promotion, remuneration etc.);
-      operations and maintenance management (production control, work-
orders generation and control, collection of water and wastewater data,
etc.);
development of a Management Information System (MIS), which will
allow timely access to all information required for effective control and
management of the company. The computerization of the managerial,



ANNEX 3A
Page 4
administrative and operating functions would be developed in an
integrated manner. Any databases would require the storage of
information in a common format for future retrieval and analysis; and
-      development of a reporting system for the follow-up of capital investment
with the objective of providing the company's management with
appropriate tools for: making effective and efficient use of existing
assets; monitoring and controlling its investment programs; and
accounting for the impact of future renewals. It is proposed that the
implementation of a Geographic Information System (GIS) be considered.
(iii)   Training: It is expected that drafting new managerial and administrative functions
would be done jointly with the twinning partner and HWW. Most of the
knowledge transfer from the twinning partner to HWW would take place through
visits to the twinning company and on-the-job training during the process of
carrying out the different tasks under the component. However, specialized
training through external consultants or attendance in external training courses
for utilizing computers and associated software would be required as an initial
step of implementation.
(b)    System Rehabilitation Program, and Operational Improvements
(i)    Obiective: The main objective of this component would be to technically improve
operations and maintenance practices in the water and wastewater system
including the plant and distribution systems;
(ii)   Scope: Operation and maintenance water loss reduction, equipment maintenance,
etc. and the design or adaptation of existing modern and appropriate
computerized applications:
-      system repair and improvements;
-      formulation of a network optimization program;
-      supporting the implementation of a leak detection and repair program,
which includes the establishment of a reliable record of system leaks,
their causes and appropriate repair methods;
-      system mapping; and
-     demand management, including development and implementation of a
water loss reduction program.
(iii)   Training: Most of the knowledge transfer from the twinning partner would take
place through on-the-job training during the process of carrying out the different
tasks under the component. Specialized training through external consultants or
attendance in external training courses and visits to the twinning company would
be applied as appropriate. Training should be provided to HWW staff on the use



ANNEX 3A
Page 5
of leakage detection equipment as well as on establishing leakage detection
routines.
(c) Training
(i)    Objective: The objective of the training component is to provide HWW staff with
the skills and knowledge required to enable the company to improve its
operational, commercial, and financial performance.
(ii)   Scope of the Training component: A rapid assessment of training needs within
HWW would be made. The training component would be based on the Action
Plan and draw upon the twinning partner's knowledge and experience. An
adequate composition of study tours, external course attendance, classroom and
on-the-job training would be designed. Training of trainers within HWW would
be emphasized and the provision of this required training would be initiated
immediately. The results of this component would be evaluated every year by the
twinning coordinators and the PIU, and the lessons learned would be
incorporated in the formulation of the subsequent annual training plan.
The training program would reach all levels of the organization covering
technical, administrative and management training. Three types of training modes
would be utilized:
On-the-iob training. Training needs at all levels would be addressed by
on-the-job training. This training would consist of planned activities
conducted at the work site using job tasks as training for the staff. The
twinning partner would assist by providing the necessary technical
content to the activities, and in providing training to potential future
trainers at HWW. In addition to training in their own utility, the trainers
could be trained at the twinning company.
Training by external consultants. Training in areas such as information
systems; including accounting, budgeting and general computer
knowledge, could be provided by selected specialized external consultants
working under contract to the company.
Educational visits overseas to modem, efficiently-run water companies,
primarily the twinning partner. Introducing new managerial and
operational approaches would require that the company's staff visit
appropriate water companies outside of Estonia. Selected staff could
study at the twinning agency, following preparation of a detailed training
plan with clear objectives. This activity would be essential because the
staff upon their return would be responsible for working by themselves
to initiate and implement up-to-date managerial and operational practices.
The individual training plans would be prepared in consultation with and
approved by the Project Implementation Unit.






ANNEX 3B
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Water and Sewerage Tariff Study
Obiective
1.     The objective of the tariff study is to design a tariff system for Haapsalu Water Works (HWW)
which meets the following criteria: (a) allows the entity to generate sufficient cash flow for meeting its
financial requirements; (b) provides incentives for conserving water and for undertaking pollution control
and abatement activities; (c) reflects as closely as possible the costs to the economy of meeting increasing
demands for water and sewerage services; and (d) ensures that services will be affordable to the whole
population.
Scope
2.     The scope of the tariff study will include:
(a)    estimating the incremental costs for the water supply system, resulting from building new
capacity, rehabilitating and updating infrastructure, reducing unaccounted-for water, and
operating and maintaining the infrastructure;
(b)    estimating the incremental costs for the sewerage system, resulting from building new
capacity and operating and maintaining the infrastructure. The capacity cost includes
investments for sewerage connections, collectors and pumping stations, interceptors, and
final disposition and treatment;
(c)    estimating the incremental cost of servicing different types of customers with water
supply;
(d)    estimating the incremental cost of servicing different types of customers with sewerage
services, taking into account both the quantity and quality of the effluent, so that the costs
of the sewage system and treatment can be equitably and efficiently distributed between
domestic and industrial dischargers and between the various industrial firms;
(e)    estimating the financial requirements for HWW meeting preestablished targets such as
a viable cash position, contribution to maintenance and investments from internal
generation of funds, provision for bad debts, and debt service;
(f)    estimating the customer's ability to pay for the services in the context of anticipated
increase of other utilities (e.g. heating and electricity); and



ANNEX 3-B
Page 2
(g)   training of relevant HWW staff in the development and use of cost estimation models.
Output
3.    The study, based on the estimates enumerated in para. 2 should recommend:
(a)    alternative tariff policies which meet the requirements outlined in para. 1;
(b)    a plan of action and strategy to implement the recommended tariff policies, to the extent
that Haapsalu and HWW's authorities have the legal capability to do it; and
(c)    ways in which the public can be made more aware of the need of implementing the
proposed tariff policy.



ANNEX 3C
Page I
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Water and Wastewater Component
Terms of Reference for Project Steering Committee
1.    Objective. To facilitate implementation of the Project, the Ministry of Environment (MOE)
would establish a Project Steering Committee (PSC) which would meet periodically to provide policy
guidance, support coordination with multilateral and bilateral financiers, and facilitate financial and
technical support for the project from Estonian sources. While the PSC would provide general guidance,
it should be recognized that responsibility for implementation of the Project would rest as follows:
(a)    Component 1. Water and Wastewater Improvement Component -- Haapsalu Water
Works (HWW) with support of the Project Implementation Unit; and
(b)    Component 2.  Environmental Management Component -- MOE would have lead
responsibility for this component and may use the Area Task Team (MLW/ATT)
established under the HELCOM PITF Working Group on Coastal Lagoons and Wetlands
to coordinate selected activities.
2.    Membership of the PSC. The Minister of Enviornment would appoint a chairperson for the PSC
who may also act as Project Coordinator. The membership of the PSC would include, but not be limited
to, representatives from the following:
(a)    MOE;
(b)    Ministry of Finance;
(c)    Laane, Rapla, and Parnu County Governments;
(d)    Municipality of Haapsalu
(e)    HWW; and
(f)    Matsalu State Nature Reserve.
In addition, a representative from The World Bank Regional office in Riga, Latvia would serve as an ex-
officio member for purposes of coordination.
3.    Key Tasks of the PSC. The PSC would have the following tasks:
(a)    provide overall guidance for the Project;



ANNEX 3C
Page 2
(b)    facilitate national and local coordination on project related issues;
(c)    facilitate coordination with EU PHARE, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, WWF, World Bank
and other foreign organizations providing funding for the Project;
(d)    assure that financial resources required from Estonian sources are made available to the
implementing agencies in a timely manner;
(e)    periodically review Project expenditures and costs to assure they are consistent with the
objectives of the project; and
(f)    periodically review compliance with procurement guidelines of main Project financers.



ANNEX 3D
Page I
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Water and Wastewater Component
Terms of Reference for Proiect Implementation Unit
1.    The duties of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would include:
(a)    On behalf of Haapsalu Water Works (HWW), coordinate relations with the World Bank,
the bi-lateral donors, consultants and the contractors during the project implementation
phase;
(b)    Advise HWW and Municipality regarding the use of the World Bank loan and the bi-
lateral grants;
(c)    On behalf of HWW, prepare short lists of consultants to be invited to submit proposals,
draft terms of reference, issue invitations, respond to questions raised, prepare addenda
as needed, evaluate consultant and contractor prequalifications as well as proposals, and
help support the management of HWW with the negotiation and signing of the resulting
contracts;
(d)    Follow-up the implementation of the recommendations of supervision reports of the
World Bank;
(e)    Not later than 60 days after each calendar quarter ending on March 31, June 30,
September 30 and December 31, prepare for the Bank a consolidated report on project
implementation activities for the preceding quarter covering the physical progress
measured against construction and procurement schedules, institutional development
activities, and monitoring indicators acceptable to the Bank;
(f)    Monitor project implementation and expenditures, and prepare and submit disbursement
requests and progress reports on implementation. Copies of disbursement requests should
be submitted to the Ministry of Finance;
(g)    Prepare terms-of-reference and tender documents for consultancy contracts, (e.g contract
coordination/technical support and institutional strengthening consultancies) and monitor
the training to be provided under these contracts;
(h)    Follow all aspects of the implementation of the Water and Wastewater Improvement
Component of the Project and when needed prepare written warnings about possible
problems and delays as well as proposing technical, financial and institutional measures
needed to improve project implementation;
(i)    Coordinate the services among suppliers and contractors for timely deliveries; and



ANNEX 3D
Page 2
(j)    Prepare the special reports and update periodically the action plans, required as a
consequence of the World Bank Loan and Project Agreements, the bi-lateral grant
agreements and the subsidiary loan agreements. All relevant reports should also be sent
to the Project Steering Committee.



Annex 4
WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS






ANNEX 4
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
WATER AND WASTEWATER IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A. Overview
1.    Introduction. Implementation of the Water and Wastewater Improvement Component (WWIC)
of the proposed Project is anticipated to have positive environmental benefits in the Haapsalu Bay area
through improved water supply, major expansion of wastewater collection, significant improvements in
the performance standards of the municipal wastewater treatment plant and improved sludge managemiienit.
This will improve public health, ecology, water quality and aesthetic conditions in Haapsalu Bay, provide
protection of curative muds found in the Bay and reduce pollution of the Baltic Sea. The proposed Plroject
would not involve involuntary resettlement and is not anticipated to have an impact on known
archaeological or historical sites in Haapsalu or the Matsalu State Nature Reserve.
2.    Enviromnental Review. The proposed Project component was the subject of a site specific
environmental review prepared by SWECO (Sweden), in association with Eesti Projekt (Estonia), and
Bohlin & Stromberg AB (Sweden). The review complies with the Estonian "Order on Carrying Out
Environmental Impact Assessment (Government Regulation 13.11.92)" and is consistent with the
provisions for a Category B project under World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "'Environmlental
Assessment." The objective was to evaluate the potential environmental impacts from the rehabilitation
and expansion of water and wastewater facilities of the Haapsalu Water Works (HWW). These activities
would be implemented by HWW with the support of the Estonian Ministry of Envirolnment, Municipality
of Haapsalu, Governments of Sweden and Finland and the World Bank.
3.    Consultation Process. The environmental review for the proposed Project was prepared with the
full cooperation of the Estonian Ministry of Environment and the Laane County Environmental
Department. Representatives of the MOE and its Environmental Assessment Board have been involved
in all stages of development of the proposed Project and have participated in a series of site visits to all
proposed Project sites. Consultations have been conducted with the representatives of Laane County and
the local municipalities.
4.     Present Conditions.
(a)    Water Supply. Although there are few impacts associated with the existing potable water
system, the capacity of the existing water reservoirs is too small to meet the requirements
of flow equalization and water supply during emergency situations. The current capacity
is 300m3, well below the estimated minimum capacity of 1200m3 that would be required.
Being able to cope with peak rates of flow for fire-fighting is especially important for
Haapsalu because of the predominance of historical wooden structures in the center of
the town which is a major asset for tourism.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b)    Wastewater Collection. The length of the sewage system in Haapsalu is 20km, and in the
adjoining settlements of Uuemoisa and Parlepa, 6km. There are 13 pumping stations in
Haapsalu's sewage system which convey wastewater to a treatment plant equipped to
perform mechanical treatment. In Uuemoisa there are 4 pumping stations. The infiltration
of groundwater into the concrete, ceramic and asbestos-cement pipelines of the sewage
system is significant, resulting in both excess loading of the treatment plant and pollution
of local groundwater.
(c)    Wastewater Treatment and Disposal. The main environmental problems associated with
current HWW operations concern the discharge of partially and untreated effluent and the
disposal of sewage sludge. Currently most of the municipal wastewater of Haapsalu is
treated at a mechanical treatment plant in which the reduction of oxygen consuming
material and nutrients is poor. The existing wastewater treatment plant is in very poor
condition. The following problems have been noted at the plant: (i) control of plant
performance is weak; (ii) grit chambers have not been in operation for several years due
to operational problems; (iii) primary sedimentation basins are working with a
heterogeneous load as the inflow to the treatment plant from the main pumping station
is periodical; (iv) raw sludge is occasionally discharged from the primary sedimentation
basins; (v) drainage of the sludge composting area is erratic, allowing for water
accumulation during rainy periods; and (vi) analyses of treated wastewater are performed
once a month in the Eesti Vesi laboratory in Tallinn as the local laboratory is not
operating.
Microbiological loading to the receiving waters is high, and advisory notices against
swimming have been posted at the beaches near the town. The outfall pipe discharges
directly into a reed bed at the shoreline and it has been observed that environmental
conditions in the area have worsened in recent years. Problems associated with this
discharge are exacerbated by the fact that the treatment works is unable to provide full
secondary treatment to the capacity of sewage entering the system. Total average
wastewater flow to the treatment plant (calculated from measured water consumption) is
5500 m3/d. In rainy periods, the flow to the treatment plant is 1,000 m3 an hour.
Currently partly treated or untreated wastewater is discharged at a number of different
locations throughout the Haapsalu area. This has ecological, aesthetic, health, and
economic implications. The curative muds, used for external and internal health
treatments, are a prime tourist attraction of Haapsalu. The muds are formed naturally in
the shallow waters of the Bay and constitute a unique resource which is threatened by
pollution.
(d)    Wastewater Treatment Plant Site. The upgrading of the wastewater treatment plant
involves construction of buildings and process tanks at a large site established in 1962 in
an area designated for industrial and warehouse/storage facilities. There is no problem
with housing being close to the plant site or inconsistent proposed future land use in the
area. Significant space is available at the site for expansion of the facilities.
5.    Major Findings. The environmental review concluded that the wastewater treatment plant is
currently hydraulically overloaded. Extending the works to treat a greater volume of wastewater would
prevent untreated and partially treated sewage being discharged into Haapsalu Bay and the Baltic Sea.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
After upgrading and expansion of the sewage collection network and reconstruction and expansion of the
wastewater treatment plant, pollution discharged to the Bay and the Sea would be decline significantly
due to reduced infiltration, elimination of the local discharge outlets and improved treatment efficiency.
The leakage of sewage to the surrounding soil through worn-out sewers is a possible threat to the quality
of groundwater. Works aimed at the reconstruction of these sewers must be given a high priority to
reduce excessive loads to the wastewater treatment plant and groundwater pollution. In addition, the
sludge treatment process needs to be improved to: (a) reduce the volume of sludge; (b) improve the
drainability of the sludge; (c) stabilize the organic matter; (d) reduce the odor; and (e) destroy or at least
control pathogenic organisms.
6.    It is apparent that point source pollution within Haapsalu is a major problem for water quality.
In addition to lowering the quality of the receiving waters, thus damaging aquatic ecosystems and the
curative muds, the discharges of untreated sewage are resulting in unacceptable microbiological pollution.
Collection and conveyance of these untreated discharges to the treatment plant and provision of the
appropriate capacity at the utility to treat them is a priority. The infiltration of surface water into the
system increases the amount of water to be transferred to the treatment plant thus contributing to the
hydraulic overload of the plant. As the volume of pollution discharged from a treatment plant is related
to the wastewater flow, a reduced flow of wastewater will mean a reduction in the volume of pollution
discharged into the sea.
B. Elements of the Proposed Project Component
7.    Proposed Improvements. A brief description of proposed water supply and wastewater treatment
improvements in Haapsalu is provided as follows:
(a)    Water Supply. Improvements to the water supply system can be divided into two distinct
categories: those to maintain the current system and improvements aimed at enhancing
the performance of the system.
(i)    Operations to Maintain the Current System. The following operations to maintain
the current system are proposed:
*     Renovation or exchange of the well pumps; and
*     Centralizing control of the crucial water supply pumps for optimization
of the pumping pattern;
(ii)   Improvements Aimed at Enhancing Performance. The following improvements
aimed at enhancing performance of the water supply system are proposed:
*     Construction of a secondary pumping station with a capacity of 600m3/h
and water reservoirs of 2 x 1000m3;
*     Construction of pipes from existing bore wells to the reservoirs;



ANNEX 4
Page 4
*     Construction of the main pipeline from the secondary pumping to the
water network; and
*     Completion of the construction of bore-well pumping station No. 10;
(b)    Wastewater Treatment. Improvements to the wastewater system can be divided into two
distinct categories: those to maintain the current system and improvements aimed at
enhancing the performance of the system.
(i)    Operations to Maintain the Current System. The following operations are
proposed to maintain the current system:
*      Reconstruction of worn-out sewers and the existing pressure pipelines;
*     Reconstruction of the pumping stations at Kastani and Aianduse Streets;
and
*     Improvement of the performance of the main pumping station by
replacing the single pump with two smaller pumps and the installation of
frequency regulated drives in the pumps;
(ii)   Improvements Aimed at Enhancing Performance. The following operations to
enhance the performance of the system are proposed:
*     Elimination of the wastewater discharges to the sea inside the town area,
including:
-      the Kreutzwaldi outlet;
-      the Auto Service outlets;
-      the Kiltsi road outlets;
-      the Uuemoisa outlets;
-     the Supluse Street outlet; and
-      the Hako outlets.
8.    Potential Environmental Impacts. The environmental impacts which may result from the
proposed WWIC have been divided into general impacts and specific impacts:
(a)    General Impacts. There will inevitably be some environmental impacts associated with
the construction activities. The magnitude of these activities will depend on a number of
factors including proximity of housing, length of construction period, working hours, and
methods of construction but, in the case of large construction projects (e.g., extension
of the wastewater treatment plant), they have the potential to be locally significant and
prolonged. In particular such impacts could include noise and vibration, dust releases,
possible odor releases when working on existing sewage facilities, pollution of surface
or underground waters due to releases or spillages of material from construction sites,
disruption of traffic and noise pollution associated with transporting construction materials
and large items of plant, pollution risk and hazard to the health of construction workers



ANNEX 4
Page 5
if construction is carried out on contaminated land (e.g., areas where HWW sewage
sludge has been stored). Visual environmental impacts are expected to be minimal and
no impacts are anticipated to historic structures. None of the water or wastewater
treatment proposals involve any resettlement of people.
(b)    Specific Impacts of Potential Water Treatment and Supply Improvement Schemes. The
particular impacts can be divided into two distinct categories: those to maintain the
current system and improvements aimed at enhancing the performance of the system.
(i)    Operations to Maintain the Current System. Renovation and replacement of
pumps to optimize performance would improve the efficiency of the units and
lead to energy and cost savings.
(ii)   Improvements to Enhance System Performance. There would be no negative
environmental impacts due to the proposed waterlines. The waterlines will enable
the system to cope much more effectively with peak rates of flow which is of
utmost importance for fire-fighting. The historic wooden buildings in the center
of Haapsalu add to the significance of this positive impact.
(c)    Specific Impacts of Potential Wastewater Improvement Proposals. The particular impacts
can be divided into those resulting from operations to maintain the current system and
improvements to enhance system performance.
(i)    Operations to Maintain the Current System. Undertaking operations to maintain
the current wastewater system can be expected to have an overall positive
environmental impact. Replacing, repairing, and renovating sewers, mechanical
and electrical equipment, and sewage works plant would minimize future failures
and thus reduce the risk of discharge of untreated or partially treated sewage.
These actions would improve water quality and be of benefit to public health.
The reconstruction of worn-out sewers would have a positive impact as the
leakage of sewage to the surrounding soil and groundwater table would be
eliminated. Upgrading pumping stations to improve efficiency would save energy
and reduce costs.
(ii)   Improvements to Enhance System Performance. Improvements to enhance the
performance of the wastewater collection and treatment system would also have
an overall positive impact on Estonia's environment, as described below:
*     Providing sewerage for currently unsewered areas can be expected to
improve groundwater and surface water quality as cesspools would no
longer be required in those areas;
*     Diversion and interception of domestic and industrial wastewater, which
is currently discharged to Haapsalu Bay untreated, and providing suitable
treatment facilities would have an overwhelmingly positive impact on the
Haapsalu environment. The curative muds would be protected from
contamination by wastewater;



ANNEX 4
Page 6
*      Extension of the Haapsalu wastewater treatment plant to treat a greater
volume of sewage would alleviate the current plant overload which
would improve effluent quality and thus enhance the chemical and
microbiological quality of Haapsalu Bay and adjoining areas of the Baltic
Sea. Pollution loads of BOD7, total phosphorus and suspended solids
would be drastically reduced. In order to gain the maximum
environrmental benefit, such an extension should also provide sufficient
capacity to treat the volume of sewage expected from newly sewered
areas;
*     In general, noise pollution from the new machinery is not a problem.
Blowers for the aeration of sewage would be placed indoors to prevent
noise emissions; and
The proposed sludge treatment process would generate less odor
emissions than the present one. Emissions from the new aeration tank
would be small. The new receiving station for septic sludge, however,
may at times generate heavy odors and should be designed for later
connection to a biofilter if deemed necessary.
9.     Proposed Mitigation Plan. The overall aim of the proposed Project is to implement measures
which would improve the water supply and wastewater services of HWW. The major environmental
impact of the Project would result from the improvement in surface and groundwater quality in the
Project area resulting in improved ecological conditions.
10.   Few of the impacts of the completed Project would be adverse and none are likely to be
significant and require mitigation. The impact of construction would be largely limited to relatively minor
disruption and disturbance. Nevertheless, it should still be possible to reduce the extent of this
inconvenience by implementing some relatively straightforward measures to minimize these impacts
through clear requirements in the construction contracts combined with good construction supervision.
11    Proposed Monitoring Plan. Routine monitoring of water and wastewater for purposes of system
management is the responsibility of HWW. To support these activities, the Project includes support for
rehabilitation and enhancement of laboratory equipment. This would provide the means to optimize plant
performance and to maintain a stable and reliable operational monitoring plan. Overall environmental
monitoring is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment which is currently revising its national
monitoring program on the basis of recommendations from a study jointly conducted by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency and EU PHARE. It is proposed that data on water quality, biological
aspects, and contamination of sediments be collected prior to the commencement of any works. The
monitoring program would be continued as a routine element of the local environmental monitoring
program to assess the impacts of the various improvement measures and compare with the baseline
situation to determine the impacts that occur and their significance.
12.   Institutional Strengthening and Human Resources Development.  The proposed Project
includes use of a "twinning arrangement" to support institutional strengthening and human resources
development activities for HWW. These activities would include training for HWW personnel in the
collection, analysis and application of water and wastewater monitoring to the operation of the utility.



Annex 5
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET






ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the [BRD/IDA Lending Program
Countr:                           ESTONIA                    Project ID No:                     8406
Project Name:                     Hiapsalu and Mataau        Tol Project Cot:                   US$2.0 m (IBRD
Appmisal Dat:                     Jury, 1995
Board DaLe:                       April, 1995                                                   Loan)
Managing Division:                 EC4NR
Lending I      :                  SIL                         Task Manager                      Stephen F. Linte;
Date (eat) for receipt of BA by Bank:    N/A                 Sector.                            Environmnt
EA Category (AIB/C):              B                          Staus:                             Standby
Date Assigned:                    July 21, 1993
Date Shee  Pred/Updatsd           Janry 31, 1995
(Ple  do not Ive any me bknk* ue *N/A- or 'To be developed' whbe apprprie)
MU4ar PrsJc Coypoax: (presepts deaciption of projea componete )
Regional environment management project including: (a) rehabilitation and expansion of Haapsalu water and wastewater system; (b)
institutional strengthening and training to support establishment of autonomous water and wastewater utility in Haapslu; (c) design
and implementation of cost-effective activities to reduce point and non-point source pollution of Matalu Bay from snall settlements
and agriculture; (d) support for implementation of management plan for Matsalu State Nature Reserve; and (e) sasistanc for
planning and management of eco-tourism.
MaJor ERmLrommntea Inua. (describes major j ovionmetal issucs idetified or uspected ia projec)
The proposed Project would result in the improved availability of water supply, especially for peak denmand periods; expand the
wastewater collection network to reduce the discharge of untreated wastewaters; rehabilitate and upgrade the wastewater treatment
plant to reduce overloading and the discharge of partially treated wastewater and upgrade sludge management All activities
concerning wastewater treatment would be conducted at an existing site which is removed from rcsidential and commercial areas.
Activities to support the control of point and non-point source pollution would both reduce discharges into Mat-slu Bay and provide
for the demonstration of low-cost control methods. These would include the use of ecological engineering methods such as
constructed wetlands. Activities in the Matsalu Bay State Reserve would implement the approved management plan and focus on
the management of key ecosystems including valuable coastal meadows.
OUter En.iroenWta Issues: (describes environmena isses of er scope asocit  wth project)
N/A
Proposed AcUors: (describc actions proposed to nitigatc cnviromental issues dcribed ino project)
An environmental review has been prepared for the proposed project by a joint Estonian and Swedish team consistent with the
environmental review procedures of Estonia and those of the Bank. Preparation of the study was coordinated with the Min. of
Environment of Estonia and the local environmental protection office in the project area. Actions would be taken to mitigate
disturbances during construction and monitoring would be conducted for improvements in the wastewater treatment aystem and on the
Matsalu Bay catchment. A seminar on Bank environmental assessment procedures was given by Bank staff in Tallinn in 6/93 and
training was provided for the director of the EIA Department at Bank headquarters and USEPA in 11/94.
Jus4kadon/Raoonale for EP.wronmenid Category: (reasos for environntal caory slected & explanation of any changes from initi classiiication)
The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening category 'B u the potential impacts are resticted in scope and are
largely beneficial. It should be noted that support for improved municipal water and wastewater infrastructurc would focus on the
rehabilitation and upgrading of existing facilities. The proposed improvements to these facilities have been approved by the Ministry
of Environment and the local environmental protection office. Activities for improved management of the Matsalu Bay catchment and
Matsalu State Nature Reserve are not anticipated to have adverse impacts and the nature reserve has long been formally established.
Actions under the Project would not requirc resettloment of any residents or endanger historic structures.
Sts of Category A Ewxtomnta AsssmnL  (presenu EBA aup dalc, EA fire drft, and ercnt ats)
Remarkt: (gives an of any odser evionmml studie, lib local groups and looa NGO. onsuAted. talk whhr bonow  ha giv peeimiea to relcs EA. Me)
Preparation of the environmental review for water and wastewater activities has been coordinated with the Ministry of Environment
and local environment office. The Bank has coordinated the design of activities for management of the Matulu Bay catchmet with
Tallinn Technical University and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Staff from Matsalu State Nature Reserve and WWF
have participated directly in identification and design of activities in the rescrve.
Signed                                                       Signed  ;
by:                                                          by:    :~V          ~      sAi~
January 31, 1995






Annex 6
REVIEW OF AFFORDABILITY






Annex 6. Review of Affordability
Affordability Projection at Fixed (1994) Prices
Number of persons per household:                             3
Number of wage earners per household:                      1.7
Average income/capita:                                    1900
Average household income:                                 3230
Current     1995      1996       1997      1998       1999
Real Wage Growth:                                                          4.00%      4.00%      4.00%     4.00%      4.00%
Average household income                    EEK/month               3230       3359       3494      3633       3779      3930
Water Consumption                           Liter/day                 140       140        140       140        140        140
- per household                             m3/month               12.78      12.78     12.78      12.78     12.78      12.78
Water Tariffs                               EEK/m3                    2.1       2.5       2.97       3.54      3.89       4.09
Sewerage Tariffs                            EEK/m3                    4.4      5.24       6.23       7.41      8.16       8.56
Combined Tariffs                            EEK/m3                   6.50      7.74       9.20      10.95     12.05      12.65
Total Monthly Charges                       EEK/month               83.04     98.88     117.53     139.89    153.94     161.60
Annual Real Tariff Increase                                                    19%        19%        19%       10%         5%
Monthly Charges as % of income                                     2.57%     2.94%      3.36%      3.85%     4.07%      4.11%
Monthly Charges as average % of income                             3.67%
Total Real Tariff Increase                                           95%






IBRD 26164
22-                              23'                               2 -'                             25 '                             26 '                              27'                                2 9n
Gulf of Finlond                                                                               G     of F
ESTONIA                kusur            r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=ral l   z                     .        t ~~~~~~~~~~Gulf of Finlond
ESTONIA 
HAAPSALU AND MATSALU BAYS                                                             -             .htl -
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                                  JTALLINN.-v
f ap, -s ( . ~~~~~~Rakvere'-    
Selected Towns                 Main Roads                                                              HARJU
: County Headquarters               Railroads                                        -                                                                                                                IDA-
12   National Capital                County Boundaries                                                                                                       LANE-/
Urban Areas                    Internothonol Boundaries                                                                                                 VIRU
Nat,onal Parks                               ~                                 e
Sn-  _ra,                                                                                                    P-K rdlo  -                                                                             Z
; -         * L             "Haapsolu /Matsolu  Bay,                 '%rj                                                     Jogeva
J-
Baltic                                                                                                                                        J(GEVA                                         Lake
Sea                                            I
MW,>  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Piu
S-e- ~  ~ I                  \(X            tPRU                     *<       G     ,                    VIUAND                                 i \I
SAARE                                ,'i                                                            VIjandViT
P&rnu                                                     La
fi                                 rw S <e    ,    .   _<   , n      in , -, (                                                                                           POLVA\
Lake
Gulf of                   Kh-'                                                                                                        P      -n                  Pnkok
Riga                                                         \    .t\\ 5          rS         VALGA   ;              2                Polva o-           ;s       Pskov VP
Elevations in Meters:  Rig                                                                                         VALGA r  Ro  ,    
51 - 150                                                                                       T.
151 -250                             ES9ONIA                                                                               -
> 250                                                           54LOMErERS 0    10   20   30 *t       50      *       ,
SaAT'ms  6n_ l   *del>   _>  T iS  bUL5S 0  10  20     30        tR .Slga                     VORU
LIHUANIA                      "M;  on. ,unnon
t/ulA  BELARUS               i.w,~54GM  r4,,
-'-.  ~~~~~bRn-        *~
LATVIA
22'                                23'                                 20                                 253 26'                                                                w- 28 I c6
3/1/1995    0nC           SI4nx           5T  O 



