Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3870 EE
                              Loan Agreement
              (Haapsalu and Matsalu Bays Environment Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                         Dated September 19, 1995
                                                        LOAN NUMBER 3870 EE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 19, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF
ESTONIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the
Haapsalu Water Works (HWW) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
HWW the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
    (C)   The Government of Sweden, through the Swedish Board for
International Technical Support (BITS), intends to make a grant
(the BITS Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,600,000 to assist in financing Part A of the
Project;
Page  2
    (D)   The Government of Finland, through the Ministry of
Environment of Finland, intends to make a grant (the MoEF
Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,020,000 to assist in financing Parts A and B of the Project;
    (E)   The Government of Sweden through the Swedish
Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) intends to make a grant
(the SEPA Grant) to the Borrower in the aggregate amount
equivalent to $330,000 to assist in financing Parts A and B of
the Project;
    (F)   The Government of Denmark through the Minister of
Environment of Denmark (MED) intends to make a grant (the MED
Grant) to the Borrower in the aggregate amount equivalent to
$600,000 to assist in financing Parts A and B of the Project;
and
    (G)   The European Union through the EU-PHARE Baltic Sea
Regional Program has agreed to make a grant (the EU-PHARE
Grant) to the Borrower in the aggregate principal amount
equivalent to $300,000 to assist in financing Parts A and B of
the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
HWW;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "HWW" means the Haapsalu Water Works or any successor
thereto;
    (b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and HWW of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
    (c)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
and maintained within the Haapsalu Water Works and responsible
for the overall implementation of Part A of the Project;
    (d)   "PSC" means the Project Steering Committee established
and maintained within the Ministry of Environment of the
Page  3
Borrower and responsible for overseeing and coordinating
overall project implementation;
    (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
    (f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and HWW pursuant to Section
4.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
to be made pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of two million dollars
($2,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank
acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Page  4
                Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan
Agreement, shall cause HWW to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of HWW
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable HWW to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
    (b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
HWW under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and HWW, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall include
provisions pursuant to which:
          (i)   HWW shall carry out Part A of the Project;
Page  5
         (ii)   HWW shall repay to the Borrower the proceeds of
                the Subsidiary Loan denominated in German Marks
                over a term of 14 years, including a grace period
                of four years at IBRD variable interest rate plus
                1 percent.
        (iii)   HWW shall pay to the Borrower the equivalent in
                German Marks (determined as of the respective
                dates of payment by the Borrower) of the
                commitment charge and interest paid by the
                Borrower pursuant to Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of
                this Agreement on the dates specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement; and
         (iv)   the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall
                be denominated and repaid by HWW in German Marks;
                such principal amount shall be the equivalent
                (determined as of the date or respective dates of
                withdrawal) of the value of the currency or
                currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account
                expressed in terms of United States Dollars at
                the time of withdrawal.
    (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof; and
    (d)   The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project
through the Ministry of Environment with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and environmental practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for such Parts of the Project.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part A of the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by HWW.
    Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare, based on guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
for the future operation of the Project;
    (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on the said plan; and
    (c)   thereafter, carry out the said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
Page  6
    Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annul audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate  opinion by
                said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records, accounts and financial
                statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this
                Section for each fiscal year audited, in
                accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                consistently applied, by independent auditors
                acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and the
                audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely that:
    (a)   HWW shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that HWW will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   The HWW Charter or the HWW permit to use natural
resources issued pursuant to the applicable regulations of the
Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of HWW to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, or the management of the company is
transferred to an outside entity.
Page  7
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of HWW or for the suspension of its
operations.
    (e)   Any of the agreements, among the Borrower, the Swedish
Environmental Protection Agency, the Ministry of Environment of
Denmark or the EU-PHARE Baltic Sea Regional Program, referred
to in the preamble to this Agreement, shall have failed to
become effective by December 31, 1995, or such later date as
the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to
the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of HWW
under the Project Agreement.
    (f)   Subject to (g) of this Section, the right of the
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing therefor.
    (g)   Paragraph (f) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
    (b)   the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
    (c)   the events specified in paragraph (f) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of Section
5.01 (g) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and HWW;
    (b)   the PIU has been established with a manager, accountant
and bilingual secretary with terms of reference and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank;
    (c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
BITS Grant have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement; and
    (d)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
arrangements for the MoEF Grant have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Page  8
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank: (a) that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by HWW; and (b) that the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and HWW has been duly
authorized or approved by HWW, and is legally binding upon HWW
in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          1 Suur-Ameerika
          EE0100 Tallinn
          Republic of Estonia
                                         Telex:
                                           173106 PLAAN
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
                       By  /s/ Toomas Ilves
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  9
                       By  /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated                 % of
                             (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Goods and Works            1,560,000
    for Part A of the
    Project:
    (a) goods                                         100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures;
                                                      100% of local
                                                      expenditures,
                                                      (ex-factory
                                                      cost) and 80%
                                                      of local ex-
                                                      penditures for
                                                      other items
                                                      procured locally
    (b) works                                         100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures and
                                                      80% of local
                                                      expenditures
(2) Consultants'                 440,000              100% of foreign
    Services for                                      expenditures
    Part A of
    the Project
                               _________
        TOTAL                  2,000,000
                               =========
2.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 may be made in respect
of Category 1 on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after March 1, 1995.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and works not exceeding $200,000
equivalent, and for consultants' services not exceeding $50,000
equivalent under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to
promote environmentally sustainable management and development
of the coastal zone on the western coast of Estonia, including
Laane, Rapla, and Parnu Counties, and Haapsalu and Matsalu
Bays; to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to coordinate
environmental projects; to improve the quality, reliability and
cost efficiency of water supply in the city of Haapsalu; and to
improve the environmental management in those areas by reducing
the discharge of partially treated and untreated wastewater and
point and non-point pollution from the Matsalu catchment area
into the Baltic Sea.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water and Wastewater Improvement Component
1.  Rehabilitation, improvement and expansion of the Haapsalu
water and wastewater system, including adoption of measures for
control of industrial discharges.
2.  Institutional improvement and assistance for the
establishment of HWW as autonomous water management utility
company in Haapsalu, including the establishment of the PIU
within HWW and the provision of technical assistance and
equipment for HWW.
Part B:   Environmental Management
1.  Implementation of the management plan for Matsalu Bay Nature
Reserve, including provision of equipment, small scale works
and technical assistance.
2.  Design and implementation of a program of cost-effective
activities to reduce point and non-point source pollution of
the catchment area of Matsalu Bay from small settlements and
agriculture, including provision of equipment, small-scale
works and advisory services.
3.  Planning and management of eco-tourism in Haapsalu and
Matsalu State Nature Reserve.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
    beginning December 1, 2000                 100,000
And on June 1, 2010                            100,000
Page  11
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                               Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.20
    before maturity
More than three years but                            0.40
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                              0.73
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.87
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and
(2) as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
Page  12
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
determined by the Bank to be required to pay for eligible
expenditures during the four months following the date of each
such request, which amount shall not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Bank shall have
determined to be so required.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 3.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
Page  13
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank
such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
