Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13202
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COTE D'IVOIRE
SECOND TELECOMMUNCATIONS PROJECT
(LOAN 2696-IVC)
JUNE 24, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS (1993)
Currency Unit   =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00    =   CFAF 287 (was CFAF 385 in Febmuary 1986, at appraisal)
CFAF I million   =   USS 3,4842 (was US$ 2,597 in February 1986, at appraisal)
FISCAL YEAR
Government, ONT and ENSPT: January 1 - December 31
CI-TELCOM: October 1 - September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
All weights and measures are in metric units.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
(Acronyms and organizations names relate to the French title
of the organization, as used in C6te d'Ivoire)
BAD,AfDB             Banque Africaine de Developpement, African Development Bank
BEI,EIB              Banque Europeenne d'Investissement, European Investment Bank
BOAD                 Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CAA                  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE/CFD             Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique / Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CI-TELCOM            Societe C8te d'Ivoire Telecommunications
DEL                  Direct Exchange Line (telephone) in operation.
ENSPT                Ecole Nationale Superieure des Postes et Telecommunications
Expressed demand    The sum of the number of DELs in service and of registered pending applications
INTELCI              Societe des Communications Internationales de Cote d'Ivoire
ISAPT                Institut Sup6rieur Africain des Postes et Te1lcommunications
MPT                  Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
ONT                  Office National des Telecommunications
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
CFAF or CFA Franc  Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower
and the other members of the West African Monetary Union



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 24, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire
Second Telecommunications Project (Loan 2696-IVC)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Cote d'Ivoire (Loan
2696-IVC) "1, prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No Part II was prepared by
the Borrower.
The project, which was co-financed by EIB and France, achieved its
physical targets in terms of the rehabilitation and expansion of the country's
network, albeit with an 18-month delay. However, institutional objectives were
only partially met: Bank-financed technical assistance did not result in
measurable improvements in the areas of capital budgeting, financial systems and
controls,  customer billing,  and inventory management.   Training investments
financed under the loan are not currently utilized as a result of a recent
reorganization  of  the  training  institute.    And  the  sector's  financial
restructuring (to which part of the Bank loan was assigned) was not fully
implemented due to lack of sufficient Government commitment.   In retrospect,
project supervision by the Bank should have been more intensive during the start-
up years and its enforcement of financial covenants could have been more
forceful.
Accordingly, Bank performance was below par. However, the economic
return is reestimated at 12-13* so that the project outcome is rated as
marginally satisfactory and its institutional impact as modest. Sustainability
is rated as uncertain because the needed improvements in management following
restructuring are not yet assured. The Project Completion Report is adequate,
but no comments were sought from the two co-financiers. No audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onLy in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without WorLd Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency                                  CFA Franc (CFAF)
Year                                          Exchange Rate
(CFAF per 1 USS)
Annual Average
1986                                             346.30
1987                                             300.54
1988                                             297.85
1989                                             319.01
1990                                             272.26
1991                                             282.11
1992                                             264.69
Intervening Years Average (1986-1993)                            296.84
Closing Date, June 1993                                   287.00
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| oflrcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.I






Project Completion Report
C6te d'Ivoire
Second Telecommunications Proiect (Loan 2696-IVC)
Table of Contents
Paee No.
PREFACE .................................................... i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  .                          ..........................................  ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ................... 1
A. PROJECT IDENTITY .............................................. 1
B.  BACKGROUND    .              ...............................................    1
-  Sector Setup   .................................................    1
-  Training  ..................................................                                                       2
-  Sector Development and Project Genesis .................................   2
-  Project  Preparation      .............................................                                            2
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION   .............................   3
-  Project  Objectives    ..............................................                                              3
-  Project Description   .............................................   3
D. PROJECT DESIGN  AND  ORGANIZATION    ..............................   4
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                    ........................                                      5
-  Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up   ................................   5
-  Procurement  .................................................    6
-  Implementation Schedule .               .........................................   6
-  Project Costs  .................................................                                                   7
-  Other Investments  .         .............................................   7
F.  PROJECT RESULTS   .                 ............................................   7
-  Project Objectives and Performance Indicators  ............................   7
-  Physical Results  .        ..............................................    8
-  Technical Management .                ..........................................   8
-  Financial Performance   .             ..........................................   8
- Subscribers Accounts . ............................................ 9
-  Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets ...................................   9
-  Financial Internal Rate of Return on Investments ...........................   9
- Economic Rate of Returnm.                  ........................................ 9
- Impact of Project ............................................... 10
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .                         ........................................ 10
-  Project Benefits ............................................... 10
-  Project Risks  ..................................................   10



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Page no.
H.  BANK'S  PERFORMANCE                                ....................                           ......................  10
1.   BORROWER'S  PERFORMANCE    .....................................   11
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP                                            ............................11 
K.  CONSULTING   SERVICES                              ....................11......................   1
L.  AUDIT                            .......................................                                          ..............   11
M. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTING ..........                                                            ..            .............. 12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ...........                                                                               ... 13
Borrower's Perspective of the Design and Implementation of the Project, and of its Development
Impact.
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION   ...... .........                                                                 ................. 14
1. Related Bank Loans .                         ............................................... 14
2. Project Timetable .                         ............................................... 15
3.   Loan  Allocations and  Disbursements   ....................................  15
4.   Project Implementation  .............................................   16
5. A.  Project Cost .                          ............................................... 17
B.    Total Investment   .............................................   18
6. Project Results .                     ................................................. 19
Performance  Indicators - Implementation  ................................  19
Performance  Indicators - Financial ....................................  20
7.   Status of Covenants  ............................................... 21
8.   Use of Bank  Resources, Mission  Data   ...................................  23
9.   Financial Internal Rate  of Return    ......................................  25
10. Financial Statements .                        .............................................. 26
Balance Sheet .                  ................................................ 26
Income Statement .                      .............................................. 27



-1-
Project Completion Report
Cote d'Ivoire
Second Telecommunications Project (Loan 2696-IVC)
Preface
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Telecommunications Project in
Cote d'Ivoire supported by Loan 2696-IVC. The Loan for US$24.5 million equivalent to the
Republic of Cote d'Ivoire was signed on June 27, 1986, became effective on January 30, 1987 and
was closed on June 30, 1993.
2.    Parts I and III were prepared by Bank staff based on information available in Project files and
information supplied by ONT/CI-TELCOM and ENSPT/ISAPT.
3.    Part II is being prepared by the Borrower to give its perspective of the design, implementation
and development impact of the Project. The Borrower has been reminded of the need to prepare such
part of the report. In June 1993, a deadline was agreed for its submission by the end of December
1993; no report has been received yet. Further comments from the Borrower, if applicable, would be
annexed to the report in Part III.






-ii-
CCte d'Ivoire
Second Telecommunications Project (Loan 2696-IVC)
Project Completion Report
Evaluation Summary
Background
1.    Loan 2696-IVC of US$ 24.5 million equivalent was the second telecommunications operation
financed by the Bank in Cote d'Ivoire. The Project originated from a request by the Minister of Posts
and Telecommunications (MPT) in June 1983 for a rehabilitation program of the sector. A new
parastatal operating company, "Office National des Telecommunications" (ONT), was created in 1984
to take over telecommunications service from MPT and "Societe des Telecommunications
Internationales de Cote d'Ivoire" (INTELCI), formerly in charge of international telecommunications.
In 1991, the responsibilities of ONT were divided, making ONT responsible for investment and a
new company, "Societ6 Cote d'Ivoire Tel6communications" (CI-TELCOM), responsible for operating
the available assets. Privatization of Cl-TELCOM is in progress with Bank participation under Credit
2363-IVC (Privatization Support). However, this process has been slowed by diverging opinions
between the Committee of Privatization and MPT/CI-TELCOM (Part I, para. 5).
Proiect Objectives and Description
2.    The Bank's participation amounted to US$ 24.5 million or 21% of the total estimated cost of
the Project (US$ 116.7 million). Other cofinanciers included CFD and EIB (22%). The remaining
part (57%) was financed by the Government and ONT's internal cash generation (Part I, para. 13).
3.    The objectives of the Project, which formed part of ONT's telecommunications sector
rehabilitation plan for the years 1986-1990, were to improve: (a) service quality; (b) ONT's
institutional capabilities; (c) ONT's capital structure; (d) telex facilities; and e) the ENSPT training
program (Part I, para. 10).
4.    The Project included the following components:
(a) Rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, implementation of maintenance facilities and
contribution to operating expenses as part of the financial restructuring plan;
(b) Technical Assistance to carry out studies including (i) a review of ONT's organizational and
corporate structure; (ii) a review of the main business processes (manpower planning,
training, tariff structure, billing and collection systems, maintenance, procedures for
improved connection of subscribers); and (iii) design and supervision of spectrum
management control system, maritime radio operation center and outside line plant in
northern Abidjan;
(c) Strengthening ONT staff training programs and provision of fellowships for overseas
training for selected ONT staff; and



-III-
(d) Strengthening ENSPT training programs through the acquisition of training equipment,
preparation of training programs, acquisition of course materials and staff training and
provision of fellowships for overseas training for selected ENSPT staff (Part I, para. 12).
Implementation. Experience and Results
5.    The Project was originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1991. It experienced initial
delays due to procurement procedures and setting-up of special accounts, but it was substantially
completed by June 1992 after the first one year extension of the Closing Date. However, due to
delays in implementing the ENSPT training component, the Closing Date had to be extended a second
and final time to June 30, 1993. Disbursements lagged about one year behind the original schedule.
Final project costs amounted to CFAF 56.3 billion (US$ 189 million) which is 25% higher than the
appraisal estimate of CFAF 44.9 billion (US $ 116.7 million). This is mostly due to higher
investments and custom duties (Part I, paras. 20-22).
7.    The physical targets were met with some delays. The total number of connected telephone
lines (DELs) was increased from 61,111 to 85,268 (24,157 additional) during the 1986-1992 period.
The initial target of the SAR for the year 1990 (84,200) was reached in 1992 with a one and a
half year of implementation delay. The telecommunications infrastructure has been expanded with a
total exchange capacity of 143,850 line units and major outside plant works achieved in Abidjan and
other localities. The long distance transmission network underwent major upgrading with the
introduction of optical fiber transmission on the Abidjan-Yamoussoukro-Bouake link. Telex facilities
were added in 6 localities (Part I, para. 25).
8.    Consequently, guality of service parameters, such as call completion rate, improved over the
period from 46% to 62% for local calls and from 26% to 34% for long distance calls, although
remaining below SAR objectives of 75% and 60%. The number of reported faults per line and per
year only slightly decreased from 0.8 to 0.7 (Part I, para. 25).
9.    As regards technical management of operation and maintenance, the organization was
improved by the establishment of regional directorates with increased delegation of authority to carry
on most of these tasks. A centralized repair center for electronic printed card boards was established
in Abidjan with the potential to reduce delays and costs of maintenance. Procedures to increase the
number of new subscriber connections were given a lower priority and only began to show results in
1991 (Part I, para. 26).
10.   The Project objective to improve ONT's institutional capabilities was only partially achieved.
ONT has been organized along commercial lines with a Board of Directors, a General Directorate and
Regional Directorates including planning, implementation, operational and financial structures. In the
field of human resource development and management, a salary structure and grading system were
introduced to replace the existing civil service structure. A new finance and accounting department
was established within ONT and a revised tariff structure as well as new management systems and
procedures, including accrual accounting, have been implemented. In 1991, during the later stage of
project implementation, the Government decided to increase the autonomy of telecommunications
operations by creating CI-TELCOM as a limited liability company, while keeping regulation and
policy responsibilities within the Ministry. As a further step, the Government started CI-TELCOM's
privatization process (Part I, para. 37).
11.   However, institutional development has not been matched with accountable commercial and
financial management and further actions are still badly required. While ONT and CI-TELCOM have



-iv-
established commercial accounting systems and started preparing financial statements on a more
timely basis, the time required for the preparation of audits is still too long (8 months for FY 92) and
audit reports have shown too many inconsistencies highlighting the need for further improvements in
accounting. Furthermore, little has been accomplished to improve capital budgeting and billing and
collection and the target of achieving monthly billing has not been met. A new stores organization and
computerized inventory management system have not been fully implemented (Part I, para. 38).
12.   The objective to improve ONT's capital structure was not achieved due mainly to:
a) excessive investment; b) inadequate subscriber bills collection; and c) insufficient connection of
new subscriber lines. The management of ONT (then CI-TELCOM) failed to improve the company's
financial situation. It launched an ambitious investment program from 1990 through 1992 but was
unable at the same time to exact payment from the telephone subscribers and uncollected bills
amounted to CFAF 62.4 billion in September 1992.
13.   The Bank made its best efforts, in cooperation with co-lenders, to discourage premature
investments. As early as December 1988, a Bank supervision mission strongly recommended that
ONT focus on the realization of the Project and postpone new investments. In 1990, the Bank
conveyed the message that going ahead with a poorly planned domestic satellite project would
constitute a violation of the Loan Agreements. The project was subsequently postponed. In February
1991, the Bank, CFD and EIB jointly approved the terms of reference of an audit requested by the
Ministry of Finance to propose a short term action plan to improve the financial situation. This
resulted in a temporary slowdown. However, with the benefit of hindsight, more draconian measures
should have been considered, including Loan suspension, to enforce financial discipline (Part III,
para. 43).
14.   In the field of training, ENSPT upgraded its facilities and was able to offer courses to
managers from neighboring countries as well as to meet the needs of the domestic postal and
telecommunications entities. However, in the course of the sector restructuring, ENSPT was
transformed in 1993 into a new entity, ISAPT (African Institute for Posts and Telecommunications).
ISAPT was created with the status of an association owned by CI-TELCOM and "La Poste de Cote
d'Ivoire", but it was left without any financial or staff resources and as a consequence, no training is
currently provided within the sector.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
15.   The Project failed to meet its objectives in the following areas:
(a) Training Activities. Although some of the resources from the Bank Loan were directed
toward improving the quality of training available in the sector, the investments are not currently
utilized, due to the separate status of the training institute and the lack of support provided by
CI-TELCOM and "La Poste de Cote d'Ivoire". The experience of the Project may well indicate
that the current separation of the training function from the operating entities of the sector is not
sustainable and that CI-TELCOM, in particular, should incorporate this training function into its
human resource management function.
(b) Financial Strengthening. CI-TELCOM focused on the development of the
telecommunications infrastructure without timely improvement of procedures to connect new
subscribers and to recover bills from customers. Although organization was improved, more
resources should have been allocated to develop effective tools of management such as
computerized billing, network management, inventory and accounting systems.



(c) Institutional Improvements. The Project, as originally appraised, exclusively focused on
issues confronting the telecommunications operating entity without encompassing broader issues
such as Government's prerogatives, role and responsibilities toward the sector and the respective
role and mission of the telecommunications operator(s) as well as the private sector in the
development of infrastructure and the provision of services. The problems which arose during
the course of Project implementation, and to some extent the failure to put in place an efficient
and truly accountable telecommunications operator prompted the Government to initiate in 1991
basic sectoral reforms as part of a program directed by the Committee of Privatization. This
reform program was not part of the Project as such but its goal was to (a) create a regulatory
body; b) privatize CI-TELCOM (an evaluation of the assets of the company is under way under
Credit 2363-IVC for Privatization support); and c) open some services to competition (cellular,
value-added services).
(d) Supervision. The intensity of Bank supervision (one mission per year) was too low during the
critical build-up of the Project from 1987 to 1989. A formal mid-term review in 1989 would
have been useful to review and re-assess the project risks.



COTE D'IVOIRE
Second Telecommunications Project (LOAN 2696-IVC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Title:       Second Telecommunications Project
Loan No:     2696-IVC
RVP Unit:    Africa Region
Country:     Cote d'Ivoire
Sector:      AFIE. Industry and Energy Operations
Subsector:    Telecommunications
B. BACKGROUND
1.  Sector Set-up. At Independence in 1960, the semi-autonomous Office des Postes et
Telecommunications de Cote d'Ivoire (OPTCI) was created to take over domestic telecommunications
and postal services, while a French company, France Cables et Radio (FCR), operated international
services. In 1964, OPTCI became Administration des Postes et T6lecommunications (APT), under
the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. International services were under FCR's
responsibility until the creation in 1969 of the Societe des Telecommunications Internationales de Cote
d'Ivoire (INTELCI), owned by the Government (52%) and FCR (48%). In 1975, a new parastatal
entity was created, the Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT), to substitute APT in the
provision of post and domestic telecommunications services. Through June 1984, OPT was
successively under the authority of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT) and an
enlarged Ministere des Travaux Publics, de la Construction et des Postes et Telecommunications
(MTPCPT).
2. The Bank had been associated with the telecommunications sector in Cote d'Ivoire since 1974.
The first Loan (981-IVC) equivalent to US$ 25.0 million, was declared effective in August 1974 and
helped to finance a Project with a total cost of US$ 76 million aimed at implementing the 1974-1978
investment program of APT, then OPT. Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD) was the principal
cofinancier. The experience with this Project was disappointing in many respects. The Bank
pronounced misprocurement for the exchange equipment and subsequently canceled US$ 7.6 million
from the initial Loan amount. In addition to procurement delays, the Project also experienced
construction delays. Physical implementation was completed in 1984, six years behind initial
schedule. An audit report No. 6874 dated June 26,1987 was presented to the Executive Directors.
3.  In July 1984, postal services were separated from the telecommunications services (creation of
ONP, Office National des Postes) and the latter merged with INTELCI to form a new parastatal with
the status of "Etablissement Public a Caractere Industriel et Commercial (EPIC)", the Office National
des Tel6communications (ONT), responsible for all public telecommunications services.



-2-
4. During Project implementation in 1991, the sector structure was further modified, and the
responsibilities of ONT were divided: while ONT will be responsible for investment, a new company,
"Societe Cote d'Ivoire Telecommunications" (CI-TELCOM), would be responsible for operating the
available assets. However, as demonstrated by the financial statements, investment decisions were
assumed de facto by CI-TELCOM during FY 92.
5. The privatization process started in 1991 when CI-TELCOM was chosen within the first wave of
companies to be privatized under a program directed by the Committee of Privatization created by the
Government. The Bank was approached to assist by acting as executing agency of a Japanese Trust
Fund which was to finance this task. The consultants in charge of this task recommended 14 policy
decisions for the Government's consideration and defined the path to achieve the process quickly.
The Privatization Committee endorsed 13 of the 14 recommendations immediately but only agreed
after extensive debate on the last one which strongly recommended that the entity in charge of
providing the services should also be responsible for future investments. Implementation of the above
policy decisions was not carried out as an integrated privatization program. Instead, MPT and CI-
TELCOM undertook the preparation of the regulatory framework, under a Canadian grant, while
other aspects of the preparation for privatization, which included the operator's divestiture, was made
on behalf of the Privatization Committee under Credit 2363-IVC. Due to divergent views on how to
proceed and an inability to resolve conflicts between the Privatization Committee and MPT/CI-
TELCOM, neither study was integrated as intended nor completed and the promising start in defining
the privatization process dissipated during the following three years. A clear and binding statement of
sector policy from the authorities and a fresh willingness to cooperate amongst the parties involved
are essential to move the privatization to a successful conclusion.
6. Training. ENSPT was responsible under the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications for
training of both ONP and ONT staff. In addition to meeting all the domestic needs, ENSPT also
offered courses for postal and telecommunications managers from neighboring African countries.
7. Sector Development and Project Genesis. At completion of the first Bank Project, steps had
already been taken for improving sector organization and management and to strengthen OPT's
capabilities in development planning and implementation. OPT's accounting system and procedures
have been improved. Accounts are now prepared along commercial lines with separation of postal and
telecommunications activities since FY 82. Billing was computerized through a central system and
the billing period was reduced from quarterly to bimonthly. ONT was created in July 1984 by
merging the telecommunications branch of OPT and INTELCI to improve the efficiency of the sector
operations. The initial organizational structure of ONT included a planning unit in line with the
Bank's recommendations. The first 20-year Telecommunications Master Plan was prepared with
ITU's assistance in 1985 under UNDP grant.
8.  Project Preparation. In 1983, the Government initiated preparation of a rehabilitation program
for OPT and the sector, presented to the Bank by the Minister of Posts and Telecommunications
during his visit in June 1983. An identification mission visited Cote d'Ivoire in September 1983 and a
preparation mission was fielded in August 1984. The Project was appraised in October 1984. In
December 1984, the Bank's position was that the Project should focus first on institutional and
financial objectives and that the implementation of the expansion component would be contingent
upon satisfactory completion of the first phase at mid-term review. On this basis, a post-appraisal
mission in March 1985 led to a first Loan proposal of US$ 40 million, which included a balanced
package of rehabilitation and expansion works. The Project was submitted to the Loan Committee in
August 1985. In September 1985, the Government designed a financial restructuring plan comprising



-3-
the provision of Government equity and loans and limiting ONT's borrowing capacity in foreign
currency for the period 1985-1986. It was agreed at a meeting convened by the Government in
Abidjan in November 1985 with potential co-lenders (BOAD, CFD, EIB, AfDB) to implement the
five year program in two phases but to commit funds for the first phase only. CFD and EIB attended
the negotiations as observers in Washington in January 1986. During negotiations, the Bank and CFD
agreed to assist ONT's financial restructuring by financing part of incremental recurrent expenditures
during the Project period. The proposed Bank's Loan of US$ 24.5 million, including a financial
restructuring component of US$ 8.8 million, was approved by the Executive Directors on
May 15,1986. The Loan Agreement was signed on June 27,1986 and became effective on January
30,1987.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
9. ONT's investment program for the period 1986-1990 comprised ongoing works from the 1981-
1985 Development Plan and new works under the 1986-1990 Development Plan. The Government
decided to complete the 1986-1990 Development Plan in two phases. Phase I, which was covered by
the present Project, was to be executed in the 1986-1988 time frame and included institutional
rehabilitation and development, financial restructuring and extension works of the highest priority to
lead to better utilization of existing infrastructure. Phase II, which included expansion works to meet
demand for telephone service in both urban and rural areas was to be undertaken after satisfactory
completion of Phase I and improvement of ONT's capital structure and financial situation.
10. Proiject Obiectives. In accordance with the Government's sector goals (para. 2.08), the Project,
which was to be implemented by both the Office National des Telecommunications (ONT) and Ecole
Nationale Superieure des Postes et Telecommunications (ENSPT) for the training component, had the
following main objectives:
(a) improve quality of telephone service through better network balance, improved maintenance
and rehabilitation and replacement of old assets;
(b) improve ONT's institutional capabilities in planning, implementation, procurement,
operational efficiency, maintenance procedures, financial management, billing and
collection, and training;
(c) improve ONT's capital structure;
(d) provide telex facilities to meet business needs; and
(e) strengthen ENSPT' s training programs.
11. The Project was initially designed for the 1986-1990 period but completion of some items was
postponed through 1992 and 1993.
12. Proiect Description. The Project consisted of the following four components:
(a) Rehabilitation of Equipment and Maintenance. This componet included:
(i)    Rehabilitating existing equipment and cable network through acquisition of
traffic-balancing, switching, transmission equipment and additional
telecommunications equipment to improve quality of service;
(ii)    Upgrading the country-wide maintenance organization through: (i) the establishment
of an electronic cards repair and measuring instrument calibration center in Abidjan;
(ii) the strengthening of maintenance facilities through the acquisition of equipment,



-4-
spare parts and specialized vehicles; and (iii) upgrading of the stores, garages and
workshops;
(iii)   Improving the computer facilities to enhance billing and collection management
systems; and
(iv)    Purchasing spare parts, fuel, lubricants, stores, vehicle repair and equipment.
(b) Studies and Technical Assistance. This technical assistance was to:
(i)    Review ONT's organizational and corporate structure including: (i) examination of the
possibility of reorganizing ONT under an autonomous corporate structure;
(ii) preparation of manpower planning, including staffing standards, job descriptions
and staff remunerations; and (iii) redefinition of relations between ONT and ENSPT;
(ii)    Review the tariff level and structure;
(iii)   Review the billing and collection system, with a view to introducing a monthly and
zonal billing system;
(iv)    Design and assist in establishing a maintenance organization, and training of
maintenance personnel;
(v)    Review procedures for improved connection of subscribers;
(vi)    Assist in improving frequency spectrum management and control; and
(vii)   Prepare and evaluate bidding documents for equipment.
(c) Training. This training component to ONT, was to:
(i)    Strengthen ONT's staff training programs; and
(ii)    Provide fellowships for overseas training for selected ONT's staff.
(d) Assistance to ENSPT. Assistance to ENSPT was to:
(i)    Strengthen ENSPT's training programs through the acquisition of training equipment,
preparation of training programs, acquisition of course materials and staff training;
(ii)    Provide fellowships for overseas training for selected ENSPT's staff.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
13. In 1983, with ITU's assistance under a UNDP grant, OPT prepared a master plan for
telecommunications development from 1985 to 2005. After ONT's creation in 1984, a 1986-1990
five year investment program was extracted from the master plan to include high priority
rehabilitation and network expansion components. At appraisal in 1984, the cost of the Project was
estimated to be US$ 104.7 million, but it was increased to US$ 138.5 million after incorporating
taxes and custom duties for which the new ONT was no longer exempt. The relative part of
rehabilitation and expansion was as follows:
Rehabilitation works                  US$ 17.8 million
High priority investments             US$ 120.5 million
Total                                 US$ 138.3 million
14. In 1985, however, the Government decided to limit borrowing in foreign currency. As a
conclusion of negotiations attended by co-lenders (CFD and EIB), the total Project cost was reduced



-5-
to US$ 116.7 million. Part of the initial rebabilitation works and the highest priority investments were
retained and in addition it was agreed to include an institutional development component and the
financing of ONT's working capital requirements. The Government agreed to consult co-lenders
before starting the other new investments under Part II of the investment program.
15. Project estimated costs and sources of financing are given in the following tables:
project Costs*
US$ million
Local        Foreign      Total
Rehabilitation                             13.9        27.7           41.6
Equipment for training school (ENSPT)      2.6          2.6
Contingencies                              2.6          5.3           7.9
Financial restructuring                    559          8.7           64.6
Total                                      72.4         44.3         116.7
*including US$ 12.3 million for customs duties and taxes
Sources of financin2
US$ million
SOurce                                    Local         Foreign      Total
Bank Loan                                   3.5         21.0          24.5
CFD                                        2.3          14.9          17.2
EIB                                        0.9           7.8          8.7
Government                                 50.1           -           50.1
ONT's internal cash generation             15A6         0.6           16.2
Total                                      72.4         44.3         116.7
16. As part of the Government participation in the financing plan, ONT was allowed to raise
CFAF 7.5 billion (equivalent US$ 19.5 million) in 1986 from a group of 7 local banks (BICI-CI,
BCCI, BIAO, SGBCI, SIB, CFCI, Paribas-CI).
17. Except for the ENSPT training component, ONT was in charge of Project implementation.
Technical engineering assistance (financed by the Bank, CFD and EIB) was provided for procurement
(bid documents, bids evaluation) and for supervision of installation and commissioning.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
18. Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up. Loan 2696-IVC was approved on May 15,1986 and
signed on June 27,1986. The Loan became effective on January 30,1987. Loan effectiveness was
postponed because of delays in: a) executing the subsidiary Loan agreement between the Government
and ONT and loan agreements with CFD and EIB; b) finalizing a grant agreement between the
Government and ENSPT; and c) opening project accounts.



-6-
19. Procurement. Procurement of Bank financed items for ONT took place under 8 contracts signed
from 1987 through 1989, all entered into in accordance with Bank procedures and under Bank
supervision. 93 % of the Loan was disbursed in 1992, the remaining part consisting mostly of
investments for ENSPT, which could not be carried out. Equipment for ENSPT were procured in
accordance with ICB guidelines. For a total amount of US$ 500,000 (out of a total of
US$ 2.6 million), the Bank agreed to sole source procurement for a training simulator switching
exchange for an amount of US$ 1.4 million.
20. Implementation Schedule. Overall project implementation was delayed because of changes in the
organization of the operator, addition of new investments and cumbersome Government administrative
procedures required from ONT to follow for bids award and contract approval and for making funds
available from special accounts managed by an agency under the Ministry of Finance (CAA).
Nevertheless, ONT was able to partly reduce initial delays by advancing down payments for suppliers
contracts from its own resources. Works, supplies and services under Categories 1 and 2 (ONT) were
completed by mid-1992, one year beyond the initial Closing Date. The Closing Date was further
postponed to mid-1993 to allow ENSPT to purchase additional equipment under Category 4.
Government's heavy involvement in ONT's day to day operations was highlighted by institutional
reform studies and resulted in more autonomy granted to CI-TELCOM in 1991.
21. The Bank financed the following components:
Rehabilitation of Equipment and Maintenance Strengthening.
o Provision and installation of telex facilities in 6 localities (Bouake, Daloa, Korhogo, Man,
San Pedro and Yamoussoukro), corresponding to a total increase of 300 telex access lines.
(Completed 9/89)
o Rehabilitation of ship to shore radio communication operation center. (Completed 11/90)
o Provision of public phone sets. (Completed 12/90)
o Provision and installation of a system for managing the radio frequency spectrum. (Completed
2/92)
o Improvement and expansion of the local line plant in the northern part of Abidjan. (Completed
4/92)
o Contribution to operating expenses as part of the financial restructuring, this included power,
fuel and water expenses as well as spare parts and tools acquisition. (Completed 6/92)
Studies and Technical Assistance.
o Design and acceptance testing of maritime radio links. (Completed 3/89)
o Institutional reform studies. (Completed 4/89)
o Design and supervision of local line plant expansion. (Completed 2/90)
o Design and acceptance testing of radio frequency spectrum management system. (Completed
2/92)
Training School (ENSPT).
o The Bank financed the acquisition of training facilities such as telephone exchange simulators,
bench radio links, computers, measuring equipment and tools. It also financed seminars and
training for staff of ENSPT. (Completed 6/93)



-7-
22. Project Costs. Detailed estimated and actual project costs and sources of financing are given in
table 3.5.1. Part III. Upon ONT's request, in May 1989, CFAF 1.6 billion were shifted from the
financial restructuring component to increase the funding for rehabilitation. However, this minor
adjustment had little effect on the actual shift and cost increase experienced at Project completion.
Compared to the estimated cost at appraisal of CFAF 44.9 billion (paragraph 15 above, including a
foreign exchange component of CFAF 17.0 billion), the actual overall cost of the Project amounts to
CFA 56.3 billion or 25% above estimates. More than half of the additional costs are due to taxes and
import duties (CFAF 6.5 billion). Rehabilitation investments increased from CFAF 19.0 billion to
CFAF 37.5 billion. Cost increases were mainly due to variations in quantities and additional taxes.
Foreign exchange fluctuations had a minimal impact on cost overruns, since most supplies and works
have been contracted in CFAF or in French Francs. Investment expenditures were higher than
budgeted mainly for external plant and transmission infrastructure. The training component (ENSPT)
was not fully completed as appraised and actual expenditures dropped from CFAF 1.0 billion to
CFAF 0.6 billion. At the end of 1990, the total contribution to financial restructuring was evaluated
at CFAF 18.2 billion, of which CFAF 1.8 billion equivalent from the Bank Loan and
CFAF 2.2 billion from CFD. The expected financial contribution from the Government, either in the
form of equity or payment of interest for an equivalent of CFAF 5.0 billion never materialized. The
CFAF 6.7 billion decrease in funding for financial restructuring (from CFAF 24.9 billion to CFAF
18.2 billion) and in funding for the training component (from CFAF 1.0 billion to CFAF 0.6 billion)
slightly compensated the above substantial increase in investment expenditures under the Project.
23. Other Investments. A major issue which arose during project implementation was the high level
of commitments for new investments made by ONT from the middle of the project period. In
addition to the increase of the investment component under the Project (see above), these new
commitments previously planned to be started under Phase II of the investment program were made
before assessing their full impact on ONT's financial restructuring and before consulting the lenders
as previously agreed. Particularly these investments, financed out of ONT's own resources, were
made before the benefits expected from the Project could materialize. From 1987 to 1991, ONT had
invested in addition to the Project: CFAF 14.4 billion as a spill over from the previous
1981-1985 investment program (CFAF 7.2 billion from EIB-1 and AfDB loans), and
CFAF 20.8 billion in new premature investments (Phase II of the investment program). Besides its
higher volume of commitments per year, the investment program had a high average cost per
additional line (US$ 3,700 per line) compared to the world average ($1,500-2,500 per line). This is
partly due to high taxes (non-refundable value-added taxes and import duties) which represented 25%
of the total amount (CFAF 18.6 billion out of a total of 72.6 billion, see table 3.5.2. Part III).
Discussions between ONT and co-lenders resulted in a decision to freeze new investments in 1991.
The same year CI-TELCOM was created to operate the network without, at least in theory,
investments responsibilities. In fact, as assessed from financial statements issued in 1992 and audited
in 1993, CI-TELCOM continued making higher levels of capital expenditures, amounting to about
CFAF 34 billion (US$ 120 million) over the 1991-1992 two year period. Capital expenditures well
above the operating entity's capabilities in terms of financial resources, as well as insufficient
connection of net additional lines, compromised not only the viability of the Project but also the
operating entity itself.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
24. Project Objectives and Performance Indicators. Table 3.6 in Part III summarizes ONT's main
performance indicators as planned and as achieved under the Project. Physical components of the
Project were successfully implemented and objectives met with a year and a half delay. Introduction



-8-
of better technical, financial and accounting management practices was partially achieved. The
institutional framework was improved in line with studies financed under the Project, resulting in the
creation in 1991 of CI-TELCOM to be operated on a commercial basis and the decision by the
Government to privatize it.
25. Physical Results. The physical targets of the Project as planned and achieved are detailed in
Table 3.6. The total number of telephone lines was increased from 61,111 to 85,268 during the
1986-1992 period, the initial target of the SAR for year 1990 (84,200) was reached in 1992 with a
one and a half year implementation delay. The infrastructure has been expanded with a total
exchange capacity of 143,850 lines (60% utilization ratio) and major outside plant works achieved in
Abidjan and other localities. The long distance transmission network underwent major upgrading with
the introduction of optical fiber transmission on the Abidjan-Yamoussoukro-Bouakl link. As a result,
quality of service parameters such as call completion rate improved over the period by more than
50% although still remaining below SAR objectives, number of reported faults per line and per year
only slightly decreased from 0.8 to 0.7.
26. Technical Management. As regards technical management of operations and maintenance, the
organization was decentralized by the establishment of regional directorates with increased delegation
of authority to carry on most of these tasks. A repair center for electronic printed card boards was
established in Abidjan to reduce delays and costs of repairs of components which were previously
made abroad. Implementation of new procedures to speed up the connections of new subscriber
connections only began to show results in 1991 with a significant increase of production of new
DELs.
27. In the field of training, ENSPT upgraded its facilities and was able to offer courses to managers
from neighboring countries as well as to meet the needs of the domestic postal and
telecommunications entities. However, in the course of the sector restructuring, ENSPT was
transformed in 1993 into a new entity, ISAPT (African Institute for Posts and Telecommunications).
ISAPT was created with the status of an association owned by CI-TELCOM and 'La Poste de Cote
d'Ivoire", but it was left without any financial or staff resources and as a consequence, no training is
currently provided within the sector.
28. Financial Performance. The following tables give some financial indicators on CI-TELCOM's
performance:
Balance Sheet
December 31   December 31  December 31   May 31    September 30
1988         1989         1990         1991        1992
Current ratio                1.58         1.31         0.82        0.82         0.82
Working cap.(CFAF billion)   11.5         9.6         -7.8         -7.3         -9.4
Debt to debt & equity ratio.  44%        45%          43%          40%          33%
Funds Flow Statement
1988          1989          May.91          Sep.92
(12 months)   (12 months)    (17 months)    (16 months)
Self ruiancing        54%            22%            43%            71%
Long Term fuancing       23%            67%            7%             18%
Short Term financing     23%            11%            50%            11%



-9-
29. The current ratio, which was acceptable in 1988, dropped below 1 in 1990. Working capital was
negative in 1992 as it was positive in 1989, due to a spectacular increase in current liabilities. The
increase in short term financing for the period ending in May 1991, was mostly due to an increase of
debts to suppliers and Government. In the 16 months ending in September 1992, investments were
financed through cash flow and an injection of capital funds by the Government.
30. Subscribers' accounts. On 30 September 1992, a provision for private subscribers' doubtful
accounts amounted to CFAF 56.2 billion, applied to a gross total of CFAF 82.8 billion. This
provision for several years of unpaid bills will probably never be recovered and should be added to
the doubtful credit on Government consumption, which amounts to CFAF 14.3 billion. The revenues
for the period at the end of 1992 amount to FCFA 67.3 billion. This means that the total
irrecoverable consumers' debt represents about 17 months of billing (custom duties owed to
Government are CFAF 8.1 billion and could be deducted as compensation, but they only represent
about 2 months of billing).
31. In summary, the management of CI-TELCOM failed to improve the company's financial
position. It launched an ambitious investment program from 1990 through 1992 but was unable to
exact during that period payment from the telephone subscribers. Uncollected subscriber bills
(CFAF 62.4 billion) are greater than the amount of investment realized between January 1992 to
September 1992, and represent more than five times the negative amount of working capital.
32. Rate of Return on Net Fixed Assets. The following table gives the rates of return and the ratios
of operating income total revenues from 1988 to 1992.
Income Statement               1988         1989        May 1991       Sep.92
(12 months)   (12 months)   (17 months)   (16 months)
Rate of Retumn                 20%           13%          13%           9%
Operating Income / Total Revenue  23%       17%           18%           18%
33. Although the ratio of income to revenues remains steady during the three last periods, there is a
fall in rate of return. This is due to the highest base of fixed assets in the last period, which is the
result of large investments, without a corresponding increase in income.
34. Financial Internal Rate of Return on Investments. The financial internal rate of return (Table
3.9. Part III) is around 6%, a value lower than estimated at appraisal (16.5%). Some of the reasons
for this unsatisfactory return include: over-investment financed by short-term debt and insufficient
use of the new infrastructure. Operating costs per line have not been reduced in spite of the increase
in lines and the drop in employees per 1000 lines ratio from 69 to 44. The income statement for
1992 indicates a sharp increase, among others, in personnel expenses, subcontracted activities and
services and write-offs.
35. Economic Rate of Return. For telecommunications projects, to take into account consumer
surplus and indirect benefits received by non-users of the telecommunications services, the economic
rate of return is generally calculated by assuming that new subscribers demonstrate the same
willingness to pay as existing subscribers. Costs are also adjusted by deducting taxes and duties. The



-10-
ERR calculated on this basis would be about 12% to 13% compared with the 30% estimated at
appraisal.
36. Impact of Project. The Project objectives of institutional improvement were partially achieved.
ONT has been organized along commercial lines with a Board of Directors, a General Directorate and
Regional Directorates including planning, implementation, operational and financial structures. In the
field of human resource development and management, a salary structure and grading system were
introduced to replace the existing civil service structure. A new finance and accounting department
was established within ONT, and a revised tariff structure as well as new management systems and
procedures, including accrual accounting were implemented. In 1991, during the later stages of
project implementation, the Government decided to increase the autonomy of telecom operations by
creating CI-TELCOM as a limited liability company, while keeping regulation and policy
responsibilities within the Ministry. As a further step, the Government started CI-TELCOM's
privatization process.
37. However, institutional development has not been matched with accountable commercial and
financial management and further actions are still badly required. While ONT and CI-TELCOM have
established commercial accounting systems and started producing financial statements on a more
timely basis, the time required for preparation of audits is still too long and audit reports have shown
too many inconsistencies highlighting the need for improvements in accounting. Furthermore, little
has been accomplished to improve capital budgeting and billing and collection - the target of
achieving monthly billing has not been met- and a new stores organization and computerized
inventory management system have not been fully implemented.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
38. Project Benefits. The Project benefits for the economy are significant. They include: a) a
significant development and modernization of the telecommunications infrastructure; b) an increase in
volume, quality and coverage of telecommunications services; and c) a significant step toward
sector restructuring and private sector participation, starting with organization of the major operator
along commercial lines.
39. Proiect Risks. Risks to sustainability depend critically on the ability to improve management
responsibility and accountability, to plan and implement further developments in a coordinated way,
to manage operations and maintenance and to introduce a sound capital budgeting program.
H. BANK'S PERFORMANCE.
40. Overall, Bank performance in this Project has been good, although it was unable to bring about a
reduction in the level of investment.
41. During project preparation, the Bank identified basic institutional weaknesses, including:
investment planning and Project engineering; financial management and accounting; tariffs and
commercial approach to service provision; overall organization and a great need for management
information and assisted in the pre-investment study for program/project preparation and design of an
institutional reform program.
42. The Bank made its best efforts, in cooperation with co-lenders, to discourage premature
investments. As early as December 1988, a Bank supervision mission strongly recommended that



-11-
ONT focus on the realization of the Project and postpone new investments. In 1990, the Bank
conveyed the message that going ahead with a poorly planned domestic satellite project would
constitute a violation of the Loan Agreements. The project was subsequently postponed. In February
1991, the Bank, CFD and EIB jointly approved the terms of reference of an audit requested by the
Ministry of Finance to propose a short term action plan to improve the financial situation. This
resulted in a temporary slowdown. However, with the benefit of hindsight, more draconian measures
should have been considered, including Loan supervision, to enforce financial discipline.
43. Details on Bank supervisions of the Project are given in Table 3.8 Part III. A total of 9
missions, i.e. once a year on average, were made during the Project implementation period. Most of
the supervision missions (from 1987 to 1991) were coordinated with other co-lenders.
I. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
44. The Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications exercised weak governance and supervision over
ONT, first to pursue the implementation of the agreed financial restructuring of the entity as well as
of the recommended sector reforms, which includes liberalization and private sector participation in
management and equity funding of the telecommunications operator.
45. The status of compliance with the conditions of the Project Agreement is indicated in Table 3.7,
Part III. The main areas of non-compliance were: a) inability to reduce the billing cycle to 1 month
instead of 2; b) failure to implement a computerized inventory control ; c) net cash flow
requirements; d) rate of return on Net Assets in 1990; and e) Bank's prior approval of changes to
investment program.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
46. The Bank's relationship with ONT and ENSPT has been generally good, although there were
sharp exchanges between missions and ONT's management on investment issues.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES.
47. The technical assistance program comprised technical and institutional development components.
Studies on design engineering of the Abidjan local network, maritime radio links and a frequency
management system were carried out effectively and corresponding works implemented. Studies were
also carried out by consultants in the following areas: a) institutional status of ONT and its relation
with the training function of ENSPT; recommendations resulted in the creation of CI-TELCOM in
1991, but the training function was not addressed at that stage; b) ONT's organization structure and
management systems and procedures; little was accomplished in implementing efficient procedures to
improve capital budgeting and billing and collections; c) a specific organization was established within
ONT and accrual accounting was implemented; d) a specific framework was developed on human
resource management including status, salary structure and grading; e) recommendations on stores
organization and inventory management were not fully implemented, particularly regarding
computerized inventory management; and f) tariffs; a revised tariff structure was implemented.
L. AUDIT.
48. Review of ONT and ENSPT's financial statements and of special accounts was carried out by
auditors and submitted to the Bank. These reports have consistently revealed many inconsistencies.



-12-
The most recent audit for FY 92 for CI-TELCOM was received in July 1993. The last audit received
for ENSPT was for FY 89.
M. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND REPORTING.
49. Progress reporting and the availability of data on Project implementation and results were done
on a regular and comprehensive basis. Specific progress reports concerning Bank financed
components of the Project were provided. Information was made available during supervision
missions and in the format of annual operational reports, budget forecasts and review documents, and
statements on progress of overall investment program.



-13-
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Borrowers's Perspective of the Design and Implementation of the Project
and of its Development Impact
This part is being prepared by CI-TELCOM and ENSPT. The Borrower was advised in July 1993
of the need to prepare a report, which has not been received to date.






-14-
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan 2696-IVC (USS 24.5 million, signed on 06/27/86) was the second World Bank Group Operation for the
telecommunications sector in C6te d'Ivoire.
2. Project Timetable
Date           Date                  Date
Item                                  Planned        Revised                Actual
Government Request                                                        June 1983
Identification                                                          September 1983
Preparation                                                              August 1984
Appraisal                                                                October 1984
Post Appraisal                                                            March 1985
Loan Negotiations                                                        January 1986
Board Approval                                                             May 1986
Loan Signature                                                            June 1986
Loan Effectiveness                                                       January 1987
Loan Closing                         06/30/91        06/30/92              06/30/93
06/30/93



-15-
REPUBLIC OF C6TE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
3A. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
US$
Category                       Amount of Loan   Amount of Loan          Final
Original        Revised '1      Disbursement
1 - Equipment and Materials.                          10,500,000        13,900,000  14,823,412
2 - Consultant services and training for ONT staff.     1,000,000         2,300,000   2,041,243
3 - ONT's operating costs.                             8,800,000          4,700,000   5,852,270
4 - Equipment and materials, consultant services and   2,600,000          2,600,000   1,919,919
training for ENSPT.
5 - Unallocated.                                        1,600,000         1,000,000       2,571 12
Special Account                                                        -24,825 '3
Special Account                                                      -114,590 '3
TOTAL                            24,500,000        24,500,000  24,500,000
1 / Revision wm raede on May 1 Cth, 1989.
2/ Undisbursed balance.
31 Amounts to be recovered by the Bank
3B. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Amounts
US$
FY ending     Appraisal Estimates         Actual           Actual as a % of   Actual as a % of final
June 30                                                 Appraisal Estimates    disbursed amount
1987               6,000,000             4,336,844           72 /a                   18
1988              14,000,000             4,336,844            31 /a                  18
1989              19,500,000             4,336,844             22                    18
1990              23,000,000            10,330,704             45                    42
1991              24,500,000            14,962,417             61                    61
1992              24,500,000            22,750,594             93                    93
1993              24,500,000            23,972,024             98                    98
March 4,1994          24,500,000            24,497,429            99.99                  100
/a Inita disbursements were mainly to set up the special accounts. From 1987 to 1989, ONT contracted only part of the works
and paid downpayments and initial invoices on its own funds due to initial procedural difficulties (see Para. 5.03)



-16-
REPUBLIC OF C6TE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
4. Proiect Implementation
Completion Dates
Component                                Actual
1. Maritime radio links, design                                     03/89
2. Institutional reform studies                                     04/89
3. Telex Equipment                                                  04/89
4. Local Line Networks, design                                      02/90
5. Maritime radio links, works                                      11/90
6. Public phone sets                                                12/90
7. Radio spectrum management equipment                              02/92
8. Local line plant, works                                          04/92



REPUBLIC OF C6TE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
5A. Project Cost and Financing
CFAF million
Origin of Funds                     Appraisal Estimates        Revised       Actual Cost
(SAR)             may 1989       PCR estimate
IBRD        EIB          CFD          ONT               Total                               Project
Comporents
A - Rehabilitation
Switching                                                                    2,300          945                    3,245                               5,732
External Plant                                      2,416                                   489                    2,905                              11,102
Telephone Inst. & teleprint.                        1,098                                   252                     1,350                              1,600
Transmission                                                    3,293          270          802                    4,365                               9,971
Telex                                                 221                                    64                       285                                369
Power Equipment                                                                580           65                       645                              1,798
Comptuter Equipment                                                             780         155                       935                              1,246
Miscellaneous                                         888                                   177                     1,065                              2,085
Repair Center                                                                   270           5                       275                                824
Buildings and Civil Works                                                                   200                       200                                889
Training, consultancy services                        400           60          200          50                       710                              1,856
Contingencies                                                                             3,056                    3,056
A - SubtotaL Rehabilitation                         5,023        3,353       4,400        6,260                    19,036        20,614               37,471
B - Eauipment for training school (Ensot)           1,000                                                           1,000         1,000                  579
C - FinanciaL Restructuring                         3,400                    2,200       19,271                   24,871         23,293               18,200
Total Project Cost                                  9,423        3,353       6,600       25,531                   44,907         4,907                56,250
Taxes                                                                                                               4,733                             11,215
Total net of taxes                                                                                                 40,174                             45,035



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
5B. Total Investment Cost (1986-1991) /1
CFAF million
Ongoing Works           Project           New Operations               Total
Actual Investment Costs (1986-1991)
Switching                                               7,293                 5,732                 3,882                 16,905
External PLant                                                               11,102                 3,766                 14,868
Telephone Inst. & teleprint.                                                  1,600                                        1,600
Transmission                                            5,659                 9,971                10,125                 25,754
Telex                                                                           369                                          369
Power Equipment                                             84                1,798                                        1,882
Computer Equipment                                                            1,246                                        1,246
Miscellaneous                                              888                2,085                                        2,085
Repair Center                                                                   824                                          824
BuiLdings and CiviL Works                                                       889                 2,633                  3,522
Training, consuLtancy services                           1.360                1.856                    371                 3 587
Total Cost                                             14,394                37,471                20,m                   72,642
Taxes                                                    1,641               11,215                 5,708                 18,564
Total net of taxes                                     12,753                26,256                15,069                 54,078
Appraisal Estimates (SAR)                        11,870                19,036                22,908                  53,046
/1 excluding financial restructuring and equipment for training school (ENSPT)



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
6A. Performance Indicators - Implementation
Year ending December 31.                          Act.      For.     Act.      For.      Act.     For.      Act.       For.      Act.       For.      Actual   Actuat   Actual
1985     1986      1986      1987     1987      1988      1988      1989       1989       1990       1990      1991     1992
SAR                SAR                SAR                  SAR                  SAR
Telephone Exchange Capacity                    81,560   81,560   81,560   81,560   82,670   91,560   84,430    99,560   102,960    99,560   132,880  143,850  143,850
Telephone lines connected (DELs)               57,088   61,500   61,111   66,000   63,640   72,600   66,494    79,900    68,380    84,200    71,700   79,683   85,268
Telex Subscribers                               1,790    1,840                1,910              2,060                2,210                2,360      1,788    1,364    1,221
Maintenance Targets:
-Faults reported per annum, per DEL                 0.8       1.0      0.8       0.8      0.9       0.7       0.8        0.6        0.6       0.5        0.9       0.8      0.7
-Percent of faults cteared within 24              45        50                  60                 65                   70                   75
hours
- Percent of fautts pending more than              35       30        29        20                 10                    5         60          5        55        50        32
48 hours                                                                                                                                                                                     9D
- Percent of fauLts pending more than 8                                                                                            20                   13        10         6
days
Average catt comptetion rates during
busy hour:
- Local catls                                      40       50        46        55        42       60        48         70         50         75        52        54        62
- Long distance calts                              20       30        26        40       28        45        17         50         20        60         23        28        34
Vehictes in garage for service or repair            40        30         -       25                 20       162         10                    10
Staff ratio (Enptoyees per 1000 DELs)               76        72       69        67        64       61        61         55         58         52         55       49        44
Act.   :  Actuat
For.  :  Forecast



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
6B. Performance Indicators - Financial
Year ending December 31.                          Actual  Forecast Actual  Forecast Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast ActuaL  Forecast  Actual  Actual  Actual
1985     1986      1986     1987     1987      1988     1988      1989     1989      1990     1990    1991    1992
SAR                SAR               SAR                SAR                SAR               (a)     (b)
Rate of return on revalued assets X                  -         11      12.8       12      17.8       12      11.9       12       8        12        6       -        6.2
Liabilities I Equity + Liabilities ratio X          70         80      63         75      65         70      55         65      60        60       61      58      56
Accounts receivable as a percentage of             100         50      31         30      47         20      52         20      64        20       56      42      49
revenues in same FY
Bitling period (month)                               2          2       2          1       2          1       2          1       2          1       2       2        2
Time required to disconnect defaulting             200        120                 90                 60                 60                60
subscribers and reallocate the Line (days
Presentation of draft accounts to Bank (in           8          7        -         6      18          4      18          4      16          4      11      18        8
months after end of FY)
Operating Revenues per DEL (CFAF '000)             520        550     576        550     648        580     576        580     576       580      597     491     599
Operating Cost per DEL at constant price           380        380     906        360     442        340     373        320     418       300      492     398     370
per Year (CFAF '000)
(a) from financial statements of May 1991 (date of transfer of activities from ONT to Cl-TELCOI4).
(b) from financial statements of October 1992 (new end of fiscal year for Cl-TELCOI).



- 21 -
REPUBLIC of COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
7A. Status of Covenants
Loan Agreement
Section      Description                                                              Compliance
Loan Agreement:
3.03 (a)    - Freeze manpower at Feb 1986 Level for the period 1986-1990.   Met.
(b),(c)      - Recruitment poLicy                                                     Delayed due to impLementation of
Gov. decision to privatize.
3.04 (a)    - Review of studies and recommendations.                                  Met.
(b)    - i) billing.                                                            Partial comptiance (billing
cycle still 2 months).
- ii) computerized inventory control.                                   Not met.
- iii) new procedures for connection of subscribers.                    Met.
- iv) estabLishment of repair center.                                   Met. Early 1991.
- v) institutional reform.                                              Delayed due to impLementation of
Gov. decision to privatize.
3.06         - Procurement Procedures.                                                Met.
3.07         - Financial restructuring Plan.                                          Met.
4.01         - Audited Accounts.(ENSPT)                                               Partial compliance.
FY 87 and FY 89.
- Loan account.                                                         Met. November 1991



- 22 -
REPUBLIC of COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONTI
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
7B. Status of Covenants
Proiect Agreement
Section      Description                                                            Compliance
Proiect Agree.ent:
2.06 (a)    - Freeze manpower at Feb 1986 level for the period 1986-1990.   Met.
(b)    - Recruitment policy                                                   Delayed due to implementation of
Gov. decision to privatize.
2.07         - Select disciplines and foreign institutions for training.           Met.
2.08 (a)    - Recruitment of consultants.                                          Met.
(b)    - Review of studies and recommendations.                               Met.
(c)    - i) billing.                                                          Partial compLiance (bitting
cycle still 2 months).
- ii) computerized inventory control.                                 Not met.
- iii) new procedures for connection of subscribers.                  Met.
- iv) establishment of repair center.                                 Met. Early 1991.
- v) institutional reform.                                            Delayed due to implementation of
Gov. decision to privatize.
2.09         - Establish performance targets.                                      Met.
2.10         - Financial restructuring Plan.                                       Met.
4.01         - Audited Accounts.(ONT)                                               FY 87 available .'une 1989.
FY 88 available July 1990.
FY 89 available May  1991.
FY 90 available Dec. 1991.
FY 91 availabLe Nov. 1992.
FY 92 available June 1993.
- Loan account.                                                       Met.
4.02         - Net cash flows requirements.                                         Not met.
4.03         - Rate of Return on Net Assets                                         25.1% in 1987. Met.
19.8X in 1988. Met.
13.2X in 1989. Met.
9.8X in 1990. Not met.
4.04         - Inplementation of revised tariff structure.                          Met.
4.05         - Ratio of Debt to Equity                                              Met.
56 to 44 in 1987.
44 to 56 in 1988.
45 to 55 in 1989.
42 to 58 in 1990.
4.06         - Bank's prior approval before making any change to                    Not met.
Investment Program.                                                   Supervision missions strongly
recommended that new operations
be deferred.



- 23-
REPUBLIC of CoTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJTECT
8. Mission Data
Stage of Project   Month.  Number        SW    SpeciaLization   Performance                         Types of ProbLems
Cycle           /        of        in       Represented       Rating                                  or
Year   Persons   Field                        Status /b                             Remarks
Sision
Supervision 1        3/87       2         4        Eng.,Fin.           1/2       Ensure that management studies were
focused,institutionaL framework definition
expected, engineering studies started in January
1987 and delays were expected for equipment
procurement and auditing of accounts.
Supervision 2       12/87       1         1          Eng.               2        Decision upon institutional framework due,
irmrovement needed in Project management, in spite
of implementation delays the investment program
should be kept under control.
Supervision 3       11/88       2         2        Eng.,Fin.            2        Delays in disbursement due to procedural
difficuLties, request to reallocate part of the
Loan from financial restructuring toward
investment, new revised investment program with
cost increase.
Management studies completed.
Delay in auditing of accounts.
Strong recommendations to postpone new
investments.
Supervision 4       12/89       2         2        Eng.,Fin.           1/2       Project management improved with monthly
evaluation report system, 95% of projects have
started, audits are progressing, recomrtndation
not to start new investments in view of financial
situation which has deteriorated.
Goverment's decision on institutional reform is
expected.
Supervision 5       11/90       3         3        Eng.,Fin.           1/2       Goverrnment decides to privatize ONT.
In view of financial situation and increase of
Project cost, new investments must be postponed
and priority given to bill recovery and connection
of new subscribers. Audit requested by Ministry of
Finance.
Supervision 6        2/91       1         1          Eng.              1/2       Status of ENSPT must be revised in the context of
future sector reform.
Sector reform        4/91                                                        Modification of sector structure: creation of
directorate for regulation within Ministry of P
and T, creation of Cl-TELCOM and CIP as 'soci6t6s
d'economie mixtel.
Closing Date         6/91                                                        Extended to June 1992.
Supervision 7        7/92       2         1        Eng.,Fin.            2        Short term action plan must be put into place to
improve financial situation particularly a freeze
in new investments and measures to improve biLL
collection.
/b  Key to overall performance rating: 1 - problem-free; 2   moderate problems; 3 - major problems.



- 24 -
REPUBLIC of C6TE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
8. MiBsion Data (Continued)
Stage of Project   Month    Number        SW     Specialization   Performance                         Types of Problems
Cycle            /        of        in       Represented        Rating                                   or
Year   Persons   Field                          Status /b                             Remarks
Supervision
Revised Closing      6/92                                                           Extended to June 1993 to enable completion of
investment plan and training program for ENSPT.
Supervision 8        5/92        1         1           Eng.               2         Unjustified investments have been stopped, and
action plan has focused on bill recovery and
improvement of quality of service, however
financiat situation still deteriorating.
Revised Closing      6/93
Supervision 9        7/93        1         1           Eng.               2         Amelioration in production but poor financiaL
performances for CI-TELCCX.
ENSPT was not able to complete investment program
due to change of status.
/b  Key to overall performance rating: 1 - problem-free; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems.



-25-
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
9. Estimate of Financial Internal Rate of Return
CFAF million
Capital           Operating         Operating            Net
Year        Expenditure            Costs           Revenues           Benefits
1986            7717                                                  (7177)
1987           5718                1118              1370             (5466)
1988           9632                2008              3070             (8571)
1989           12455               3038              3655             (11838)
1990           21168               5210              5283             (21095)
1991           7563                7392              9512              (5442)
1992           2000                8938              9810              (1128)
1993           2000                10878             13059              181
1994           2000                12511             16307             1797
1995            2000               13904             19556             3652
1996            2000               15108             22805             5697
1997           2000                16158             26054             7895
1998           2000                14689             26054             9364
1999           2000               13354             26054              10700
2000-2006         2000               12140             26054             11914
Estimated Fmnancial Rate of Return: 6 %
Notes:
1. The Project was basically a time slice of the investment program and any attempted separation between project and non-
project parts is arbitrary. The rate of return calculated therefore refers to the whole telecommunications investment program.
2. The benefit period extends from 1987 to 2006, when on average the equipment provided under the program will have
finished its useful life.
3. As from 2000 on, operating costs and revenues from the program are assumed to remain constant. Incremental revenues are
based on additional traffic brought about by the program. Operating costs are based on additional assets and traffic generated
by the program, excluding depreciation and interest.
4. No residual values of fixed assets have been taken into account as the discounted real value of these would be minimal in
1986 prices.
5. A summary of the cost and benefit streams is given in CFAF millions. All revenues and costs have been deflated to bring
them to their comparable 1986 levels.
6. The estimated financial rate of return is the discount rate which equalize value in 1983 prices of the above costs and revenues
streams.
7. It is assumed that ONT will fill the potential capacity installed under the Project by year 1997, and will continue to increase
the number of subscribers so as to decrease operating costs per line, and that tariffs will be increased to prevent decrease of
revenue per line in constant prices.



REPUBLIC OF C6TE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
IOA. Balance Sheet
CFAF million
December          December          December          December          December           May              September
1986               1987              1988              1989              1990             1991               1992
BALANCE SHEET
Assets (MiLlions.CFAF).
Noncurrent Assets.
- Gross Fixed Assets             90,155             69,974            80,569            93,842            117,746           124,398           149,247
- less Actsn. Depreciation        (32,208)          (23,042)          (26,662)          (30,642)          (35,183)          (36,403)          (44,108)
- Net Fixed Assets                57,947            46,933            53,907            63,199            82,562            87,995            105,139
- Inventories                      -                2,624             2,465             2,809             3,090             2,596             2,285
- Other Assets                    12.35             10.572            10.005            9,835             9.479             10,045            8.312
Total Noncurrent Assets            7030              60129             66,377            7843              9    165
Current Assets.
- Cash & Bank                     2,869             5,616             2,888             1,003             629               2,747             3,394
- Accounts Rec. Net               21,613            22,403            22,199            29,043            29,872            18,197            26,618
- Debtors                         483               604               2,706             568               1,448             3,236             7,086
- Other Current Assets           34                 380               934               6.867             332               6.231             4 289
Total Current Assets               242998            29 004            28.727            37 482            32.281            30,412            41.38
Totat assets                        9573U2            WM                                  WtM4              T27ZXT3           1TI;48            157123
Equities and Liabilities (Millions.CFAF).
Equities.
- Capital                         24,638            12,875            17,401            16,160            16,223            16,962            23,294
- Subsidies                       2,286             2,170             2,053             1,936             1,820             1,771             1,653
- Retained Earnings               7.538             16.481            23.109            27.435            31.018            36 097            44.608
Total Equities                     34.462            31 526            42.562            45 531            49,060            54,830            69 556
Liabilities
Non Current Liabilities.
- Long Term Debt                  47,383            40,128            32,849            37,057            35,220            35,887            34,498
Current Liabilities.
- Accounts Payable
Suppliers                    1,910             3,016             7,152              14,186            19,235            17,240            16,612
Government,Public agencies 4,808                5,602            4,442             7,828              14,281            13,949            13,578
- Subscribers Advance Payments 2,494                2,869             3,115             3,234             3,488             3,645             4,071
- Bank Loan Payable                -                 -                 -                338               157                -                452
- Other liabilities               4.245             5.991             4.984             5.150             5.973             5.497             18.356
Total Current Liabilities          13.457            17 478            19 693            30 736            43 133            40 331            53 069
Total Equities and Liabilities    Y                                   Y95,104 74  '3 ft8   3                                                     "
Period of time covered (Month)    12                  12                12                12                12                5                 16
(From audited financial statements)



REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
lOB. Income Statements
CFAF million
Decemtber         December           December           December           December            May               September
1986                1987               1988              1989               1990              1991                1992
INCOME STATEJENT
Revenues.
- Telephone, Telex                 35,427             41,282             38,350             37,494             40,808             16,295            63,820
- Telegraph                        557                685                837                600                345                111               767
- Other Services                   2,053              2,214              2,348              2,563              3,153              1,894             2,130
- Other Revenues                   31,201             3 738              1.169              4,837              8.967             6.655              2.241
Total Revenues                                             945.45                                               53.273 24
Expenses.
- Personnel                        (8,159)            (7,904)            (8,518)            (9,045)            (8,713)            (3,461)           (17,423)
- Materials & Transport            (3,196)            (1,546)            (3,945)            (5,175)            (4,305)            (1,515)           (4,533)
- Services                         (2,566)            (2,945)            (3,264)            (3,493)            (3,568)            (1,133)            (11,013)
- Depreciation                     (4,373)            (4,816)            (4,539)            (5,008)            (5,382)            (2,593)            (8,767)
- Write-Offs                       (3,133)            (3,867)            (4,962)            (6,714)            (11,586)           (5,574)            (10,104)
- Other Expenses                   (38.357)           (13.663)           (7.478)            (8.333)            (12.564)           (3,717)            (4.744)
Total Expenses                       (59.784)           (34.741)          (32.707)           (37.768)           (46,117)           (17.994)           (56.583)
OPERATING INCOME                      9,455              13,178             9,998              7,727             7,156              6,960              12,376
Less Interest                         (7,921)            (4.234)            (3.370)            (3.401)           (3.573)            (1.881)            (3.865)
NET INCOME                            1,534              8,944             6,628              4,326              3,583              5,079              8,512
Period of time covered (Month)    12                     12                 12                 12                 12                5                  16
(From audited financial statements)



