D _sut of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4293-RCI
REPORT AND RECOMOENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO $24.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
April 8, 1986
rThis document has a rcstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
cf their officiai duties. lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =  CFA Franc (CFAF)1/
$1.0                 =  CFAF 3852/
CFAF 1 iillion       =  $2,597
FISCAL YEAR
Government, ONT and ENSPT:  January 1-December 31
ARBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYNS
BOAD          -  Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CAISSTAB       -  Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix
des Productions Agricoles
CAA            -  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE           -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DEL            -  Direct Exchange Line
EFF            -  Extended Fund Facility
EIB            -  European Investment Bank
ENSPT          -  Ecole Nationale Superieure des Postes et
Telecommunications
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
IMF           -  International MNnetary Fund
INTELCI       -  Societe d'Etat des Telecommunications Internationales
de la Cote d'Ivoire
ITU           -  International Telecommunication Union
LCB            -  Local Competitive Bidding
LIB            -  Limited International Bidding
MEF            - Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
MPT           -  Ministere des Postes et Tel]communications
MTPCPT         -  Ministere des Travaux Publics, Construction, Postes
et Telecommunications
ONP            -  Office National des Postes
ONT           -  Office National des Telecommunications
OPT            -  Office des Postes et Telecommunications
PCO           -  Public Call Office
RCI            -  Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
SAL           -  Structural Adjustment Loan
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Programme
1/ The CFA Franc is tied to the French franc at the rate cf 1 FF to
CFAF 50. The French franc is currently floating.
2/ As of February 1986.



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMKMARY
Borrover:      Government of the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire
Beneficiaries: Office National des Telecommunications (ONT) and Ecole
Nationale Superieure des Postes et Telecommunicatîons
(ENSPT)
Amount:        $24.5 million equivalent
Terms:         20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Onlending      The Governument vill:  (a) onlend $21.9 million equivalent
Terms:         of the loan proceeds to ONT under the sane terms as the
Bank loan to the Government but with ONT bearing the
foreign exchange risk; and (b) give $2.6 million
equivalent to ENSPT as a grant.
Project        The proposed project is an integral part of ONT's 1986-
Description:   1990 development plan. a/  It is designed to strengthen
ONT to enable it, by 1990, to manage the sector effici-
ently. Through physical, institutional and fïnancial
rehabilitation, ONT would improve quality of service,
extend services to rural areas to facilitate decentrali-
zation of economic and social activities and improve its
financial situation.
The project comprises: (a) rehabilitating equipment and
cable network and providing switching and transmission
equipment to improve quality of service; (b) upgrading
the maintenance organization by strengthening the
maintenance units, establishing an electronics repair and
instrument calibration center, upgrading the stores,
garage and workshops and providing tools, instruments,
spare parts and specialized vehicles; (c) upgrading three
microwave links and establishing six UHF links; (d)
extending telex services to the interior; (e) upgrading
computer facilities to handle management systems;
a/ Though ONT's rehabilitation program is for the three year period
1986-1988, it is expected to be fully implemented only by 1990. It is
therefore referred to in this report as the 1986-1990 development plan.
This docanment bas a resRicted distribution and may be usd by recipients only in the performane
of their officiai duties. Its contents may not otherise be diuclosed without Worid hBk authoritornL



-iL -
(f) miscellaneous equipment including pover equipment;
(g) civil works; (h) fellovships, staff training and
related equipment; and (i) providing consultants'
services for project planning and implementation,
operational efficiency, manpower development, and for
studies including a reviev of ONT's tariff and corporate
structures.
Project        The project is expected to benefit all segments of the
Benefits       Ivorian society. More efficient use of the
and Risks:     transportation system, due to increased use of
telecommunications services would reduce costs,
enviroumental pollution and energy consumption. The
project faces no unusual risks. The major risk is that
ONT could fail to implement the project on time.
Significant delays here could threaten ONT's financial
viability. Provisions have been made to mitigate these
risks. Consultants' services are provided to assist in
the institutional developuent.
Estimated Costs:
Local Foreign Total
A.. Rehabilitation                           $  Millions-
1. Switching                              2.8   5.6    8.4
2. External plant                         2.5   5.0    7.5
3. Telephone instruments &
teleprinters                          1.1   2.4    3.5
4. Transmission                           3.8   7.5   11.3
5. Telex                                  0.2   0.5    0.7
6. Paver equipment                        0.6   1.1    1.7
7. Computer equipment                     0.8   1.7    2.5
8. Miscellaneous (vehicles,
tools and instruments)                0.9   1.9    2.8
9. Repair center                          0.2   0.5    0.7
10. Buildings and civil works              0.6   0.0    0.6
11. Training and consultancy
services                              0.4   1.5    1.9
Subtotal                                  13.9  27.7   41.6
B. Eguipment for the Training
School (ENSPT)                         0.0   2.6    2.6
C. Financial restructuring                55.9   8.7   64.6
Physical Contingencies                 0.8   1.4    2.2
Price Contingencies                    1.8   3.9    5.7
Total Project Co0t                        72,4  44.3  116.7
- _ 
Taxes                                     12.3   0.0   12.3
Total Project Cost (net of taxes)         60.1  44.3  104.4
-             - 



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
-$  millions
IBRD                                   3.5      21.0    24.5
CCCE                                   2.3      14.9    17.2
EIB                                    0.9       7.8      8.7
Governuient                           50.1       0.0    50.1
ONT                                   15.6       0.6    16.2
TOTAL                               72.4      44.3   116.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                             1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
- $ million equivalent-
Annual                               6.0   8.0   5.5   3.5   1.5
Cumulative                           6.0  14.0  19.5  23.0  24.5
Economic Rate of Return:          30Z
Staff Appraisal Report No.:       5689-IVC dated April 4, 1986
!Ma. IBRD No. 19007R-Cote d'Ivoire



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXBCUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
FOR A SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire for the equivalent of $24.5 million
to help finance a Second Telecommunications Project. The proposed loan
vould have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
the standard variable interest rate. $21.9 million equivalent of the
proceeds of the Loan would be on-lent to the Office National des
Telecommunications (ONT) at the prevailing Bank interest rate plus 2Z per
annum and $2.6 million would be passed on to the Ecole Nationale Superieure
des Postes et Telecommunications (ENSPT) as a grant, vith the Governuent
bearing the foreign exchange risk. The project would be cofinanced by the
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in an amount of $17.2
million equivalent and by the European Investment Bank (EIB) in an amount
of $8.7 million equivalent on their standard terms and conditions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Report No. 1147-IVC 'Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report-
circulated in May 1977 and published in 1978 under the title 'Ivory Coast:
The Challenge of Success", the Bank presented an in-depth analysis of the
country' s economic performance during its first fifteen years of
independence. The evolution of the economy during the second half of the
seventies vas reviewed in a special annex to the SAL Il President's Report
(Loan No. 2332-IVC). More recently, an economic mission visited the Cote
d'Ivoire in December 1984 to review economic developments since the
beginning of the eighties and to examine the medium and long-term policy
alternatives facing the country. The findings of this mission are
reflected in what follows. Annez I provides basic country data.
3.        With a GNP per capita of $720 in 1984, the Cote d'Ivoire ranks
second behind Zimbabwe among non-oil exporting developing countries in
Sub-Saharan Africa, vell ahead of its neighbors vithin the Western African
Economic Community. Its population of 9.5 million is growing at a rate of
4% per year, of which 3% natural increase and 1% net immigration. Since
independence in 1960, the country has enjoyed a remarkable degree of
political stability which, combined with favorable resource endowments and
a steady inflow of cheap labor from neighboring Sahelian countries, has
been conducive to rapid economic levelopment. The Party Congress held in
October 1985 clarified the procedures for an orderly transfer of power, in
which the President of the National Assembly would become the interim
President for a period of 45 to 60 days, pending the calling into session
of a special Party Congress for the expressed purpose of choosing a
Presidential successor.



-2-
Background
4.        During the decade extending from the mid-sixties to the
mid-seventies, the development of the Cote d'Ivoire was characterized by
rapid economic grovth and by profound structural changes within a
relatively stable external environment. This growth and associated
structural change vas achieved vithout major internal or external
macroeconomic imbalances. By contrast, during the second half of the
seventies, the Cote d'Ivoire experienced a rapid succession of external
shocks including a coffee and cocoa boom from i975 to 1977, a rapid
deterioration in the market conditions for these commodities from 1977 to
1979, and a sharp increase in import prices in 1979. The net result vas a
27% deterioration in the terms of trade between 1977 and 1980.
5.        Folloving the rapid increase in CAISSTAB revenues resulting from
the boom in coffee and cocoa prices, the Government embarked on an
over-ambitious public investment program which vas mainly directed toward
large projects with high unit costs and low rates of economic return.
Between 1975 and 1980, public investment increased 2.5 times in real terms,
and its financing became increasingly dependent on foreign borroving when
CAISSTAB surpluses started to dwindle after 1978. In parallel, the
economic policies followed by the Government progressively weakened the
long-term growth potential of the productive sectors. The rapid expansion
of the money supply led to a rise in domestic inflation vith a consequent
deterioration in the purchasing pover parity index. Inadequate adjustments
in producer prices for export crops led to an increased discrimination
against the agricultural sector. The Government responded to the
intensified import competition by imposing quantitative import restrictions
in the industrial sector. This policy led to sharp increases in effective
protection and to a growing anti-export bias in the sector, and further
aggravated the discrimination against agriculture in the system of
incentives.
6.        Fueled by the rapid expansion of public investment, GDP grew at a
real average annual rate of 7.6 percent between 1975 and 1980. This
continued expansion of public investment contributed to a sharp increase in
the overall deficit of the public sector. As a result, medium and
long-term debt outstanding increased from 17.82 to 35.2% of GDP between
1975 and 1980. The current account deficit vent from 8.2% to 17.4% of GDP
over the same interval and the increase in foreign capital inflows to the
public sector vas not sufficient to offset this deterioration. By 1980,
the overall deficit of the balance of payments had reached 7.7% of GDP, and
the Cote d'Ivoire has exhausted its official reserves.
Launching the Structural Adjustment Process
7.        Faced with a rapid deterioration of the economic and financial
situation, the Government launched a structural adjustment program at the
end of 1981 with the objectives of stabilizing the economy, improving
macroeconomic management and laying the foundation for a resumption of
growth in the medium to long term.  This program was supported by two



- 3-
SALs from the Bank in 1981 and 1983, and an Extended Fund Facility (EFF)
from the Fund in 1981.
8.        The Goverament's structural adjustment program vas based on two
major components, namely, (i) a series of immediate policy actions vith the
objective of correcting in the shorter term the most obvious deficiencies
in monetary and fiscal policy and in the system of economic incentives; and
(ii) an initial reassessment of the development strategy witn the objective
of implementing far-reaching policy reforms for restoring self-sustained
growth over the longer term.
9.        Under the first component, the Government moved forcefully to
apply a set of stabilization measures, including: (i) a tightening of
domestic credit to the public and parapublic sectors; (ii) an interest rate
policy designed to encourage domestic resource mobilization and to limit
transfers abroad; (iii) a sharp reduction in public current and capital
expenditures in real terms; (iv) a reform of public investment programming;
(v) a reform of the parapublic sector to reduce its burden on public
finances and to improve its efficiency; and (vi) producer price increases
for cash and food crops.
10.       Concurrently, as part of the second component, the Governuent
proceeded to: (i) improve the institutional efficiency of macroeconomic
management; (ii) rationalize the public investment program; (iii) improve
the external debt management system; (iv) design and introduce the first
stage of a comprehensive reform of the system of industrial incentives
aimed at reducing protection, increasing efficiency and eliminating the
anti-export bias in the sector; and (v) initiate a process leading to a
comprehensive reform of the agricultural incentive system, including
producer prices, input subsidies, and the external trade regime.
Recent Economic Performance: 1981-1985
11.       Judging by its performance between 1981 and 1985, the Cote
d'Ivoire economy has shown a good response to the structural adjustment
program. Stabilization measures vere strictly pursued even though
slippages did occur in 1982 and 1983 as a result of factors beyond the
control of Government. These included an increase in real rates of
interest in international financial markets, lover than forecast dbmestic
oil output, a decline in external terms of trade in 1981 and 1982, and a
severe drought in 1983. Starting in 1984, the Government redoubled its
adjustment efforts with impressive results in the fiscal sad balance of
payments areas. Rowever, the structural adjustuent process so far has not
achieved the change in the relative prices of tradeable and non-tradeable
goods required to reallocate resources towards production for exports.l/
Also, although the Goverument implemented a series of producer price
increases for major crops, progress in the implementation of the structural
adjustment program in agriculture has been slower than expected.
1/ Taking 1980 as a base, the index of the relative price of tradeable and
non-tradeable goods was estimated to be 97.5 in 1984.



- 4 -
12.       After registering a slightly positive growth in real GDP of 1.2Z
in 1981, the Cote d'Ivoire economy suffered three successive years of
negative growth from 1982 to 1984. The poor performance in 1982-84 vas the
result of a confluence of factors, namely the series of negative exogenous
shocks mentioned earlier and the imposition of austerity measures
associated vith the structural adjustment program. In 1985, however, the
latest estimates show a strong resumption of GDP growth (5.3Z), indicating
that the Cote d'Ivoire may now be poised to enter the growth-oriented phase
of the structural adjustment process.
13.       The drastic measures taken by Government since 1981 to reduce
public expenditures, together with a sharp increase in CAISSTAB revenues,
led to a major improvement of the public finance situation over the
1980-1985 period. Government consumption expenditures vere cut by 27.4% in
real terms between 1980 and 1985, as a result of the implementation of a
vide range of cost-reducing measures. The adjustment vas even more drastic
with respect to the Government's investment program, which vas reduced by
81.4Z in real terms over the same interval. As a result, the Government
deficit, which reached 13.12 of GDP in 1981, declined steadily to 5.2Z of
GDP in 1984, and turned into a surplus estimated at 1.5Z in 1985.
14.       Between 1980 and 1985, the Governnent succeeded in stabilizing
the loss-to-GDP ratio of the para-public sector at less than 1Z. At the
same time, the ratio of Government transfers to public enterprises with
respect to GPD, after increasing from 2.5% in 1980 to 6.7Z in 1984,
declined to 5.0 in 1985. The financing requirements of the parapublic
sector decreased from 6.1% of GDP in 1982 to 2.8% in 1985.  This remarkable
improvement vas the direct result of the structural adjustment measures
taken by Government, including a more flexible tariff policy, a
strengthening of controls on foreign borrowing by public enterprises, and
the strengthening of operational efficiency of key enterprises.
15.       Between 1980 and 1985, the goods and services balance improved
dramatically, from a deficit of 5.4% of GDP to a surplus of 13.9%. This
evolution vas essentially the result of the sharp reduction in imports due
to the expenditure-reducing effects of the stabilization program. Between
1980 and 1985, imports of goods and services declined by a cumulative 43.1%
in current dollar terns, while exports of goods and services increased by
3.8% per year in real terms, mainly as a result of the growth in cocoa
output.
16.       Until 1983, the improvement in the goods and services balance did
not translate into a corresponding improvement of the current balance,
whose deficit remained at about 13% of GDP, mainly due to the increase in
interest payments on external public debt. Net capital inflows to the
public sector declined abruptly in 1983, reflecting increased difficulties
experienced by the Government in mobilizing fresh money from private
financing sources. As a result, the overall balance of payments deficit
videned considerably. Since 1983, the current balance situation has shown
a dramatic improvement, going from a deficit of 13.32 of GDP to a surplus



- 5-
of 3.6Z in 1985. The increase in net capital inf loeW to the public sector
made possible by the rescheduling of external debt (and Bank SALs)
accentuated this positive tendency, and the overall balance showed a
surplus of 5.0X of GDP in 1985.
17.       Between 1980 and 1984, the share of medium and long-tern  debt
outstanding [excluding those to the International Monetary Fund (IMF)l in
GDP increased from 41.3Z to 73.6%.  As of December 31, 1984, medium and
long-term debt outstanding amounted to $4.8 billion, of which 58.9% vas -lue
to private financing sources. Based on the amount of debt outstanding as
of December 31, 1984, it is clear that the debt burden will remain very
high through 1989. Only in 1990 is the debt service ratio expected to
decline rapidly, marking the easing of the debt overhang. The debt profile
shows that, even in the absence of new borrovings and before reschedulings,
the Cote d'Ivoire vill need in excess of $1.0 billion a year until 1989 to
meet its existing (end 1984) external debt obligations (including those to
IMF).
Medium Term Prospects: 1986-1990
18.       After four years of austerity under the first phase of the
structural adjustment progran, the Government is determined to achieve a
successful transition to the growth-oriented phase cf the program, vhich
vill be based on the following orientations: (i) an export-oriented growth
strategy along the lines of comparative advantage based on a progressive
opening up of the economy to the pressures of market forces; (ii) a
retrenchment of the public sector towards the types of activities for which
it is best suited (supportive role to production and exporte) in order to
allow the private sector to play its leading role in directly productive
activities; and (iii) the design of a strategy to alleviate the debt burden
over the medium term, thereby freeing resources for a return to a medium
tern growth path which vill restore international creditworthiness and
raise per capita incomes.
19.       The Bank's view of the medium-term prospects for Cote d'Ivoire is
based on a feasible scenario assuming the intensification of the
Government's structural adiustment program.
20.       The scenario indicates that continuation of tight monetary and
fiscal policies, coupled vith a broadening of incentive reforms in the
productive sectors and a solution to the debt overhang, are essential to
steer the economy toward a sustainable medium-teru growth path.  Under this
scenario, GDP is projected to grow by 3.0% per annum on average between
1986 and 1990, representing a decline of about 1.0% per year in GDP per
capita.  The achievenent of this growth rate vill essentially depend on the
growth of the productive sectors, namely agriculture and manufacturing.
This in turn will depend on the Government's determination to constrain the
growth of the public sector in order to free domestic resources for the
financing of private investment.  This scenario implies that the private
sector vill progressively become the engine of growth as public sector
retrenchuent becomes a reality.



- 6 -
21.       The projections lead to a stabilization of the public finance
situation over the medium term. This outcome is made possible by the
continued restraint in current and capital expenditures, the reduction of
Government transfers to public enterprises, and the increase in fiscal
receipts induced by the expansion of GDP. Also, the projections lead ta a
stabilization of the balance of payments situation over the 1986-1990 Plan
horizon. This result depends essentially on the response of the economy to
the incentive reforms applied in the productive sectors, and in particular
on a rapid expansion of manufactured exports. The external debt profile
obtained under the scenario shows a sharp incre.3e in the debt service
ratio during the critical 1986-1989 period, when it remains above the 33%
mark in the absence of further rescheduling. Hovever, the scenario does
result in a tendential decline in this ratio starting in 1989, when past
reductions in net borroving during the stabilization program start to have
their full impact.
22.       The capital inflows (over and above anticipated commitments)
required to support the scenario imply new money injections from coummercial
sources of about $250 million per annum over the 1986-1990 period. As this
is unlikely to materialize, the 3.0% growth path will need to be supported
by multi-year rescheduling arrangements through the London and Paris
Clubs. Given the Governnent's record in moving forcefully to implement its
structural adjustment program since 1981, it is reasonable to conclude that
such support will be forthcoming.
PART II - RANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COTE D'IVOIRE
23.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in Cote d'Ivoire started,
lending has expanded rapidly and nov includes 53 operations totalling about
$1,500 million, including $14 million from the Third Window, and an IDA
credit of $7.5 million. Of these, 19 have been for agriculture, supporting
cotton, cocoa, rubber, forestry, oil palm and coconut development, and
rural development in the North-East Savannah and Center-West regions.
There vere six road projects and two highway sector projects. The
remaining loans vere for education, telecommunications, the Abidjan
severage and drainage system, vater supply, urban development, petroleum
exploration and development, power distribution, tourism development,
small-and medium-scale enterprises, a regional cement project, a regional
railway project, structural adjustment and related technical assistance,
and industrial finance and development and a health and demographic
project. IFC has supported textile, fertilizers, flour milling,
development banking, and agricultural plantation operations in the
country. Annex II contains a su-mary statement of Bank Group operations.
In general, implementation of Bank projects has been satisfactory and has
improved substantially over the past five years. The disbursement ratio
(total disbursements of a fiscal year divided by undisbursed signed
commitments as of the beginning of the fiscal year) has increased over the
period 1982-1985 from 15.4% to 24.5% (excluding SALs), which compares to an
average evolution over the same period from 23.9% to 24% Bank-wide and from
20.7% to 19.1Z (excluding SALs) for West Africa.



- 7 -
24.       Until the early 1980s, when the Ivorian economy experienced a
rapid deterioration, Bank lending was project-oriented with the emphasis on
agricultural diversification, infrastructural development and education.
The change in the country's economic situation led to a substantial shift
in the direction of Bank lending in order to respond to the Government's
request for financial support of its stabilization and structural
adjustment program that it initiated in 1981 in order to restore Cote
d'Ivoire's economic performance. Accordingly, during the past five years,
Bank lending has focussed on bringing about sustained structural
adjustment, including improvement of public finance, broad-based
institution building and increased exposure to market forces, while
continuing direct support to the productive sectors (agriculture, industry
and energy) to foster economic growth. Building on this stabilization
effort, the Government is now moving tovard the phase of increasing
economic growth, founded on a strategy of export-based development. A
third structural adjustment loan planned for FY86 supports this phase.
25.       In conjunction with the First Structural Adjustment Loan, a
Technical Assistance Loan (FY82) was made to provide long-and short-term
assistance in the improvement of macro-economic and public sector
management, and to carry out the necessary studies as the structural
adjustment program evolved (especially with regard to industrial and
agricultural incentives reform, management and financial rehabilitation of
public enterprises, and housing finance). In addition, the loan financed
studies to prepare several projecte in the agricultural (research,
marketing) and infrastructure sectors (water supply). During
implementation of the project, the Government decided to reduce the cost of
dependence on foreign expertise and to accelerate Ivorianization. In
keeping with these objectives, the utilization of the remaining portion of
the loan is being directed to selective provision of technical assistance
ln areas of longer-term benefit.
26.       In agriculture, high priority has been given to sector work and
policy dialogue on a major reform of the incentive system (improved
producer prices, reduction of subsidies, promotion of exports through
rationalizing external commercial policy) and increased emphasis on
developing smallholder production. Bank lending is contributing to the
expansion of those subsectors with clear comparative advantages based on
low domestic resource cost and export diversification (rubber, oil palm,
coconut and cotton), so as to restore economic growth. In addition,
emphasis is being placed on strengthening agri...ultural services (extension,
using the Training and Visit System, r-search, and input supply) to enable
the sector to capture the evident incremental potential of agricultural
yields in both cash crops and food crops. As a result of the various
studies implemented under the Technical Assistance Project, the Bank plans
to help finance an agricultural extension project (FY87), a credit and
foodcrop marketing project (FY87), and an agricultural research project
(FY88). In forestry, the Bank will continue to support Government efforts
to arrest the rapid degradation of Cote d'Ivoire's forest resources, the
country's third foreign exchange earner and the principal source of cooking



- 8 -
fuel for the majority of the population. In a Second Forestry Project
(FY85), the Bank provided further support to the Government's reforestation
program and to the strengthening of the institutional capability to define
and implement a coherent long-term forestry policy. A third forestry
project may be considered by the end of the decade.
27.       As a result of the policy reforms under the structural adjustment
process (tariff reform, introduction of an export subsidy scheme,
institutional rehabilitation), the industrial sector is expected to regain
its pre-1980 dynamism. In FY86, the Bank is providing financing for an
Industrial Finance and Development project to help adjust industrial
enterprises to the effects resulting from a more liberal commercial policy
(such as adaptation to new product mixes, different cost structures and
production processes) and to supplement the tight liquidity position of the
commercial banks following the recession after 1980. In the next few
years, the Bank vill continue to assist the Government in the removal of
the many deficiencies that caused the stagnation in industrial growth, the
creation of an environnent for efficient resource mobilization and
allocation by the banking system, and further promotion of privatization.
This would include continued support of small and medium enterprise
development for which a second loan vas extended in FY79.
28.       Given its hydrocarbon and hydroelectric resources, the Cote
d'Ivoire has the potential to be self-sufficient in energy. Government
strategy in the sector is to expand the hydrocarbon reserve base through an
extended exploration effort by international consortia and to develop
further its hydroelectric resources. Hovever, during the last few years
the institutions responsible for energy supply experienced substantial
financial difficulties and acute pover shortages resulting from recent
droughts on the one hand, and over-investments on the other (refinery).
This contributed to a large extent to the Government's financial problems
being addressed under the structural adjustment program. Through this
program and a second pover project (FY88) currently being prepared, the
Bank is lending support to the restoration of the financial viability of
the implementating institutions, and more generally, to the rationalization
of pricing policies (tariff reform) for the domestic market.  To capture
proven off-shore gas resources, a gas development project is being
considered in the next few years.
29.       The Bank has been closely associated vith the development of Cote
d'Ivoire's infrastructure and vill continue to contribute to government
objectives of further strengthening institutional capability and financial
management, and, where feasible, promote privatizatior. In transport, a
Second Highway Sector Loan was approved in FY85, cofinanced by commercial
banks in a first 'B-loan made in the African Regions. Besides further
upgrading of the country's road network, the principal objectives of this
project are: (i) to restore road maintenance capacity s0 as to safeguard
the substantial investments that have been made in this sector in the past;
and (ii) to foster preductivity Improvements in the private road transport
industry through a comprehensive package of policy reforms. A port project
(FY87) would aim at improving existing facilities of Abidjan Port and



- 9 -
promote greater autonomy for the Port Authority. In railways, a possible
rehabilitation project is being considered to restore the transport
capacity and financial viability of the Abidjan-Niger Railway (RAN) and
help strengthen RAN's financial and operational management. In the urban
subsector, the Bank vill continue to help finance maintenance and upgrading
of the transport system in Abidjan, in view of the critical importance of
this city for the economy, and contribute to institution building. In
addition, with regard to housing, the Bank vill support Government efforts
to reduce public spending on housing finance by involving the commercial
banking system to a greater extent and to transfer funds thus released to
the provision of basic infrastructure (land services). A third urban
development project (FY87) vould incorporate these objectives. Moreover,
in support of the Government's recent decision to upgrade virtually all
town centers in Cote d'Ivoire to municipalities and to assist in carrying
out its objective to shift urban growth from the capital to regional
centers, a municipality project is being prepared as a first stage to
improve the institutional capacity of local government in maintaining
existing facilities and infrastructure, and to mobilize fiscal resources.
Following a reorganization study of the water supply and severage sector
initiated in 1984, a vater supply and sewerage sector adjustuent loan
(FY87) vould further improve sector efficiency and financial discipline by
expanding private management of part of the water supply facilities with
responsibilities currently held by the public sector. In
telecommunications, through the proposed Second Telecommunication Project,
the Bank will continue to support efforts to rehabilitate the existing
network and to strengthen the managerial, planning, financial and
administrative capacity of the National Office of Telecommunications.
30.       In the social sectors, primary importance vill be given to
improving education, to helping Cote d'Ivoire improve health care, and to
formulate an adequate approach to address the issue of its fast-growing
population. In education, the objectives vill be to reduce the high cost
and improve the efficiency of the education system. Concurrently, efforts
will be continued-both in the structural adjustment program and future
project lending-to reduce the heavy burden of recurrent expenditure for
education on the Government's budget. A fourth education project, which
would pursue the above objectives, is planned for FY88. In health and
population, a Health and Demographic Project which was approved by the
Board in FY86, supports Government efforts to expand and improve the
quality of nurse training with a revised curriculum more responsive to the
country's health needs, and efforts to strengthen institutional and
financial management. It vill also assist Government in carrying out the
second national census, planned for 1987. A second project may be
considered by the end of the decade.



- 10 -
31.       Since various lending institutions and bilateral donors are
associated vith Cote d'Ivoire's economic development, continuous efforts
are being undertaken to coordinate development activities and policy
design, and lending operations are increasingly cofinanced vith other
sources. This has generally led to a better understanding of institutional
approaches and, especially due to the structural adjustment process, an
enviroument of groving confidence also in the private banking sector, which
is proving beneficial to the country and conducive to broadening support of
the Cote d'Ivoire's development effort.
32.       As a result of the envisaged lending program, the Bank Group's
share of the estimated total external debt of the Cote d'Ivoire is expected
to rise from the present 18.9Z to about 32.3% by the end of the decade in
the absence of significant inflows of fresh money from commercial sources.
Its share of total debt service payments is projected to increase from
about 13.5Z at present to about 17.8% by 1990.
PART III  - THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background and Organization
33.       Authority for the telecommunications sector in the Cote d'Ivoire
rests with the Ministere des Travaux Publics, Construction, Postes et
Telecommunications (MTPCPT). Inland services vere, until July 1984, the
responsibility of the Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT), an
entity vithin the then Ministere des Postes et Telecominications (NPT).
International services vere operated by a State-ovned company, the Societe
d' Etat des Telecommunications Internationales de la Cote d'Ivoire
(INTELCI) which had greater autonomy than OPT. On July 1, 1984, following
an examination of enterprises in the sector as a part of the Government's
structural adjustment program, the Postal and Telecommunlcations branches
of the OPT were separated and the Telecommunications branch merged with
INTELCI to form the Office National des Telecommunications (ONT) which is
responsible for all public telecommunications services in the Cote
d'Ivoire. The merger vas initiated by the Government to improve the
efficiency of the sector. No significant telecommunications manufacturing
industry exists in the Cote d'Ivoire. Top managerial positions, as well as
other key posts in ONT, are held by ex-INTELCI staff who, on average, are
more qualified than ex-OPT staff. The new management is keen to improve
efficiency in various aspects of operations. A planning unit has also been
established at the Bank's suggestion, and its staff trained by the
International Telecommunication Union (ITU). The ITU also finalized the
20-year Telecommunications Master Plan in March 1985 under financing from
the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) vith substantial
consultations with the Bank. ONT headquarters retains the overall control
and supervision, formulates and coordinates policy, and has direct
responsibility for network planning, major construction and billing.
Regional offices handle day-to-day operations and subscriber relations.
Rowever, due to the prominence of Abidjan in ONT's activities, the division



- il -
of labor between headquarters and the regional offices needs to be
reviewed. This issue vill be addressed through the project <para 51).
Access and Usage of Service
34.       The average telephone density, at end 1985, vas 0.56 main
telephone lines (DELs) per 100 inhabitants. Greater Abidjan had a density
of 1.69 and the rest of the country only 0.20. These figures, although
better than those in some African countries, are low compared with those of
countries vith similar GNPs to the Cote d'Ivoire.2/ Greater Abidjan, vith
24% of the country's population, had 74% of the DELs.  Of the remaining
DELs, about 9.0Z vere in four principal regional cities and 17.0X in about
100 towns all over the country. Ninety four percent of the DELs vere
served from automatic exchanges, the remaining lines being served from
small manual exchanges in 79 rural towns. There vere only 60 coin box
telephones and public call offices. Automated telex service vas available
to 1,790 subscribers, of whom 1,670 were in the Abidjan area. Telegraph
service is also available.
35.       About 78% of the total number of telephone subscribers (84Z in
Abidjan and 56% in the smaller towns) vere private and 15% governmental
(11% in Abidjan and 29% in the smaller towns). The remainder vere ONT's
service telephones. Current statistics do not distinguish between
residential and business telephones, nor are any data available on the
composition of the traffic. The average telephone revenue in 1985 was
approximately $1,370 per DEL, vhich is above the average for many African
countries.
Existing Facilities and Quality of Service
36.       At end 1985, total telephone switching capacity vas 81,560 lines
and telex exchange capacity 2,750 lines. Service is poor, with many
outages and long delays in restoration. Call efficiency is poor with 60%
of peak hour traffic and 40Z of slack hour traffic lest. The vaiting time
for a dial tone often exceeds 30 seconds.  This situation has arisen due to
equipment imbalance and poor maintenance. The problem vill be alleviated
through the project [paras 50(a) and (b)].
Demand for Service
37.       At end 1985, lines in service met 72% of the expressed demand
(vorking lines plus registered applicants) for telephone connections; the
figure was 68% in Abidjan, 79% in the four biggest provincial cities and
86% in the rest of the country. This does not take account of significant
unexpressed demand as potential customers are discouraged frem registering
2/ For example: Tunisia had 8.0 for the capital area and 1.1 for the rest
of the country, Morocco 3.0 and 0.5, Jamaica 5.6 and 1.2, and Zimbabwe
7.7 and 0.5 DELs per 100 inhabitants. Even a country like Kenya, with
less than one half of RCI's GNP per capita, had 4.7 in the capital area
and 0.3 in the rest of the country.



- 12 -
by long vaiting tîmes. In many cases, the waiting time is longer than a
year. From 1975 to 1985, DELs increased 9.0Z per year and demand grev at
11.2Z per year. Demand is estimated to grov at 6% per year over the
1986-90 period. About 74% of the demand for telex is currently met. The
data on demand, quality of, and access to service are taken from the
20-year Telecommunications Master Plan.
Accounting System
38.      Prior to the establishment of ONT, accounts for both Posts and
Telecommunications in OPT were maintained jointly. Under the first
project, accounting consultants vere engaged and, in 1982, separate
accounts vere established for Posts and Telecommunications. Accounts are
maintained on a cash basis. Inventory management is extremely poor. An
internal audit section vas created when ONT was established but lacks
definition of levels of responsibilities and authority. Consultants will
be hired under the project to improve management of the accounting system,
inventory control and internal audit.
39.       Preparation of accounts in OPT vas very slow.  Draft 1981
accounts vere only available in 1983; draft accounts for 1984 are nov being
finalized. To ensure timely presentation of accounts to the Bank,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that draft accounts for FY85
vili be presented 8 months after the end of the fiscal year with the
audited accounts 12 months after the fiscal year end. This vill be reduced
to 7 and 10 months for FY86, to 6 and 8 months for FY87 and to 4 and 6
months for FY88 and thereafter.
Billing and Collection
40.       ONT bills its subscribers through a computerized billing system.
Effective July 1984, the billing period vas reduced from quarterly to
bimonthly.  Siiaultaneously, the time required to issue bills after the
closing date of each billing period vas reduced from about 40 days in 1983
to about 20 days in 1985.  There is a shortage of computer terminals for
bill processing. Under the proposed project, additional equipment vill be
provided and new procedures for bill payment will be developed and
introduced during the project period. This should reduce the time required
to disconnect service from about seven months to not more than two months
after the billing date by the end of 1987. Consultants will also be
engaged to suggest improvements in the billing and collection systems.
They would also prepare for the introduction of a monthly billing system by
March 1987.
Accounts Receivable
41.       As of December 31, 1985, accounts receivable from subscribers
stood at about CFAF 31 billion ($80 million), comparable to revenues
generated in that fiscal year. The amount due from official subscribers
(Government and its agencies) was about CFAF 9 billion ($23 million), while
the remainder, CFAF 22 billion, vas due from private subscribers. Rovever,
a significan; portion of the outstanding amount has been carried forward
for a number of years. ONT estimates that about CFAF 14 billion (about $36



- 13 -
million) is irrecoverable and has requested Goverament approval to
write-off CFAF 12 billion in FY86 and CFAF 2 billion in FY87. ONT is
taking some measures to reduce outstanding accounts. The collection rate
has gradually increased from an average of about CFAF 2.0 billion per month
in 1984 to about CFAF 3.6 billion per month in 1985. Further significant
improvements are expected with the billing and collection systems to be
implemented under the project (para 40).
42.       The Government is expected to clear its outstanding accounts by
FY87. ONT has engaged three law firms to assist it in collecting
receivables from private subscribers. A phased plan to clear the arrears
was agreed during negotiations and this is included as a target to measure
ONT performance (para 54).
Financial Restructuring
43.       As a result of ONT's weak operational efficiency and debt
incurred from previous investments, the Goverument and ONT have agreed to
restore ONT's financial viability through a restructuring plan which will
cover ONT's total financial restructuring requirements estimated at $64.6
million equivalent.   The Government has agreed to contribute $50.1 million
equivalent toward this amount, part of which ($24.7 million equivalent) has
already been made available, while an amount of $19.5 million equivalent is
expected before the end of June, 1986, with the balance being provided in
1987 and 1988 according to an agreed schedule. The remaining portion of
ONT's financial requirement ($14.5 million equivalent) will be financed by
CCCE  in an amount of $5.7 million equivalent, while $8.8 million equivalent
of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will be utilized to finance
incremental operating costs during the project period to help ONT meet its
obligations under the financial restructuring plan. In order to alleviate
ONT's debt burden, the Government has agreed to pay the interest on
disbursed funds from the Bank, CCCE and EIB loans during 1987 and 1988 and
convert the corresponding amount into equity in ONT. As a condition of
loan effectiveness, the Government and ONT vould present to the Bank a
three-year financial restructuring plan for ONT for the period 1986-88
(Annex III).
Sector Development Issues and Constraints
44.       The former OPT had several constraints which inhibited develop-
ment. Some of these have been addressed with the establishment of ONT but
a few remain and are currently resulting in inefficient and poor quality
telecommunications services. The current constraints are:
(a) Sector Organization: ONT as a government -office- lacks
the effective autonomy of an independent entity;
(b) Staffing: ONT lacks job descriptions for most of its
posts resulting in inefficiency and overstaffing;
(c) Planning: ONT's planning capacity is inadequate. The
overall utilization of the network, which should be 75Z
to 80% is only 50%;



- 14 -
(d)  Maintenance:  ONT lacks an adequate maintenance organiza-
tion vith well trained staff. This leads to losses of
revenue due to long and frequent outages, to client
frustrations due to poor service quality, to high opera-
tional costs and to reduced equipment life; and
(e) Retention of key ex-INTELCI staff: Remuneration in
INTELCI vas higher than those in the civil service-ruled
ONT and since ex-INTELCI staff members have, in general,
a good background, they could find otier employment. The
los8 of such key personnel would severely hinder the
implementation of the Government's plan to rehabilitate
the sector. However, the Government is understandably
reluctant to take short-term measures which could result
in inequities.
The project addresses these constraints, through the technical assistance
program discussed in paras 51 and 52 below. To reduce overstaffing, ONT
has agreed to freeze its recruitment at the February 1986 level until 1990,
except for a few specialized positions deemed essential for its operations.
Sector Goals
45.       The country's goals for the sector are:  (a) to rehabilitate and
strengthen ONT to establish a viable and vell managed telecommunications
entity; (b) to provide efficient telecoimminications services; and (c) to
extend services to the rural areas to facilitate decentralization of
econOmic and social activities. Priority has been accorded to the
rehabilitation of existing plant and to improvement of ONT's financial
performance and operations and management systems.
The Bank's Role
46.       Experience with Past Lending.  The Bank has been associated with
the telecommunications sector in the Cote d'Ivoire since 1974. The first
project (Loan 981-IVC), approved in 1974, has been completed. It supported
the 1974-78 program for expansion of the inland telecommunicaitions services
in the Cote d'Ivoire and included institutional development components.
However, the project experienced severe procurement delays and building
construction delays. This reflected the poor management of the entity and
the unfamiliarity of the Borrover with the Bank's procedures. The physical
expansion component of the project vas implemented but the institutional
improvements were not completed reflecting the poor design of this
component and the complexity of the constraints facing the sector.
Rovever, as a result of Bank involvement in the sector, some improvements
have taken place. The first 20-year Master Plan for the sector has been
prepared. In addition, the Government agreed to establish a planning unit
at the Bank's suggestion. Improvements have also been realized in the
accouating system such as the separation of postal and telecommunications
accounts beginning vith FY82, and further improvements are envisaged under
the project.



- 15 -
47.       Rationale for Bank Involvement and ProJect Focus.  Bank
involvement lin the proposed project vill strengthen and deepen the dialogue
on sector policy and organization begun under the First Project. It vill
enable the Bank and the Government to build on the sectoral reorganization
already initiated by the Government, and help to ensure that a sound
institutional structure is established for the longer-term expansion and
development of the sector. Through the proposed project, the Bank will
assist the Government and ONT in the design and implementation of a program
for institutional and financial rehabilitation and reform, which will
strengthen ONT management, performance, and planning capacity. The Bank's
involvement in the sector is also expected to result in lower prices for
equipment and services procured through ICB.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.       The project vas prepared by ONT, appraised in October 1984, and
post appraised in March 1985. A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No.
5689-IVC, dated April 4, 1986) is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. Negotiations vere held in Washington, D.C., from
February 10-20, 1986. The Cote d'Ivoire delegation vas led by Mr. Robert
Arnaud, Director of the Cabinet of IfTPCPT. A Supplementary Project Data
Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives sad Description
49.       The project, to be partly financed by the Bank, is a self
contained part of ONT's 1986-90 development program. The main objectives
of the project are:
(a) improving quality of telephone service through better
network balance, improved maintenance and
rehabilitation and replacement of old assets;
(b) improving ONT's institutional capabilities in planning,
implementation, procurement, operational efficiency,
maintenance procedures, financial management, billing
and collection, and training;
(c)  improving ONT's capital structure; and
(d)  providing telex facilities to meet business needs.
Project Description
50.       The main components of the project are:
(a) rehabilitating existing equipment and cable network
and providing switching and transmission equipment to
eliminate traffic congestion and to improve quality of
service;



- 16 -
(b)  upgrading the muintenance organization by strengthening
the maintenance units, establishing an electronics
repair and instrument calibration center, upgrading the
stores, garage and vorkshops, and providing tools,
instruments, spare parts and specialized vehicles;
(c) providing and installing:
(i) equipment for extending telex service to the
interior;
(ii) equipment for upgrading three existing microvave
backbone links and establishing six new U1F links;
(iii) equipment for upgrading computer facilities to
handle billing, collection and management systems;
and
(iv) pover equipment;
(d)  construction of buildings for 14 microwave repeater
stations and 2 satellite telephone exchanges; and
(e)  staff training, and about 100 manmonths of fellowships
for overseas training of ONT staff. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that, by October 1, 1986,
ONT will have selected the training disciplines and
foreign administrations for fellowships in consultation
vith the Bank.
51.       The project provides for 75 manmonths of consultant's services
for institutional development.  Consultants will review the areas indicated
below and assist ONT in implementing recommendations arising from the
reviews. Both the Governuent and ONT have agreed in principle to implement
the findings of the reviews. The technical assistance would be in the
folloving areas:
(a) reviewing ONT's organization and management,
including examining the possibility of reorganizing
ONT under an autonomous corporate structure and
reviewing its relationship with ENSPT;
(b) manpower planning review, including reviewing
staffing standards, job descriptions, and
remuneration for ONT staff;
(c) designing and assisting in implementing the
maintenance organization and the organization of
the repair and calibration center in Abidjan;
(d) improving procedures for connecting subscribers;



- 17 -
(e) improving the billing and collection systems;
(f) reviewing tariff structure and levels; and
(g) developing a system for managing the radio
frequency spectrum.
52.       Establishing a maintenance organization, introducing an effective
billing and collection system, improving procedures for subscriber
connections, and reviewing tariff structures are key components of the
project. Equally important are the other organizational reviews. ONT will
sign all contracts for consultant services not later than October 1, 1986.
Consultants for the study on ONT's reorganization will report to the
Governuent by July 1987. The Government and ONT vill review the
conclusions and recommendations with the Bank and, by December 1987, agree
on a timetable for introducing the agreed recommendations. Forty five
manmonths of consultancy services have also been provided to assist ONT in
preparing technical specifications, bid documents and in acceptance testing
of equipuent. Terms of Reference for all consulting services as well as a
list of six consulting firms vere agreed upon during negotiations.
Project Implementation and Performance Indicators
53.       Based on the experience it gained under the First
Telecommunications Project and, with the assistance, where necessary, of
consultants specifically recruited for the purpose, ONT will implement the
project, except that installations vill be done by contractors under ONT's
supervision. To minimize implementation delays, targets on project
implementation have been agreed and intensive Bank supervision is envisaged
during 1986 and 1987. The project is expected to be cempleted by
December 31, 1990.
54.       A critical aspect of the institutional development of ONT is to
monitor, through selected performance indicators, its quality of service,
financial situation, staff levels, operating efficiency, and project
implementation, and to take requisite corrective actions in a timely
manner. ONT vill report progress against the physical indicators in
quarterly project progress reports, and progress against the financial
indicators in annual financial statements. It is expected that ONT will
progressively incorporate these performance indicators into its internal
management systems. The performance targets for 1986 and 1987 vere agreed
upon during negotiations as representing desirable and feasible levels.
Targets for subsequent years together with any corrective measures will be
agreed to jointly by the Bank and ONT during the preceding year.
Project Costs and Financing
55.       The total cost of the project is $116.7 million equivalent
(including taxes and duties of $12.3 million equivalent) with a foreign
exchange component of $44.3 million equivalent. Project base cost



- 18 -
estimates reflect estimated early 1986 prices, and are based on experience
with contracts under the first telecommunications project and on experience
in other countries. ONT is liable for customs duties at average rates of
40% for telecommunication equipment and 80% for vehicles. The value added
tax on local works and purchases is 25Z.
56.       Besides the Bank, CCCE and EIB have agreed to finance the
project. It is proposed to finance the project as follows:
Local   Foreign   Total
Source                            -   millions
IBRD                          3.5       21.0    24.5
CCCE                           2.3      14.9    17.2
EIB                           0.9        7.8      8.7
Government                   50.1        0.0    50.1
ONT                           15.6       0.6    16.2
TOTAL                      72.4       44.3   116.7
S21.9 million of the proceeds of the Bank loan would be onlent to ONT.
About $2.6 million of the Bank loan would be passed on to ENSPT in the form
of a grant. The CCCE loan to the Government would be at 8.6% p.a. with
repayment over a 15 year period, including five years of grace. The EIB
loan to the Government would be at 5.5% p.a. (8.5% less an interest subsidy
of 3.0% in accordance with the Lome Convention) with repayment over 17
years, including five years of grace. The proceeds of the Bank, CCCE and
EIB loans would be onlent to ONT under the same terms as to the Government
but with ONT bearing the foreign exchange risk. During negotiations, ONT
reconfirmed the aggregate size of the three-year investment program
(1986-88) and will consult with the Bank before making any changes to it.
The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and ONT
and of a grant agreement between the Government and ENSPT, acceptable to
the Bank and reflecting the above, are conditions of loan effectiveness.
Conditions for effectiveness of agreements with CCOE and EIB will be
fulfilled prior to the effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan (Annex III).
Contingencies
57.       Physical contingencies are 5% on local and foreign costs for
equipment, 10% on local and foreign costs for services and 10% on civil
works. Price contingencies are based on local and foreign cost increases
of 7.22 in 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988, 7.0% in 1989 and 7.1Z in 1990.
Procurement
58.       Procurement arrangements are summarized below.



-.19 -
ar - PF      r   n     s
($ mlixs) a;
Iten                        ICB    Purchae   VIJb/  Others    Total
1. 9witching                            7.0                          7.0(-)
2. External plant            6.3(6.3)                                6.3<6.3)
3. Telephone instrsents
and t]eprlenters          2.7(2.7)   0.2(0.2)                    2.9(2.9)
4. Tramnssixon                          2.0                6.9       8.9(-)
5. Tel«e                                0.6(0.6)                     0.6(0.6)
6. Pcoer equipment                                         1.4       1.4(-)
7. Choepter eqipent                                        1.8       1.8<-)
8. MfsoLlUaiis                1.3(1.3)           1.0(1.0)            2.3(2.3)
9. Repair oer                                              0.6       0.6(-)
10. Training and tonsultancy
services                                                1.5(1.0C/) 1.5(1.0)
I1. Stores, spare parts, fuel                               8.8<8.8)  8.8(8.8)
Total             10.3(10.3)  9.8(0.8) 1.0(1.0) 21.0(9.8)  42.1(21.9)
-- ~~ ~ ~ -
Percet                          25         23        2        50        100
Perctagea of Bak Ican           47          4        4        45        100
Note: Figures in porenthases represent the azuKts fiteneed ty the proposd Bak loaa.
a/ Inzlxundg      irEaaest d es $2.6 mU.lioa for Ef{lr and $5.7 nLl1on agdnst the
uCCE 1OEM for finMMî-ql Dctn=rin
b/ Lthted Bnsnt-al hLddna;
c/ Baik Gzldelis for tIe use of Cosaltants.
Equipment for $10.3 million (including contingencies) financed by the Bank
would be procured by ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Negotiations with existing suppliers would be used to procure $0.8 million
of spares to be financed by the Bank. Limited international bidding (LIB)
would be used to procure $1.0 million of measuring equipment and tools.
LIB has been selected for these packages as the amounts involved are either
small or there are only a limited number of suppliers. LIB would also be
used to procure $2.6 million of equipment and some services for ENSPT.
Items falling under incremental operating costs (stores, fuel, spare parts,
etc.) worth $8.8 million equivalent will be procured under limited
competitive bidding either locally or internationally. Bank-financed
contracts costing $1.0 million equivalent or more will be subject to prior
Bank review of procurement documentation and will cover about 85% of the
total value of such contracts for telecomnunication equipment. Other Bank
financed contracts will be subject to post avard review. Selection of
Bank-financed consultants (about $1.0 million equivalent) would be in



- 20 -
accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement under cofinancing. would be in
accordance with the guidelines of the respective institution.
Disbursements
59.       Disbursements against the CCCE and EIB loans would be in
accordance with the requirements of these institutions. Except for payment
against contracts of less than S20,000 equivalent, which will be disbursed
against statements of expenditure, the proposed Bank loan of $24.5 million
would be disbursed against full standard documentation for: (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures for goods, (b) 100% of total expenditures for
consultants, (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80Z of local expenditures
for ONT's incremental operating costs and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 80% of local expenditures for the ENSPT component. Two Special
Accounts of $3.1 million equivalent for ONT and $0.3 million equivalent for
ENSPT will be established in the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA).
These figures represent three months estimated disbursements during the
peak disbursement period of 1987 to 1988. The Special Accounts for the
Bank loan would be replenishable and would be used for disbursements
against all expenditures.   Applications for replenishment will be
submitted on a bimonthly basis. To provide for local counterpart funds,
replenishable Project Accounts for ONT and ENSPT will be opened. Opening
of the Project Accounts for ONT and ENSPT with initial deposits
satisfactory to the Bank will be a condition of loan effectiveness
(Annex III). The estimated schedule of Bank loan disbursements for the
three-year rehabilitation project is based on the Bankwide disbursement
profile for 40 telecommunications projects during 1972-1983 and reflects
current ONT management ability and actions already initiated in ONT for
implementation of the project. The loan is expected to be closed on June
30, 1991.
ONT's Financial Position
60.       The past financial performance of INTELCI was acceptable whereas
that of OPT was poor. The opening balance sheet of ONT, as of July 1, 1984
indicates that about 77% of net fixed assets or about CFAF 57 billion
(about $148 million) are from OPT and the remainder, CFAF 17 billion (about
$44 million) from INTELCI. The current ratio vas about 1.2.
61.       ONT's projected financial Performance over the project
implementation period is good. However, 1986 to 1987 will be critical
years with respect to ONT's cash flow.  This will be alleviated through a
combination of measures including the removal of physical bottlenecks in
the network resulting in additional revenues, billing ONP for lines in
service, emphasis on collection of arrears, and adjustment of the tariff
structures. In addition, ONT's remaining financial requirements will be
assured through long-term borroving and Government equity (para 43). It is
expected that over the period 1986-90, ONT's net cash generation would
finance the equivalent of about 47% of the total program cost. The average
debt service coverage over the same period is forecast at 1.3. During
negotiations, it was agreed that:



- 21 -
(a) ONT and the Governuent shall prepare a three year rolling
financial restructuring plan, starting vith the period
1986-1988, satisfactory to the Bank, and that such plans
shall be reviewed vith the Bank not later than October of
each year;
(b)  ONT's cash flou in any year shall not be less than the
local fund requirement of ONT's approved investment
program in the follovlng fiscal year;
(c) ONT's rate of retura on average net revalued fixed
assets in operation vould not be less than 11%; and
(d) ONT shall not incur any new debt, if after the incurrence
of such debt, its debt-equity ratio shall be greater than
75/25 in FY87, 70/30 in FY88, 65/35 in FY89 and 60/40 in
FY9O.
Tariffs
62.       The average revenue per telephone line in 1985 vas about $1,370
vhich Was high compared to many African countries.  There vas an initial
across the board tariff increase of 11Z in July 1981 followed by a further
16% increase in October 1982. The initial connection charge for a
telephone is about $120. Local calls are untimed while long distance calls
are. ONT has agreed to introduce local call timing during the project
implementation period.  The tariff structure is not considered appropriate
and has not been reviewed for several years.  ONT has agreed that
consultants will be engaged under the project to review the tariff
structure as well as levels for all ONT services. Results of the review
wlll be discussed between ONT and the Bank, and agreement reached not later
than Narch 31, 1987 on an Action Plan for the implementation of the revised
structure and levels.
Benefits
63.       There is a large unsatisfied demand for telecommunications
services in the Cote d'Ivoire and the investment program is expected to
meet only part of this demand. The distribution of benefits from the
proposed telecommnications investment program should touch all segments of
the population in the Cote d'Ivoire through communication-related increases
in Government and business efficiency and the resulting lower costs for
goods and services. Moreover, the improved efficiency of the
transportation system due to increased use of telecommunications services,
would reduce environmental pollution and energy consumption.  Finally, the
project vould result in surpluses which vould be reflected in the transfer
of funds to the Governaent over the 1986-90 period of about $28.9 million.
This surplus comprises mostly the customs duties and taxes paid by ONT on
program expenditures.



- 22 -
64.       The rate of return calculations are based on ONT's entire
investment program FY86-90. The internal financial rate of return on the
proposed project is estimated at 17Z. On the basis of estimates of
consumer surplus, adjusting for customs duties and taxes, and on the
application of a standard conversion factor of 0.9 to local coste and
revenues, the quantifiable estimate of the project's minimum economic rate
of return is 30%. Rovever, this understates the benefits which would be
derived from the investment program. It does not take into account all
indirect and external benefits received by non-users of the services.
Risks
65.       The main risk is ONT's failure to implement the project on time
and that the required institutional improvements vill be delayed.
Significant delays in undertaking the necessary measures could also
threaten ONT's financial viability. To minimize this risk and bearing in
mind the experience of the first project, technical assistance has been
included and the project vill be closely supervised. Poor incentives and
low remuneration leading to the loss of key personnel would also adversely
affect implementation. ONT has recently proposed to the Government a new
remuneration scheme for all its staff. The scheme is inadequate as it does
not address all the manpover planning issues. The manpover plan to be
prepared with technical assistance vould address the necessary revisions in
-he recently proposed remuneration scheme.
66.       The growth rates used in projecting revenues have been discussed
at length vith Government and ONT officials as vell as with the other
cofinanciers. The rates are sufficiently conservative and are expected to
be attained. A sensitivity analysis has also been carried out. A 20Z
increase in capital and operating costs, combined with a 20% decrease in
benefits, would reduce the quantifiable economic rate of return from 30% to
11%. A two year delay in all benefits vith no postponement of coste, which
is a highly unlikely scenario, vould reduce the economic rate of return to
16%.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 8, 1986



- 23 -AM
Ir 1% a    L Z 3^Page  . cf  9
IVORT Coin            - SOCIAL nDICaTRs DATA SURIT
IvORY COLS?                        *rium CRaw  (<aIsTiD AVRCES> 1
NDS                    (COIT RERU ESTCTE) > èb
MOUlT            MInoIs INCRNE         NIDME IBIDU
î.ê0       197aLtb ZSTINA8Tjb     YR[ICA S. oF SA""    M. APRICA & NID EAST
AU  <tUU     Ms. Do
TOTAL                             122.1      322.1      322.5
MCRICULTURL                        56.1       57.7       69.7
Cw F  CAIF& (M)                        ..         ..       710.0            1063.8                   1134.9
- concmrm. m CUITA
<UwUa   Or OIL ruqUIVALMiT)        50.0      169.0      189.0             581.5                    623.9
FOUIAIU- TIAL ITXSTC
POPULATION.NID-TEZA  (TUOUSADS)   3460.0    5W00.0     9472.0
urn  POPLATINi <Z or TOTAL)        19.3       27.6       44.1              32.0                    49.0
POPULATION PRWOCTIONS
POPUTION lH ZY  20W <HILLE                             17.3
STATIOAIT POPULATION <MILL)                            47.0
POPULATIOU N0oieEI1                                     2.0
POPULATION DSm
PER SQ. MI.                      10.7       15.5       29.4              65.1                     37.8
PEm SQ. MI. ACmi. LAID          61.7        86.7      130.3             124.8                    470.1
POPULATION A  SRCTU  (<)
0-14 Tu                         43.7       42.8       44.7              45.6                     43.5
15-64 TRS                        53.6       54.9       13.2              51.5                    53.0
65 Am ANo                         2.6        2.1        2.0               2.7                      3.3
POPULATION CR0   RATE (1)
TOTAL                             2.1        3.7 lc     4.9 Ic            2.9                      2.8
CRIAS                             6.0        7.3        8.3               5.1                     4.4
COUnM RItm RATE (PCR TOUS)        42.8        44.2       45.7              47.0                    40.0
CUDI DECUIR RATE (PER TROS)        23.7       20.3       14.2              15.0                     11.5
CROSS CRPODUCrION RAE               3.2        3.2        3.6               3.2                     2.8
FANILT PLAIUIC
AcCEORS. ANNUAL (TSOUS)
USRS (Z OF NAIRID  OE)                                 O3.                6.4                     21.4
INDE OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
<1969-71-100)                     99.0        97.0      111.0              82.9                    95.1
FER CAPITA SUFISY oF
CAORIES <I W RQF3RFEIIClTS)     102.0      116.0      108.0              98.5                    118.2
PROINS (CRANS ER DAT)           49.0        59.0       54.0              55.4                    77.8
0F YIICK AIMlAL AmS PULSE       15.0       16.0       16.0 id           16.5                     17.8
CQILD (<MES 1-4) DUSII RATE       41.7        32.3       20.0              16.6                     12.8
-un
LUE EXPECC. AT SIEH (<TRS)        41.5        45.9       51.5              52.0                    57.8
INFAUT MIMT. RATE (C STOUS)       172.5      148.5      121.0             108.8                    96.8
ACCESS TO SAUE VAER <lPO)
TOTAL                             ..         .         65.9              42.4                    67.2
U-J                               ..                   531.0             67.5                    93.4
RURAL                             .          ..        75.0 7;           35.8                    45.8
ACCIS TO SCRET DISPDSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         5.0       25.0 If           21.9                    45.9
URUAN                             *-        23.0       33.0 7r           57.7                    63.0
RURAL                             ..         ..        22.0 7            20.7                    28.6
POPULATION1 PIE PHYSICIA        29190.0    1400.0         .             11791.7                  4331.0
POP. PER SURSItSC PFRN          2920.0 I   2880.0 lh      ..             2459.8                  1845.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL *EO
TOTAL                           680.0      790.0        9. 981.1                   -            621.8
URIA                              ..       690.0        ..              368.8                   545.0
RURAL                             .       1330.0        ..             4371.9                  2511.3
ADMISSIONS FER HOSPIrAL MED         ..         ..         ..               27.2                    25.7
AVERSE SIZE OF HOUSEHODL
TOTAL                             ..         .
URBAIN                            3.4 Ji     ..
RURAL                             *          .
AVERZE NO. OF PRSONS/RWN
TOTAL                             .          ..
CRIRAI                            3.8 IL     ......
RAL                              ..          ..
PIRUITACE OF DUELIINCS MITa ELECT.
TOTAL                             1.0 Ik     ..
URUS                             0.7         ...
S;aL                              ..         ....                                                  .



- 24 -
ANNE2C I
TA*LE CA R^lsage 2 of 9
NOIIY COASI'           - SOCIAL lINDICATOS DATA NUIT=
lVOUT COASS                             _ CE CROS (WCG            AVU  S) la
HOST                      CHOIT USCT ESTIAIM) /b
b        19~b  car.                                       HDO _OUESI
1«6/b      1970t!!  C TtS          AyRUC& S. or SMU       M. AFRIC & NID U^S
ADUSE ED r0LHm  RATIOS
PrINA :  TOTAL                    46.0        63.0        76.0 1l            95.7                      S9.S
HALU                    68.0       80.0        92.0 Rl           100.0                     103.7
PUAL                   24.0       4*.0         60.0 7r            83.2                      75.2
SECONDA: TOTAL                     2.0         9.0        20.0 I1            17.3                      42.9
KILE                    4.0        14.0        28.0 71            25.0                      50.9
PIILE                    1.0        4.0        1i.o 71            14.o                      34.6
VOCATILUA (Z oF SECONDAi)           12.7         7.3        18.6 Il             5.9                      10.0
PUPIL-TEACO I RATIO
PrDIUA                            41.0        45.0        39.0 /1            41.1                      29.7
SECONDAT                           ..         21.0         ..                25.5                      18.8
PASSEMNR CAIS/TIOOSAND POP           3.3        11.3        14.6 la            20.r                      17.8
RADIO RECVMRS/TOUSAND POP           15.9        15.0       110.1              107.8                     175.9
TV  ECCIvE/TiOsAD FOP                0.4         4.6        30.5               20.8                      51.2
mESAPU (9AiLT CGUIA
lUTINUS?") CIOIlLATICI
PER THOSAD POPULATIN                2.3         S.8         7.7               18.4                      37.2
CIMNIA AIIIAL ATTDAUCCPTA            ..          2.0 la      0.9 /l             0.4                       2.4
LAM FO.Ce
TOTAL LAMD FoRCE (T<INDS)          1858.0     2658.0      4610.0
lEKALE (PKCUIT                    46.2        42.7        40.5               36.2                      11.0
A*CULSLIIRC (PCT>)                  9.0       04.0        79.0 /l            54.5                      42.4
INDSTRY (PmC )                     2.0         3.0         4.0 -r            18.3                      27.9
PARTICIPATIO RATE (PERCEN)
TOTAL                             53.7        53.2        48.7               36.8                      26.2
HALE                              58.4        59.3        56.0               47.1                      46.2
FINLE                             49.1        46.7        41.7               27.2                       5.8
ICoNIC DIPNDCE RATIO                 0.9         0.8         1.0                1.3                       1.8
D1             1
PERCUIT 0y PF MATE Iom
sEDiv  uf
uIGUE1T 5S or WSuRIOLDS           30.9
l          20 o    USEOLDS        51.8         ..          ..                 ..                         .
LOUIS 205 oF uSuLDs                6.6
L<IST 40U0S   NOrSrA OLDS         16.S
Poe=T  -CS
ESrIInATD fssoLTE JOET  DIC
LVEL (USS Er CAPIT
DURAI                               ..         ..        274.0 l            590.7                     226.3
RRUA                               ..          ..         96.0              275.3                     134.0
ESTInATED RELATm    POIlI  icoR
LEV  (0US un CAPITà)
URNA                               ..          ..        487.0 la           545.6                     431.5
RUREL                              ..          ..        24.0 7;            201.1                     326.0
ESTIKATE POP. UELON ABSOLUTE
PUVERTr iol  LIVE.L (Z)
CuA                                ...
RUAL                               ..          ..          ..                 ..                       29.0
mOT AVAfLAUz
Sor APPLICAILE
NOTES
la   The igroup avuragua for madicbtor are populatiaoe-ltud *ritD'tic mens. Coveruge of couctrfae
u.g chi indieatoru dep.md  on availabiltty of data med te  ot _mifo.
lb   Unlens othbr.ise notd. 'Data for 1960" refer to *ay yuar bet_m 1959 *od 1961; Dat& for 1970" batuem
1969 mmd 1971; md data for "Not Rmeat luttmate  bet_ume  1981 md 1983.
hc  nue to 1"grt±on popultjm groth rate te  bhgbar thun rate of mtural  &imm; Id 1977; la 1980; If
1976; U  1963; th Covern t peronomnl ouly; Il Afrima population i the city oTUomaa MIy. for
1957-58; 1l 19567. Afrfcm population la orba. cmnte-r of Aliumgrou. Agbweille. Di.bokro md Km
omly. refer to houabode;  /k 1962; /1 1979; /l 1978; la 1972.
JUE. 1985



-25 -                                             ANN I
Page 3 of *9
DEFI NmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOIS
Notcr AMthouh lhe data are druwn fram aura gemermlly judged the mmi authritative mnd rdiable. il thou"d ala be noted thli chey Mny ont be internmtonafly
eompmuble beaure f the lack cf standardized definition and concepts u ed by differemi ceuntrieb in colitting the data. The data are. nometheles. umful ta
describe rdersf cf mgWLud -indiotaiet nd. m*d charateri  certain maejor diftema hmecwta counies.
The rereece poups are (1) the Mme country roup of the subjet country mnd (2) 8 oeuntry group with vmmhat higher mvenrt incone than the ceuntry
group fie subjectcounitry except for 'High IncaneO cil Eapoferm p oup where Middle lnn-e NoLht Afnra mnd Middle Eaut iachoen beause  tronfer
sociocuktural nmnitiea. In the re<erenes group data the averm are population vseighted arthmetic muant for cah imdicalor and écmn oniy «he mmjority
f th cooutries in*a goup ha dama for thst indicator. Si9n th covrae ofcountrin ammg ihe indoairm dependa on the vaolability oadat amd is not uniforn.
caution mus t beaercwd in relating mvcraga of one indicator ta amother 11me *mentgnre only ucfril in eomparing the value otone indicator at time among
the oenury aund reference groupa.
AREA (thousand sq.knm)                                           Crde Dinh Rate (per rimsal- Number oflive births in the year
Total--Total surface ares cumprising land area and iii and waters:  per thousand tf mid->yar population: 1960. 1970. snd 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Cruar Death Rate (per thomndJ-Number of deaths in the year
AgricutaruL-Estimate or agrncultural area used temporarily or     per thousand oa mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Cross Reprodato Rate-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            wilI bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiances
present age-spedfie fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS> -GNP per capita estimates ai current         in 1960. 1970. anid 19831
market prices. calculated by sanie conversion method a, Wurld    >WIf Planninw  dccepsors. Asma  (shosaads--Annual numi-
Ronk Aleas (1981-83 bas: 1983 daita.                             ber uiaccepturs I hbirth-control devices under auspices oafnational
ENERCY CONSUMPMlON  PER <'APITA-Annual apparent                  familv planning program.
consumption of commercial pnmary energy <ceal and lignite.        Faify Plssiq-Users (perceat ofa,aid w        eaj-       percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal dec-   tage of marricd wumen oa child-bearing age who are prmctiing or
tricitvy in kilograms oa oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any fiorm oa contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      oa child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULAlTON AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Total Popurd A . Mil- Yenr (thousdks- -As oi July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
lithos Popalato (percent of rotal>  Ratio of urban   it total    Ikdex of FootProdtion Per Capia (1969-71-= 100* -:ndexaoper
capita annual prnouction of ail food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban arras may aîfec 4tompar-  excludes animal fred and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countrie.. 196. 197U. and 1983 data        include pnimary commodities tc.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
opulaio PkWJCteOu                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (c.g. coffee and tea are
Populsaion in rear /(1f»  The projection of population fior 2000.  excludedl: thes comprise cereals. moot croap. pulses. oil weeds.
made for cach economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables. firaits. nuis. sugarcane and sugar bects. livestock. and
total population by asg and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock producis. Aggregate production cf each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights 1961-65. 1970. and
wer projecied at five-vear intervals on the basis of gneralized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Ph  Capira SÇppI cfCalries (percet ofreqnresjei--Comput-
Staiioaury population- Il one in which asg- and sex-specific mor-  cd firom calorie equivalent of net fnod supplies available in country
tality rates have nom changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replascement level  tiun. imports Ia exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 11 In such a population. thc birth rate is  caclude animal ficd. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal me the death rate. the age struture is also   food procsxsing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth ratce is zero. The etationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal acuivity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics oa  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 200U. and the rate of decline or fernility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at houschold level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Poprdaion ,Uoeuntun - ls the tendency for population growth to   Per Capika Sapply of Protei (grams per élyJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level ficrtiitq. has becn  per capotai net Nuppi> ti fiod per das. Net %upply oi food is defined
achieved: that os. even afiter the net reproduction ratc has reached  a% ahtnc  Rt-qIltrcnîetnt% for ail countnes established by USDA
unity. Tht momentum of a population on the year r ia measured as  providt tbr minimum allowasices on 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary po pulation to the population in  day and 20 gram  ol'animal and puise protein. oiwhich 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from  ycar i onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total proton and 23 grams oa animal protein as an
Por'nain D&fy                                                    averagc for thc worid. proposed by FAO in the Third Wordd Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer 1 100 hec-   Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ares: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per CaWita ProrJin Supply Fh4um AatIm  and iPse-- Proicin supply
Per .rq.km. agrieuhuraol fand  Computed as abouv for agricultural    oafoad derived from animais and pulses in grams per day: 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Ppuaion Age Strctre (perent>  (Childrcn <0-14 ye3mr. work-       ChiM (ageo  -4j Deah Rate (perrhosadj  Numberofdeathsof
ing age ( 15-64 years). and retired (65 years and ovenr as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                group in a giwen year. F'or most developing countries data derived
Population Grosnh Rate (perceuot>-total Annual grawthrateso ai   firom liue tabl.s: 1960. 1970 and IY13 data.
total mid-year population fur 195N-60. 191N-70. and IY70-l3.     HEALITH
PopuLation Growah Rate (perren)- burba   Annual growth rates     Life Expecrasy er a ir i  (yenrs>  Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 19.0-60. 19(10-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant m%ould live if prevailing patterns nf mormality for ail people



- 26 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of  9
at the time of of its birth weae to stay the same throughout its lire;  Papd-reocher Ratio - prlmay. aid secoandary-Total students en-
1960,1970 an 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and sondary levels divided by numbas of
Ifant Mnlady Rate (<pr th.asd)-Number of infants who die    tachers in the corresponding levels.
beforen rachig one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                               CONSUMlwrnON
Accs te Squ  WMt r (percentf _SOIaa, sd                       Paseue, Cer (per thxtd p.opasnj-Passnger cars com-
,W-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor crs seating less than eight poions: excludes ambul-
mss to safe water supply ildudes treated surface waters or    ances, hommes and military vehicis.
usatnated but unconuamited wat such as that from protected    Raio Recedl    (per dlsa  dpv.hébl>-All types of reeivers
boreholes, spnngs and snitary weils) as percenagts of tdir resc-  for rdio broadcasts to gen«al public per thousand of population;
tive populatons. In an urban ana a publc foustain or standpost  exdude un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
kcated not more tban 200 mnetes fromn a bouse may be conitacd   istration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent yamrs may
as being within rasonablc am    or that house. In rural a-rs  not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or nrnbers of the
bouselhold do not have to spend a disproprtioaste part of the day  tVRars pper thor_     popultion; eavers for broadie st
in fetching the family's water needs.                        to  Fera public per thousand popayarsw     regtati  cf unâCsed sT
Acce te Excrta Dispos (perc  ef ppiu-uai,  r ,                 ceiv rs in countni and in years when registrtion of TV sets wa,c
as rwa-Number of people (totaL urban, ad rural) served by     in
exceta disposal as percantages of titr respective populations.  INeWSpU    Creahuu (p<r trJsdpopaaIJ--Shows the aver-
Excreta disposai may include the coflection and disposaL with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaper.- defined as a
without treatment, of humain «creta and waste-water by water-  penodcal publication devoted prmarnly to recording gencral newu.
borne sytems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  lt is considered to bc -daily if it appearst ast four times a week.
Fbpaiatier P4siduu-Pbpulation divided by number of prac-     Ciina Amaid Aueudas   per C a pr Yer-Based on the
tising physicians quadifil from amedical school at university lvel.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Papaae  per Nmnhs Pesn-RPopulation divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nuises, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auuiiaries.                      IABOR FORCE
P.paaa per H.fa   e-eatdi, arias, md nwl-Population           Toa Lai Fac (the,sadsj-Economically active parsons. in-
<total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemnployed but excluding housewives,
lisDhadis available h public md pulvate,celnpiae ~    ~  students. etc.. coveinng population of all ags. Definitions in
h~sospms and ubabifitaton eenters. Hospitats arc establishments  vanous countries are not comparabk; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Fema;e (pewrc -Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial cure are not included. Rural bospitals.    force.
however include ealt and medicters not permanetly staffed     Agrioeia  (rpcera)-Labor force in fanning. forestry. hunting
by a physiciai (but by a medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)   mad fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer hpatient accormmodation and provide a limnited ran8g  data.
of medical facitiis.                                         Iadasyr (peroe)-Labor force in mining construction. manu-
Admias per HfpiWa At-Total number of admnissions to or        facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges fromi hospitals divided by the number of beds.    force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P     Madpi  Rae (percuf-eoea iue. aadjèa-P iripation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, malt. and female labor force
Au-op Size f HNarsc      (per       ned        a ra,          as percentages of totaL maie and fenale population of all agis
amdriswi-A housebold consists of a group of individuals who share  respcctively. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. Thoes are based on ILO's
lving quartas and their nmain seas. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reecting age-sex structure of the population. aid
ay not be induded in the houschold for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Avoage Nmber of Fess  per Reem-taal, rhu, md rural-           Econndc Depemdacp Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per roomn in ail urban. and rural  65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwtllings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBULION
Percetag eof Dsigs niA Elery-mnaa, rhm, ani rurl-            Percewtage of Total Dispoehle lcea (itA m casA md itdj-
Conventional dwelings with dkctricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of houscholds ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectivdy.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A*eJd   E isen Ratos                                          The following estimates are viry approximate measures of poverty
Pbnay school - total male aidfemafr-Gro  totaL mae and       lves. and shoult be interpreted with considerable caution.
fenale enrolDment of ai ages a the primary levd as percentages of  Edted AiseJae Pbe"  Iaw Leti (< 5per capàa>-rhm
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  mi naa-Absolute poverty income levd is that income lev[i
consider primary school age to be 6-11 yearu. othm do not. Tht  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus esntial
differens in country practices in the agis and duattion of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with univrsal  Esamret Relative 1oerty lacent Leot (US$r capira>-umrba
oducation. gross enroilment may exced 100 percent sinee sorn  md r"ra-Rural relative poverey income levad is one-third of
pupils art below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita pemonal inconie of the country. Urbas level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconds'y  miod - rotal, maie arJ femal-Computed as above    living in urban arias.
secondary education requires at mast four years of approved pri-  Euhuated P.pudm   Beow Absoute Paersy Iae Let (pir-
mary instruntion provides genraL vocationaL or teacher training  camt> $arb  ant renr- Perceni of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are -absolute poor?
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocatial Eiroikaei (peret ofsecondaryj-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technicaL industriaL or other programns whih operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Dopartment
indepandendty or as deparunents of secondary institutions.                           June 1985



Pupulatlm                  9m2               9uld-l19 4thmsaodl                                                 IAKE   sel  IYMY COMI - ECOIOIIIe IIUICAITS
6lIP W     Capîla           720             lIUnS, 1   4                                                        ............................ ..... ...... _. _.
.................................................................... ...................................... . .................................... . . .......... ......... . ._................ ...-----_--..._.    . ._ ... ,.,,  ,  __
boust                                                                              fAiai jrovth Nrit  121 at coutal prics   1114
Inillin  CFAF                 .............-----  -              - ------- ------------------------------ -        ------- ---  -  - -  ---------    - -- - ----- -   ------------------ - 
Inilctaor                        aI  Eurrnt pricsu                                                           Actual                                                               bilsta d                                   Proj.ctid
1184                     -----------------  -_----------------- .  . ...... _._  ... _......                                     _         ... .   .__..       ----
1116       1991       1971       1971       IS00       1911        1182       lus        lm1                  lm                     99         1111        lm1       lm          il,
.......................................... ........................................................................ ....... ......... ................. ..........................  ................... _...._______
miImL ADMISI
Ekos 80stic  Producl                2161.à                              11.5        3.1        9.6        2.0       11.6         1.2       -.U        -4.2       -4.1                   S.3                    2.U        3.0        3.2        2.6        3.0
Aviculture                         761.1                              6.0        -4.4        1.5        0.4       12.S        2.1       -1.4      -11.0         0.1                   S.0                    1.5        1.0        2.4        2.4        2.5
Iadnitry                          317.1                              15.5       10.0      1.1          9.0        t.0       10.0      -15.0        3.1      -24.1                    0.6                   5.4        5.2        5.3        5.         4.4
servicei                         1013.9                             -13.7      -16.6       36.5         6.8       24.7       -0.2       -3.3       -0.4        -4.6                   9.5                   4.3         3.5        3.5        3.5        LU
Pro.ales à leaDuihs               113.4                             6E.3        30.3      -12.0        -4.9       -3.4       -3.1         1.2      -6.7         6.7                   S.0                    1.1       2.7         2.5        0.1        2.0
Ca4uapllu                           2224.7                             19.0         1.1       11.0        2.5         9.7       -1.1       -3.3        1.1       -0.S                    4.5                   1.2        2.4        I.9        2.5        1.7
6<r0s Inveiteit                      314.3                              26.3       43.9       14.4       -7.0        6.4      -11.5      -13.1       -20.S      -45.0                 -13.4                   10.6        3.Y        4.1        3.5        3.5
Exporte al 11FS                     1311.S                              11.7       -7.S        5.1        2.3        12.2       14.2       -1.1      -11.4       10.3                    9.l                  -1.4        3.7        4.0        2.0        4.6
léporbuDl  FFI                     1S1.5                               25.7        26.0       14.6       -3.2        5.6      -11.1        -6.6     -12.1        -3.2                   6.6                   Il.S        1.1        1.4        2.2        2.3
aro§§ Nallonal  aivings                 -                                                                                                                                              41.1                  -1I.1        3.4       31.1       94.7       17.2
... ................................. ................................................               .... .......................... . . ..... _..... ............... . _ _ ........ .......... _.. ...._______I
POIlES
t4P hilulor  119841001               100.0                              94.5      5.7        61.1       66.2       61.0        70.S       7S.2       6S.1      100.0                 107.2                  101.3      112.1      113.3      116.5      110.7
Eichaniq   rate iLSlU   I            437.0                            239.0       245.1      225.7      212.1      211.3      271.7      329.6       381.1      437.0                 450.0                 400.0       310.0      315.0      360.0      345.0
......... ..................... -----------------------. . _................... .............. ........................... ....... . ................ ... .._. _...... .. .. . ........... ....._.. .. _ _  ___
Shur oa  6WDP  it lliet Pricosl2l                                                                   Aharde Auil lncrrase /il
lit surrant poices                                                                            lai constalt If1  pricN)
---------  .................... . ........................                              ........ .... . ......... .- ..... . *.-_*_.--_*_-_.  _-_ -
1I65       1970       1915       1910       ISSS       9o                1SJ11910              I970/1S15             19751190              tM1190/15             91S/1
_. .... ....... ... .. .... .... .... .... .. ..... ...... ....... ............               ----------------------  - ----  .. ----  .. - ----  - - .-_.--_--__
touis Dcutic  PrduCit                           100.0      100.0       100.0      900.0      100.0      I00.0                    6.1                   4.4                   5.1                   -1.2                   3.0
Agriculture                                    31.6       31.1       28.2        28.0       27.6       30.?                   3.1                    0.9                   3.4                  -0.4                   2.1
Induitry                                       15.S       U8.5       17.0       16.7       10.4        12.9                   9.3                   2.S                    S.6                  -5.9                   5.1
Strvices                                       21.S       25.1       36.8       35.6       36.9        39.9                   7.0                    0.5                  1.3                  -I.3                   3.7
Prod.Tises & lp.htils                         96.5       20.9       16.0        11.6       25.1       17.1                  11.0                    1.2                   1.0                    1.0                   1.E
Conenptla                                        71.14       10.8       77.4       71.2       16.1        19.0                   1.1                   5.2                    6.4                  -1.3                   3.1
crois InVestetIt                                 21.9       22.5        22.4       29.2        1.S        12.0                   6.1                   3.1                   10.l                -22.1                    6.6
Exprts of EIIFS                                  31.6        35.6       36.7       33.5       46.3        42.0                   6.9                   3.9                    2.2                   3.1                   2.6
larIs oe  611WB                                  30.1       2S.1        36.6       38.9       34.0       33.3                    1,3                   5.l                   1.6                   -6.0                   3.8
6ross National 9v9n;s                              *          -          -          -          13.6       12.5                   *                      *                     -                     2.S                   9.l
......... ......... ..................... . ....................................... _..... .......... ...... ....... ___. __ -------  - -- -_ ----                                                                                                                            Pd
AIs a 2 of 6P Current                                                                                                                                                                                       0       3
.. ...... ....... .... ........tl  P...........
PUILIC FINACE                                      965       I970       I195       9190        1105        9o1;
..... .... .....                            .... ............  .............. .-...-------.......
Current Revenu"s                                 2B.6        32.6       30.0       28.B       31.0       25.5
Current Epralltuues                              24.6        28.1       24.1       22.7       22.1        19.3
PublIc 9sadnqs                                     3.9        4.1        5.6        6.2         S.0        6.3
Capital Epfenditures                               5.         1.5        9.9       99.9         1.4        3.4
Forelgn Finaccinc   (net)                          0.S        1.4        2.6         1.9        3.0      -2.9



051<1 INICATNUOS                      <965-10          <910-15          1<VI00            <no-S nlnF-e
W   prouh Site (CFA)                    S.!              1.1               6.1             -LA               4.1
W et Cpetpa  utSitb       <(Fil        5.0              41                 1.2             -1.0              0.1
<CM.                            .      2.5          b.. ..1 ..  ..
hrqal   B.n. S   aflel                 0.1 @,            0.4             -0.0               0.4              0.1
Iqw<r linIam<cm<                       0.0               0.               7L1               4.1.             lA
I-g
t.



o'
6161   " l,.          0161       (9é1                  616l       VU         1161       ('èS       '           161   o (6,          016<       (01             <Il . Mi a   11hI33
fi-  jli     it  'midi    leibcl leiln                                      tio       0F6*                    -l  %ililm              ltét  ft§                lé  1g1    $
nia  apajl le foi. nil                                         :  îé.1  1  &"uS                            0      fil 10 .iiqS
,.....,,................................_..................   ....,.............................._................
t '-                  III                                         Il                    l5 9et     Vl?        1'A       0.6*       1(5        'il       0'11i              ofel  mpia,2lg.
Lt                    Vi-                   'is                   l'O                   l'                    <'si       l'it       [il        S'il       o'é        Qi         O'ê                           *MIIJIIa
V'-                   *                      S'il                 s'il                  0'-                   lil        fil        S'é         i'â       é-iî        [,'I      o'§l                                00
Vît                   t't-                                        §II *'1                                       001      O'"I       O-X        0'001      0-001      0-001      O'XI                               9|
Ils(t                                       S!                      î Vi Vosi   Vos                                                    soo     rosi   001   rosi   o'oe
Va                     l                    L'                    l'l9''it  1                                        l 'i U         l'tt       *'6t       ('0£       l'tt       Cl                             £flh09
î's                   et                    n                     *'q                   v'                    ris   î'1    é'w    in    ru*   é'éî   oré                                                   *aîîmu
C'n                   '1                    *'î                   î'i                   &                     Ueel    O'XoI    O'XI            0001 0' 001 O''tO                0'001
.__.__.,,......    ...................... __,__..............................                            ......................... .....................................
I                                                                                                  mhIISS   âIeUI       OUSisÇlé             S<l$1MI61              111i5¶bi                oui        tut        oui       5161        0i         Lioi       o09l
niX nsaaxg 1e_ *a                                                                         Itlpfi1 *1§9W03MS 0 101011U2'e
£151                 L'IL                   *POI    0'e t,1t'1                          W1  '01 VIOl  ('Ii  1'l l'St S'l lS         &(                                                5<ISé@Il "90   )*U1
Ch                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~._ ..... ..... ..... ...... . ... . ...... . .... ..... ..... ..... .......        ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ... .. . ..............
_._... _.................................................................................,..... ..... -- .. ....... ...... .. ...... ..... .. +^..... ..... ......... ...............
t'LSi                11                    0'00I       t'tél      l'ht 0'14             l'là       <'ill    L'li    l'l             L'Il                                            <00li6 il'          lI'I
1'f                   1't'                  S'IL        'il-      L'-        l'9l-1    'L-         51         S'IL       9'0'       S'il                             liiiO                         1I %|10f1
(''                   VU'                   1-11       £iî-       SOOi        Ils       l'il-      ('1        Vêt        C-i          'i Ih*'itI                                               l     o     UlI »
%@         t@l                   ;-U  eî'îî t'î-       L'O        l'l-       i'9i       o':          '        tii2        vii                             é'jî m^aî .»°               s3   pu,q>q
;î'-la l'il-  'Iu    L'Il1    6,1'9        cl'oi    li'l'         s';:3 s'î1 rsîo                                                           £sieduî
4Cl-SI                 ClI                  1861        SII       £811       IUI        OUI        6161       0161       1161       9&1!
._ . _ _ - --------@e**@@--@e@@*@@sS - -@@@^ -~~-                                                                               0, B'111
.....               .....      .....      -----       -----      .....      ..., 1.1                                            l ...I..                    .
t1  éMl    'ci-  alllollm    Ilib 1        tZ  311#1-   rtf                                                     '004t1oi5@#  t'i                  C       PMIII
£UIV iU    2 1MW)-         l'as-21A   1<ti NUfi'i                       l         Il IDU  S1'51-IS                          Il é       SM Iiisuq



lable 3C          l o i05  COSI- 8.AKIE OF PAWIENIS, EIIRIIiML CITAL mII i0t
Poaulatllo            9294       .Iê-I9l4t        d                            laillion USI 0t (errent grîct
l pe  Capita           120        usN,I9941
.. ..._. ._.... ....  ..... .. .......... .. .. . .................................................................................................. --------- _ __ 
Actui                                                Ectleut.d                                  rojecb d
lndigatots                                   ..............................       ---------------------------------------------------             ----- ...............-.--.
1915     1916     1917     1938    1919   1s00    191          1902    1SJ       1904            lmI                l8t       197     Ilm      1I1      I9f
. ....... .......... .............. ...... ....... ..... ..... ............... .................................. . ---------------- -----_ -- - ---- - --------- -_ --- - - -
SALWCE OF F811EIS
fIrade blae(FOI/FOII                             48.9    313.1   572.8    180.0       11.2    399.0   614.3   405.6    515.2   1007.6               1243.0             95".2  106.5  1201.7   12&2.1  145.1
Emporta il DtS                            12U1.1   1173.0   2480.8  2625.1   2817.4  3012.6  2134.4   2452.1  2091.5   2111.5                  3013.1            3102.0  3400.3  3118.2   4110.9  4602.2
lapgos of 0ooùc                           1215.2   1409.3  1912.0  2445.7   2756.2   241.6  2060.1  1U41.1   1506.3   1119.9                 1U30.1             2191.1  2336.8  2576.5  2w.8  311.4
Nu-Factor Serices                                -63.4  -117.6  -102.3  -252.1   -361.0  -969.3  -*06.   -626.9   -524.9  -251.1                    -242.6            -314.4  -33.2  -362.2  -393.1  -417.1
EIpoDtU                                    1U.0    162.8    111.5   259.7    326.3   507.3    416.2   401.1   315.3    214.7                    253.9             22.5    313.2   34A.4    3n2.2   411.5
Importa                                    208.4    280.3    363.9   511.5   487.3   1471.6   1222.9  1020.a   900.1    466.4                   496.3             5n.9   66é.4   i1l.6   715.3    »5.6
lalace af SIINFS                                  5.5    25t.1    190.1    -12.2  -219.8  -570.3   *132.t   -21.3    40.3    155.                   100.4              631.U     710.3   U39.5    169.0  1036.7
Factor bovce puyleat                            -313.8   -441.1  -531.5  -173.5  -952.0  -1218.3  -n14.7  -1003.3  -n23.5  -16.6                    -740.1            -112.3  -018.1  -133.1  -931.0   436.5
letaist Payaat. 111                        -54.5    *14.1   -91.1  -166.2  -231.5  -321.5  -30.Y9  -40.0  -1911.*  -510.1                      -513.5            744.1  -573.*  -SSt.1  -521.1  -4'.3
Othn Inuit. lacis.                         -12.1    -84.5   -95.6  -139.1   -151.I  -175.1  -103.1   -12.1   -96.3    -19.6                     -55.0             -40.0   -10.0   -1J.0   -11.0   -e7.0
Vlelrs  Ruuittaaen                         -117.2  -20S.5   -34I.1  -450.2  -564.1  -715.6  -510.1  -462.6  -3M1.5  -276.1                     -171.B            -212.5  -202.1  -309.1  -336.1  -371.0
Other metl  raîsi.rta                      -10.3   -21.8   -28.9    -50.9  -143.4   -44.0   -12.5            0.3   -63.2        4.1               5.6               5.9 S.2           6.1      1.2      7.5
Curreit Acouat *llace                          -311.4  -213.8  -173.0  -894.1  -1315.0  -1832.4  -1139.7  -1024.3  -924.4   -135.9                   259.7            -174.5  -200.4   -94.2   -42.0    100.2
Capital Acccuot blaoce                           191.6    193.3    129.3   914.6   399.6   1020.9   551.2    940.         M2.6   269.1                1bl              251.5   172.1    1It.6    123.5    25.6
Privaite Capital                            152.9     40.2   -70.0    155.1      75.2   117.9    110.4   1MA.         13 5    -91.0              U.4              n1.1      78.3    U4.2      9e.7    97.5
Pbilte Capital                              107.2    229.5   604.0    01N.1    U32.8    132.1   540.5   852.1         42.0    J.9               216.4             249.1    -6.7   -45.1   -130.8  -217.4
Ronet1ry Cap. à Ujst                        -40.5  -103.3  -20W.7       71.3    291.4      0.9   -113.1   -45.3    211.1    -1.8               -155.5             -71.3   101.1   130.5   843.6   200.5
ODerall Iléce                                  -126.8   -20.5    156.3    39.S  -305.5  -*11.7  -502.t   -83.7  -533.0    133.2                      350.0              17.0   -55.7    75.4       61.5   175.8    -
Opiratimi AccouaI                           126.1     20.5  -156.3   -39.9   315.5    UIl.1    711.    -S2.3    213.6   -132.3                 -294.8             -14.1    1317.2    64.9     53.1    -29.9
ForulP Airaras                               0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    152.2   -75.5               -55.6              -        -        -        -        -
1et IIF                                      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0   505.0   IU.0    161.0    14.4                   -1.4             -U2.9   -101.5  -140.3  -144.6    -n.t
..............  .....  ._ ........  . ......    ..    . ..................   . . . .......   . .....   . ..__..._
TEIIE  CAPI.L 1e KIT 121 
Iras Oirihruiets                                345.1    34.5    823.3   196.1   1143.0   1435.9   1044.4   1353.7   661.7    417.2                  257.2             163.2    104.2    62.0    317.1    25.5
Privale FInIaclag                             249.2    284.3    U4.2   100.0   1u.s   1155.2   903.2    930.9   301.9    01.3                       61.0              23.8      9.0      5.9      5.1      0.0
SqpIbi   CLi Ats                           110.0    144.4    131.4    115.5    151.3    175.4    56.1       tl.4     43.3      15.2              12.3               9.5      5.9      2.4      1.4       -
Flnaacul l.stItiltmnm                      139.2    139.9    526.1   U15.4    717.5   912.8   947.1    09.5    255.6    13.1                     41.5              14.3      3.9      3.5      3.1       -
Sonda                                         -                                            3.1       -                 -        ---                                           -        -        -        -
kltilatwial Lounu                              50.4      30.7     10.S    125.5    SQ.S    114.9    38.1   296.1   224.9   214.9                   105.3              -.?      5.       38.5     25.3    24.0
lUm                                          24.7     14.5     37.1     57.9    5O.0    5.6    40.3   220.0    191.0   217.1                    81.2               66.4     46.0    31.0    24.8    22.1
Commcssimal                                 -                          4.1      3.0      1.9      1.0      I.!       1.1     0.a                0.9               0.5                -        -
N m-canesuloeal                          24.1-    14.5      37.1     53.9    55.0       3.1    47.3    219.5    196.9    216.9                16.3              65.9    46.0    31.8       20.8    22.1
lm                                            1.1       1.6      3.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0                0.0               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Coacesuioua                                 1,1      1.6      3.0      0.0       -        -        -        -        -         .                                                     .        .
Ia  iiO<iiiIa.il                            -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -                 -                 -        -                 -        -
Ota' llimtilateral LoUnI                     24.6      14.6    2i.9      70.1     22.5    n9.3      19.0     76.0    26.9       17.C              18.1              89.0     12.       7.5      4.3      1.0
liltural  oIsou                                45.4     53.5      08.2    66.5    194.5    n9.0        3.1    126.0    141.0    94.0               120.2              53.2     35.5    17.6       3.1      1.5
Exltrail Oli Dititudir.1 IEad-af-Psrird)       1529.0  2149.4  4012.0  4546.9  5211.9   5711.9  t02L.5  4094.1   54. 1   5510.7                     4912.2            436.2   3119.7  3040.0  23R7.3   IW80.2                    .
hnt Outetadiol I5 lIsbarm.d                   942.0   1170.l 99I.3   2030.1   3700.2   4347.1   4393.1   4047.0  4125.9  4034.6                  45U.S             4120.5  3570.3  2960.5  2345.0  1143.4
Wùl«,sed Oet                                  514.2   991.6  2020.7   1736.0   1511.1   1451.0   1633.4   1146.7   1037.2   696.1                  400.9             245.1    141.4    19.5      42.3     86.0
101t1 kilt Srole                                130.5  11.2    210.1    391.5    601.5   071.0   920.6   959.4           91.o  6U1.0               sn.1              1037.5   1029.6  1003.9    911.t   126.1                   oe  H
Prixapal                                       74.9    114.1   1IU.1    222.8    343.8   520.1   525.5   487.6    377.9   211.0                    544.2             06.0    1A.4   67.4   t52.8   527.2
latorent Payêmt                                55.6    67.1    102.0    174.1   231.7    350.9   395.1    411.0    413.1    404.0                  454.5             426.5   303.2   324.5   250.1    MA.9
htil lnv. Ratio leieludirl  IFI                 9.1      9.3      10.1     13.8     19.0    24.1      29.2     33.6     32.1    1I.3                30.0              30.5     27.7    24J       20.2    84.4



Atrage  letreel  lite on  nrc  ain^                                  13          1.5         1.          0.           0 .9        0.5         *.2          1.2        10.S        12J1
Ollitt,l                                                          1.3         6.0         ai                                                            -
hil 01 .5                                                                    1.4         0. 1                                 -                       -
rna,. Naieritj il  enn  lunes                                      12.6        10.6         11.2         *.1        Il.S          0.0        10.1        11.1         12.0         1.6
Olficial                                                         10.0        16.         10.1
Nrivale                                                          0.1          0.0         0.1
.......................... ......................................... ........................ ............................................................................. .   ,................... ............................ __
Il Source,  letlretlear l  MoelUl   Fhsd   tuli  lait  Etiiatleues ld PreIectiuF
2' S re:l éot Refgortin:q  sOtle .               oa il huir  I,in Itktinq  ante acent
Ie Iqalci ol 1OU rcsithhledinq ail
di t ie    eil h   ltueiieg
et eE oil et r<«est
fou 11014)
Relet,t  Streterre  l               i    st îtsttudig
l'rîipl  di# clltsin  5 Veus                                                                                                                          4<.L
Principtl due cithin  lt Yent                                                                                                                         11.4
lnteftt SUuictm, elt lt autietilemq
laîteest    e  eitmhain 5  ,e                                                                                                                         Il.>
Il
-  & !



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 3
Statua of Bank Group Operations in Côte d'Ivoire
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1985)
$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                       Amount (leas cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrover         Purpose               Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One credit fully disbursed                                    -      7.5
Thirty loans fully disbursed                                708.8   -
1347-IVC      1977    Côte d'Ivoire  Urban Development       30.0   -           2.90
1348-IVC      1977    C8te d'Ivoire  Urban Development       14.0   -           1.34
1501-IVC      1978    Cote d'Ivoire  Feeder Roads            29.0   -           3.32
1577-IVC      1978    Côte d'Ivoire  Abidjan Severage II    33.0   -            7.93
1663-IVC      1979    CCI            Artisans                12.6  -            5.89
1698-IVC      1979    Côte d'Ivoire  Tourism II              14.2   -           4.51
1735-IVC      1979    Côte d'Ivoire  Forestry                18.0  -            3.25
1777-IVC      1980    Côte d'Ivoire  Education III           24.0   -          10.24
1827-IVC      1980    C6te d'Ivoire  Rural Development        9.4   -           6.02
1896-IVC      1981    EECI           Pover                   33.0   -          24.78
1914-IVC      1981    CBte d'Ivoire  Highvay Sector I       100.0   -          23.91
2048-IVC      1982    Côte d'Ivoire  Urban Development II   51.0   -           20.81
2059-IVC      1982    Cote d'Ivoire  Technical Assistance   16.0   -            9.43
2130-IVC      1982    Côte d'Ivoire  2nd Water Supply        43.0   -          26.16
2167-IVC      1982    Côte d'Ivoire  Center West             13.0   -          10.00
2189-IVC      1982    PETROCI         Petroleum             101.5   -          58.62
2323-IVC      1983    Cote d'Ivoire  Rubber IV               32.2   -          20.85
2496-IVC      1985    C8te d'Ivoire  Forestry II 1/          31.3   -          31.30
2581-IVC      1985    Cote d'Ivoire Highway Sector II 1/  110.0  -            110.00
2617-PIC      1986    C8te d'Ivoire  IDF 1/                  30.0   -          30.00
2619-IVC      1986    Côte d'Ivoire  Realth/Demography 1/   22.2   -           22.20
Total                               1,476.2   7.50     429.22
Of which has been repaid              139.3   0.20       -
Total nov outstanding               1,336.9   7.30
Amount sold                      5.1
of which has been repaid        5.1
Total nov held by Bank and IDA              1,336.9   7.30
Total Undisbursed                             429.2   0.00     429.22
1/  Not yet effective.



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 3
B.  Statement of Regional Bank Loans and Credits ta Côte d'Ivoire
and Other West African Countries
$ million
Loan or       Fiscal                                    Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrover     Purpose               Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
1295-WAF      1976    CIMAO        Regional Clinker       49.5   -           0.00
1490-ICUV     1978   RAN           Regional Railway       23.0   -           0.00
969-WAF      1980   BOAD          Project Preparation     -      3.0        1.45
2242-WAF      1983   BOAD          Regional Development    6.1   -           6.10
1331-WAF      1983   BOAD          Regional Development    -    14.0        11.18 2/
2/  This Credit is denominated in Special Draving Rights. The figures in
this table have been converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate
prevailing at the time of Credit negotiations.



- 34 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 3
C.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 28, 1986)
Outstanding Commitment
Type of                          $ Million
Year    Obligor                         Business               Loan     Equity      Total
1965-   Banque Ivoirienne de            Development            -         0.42       0.42
1978    Développement Industriel        Finance
1977    Ets. R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles and           -         0.88       0.88
Fibers
1980    Moulins du Sud-Ouest            Food snd Food          2.90      0.41       3.31
Processing
1980    Soc5été Ivoirienne d'Engrais   Fertilizers             4.16      1.27      5.43
Total Cross Commitments                                7.06      2.98     10.04



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF COTE D'IVOIRE
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMNDNICATIONS (ONT)
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrover to prepare the project: 12 months
(b) Agency which prepared the Project: ONT, assisted by UNDP
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider project: September 1983
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal mission: 10/12/84
(e) Date of departure of Post Appraisal mission: 03/20/85
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: February 20, 1986
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Frequent supervision missions during 1986 and 1987.
Section III: Special Loan Conditions
(a)   ONT to freeze recruitment for the period 1986-1990 except for
specialized positions deemed essential for its operations
(para 44);
(b)   ONT to sigu contracts with consultants by October 1, 1986 to
review ONT's organization including the possibility of
reorganizing ONT under an autonom»aus corporate structure; and
ONT and Government to reach agreement with the Bank by
December 1987 on a timetable for implementing the agreed
recommendation (para 52); and
(c)   ONT to review its tariff structure and to reach agreement with
the Bank not later than March 31, 1987 on an action plan for
implementation of a revised tariff structure and levels (para
62).



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Conditions of Effectivenesa
(a) the Governuent and ONT had signed a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to the Bank, whereby the proceeds of
the Bank loan vould be onlent to ONT at The Bank's
variable interest rate plus 2% per annum for a period of
20 years including a five year grace period
(para 56);
(b) execution of the ENSPT grant agreement with terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para 56);
(c) opening of Project Accounts for ONT and ENSPT to provide
for local counterpart funds with initial deposits
satisfactory to the Bank (para 59);
(d) presentation of the three year financial restructuring
plan for ONT for the period 1986-88 (para 43); and
<e) the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the loans
from CCCE and EIB are fulfilled (para 56).



COTE D'IVOIRE
NATIONAL OFFICE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
OFFICE NATIONAL DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECOND TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
DEUXIEME PROJET DE TELECOMMUNICATION
INTERISRAN SURFACE LINKS    AS<96 - 1990)                                           PROFOSEO EJTENSION PROGRAIT:
CENTRASUX TELEFPSNIOES ET ARTERES                                                   EROCRAILIAIE D'EXTENSION EN SORE,
INTERURBAINES EXISTANTES,                                                           TA1NELI AET1T ANASOGRAEEN EN COSURS
____  -XRWAVS LINK - DIGITAL                                                               PROJECT:  PROJET.
IIAISS ET    CI .S.IE..TG                                                            AE URE                   EN SESU EROUT
AU  INK (TR-TGPHERICI                                                              RAERGWXRNR-IGTLANE  ULC
SlXSDNS ISE TUOXEtcRIX            TRLENEONE EXCHANGE  -.'                            UITEAE  TE NIE     EXFROSEC
A2RIAL LINES                                                                        GUTGGAE ES UNEAGER FROIDES
2IfPfNL    ngNYTZIA             EEAXERCELA-AXU,I                                 INTERNATOUX EXAGSRIRR  II ERGESSEE NETXRT
)                      MALI r                r       i      r                 r                       IM                          r I
>    }'   L    ,,~          ,   ,< J           |E'.Tg                           BURKINA   FASO)
ô-           -                                                                (-
rL f.               . B>       : ,i:^               -           g t E   A<p'
rt 0 5% 'o :' t rrJ "                                                                                                                                                    ,, 
(_    NECIL                                      'NT.A         a      N-IInO 
GUINEA                                                 I-O  P
r         r                                               IA..E              Q   /\\     / `                                          8
k                             QR.^-n.E                                                 O x2-S
r                                                                                                                                                r s>  fi/   r wlr>   \<\   w  . r. D 4Fo  a  <  
LIBERIA                            54, O      G     cf'             Sd           '  --         
R                          QEC&                                                       bu .,                 D, ,'          . ,    J 
>   rs            ~~~~~RIo,I                                    ;J ,          '"9%;q 
s   rAlr L  xxa         ss Oa- I,                                  /    /~~~~~~  GRAEX
,r'D,   |                   .              c'                      E'TN»nR . ,. jra /~~lA...    .RAI
Â_   EAr«o *         [                           D      ç â>am~~~ \--i                     OU-   e                 [
r<l                              S r          Ù;=W2At ç               r                                                             'n 6



