Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14573
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SUDAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 589-SU)
JUNE 7, 1995
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dinar
US$1.0 = Sudanese Dinar 0.348 (1975)
ABBREVIATIONS
GOS                     Government of Sudan
MOF                      Ministry of Finance
IBS                      Industrial Bank of Sudan
PE                      Public Enterprise
PEEM                     Public Enterprise & Economic Management
SOE                     State-Owned Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 7, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:          Project Completion Note on Sudan
Industrial Bank of Sudan Project II (Credit 589-SI)
Attached is the Project Completion Note (PCN) for the Industrial Bank of Sudan Project II (Credit
589-SU) prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
A Project Completion Report (PCR) was not prepared at time of project completion, which was more
than ten years ago. The Regional Office has no archive on the above mentioned project. Bank wide
archives, however, yielded enough information on the preparation and the supervision of the project for
the Regional staff to prepare the attached PCN.
The main components of the project were implemented. However, the loan financed several public
enterprises which were insolvent. A subsequent Bank operation, the Public Enterprise and Economic
Management Project (Credit 1789-SU), attempted to correct the situation but it was rated unsatisfactory.
From the data available, the outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory. Other ratings cannot
be validated due to lack of information.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SUDAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 589-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction ........................1
Background: The First Project ....................... 1
Objectives of the Second Project .......................                                    2
Relevance .......................                                                           2
Project Implementation .......................                                              2
Outcome .......................                                                             2
Assessment of Outcome .......................                                               3
Follow-up Privatization Project ......................                                      3
Bank Performance ...................... 3
Borrower Performance ......................                                                 3
Conclusion ......................                                                           4
Basic Data Sheet .......................                                                    5
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.             |






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SUDAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL BANK OF SUDAN PROJECT
(CREDIT 589-SU)
Introduction
1.    This is a Project Completion Note for the Second Industrial Bank of Sudan
(IBS) Project which was financed by IDA for a total of US$7.0 million.
2.    The credit was approved on October 28, 1975, signed on November 11, 1975,
became effective on April 14, 1976 and was closed on December 31, 1980. This Note
was prepared by the Public and Private Enterprise Division, Department II of the
Africa region and is based on the President's Report and supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and other internal Bank
memoranda still available from Bank archives.
3.    A PCR was not prepared at the time of project completion and, for unknown
reasons, preparation was not undertaken afterwards. More than 14 years after loan
closure, the files are less than complete, and many Sudanese officials and Bank staff
associated with the project in the 1970s and early 1980s are unavailable.  Poor
macroeconomic management and other development policies led to the suspension of
Bank lending to Sudan in 1993, making additional retrieval of information for this Note
difficult to attain. In addition, political change in 1983 weakened the administrative
capacity of the Government and the personnel who had worked on the project were
replaced. It is not possible to prepare a complete PCR on the project at this time.
Background: The First Project
4.    In December 1973, the Executive Directors approved a first credit (P-1269a-
SU) of US$ 4.0 million to Industrial Bank of Sudan (IBS). The IBS was established in
1961 and gradually developed into a major lending institution for public enterprise
operations. Prior to the signature of the credit the IBS had very limited access to
foreign exchange.  The volume of its operations was extremely limited with
conunitments not exceeding $0.5 million in any fiscal year. The objective of the First
IBS Project was to provide the foreign exchange required to allow this institution to
develop further its lending activities.
5.    Upon the completion of this first credit, the IBS grew significantly with its
lending operations growing fourfold to over $2 million per year. In addition, a UNDP
resident advisor was appointed to assist IBS to operate as a major financier of public



sector operations. Upon the completion of the First IBS Project, a follow-up project
was prepared whose objectives are outlined below.
Objectives of the Second Project
6.    The main objectives of this Second IBS Project were to: (i) promote lending to
the industrial sector; (ii) strengthen the capability of IBS to assess the viability of
industrial projects and; (iii) promote a large number of public enterprise activities in
the food processing and manufactured goods areas.
Relevance
7.    The objective of the project was to provide long-term  finance to public
industrial enterprises in the Sudan. It was consistent with Government of Sudan's
(GOS) import substitution strategy, which was to decrease Sudan's dependency on
imports of manufactured goods by creating a stronger industrial base.
Project Implementation
8.    Initially, disbursement of the credit was slow, as was the case of the previous
one. Disbursement was affected by the lack of promotion of the project and the limited
demand for the funds. Despite substantial extensions and amendmn'ts to the Credit
Agreement, this project closed with an undisbursed balance of US$ 2.03 million.
9.    Project files indicate that the main components of the project were implemented.
A training program for IBS staff members was carried out and the financing of several
large public enterprise projects was undertaken.
10.   IBS grew significantly in size during the project life.  Its activities were
strengthened under the credit. The financial institution became the main financier of
public enterprises (PE) in Sudan.
Outcome
11.   Overall, under this credit, approximately sixteen new public enterprises were
created. These were primarily in the areas of textiles and food processing. Finance
was also provided to a number of agricultural projects.
12.   Activities financed under this credit were directed at the creation and promotion
of public enterprises in the industrial sector. The project files do not indicate that any
financing through IBS was provided to the private sector industry.



-3 -
Assessment of Outcome
13.   The objective of promoting public sector industry in the Sudan under this credit
was successful in the sense that such enterprises were created. The project led to the
creation in the short term of PEs and promoted new industrial ventures in the public
enterprise sector. However, the operation was not sustainable, since this capacity in
the public sector had negative consequences on the GOS' budgetary burden and
virtually all public enterprises in Sudan were insolvent.
14.   At least two of the projects established under this credit never generated
positive returns. Khartoum Spinning and Weaving Company and the Port Sudan
Spinning Mill continually had negative financial returns. The firms became a huge
financial drain on the GOS budget. The Port Sudan Spinning Mill was temporarily
closed due to a foreign exchange crisis that made access to spare parts impossible.
Follow-up Privatization Project
15.   As of 1989 at least six of the public enterprises established under this credit
were insolvent and were listed as candidates for privatization. To assist the GOS in
dealing with this problem IDA proposed a new credit to facilitate a privatization
initiative. This credit, entitled the Public Enterprises and Economic Management
(PEEM) Project, was approved on May 5, 1987.
16.   Under the proposed PEEM  Credit, IDA was to provide project financing to
privatize firms, of which at least six were established through IBS. At least two
enterprises selected for privatization, the Khartoum Spinning and Weaving Company
and the Port Sudan Spinning Mill, were originally financed through IDA's provision of
long-term credit facilities through IBS'.
17.   In at least two instances, public sector projects were created under the Second
IBS Credit that had to be turned over to the private sector under the follow-up PEEM
Project.
Bank Performance
18.   Errors were made in projecting the financial viability of a number of public
enterprises established under the Second IBS Credit.  This was partially corrected
through the privatization initiatives established under the PEEM Project.
' See Implementation Completion Report "Sudan: Public Enterprise and Economic Management
Project" (Credit 1789-SU), Report No. 14018-SU, March 3, 1995.



-4 -
Borrower Performance
19.  IBS and the Ministry of Finance (MOF), as the beneficiaries of the credit,
evidenced strong commitment to the project objectives during project life.
Commitment to promote public sector industries was highly emphasized.
Unfortunately, the long-term results of this commitment were not sustainable from a
government budgetary point of view.
Conclusion
20.   The project did promote public sector industrial activity in Sudan and made IBS
more effective in its ability to promote long-term  financing.  But many public
enterprises remained unprofitable and had an adverse effect on the government budget.
The Industrial Bank of Sudan continues to operate at present under the auspices of the
Sudanese Central Bank.



-5-
ATTACHMENT 1
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SUDAN
SECOND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(CREDIT 589-SU)
BASIC DATA
Credit Amount                           US$7.00 million
Cancellations                           US$2.03 million
Approval Date                           October 28, 1975
Agreement Date                          November 11, 1975
Effective Date                         April 14, 1976
Closing Date                           December 31, 1980









1 M AG I N '*T
*  ,i  -  -                  I N -3 1~   ,'i  -!
,t,        I~c'I 
y pe : PC N



